27-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records 2,077 cases, highest in a day||The city recorded its highest single-day number of Covid-19 cases on Saturday and crossed the 2,000-mark in a day for the first time with 2,077 cases. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai has reached 74,252, as per the state government’s records. Of the 2,077 cases, 1,402 were recorded within 24 hours on Saturday, and the remaining 675 cases were reconciled. The city also recorded 105 deaths, of which 41 were recorded in the past 48 hours, and the remaining 64 were from an earlier period.“Reconciliation of Covid-19 cases from all districts and municipal corporations between the period of March 9 and June 7 has been completed. Cumulative figures for Covid-19 cases have been changed accordingly,” the state mentioned in a clarification on the change in numbers.Meanwhile, after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) launched its rapid action plan earlier this week to focus on six wards in the Mumbai suburbs, the weekly share of Covid-19 cases in these wards cumulatively increased to nearly 45% from 35% last week. The share of cases refers to the percentage of the total cases being reported across 24 wards.The six wards in the suburbs of P-North, R-Central, R-North, R South, S, and T, are corresponding to areas of Malad, Borivli, Dahisar, Kandivli, Bhandup, and Mulund. Between June 13 and 19, these wards recorded a total of 2, 951 Covid-19 cases collectively, whereas, between June 20 and 26, the collective figure was 3, 519.Civic officials said that the rise in cases is a good sign and reflects increased testing. Vishwas Shankarwar, deputy municipal commissioner of Zone 7, which covers Borivli, Dahisar, Bhandup, and Malad, said, “The rapid action plan is on the right track. The idea is to detect more cases and isolate more people.”As part of its rapid action plan that was introduced on June 22, BMC has launched mobile fever clinics in ambulances in these areas. The mobile clinics have been directed to drive around through the day with a team of doctors who will carry out door-to-door screening of residents, check for fever and other symptoms, comorbidities, and collect swab samples. “There are five mobile clinics in every ward that are visiting high-risk areas and testing all possible cases. A team of 70-100 medical staff in every ward is going to slum areas and screening senior citizens,” said Shankarwar. Meanwhile, according to BMC data, 2,587 Covid patients recovered and were discharged on Saturday, which is the highest number of patients to be discharged in a day. Till Saturday, 42,331 patients were discharged in total.One hot spot that has shown signs of drastic improvement – Dharavi – recorded only 14 cases on Saturday, bringing the area’s total case count to 2,232.Confusion over reopening of salons, parlours in cityUncertainty still looms over opening up of barber shops, salons and beauty parlours by Sunday as the BMC is yet to issue clear guidelines on the same. Senior civic officials said that the guidelines are being worked and will be issued by Monday. A decision on opening of the shops was kept on hold for a long time by the state considering the higher possibilities of Covid transmissions here. The state government order issued late on Thursday stated that barber shops, salons and beauty parlours in 19 municipal corporations, earmarked as red zones, will open from June 28, while in the rest of the state they shall open from June 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-2-077-cases-highest-in-a-day/story-a4fOsaf0JM2fLjwZCLEqvL.html
27-06-2020||City||Gurugram: 17 found positive for Covid-19 in antigen testing conducted in Jyoti Park||Gurugram The health department on Saturday conducted rapid antigen detection tests for Covid-19 in Jyoti Park, one of the worst affected areas identified by the district administration. Of the 83 antigen tests done in the area, 17 tested positive, health officials said. The samples of those who tested positive were also collected for reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, the officials said. On Saturday, people in large numbers were seen queuing up at the area’s community centre to get themselves tested. Dr Neelam, medical officer, Madanpuri urban primary health centre, said, “A team, consisting of two doctors, three lab technicians, six auxiliary nurse midwifes (ANM), three helpers and one staff nurse, has been assigned different tasks. ANMs take down the name of people who are to be tested. Such people are then taken to the sample collection booth. Since it takes 15-30 minutes for the test result, we ask people who have given samples to stand in a corner.”According to her, the 17 who tested positive were recommended home isolation. “All of them had mild symptoms, therefore they were asked to home isolate themselves,” she said. Most of the people who tested positive are from affected areas like Madanpuri, Baldev Nagar, Arjun Nagar, Lakshman Vihar, sectors 4 and 7, who reached the Jyoti Park community centre to give their nasal swabs, the officials said.Neelam said that Jyoti Park, Madanpuri and Arjun Nagar, all falling under ward 16, have reported at least 314 cases. Of which 219 patients have been discharged while 95 are hospitalised or in home isolation, she said. “If one person is infected in a family, then others get infected too. In such cases, antigen testing is a useful tool,” said Neelam.Gaurav Sharma, an employee with an electronics company, said, “After testing positive on May 18, I was suggested home isolation. I contracted the virus from my wife who was in contact with a family in the neighbourhood where nine people had tested positive. Since no health worker visited our house, I had to come for antigen test to check whether I am still positive.”The health department has been conducting antigen tests in Covid affected pockets of the city. The tests have been done in Sadar, Sohna, Gandhi Colony, Pataudi and Jyoti Park. On Saturday, 107 rapid tests were done in Badshahpur too, and all were negative. Till now, more than 500 antigen tests have been conducted and over 33 have been tested coronavirus positive.In an order issued by the district administration on Friday, to control the Covid-19 spread in affected areas, rapid testing of symptomatic person is advisable. The test has to be conducted at an exit point of the area. Also, intensive public health campaign will be conducted, including door-to-door surveillance, in the large outbreak region starting June 30, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-17-found-positive-for-covid-19-in-antigen-testing-conducted-in-jyoti-park/story-Ql2hyIWLrSi7YG2feb6RcN.html
27-06-2020||City||Paucity of staff slows Gurugram’s primary Covid testing strategy||Gurugram: With only 41 trained technicians available to carry out sampling and testing for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, targeted collection of throat and nose swabs (for RT-PCR testing) has slowed down in Gurugram. Antigen and rapid antibody tests are now being conducted along with tests as per the district’s primary strategy, and the health department’s resources are spread thin, officials said.Data from the department shows private labs are now collecting most of the samples in the district (for confirmatory RT-PCR tests), while number of samples collected by the health department (also for RT-PCR, as part of targeted surveillance) have not significantly increased in June, despite a surge in positive cases.Chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav, said: “Earlier, all technicians were engaged in collecting and testing swabs using RT-PCR method. Now many of them are also doing rapid antibody tests and antigen tests, which increases the workload.”Another official, requesting anonymity, revealed that there have been multiple instances when lab technicians have tested positive for Covid-19. “The technician has to isolate and seek medical help, and then return when they test negative after two weeks. When this happens, it slows down sample collection,” the official said.Collecting samples from the field, officials explained, can be a laborious process involving not just taking swab but also proper storage and transportation, and data management. “Earlier, all 41 of the health department’s technicians were engaged in collecting and testing swabs using RT-PCR method. Now many of them are also doing rapid antibody tests and antigen tests, which increases the workload. For sampling, there are 10 teams of two technicians each for RT PCR and antigen tests. The target is about 100 samples per day, per team.”However, data shows that between June 1 and June 12, the department collected only 247 samples per day (through targeted surveillance), which increased to 283 samples per day between June 16 and June 24 (an increase of about 14%). Over the past three days, with the introduction of antigen tests, this number has grown to about 350 samples per day -- less than half the target.“The increase in sample collection is not very significant when you consider that during the same period, the number of cases in Gurugram rose by almost 400%, from 903 in early June to over 4,500 by June 24. Deaths have also soared, from just three on June 1 to over 50 on June 24,” said Dheeraj Singh, a city-based data scientist who has been tracking the health department’s data. Yadav, however, responded saying the health department would soon be able to collect at least 1,500 samples daily. “We will have staff of 61 technicians soon, of which 20 new recruits will conduct antigen tests, while the remaining will collect and test samples for RT-PCR. Our aim is to collect at least 1,500 samples per day by mid-July,” he said.CONTACT TRACING ALSO AFFECTEDExperts said this trend also calls into question the efficiency of contact tracing in Gurugram. “A surge in cases, as Gurugram witnessed earlier this month, implies that many more primary contacts need to be traced and tested. Accordingly, the health department should be collecting that many more samples from people with a high ‘pre-test probability’ of being positive, which are people who have had prior contact with confirmed cases,” said Dr Prabhakaran Dorairaj, vice president (research and policy) at the Public Health Foundation of India.Thus, if the number of tests conducted through targeted surveillance isn’t increasing by a sizable margin, “It is likely that susceptible individuals aren’t being actively sought out through contact tracing. This could also be why the mortality rate in the district is going up,” Dorairaj said.Lapses in the district’s implementation of the ‘test, trace, isolate’ strategy was brought into focus earlier this week after Haryana’s additional chief secretary, Vijai Vardhan, conducted an audit of contract tracing data. A district level official with Haryana’s Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, seeking anonymity, said, “The audit found that in four days in June, 587 cases were detected but contact tracing for over 250 was not carried out.”An ASHA worker, who requested not to be named, detailed the logistical challenges of contact tracing. “We are asked to cover at least 15 families in a day. Since the numbers are increasing every day, it is not easy to cover all households. We have been doing this all summer, but on some days the heat was so bad that it wasn’t possible to trace all contacts of every person,” the worker said.TARGETED SURVEILLANCE NECESSARYDr Ram Prakash, district epidemiologist, clarified that targeted testing, tracing and isolation are still Gurugram’s best option to curtail further transmission of Covid-19. “We are still focused on contact tracing. Despite issues, the number of samples collected through targeted surveillance has been increasing, even if only gradually. It is not a cause for concern because we are still doing adequate RT-PCR tests, which is the most reliable diagnostic tool, with the help of private laboratories.”HT had reported on June 23 of an increase in the number of private labs conducting tests in Gurugram. Between June 16 and June 24, for example, private labs collected 61% of all samples from the district (as opposed to 41% in the preceding fortnight).Experts have cautioned against relying on private testing to make up for the slowdown. “Targeted surveillance is the best way to catch ‘super-spreaders’ who may be transmitting the infection to a sizable number of people. It is also the best way to find infected individuals before their symptoms worsen. Private testing, on the other hand, is arbitrary. It cannot be used as a substitute for contact tracing,” Dorairaj said.He and other experts also said that antigen tests, which have a low sensitivity (and yield a greater percentage of false results) rate, were not a viable replacement for RT-PCR.The CMO, however, clarified that both antigen and sero surveillance in the district were being carried out in a targeted manner in hotspot areas. “Targeted sampling is being conducted through sero surveillance and antigen detection tests. Through these tests we are focusing on specific groups of population who are susceptible to contracting the virus,” Yadav said.DATA WOESWith the district health department now pooling testing data from private and government labs and even antigen tests in its daily bulletin, experts say Gurugram’s true performance in the fight against Covid-19 is being obfuscated.“When you test randomly, like private labs are doing, you will get a lower positivity rate. But lower positivity through targeted testing is the ideal way, not by adding random samples to your testing pool,” said Rajesh Kumar, an epidemiologist and former professor of community medicine at PGIMER Chandigarh.In light of this, experts also called for a revision of the district bulletin’s format. “The data for private testing, targeted surveillance and antigen testing must be presented separately. When you club data from three separate testing strategies, we are unable to see the real picture,” said Singh, drawing attention to Gurugram’s declining test-positivity rate.“To get a correct picture of the positivity-rate, we need de-segregated numbers to show how many samples are being collected and tested via targeted RT-PCR tests,” Singh added.(with inputs from Archana Mishra)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/paucity-of-staff-slows-gurugram-s-primary-covid-testing-strategy/story-GQwgzR7TDpozOxw3HP47fK.html
27-06-2020||City||Covid has necessitated re-imagining office spaces, say corporates||Gurugram: Start-ups and companies across the board are coming to a consensus that in a post-pandemic world, workplaces would need to be re-imagined, with the possibility of work from home (WFH) becoming a permanent feature. Sharing their experiences during an online conference, ‘Redesigning the workplace: A new normal for women and young leaders’ on Saturday, representatives from different fields weighed in on work from home, among other possible options, that might redefine jobs in a post-Covid world.Deep Kalra, founder and group executive chairman of MakeMyTrip Ltd, said that the percentage of employees willing to come back to the office space for work was less than 20%, going by an internal poll conducted by the company. He said that even if 25% of the staff was called to work, they’d need to wear masks at all times, which would be an uncomfortable experience. “To work from home or not has become a great debate in current circumstances. People are more comfortable working from home. The workforce could start limping back to office gradually, but the reality is that people will fall sick due to various reasons. Till the time the virus is controlled, we have to contend with WFH protocols,” said Kalra.He added that the option of WFH could work well for those who need to travel long distances to get to work and the company was hoping to implement WFH permanently for a day or two in a week after the pandemic is over. “We should look at the positive side of things and see if these can be used to re-imagine the way we work. There are employees who come from Delhi and Noida and spend anywhere between three-four hours in transit daily. This time could be utilised towards more productive things,” said Kalra during the conference, organised by Ashoka University.Most representatives were of the view that a post-Covid would need a mix of the best practices that could include both WFH options and visits to office spaces. Sangita Reddy, the president of FICCI and the joint MD of Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Limited, said that productivity of employees had increased during the pandemic and such approaches to work could be implemented in the future. “It is crucial to encapsulate the best practices of the current situation in a post-Covid world. The positive outcomes of WFH need to be implemented in the future. It could open the possibility of more women continuing with work even if they were to shift cities due to various personal reasons,” said Reddy.Vinita Bali, independent director and strategy advisor, Cognizant Technology solutions, another panellist, said that the pandemic had given companies an opportunity to question the whole concept of office spaces. Huge singular office spaces could make way for multiple smaller ones, argued Bali. “We can have distributed offices where we have a large number of small offices that do not require employees to commute beyond 30-40 minutes,” said Bali.Weighing on the future possibilities for women employees, Bali said that WFH was not a panacea for the inclusion of more women in the workforce. “It is a naïve and simplistic assumption that the option of WFH would bring in more women into the workforce. The Covid-19 experience might not be a solution to the diversity issue plaguing organisations,” said Bali, adding that work from home did not necessarily offer more flexibility.Kalra also said that women were finding it more difficult to work from home than men. With boundary-less working, handling both work and families was tough, he said. “Women with children and in-laws are especially finding the option of WFH challenging. The understanding is that they are available to work all the time. Unlike men, they do not have the luxury of working uninterrupted,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-has-necessitated-re-imagining-office-spaces-say-corporates/story-6SaXr0gPbK9UI1pkGXw2UK.html
27-06-2020||City||Large swarms of locusts reach Gurugram, no damage reported||Gurugram: Large swarms of desert locusts reached Gurugram Saturday morning and passed over several areas, catching residents unaware. Many locals posted videos of the hoppers flying across city skies on social media, even as they banged utensils and played music to shoo them away. Residents also warned others across the city and called for staying indoors.According to district agriculture officials, the swarm was five km wide and eight km long and before entering Gurugram from Pataudi side, it divided in four groups, and two of these entered Sector 4 and 5 and another toward Kherki Daula. They also entered but Delhi but due to wind direction, they moved towards Nuh and Faridabad, said officials. The swarms were spotted in Rajendra Park, Sector 5, MG road, Nathupur, DLF phases 2 and 3, among some other areas of the city. Residents said that crows, sparrows and pigeons could be seen flying away in large numbers from areas where the swarms were witnessed.The Gurugram administration, meanwhile, said that despite the attack, no damage was reported to crops in the districts even as the agriculture department kept a watch on developments. The swarms had entered Rewari district through Mahendergarh on Friday and as soon as this information was received, the district administration started preparations, a spokesperson of the administration said.“An awareness campaign regarding this issue was carried out in rural areas and an advisory was issued to city residents about precautions to be taken and measures to adopt, to ensure the locusts stay away. We asked residents to keep doors and windows closed and clang utensils and create noise to keep them away,” said the spokesperson.Atma Ram Godara, deputy director, agriculture, said 200 tractor trolleys with spray pumps were arranged and insecticides were distributed in rural areas to start spraying in case the locusts settle in the city or farm areas. “In rural areas like Pataudi and Farrukhnagar, even vehicles of the fire department were deployed to spray chemicals and ensure that the locusts are killed,” he said, adding that 45 officials of the agriculture department kept a strict watch on the situation.The city residents, meanwhile, said they got scared by the huge swarm of locusts that darkened the sky for some time, and forced them to stay indoors.Dinesh Vashisht, president of the RWA of sectors 4, 5 and 6, said that the swarm came from the Sector 4 side and hovered over their area for about 10 to 15 minutes. “As soon as it got there, a large number of people started clanging vessels to create noise which ensured that the locusts did not stop there but moved on. For a while, the entire sky went dark; it gave an eerie feeling to see these locusts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/large-swarms-of-locusts-reach-gurugram-no-damage-reported/story-WOFhbkjfC75aLZDhumIFcM.html
27-06-2020||City||Thane hot spots to be locked down from Monday||After Navi Mumbai and Kalyan, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) is now planning to implement a complete lockdown in hot spots across the city from Monday. The civic authority is still assessing the hot spots along with the police department and will issue lockdown orders on Monday.On Saturday, Thane city recorded 371 new cases and 14 deaths, the highest single-day numbers to date. Thane has a total of 7,827 cases and 263 deaths.“The entire city won’t be under lockdown. However, we are planning to impose a complete lockdown in areas which are hot spots for Covid cases. These areas will be assessed at ward level, along with the help of police department. The list will be finalised on Monday, and we will issue lockdown orders accordingly,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy commissioner, TMC.Malvi stressed that essential services will continue to be operational, but the movement of residents in hot spots will be restricted.The restrictions will be imposed in Mumbra as well. “We have already identified three areas as hot spots in Mumbra and have barricaded them. Police and Covid warriors are stationed at these barricades to ensure people do not enter or leave unnecessarily,” said a civic official, who did not wish to be named, from Mumbra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-hot-spots-to-be-locked-down-from-monday/story-clPBVZm25UiQHlzHgNrCFL.html
27-06-2020||City||Gurugram: MCG to plant 80,000 saplings by August 2||Gurugram: At least 80,000 saplings will be planted across the city this monsoon in various drives, a release issued by Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) stated.The corporation started its three-month-long plantation drive on Saturday, where it will be collaborating with Residents’ Welfare Associations (RWAs) to plant saplings on all weekend days falling between June 27 and August 2, of a total of 12 days. Till June 28, around 8,000 saplings will be planted, said officials.The corporation had asked RWAs that wanted to be part of the initiative to send details on the type and quantity of saplings they wanted and that accordingly, the civic body would provide these from their own nurseries free of cost.The MCG has four nurseries in the city, which are located at Biodiversity Park, Kadipur village, Sector 15 Part I, and Sector 46, all of which were made operational last year.For this year’s drive, the civic body has cultivated more than 40,000 saplings of usual and ornamental shrubs, medicinal and native plants and trees at its nurseries. Officials said they will be meeting nearly double the total demand by procuring saplings from the forest department.“We weren’t expecting such a strong response from RWAs, as nearly 95 RWAs have come forward for the initiative so far. We have started making arrangements and will be purchasing around 35,000-40,000 more saplings from the forest department at fixed rates,” said Devender Bhadana, executive engineer, MCG.Officials also said that during the plantation drives, they will be asking RWAs to deposit waste such as metals, tyres, glass, tiles, bottles, crockery, CDs, jute materials, old clothes, plastic and wooden crates in exchange for saplings so that they can recycle them and make cloth face masks, rooftop covers, buntings, tyre pots, bottle decor, wooden plant pots and broken tile floorings, among other such items.MCG officials said that some of the plants and trees they will be distributing during the drives include saplings of fruits native to the region, as well as trees such as gum arabic (babool), sacred fig (peepal), royal Poinciana (gulmohar), and bombax ceiba (seemal).In 2019, the MCG had formed its four nurseries with the aim of distributing at least two lakh saplings, all cultivated in the nurseries, to different parts of the city by 2024.The civic agency is also currently conducting an audit to check the survival rate of saplings planted in previous drives to ascertain which plants and trees require the least amount of care and attention. They said the purpose of the audit is to ensure they cultivate saplings of those plants and trees in the future which have a higher chance of survival and can increase the overall green cover of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-mcg-to-plant-80-000-saplings-by-august-2/story-GCVIwlanQ3FqRJw6trkDHK.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Cong spreading lies on farm ordinances, no plan to end MSP: Tomar||Reiterating that the recent ordinances related to agriculture reforms brought by the Union government were aimed at doubling the farmers’ income, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday said the system of procuring farm produce at minimum support price (MSP) will continue and there is no plan in future to end this system.Addressing Punjab BJP’s virtual rally through videoconferencing from New Delhi, Tomar said the Congress in Punjab was misguiding the people by creating a false fear that the new reforms meant the end of the MSP system.“This is a bundle of lies. No such move has been taken. MSP thi, hai aur rahegi,” said Tomar.The Centre had recently promulgated three ordinances -- the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance.Claiming that new ordinances will prove to be a gamechanger, the Union minister said the reforms will provide a level-playing field for farmers.“These reforms allow farmers to sell their produce wherever they want. Earlier, farmers were compelled to sell their crop at state government facilities to licence-holding players. Under this process, farmers were being duped as they were not getting a fair price for their produce. If the manufacturer of a pen is allowed to sell his product wherever he or she wants, why should farmers not be allowed to sell their produce wherever they choose?” asked Tomar.The Union minister categorically said that grain markets would work as usual and the government is committed to procuring every grain of the farmers from the markets as per system already in place. Now, a farmer from Bathinda can sell his produce in Kolkata as farmers can move inter-state without paying tax, Tomar said.The Union minister said farmers will always have the option to sell their produce at the state government’s markets. “But outside these mandis, farmers will not be taxed,” he added. The reforms have been brought to increase private investment in the agriculture sector so as to make farming a more lucrative business, he said.Tomar also hit out at the Captain Amarinder Singh government alleging that Punjab is on the verge of getting bankrupt due to fiscal mismanagement of the state government. Claiming that Centre was extending all sort of financial help to the state, the Union minister said under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi, Rs 2,000 has already been transferred to farmers of Punjab and under Gramin Sadak Yojana Phase-3 , road projects worth Rs 2,185 crore have been sanctioned for Punjab, adding that Rs 292 crore has already been given to the state under MNREGA.State BJP chief Ashwani Sharma said that this virtual rally was broadcasted on 3,000 locations through smart TVs. He said that more than 25 lakh people participated in this virtual rally by using various social digital mediums. Targeting the Punjab government, he said that it has completely failed to control Covid-19 pandemic and involved in corruption. He alleged that Capt government took Covid-19 pandemic as an opportunity and its ministers, MLAs and officers indulged in seed scam, mining scam and PPE kits scam. He further said that illicit liquor mafia has flourished in Punjab during current government’s regime and exhorted the BJP workers to leave no stone unturned to ensure people throw this government out in 2022 assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-spreading-lies-on-farm-ordinances-no-plan-to-end-msp-tomar/story-ocgia1Osc7bPAmxSqW3zdJ.html
27-06-2020||City||Woman jumps from 16th floor of highrise||Greater Noida: A 28-year-old woman allegedly took her own life on early Saturday morning at a highrise in Greater Noida West.According to police officials, guards of the building informed the authorities at around 3.30am.“The woman lived with her husband and toddler son in a flat,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander.Police said it was not immediately clear why the woman took her own life and do not suspect foul play.“The family did not mention any reason that they know of. She was undergoing treatment for depression,” said the DCP.The body will be handed over to the family following the autopsy, said police.Gautam Budh Nagar is yet to have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-jumps-from-16th-floor-of-highrise/story-k99pK4r4a84ltl9a70Q2lK.html
27-06-2020||City||SDM inquires into death of 21-year-old after social media claims of medical negligence||Noida: Dadri subdivisional magistrate (SDM) on Saturday submitted an interim report into the death of a 21-year-old man on Friday following allegations of medical negligence on social media against a private hospital. The probe was ordered by the district administration.The dead man was identified by a single name, Robin, a native of Badhpura village in Dadri. In the report, the SDM did not confirm a case of medical negligence. It read that Robin had consumed a lot of alcohol on June 18, after which his health deteriorated on June 21. “He was admitted at Mangalam Hospital in Dadri with acute headache, vomiting, pain in abdomen and a history of chronic alcoholism after which tests had also been ordered for him. He was discharged on June 24,” said the SDM in the report. A Dadri community health centre (CHC) medical officer jointly probed the incident.On Friday morning, Robin’s heath took a turn for worse and he was taken back to the private hospital but was referred to a government hospital.“His family took him to CHC Dadri around 8.20 am where looking at his condition, the doctors referred him to the district hospital. The medicines that he was recommended were already with him. He was admitted at the district hospital at 9.30 pm where he passed way during treatment,” said the SDM, Rajeev Rai.Officials said Robin was not a Covid-19 patient.“The patient had come with acute headache and vomiting and pain in abdomen. Several tests were ordered fro him and he stayed in the hospital for three days before being discharged,” said a spokesperson for Mangalam hospital.On June 17 too, an inquiry was ordered after users on social media alleged that a three-year-old child, who had fallen from the second floor of a building, was denied treatment in three Noida hospitals.Administration officials said that family did not find fault in the treatment given to the child.Earlier, an eight-month pregnant woman died in Noida after she was allegedly denied treatment at eight private and government hospitals in Noida and Ghaziabad on June 5. An inquiry into this incident resulted in notices being issued to four private hospitals and action against officials of three government hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sdm-inquires-into-death-of-21-year-old-after-social-media-claims-of-medical-negligence/story-2wEIjrkzTSoo8uq0AtgfeP.html
27-06-2020||City||Covid-19 help desk at Greater Noida authority office||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida authority on Saturday opened a Covid-19 help desk at its administrative building located in Sector Knowledge Park-IV for its staff members, property allottees and others who need assistance. The move comes four days after the Uttar Pradesh government directed that Covid help desks be set up in all police stations, hospitals and government offices, among others, across the state.The Greater Noida authority chief executive officer, Narendra Bhooshan, has directed two persons, including a manager, to manage the help desk set up at the gate of the authority’s building. The team will check the temperature of employees and other visitors using infrared thermometers and will ask them to sanitize their hands before entering the office, authority officials said.“They will have to inform the health department immediately about any person, who is suspected of being infected with Covid-19. The team will particularly keep details of those visitors, who are coming from states where the infection is at its peak. This data will help the health department in contact tracing if required,” said Deep Chand, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.The desk will identify people who are having cough, high temperature and throat infection, among other symptoms.“The two-member team at help desk must wear gloves and mask while being at the job. And it is its duty to encourage all visitors to wear masks, sanitize hands before going inside the office and advise people to wash hands frequently for 30 seconds to stay safe from infection,” said Chand.The desk will also encourage the employees and visitors to use Aarogya Setu mobile application, said Chand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-help-desk-at-greater-noida-authority-office/story-IkkgXnIy10gv1Kjktr1WSK.html
27-06-2020||City||Special surveillance drive in western UP districts from July 1, Ghaziabad authorities initiate plan beforehand||The state health department officials on Saturday said that they are working on a plan in western Uttar Pradesh districts in order to break the chain of Covid-19 infection. According to state control room figures of June 26, the six districts of Meerut, Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar and Hapur account for 26.74% of total cases and 28.65% deaths in UP.“From July 1, teams will go to households in every gram sabha and residential wards and carry out surveillance to figure out suspected cases. They will look for senior citizens, persons with comorbidities and also those with symptoms of Covid-19. The program will then be initiated from July 5 in entire state,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health).According to officials, there were 607 cases in UP on Friday and 284 of these were from Meerut division.Overall till June 26, the six districts of western UP had 186 out of 649 deaths in UP besides they also accounted for 5764 out of 21549 cases.In Ghaziabad, the officials have already started working on door to door surveys in containment and non-containment zones. According to officials, 470 teams have been deployed for door to door survey in containment zones for past three days.“The teams have covered 37,374 families with a population of about 181,885 persons. They have identified 21 persons with Covid-like symptoms and have been referred to the health department. Likewise, the block level officers in non-containment zones surveyed 4,500 families with a population of 11,700 persons. They have also identified 15 persons having Covid-like symptoms and referred to the health department,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.Ghaziabad officials have also come up with 75 helpdesks besides 161 ‘Nigrani Samitis’ in rural areas and 286 in urban areas in order to inform officials about any suspected cases in their respective areas.They have also deployed 163 vehicles of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation, 10 vehicles of the Ghaziabad development authority and another 94 vehicles or local bodies in rural areas for making public awareness announcements related to Covid-19.According to state health department officials, there were 6684 active cases in UP till June 26 besides 14215 patients discharged and 649 dead.The officials said that they will also be starting with new initiative of crowd sourcing of ideas where people will be motivated to prepare one minute videos related to Coronavirus.“The videos may contain new ideas about preventive measures and also how to deal with Covid-19 in new ways. We have decided that 100 best videos will be awarded Rs 10000 each. Further, we will also be sharing mobile number and email where people can send 150 words write-ups about what measures can be taken up to break the chain of infection,” Prasad added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/special-surveillance-drive-in-western-up-districts-from-july-1-ghaziabad-authorities-initiate-plan-beforehand/story-k9fYzvi9GzfUm9g2icTHfL.html
27-06-2020||City||Winds and timing save the day for Noida from invasion of locusts||Noida: The favourable wind directions and timing saved the day for Gautam Budh Nagar, its green belts and about 55,000 hectares of farmlands from the invasion of a swarm of locusts on Saturday.The swarm of locusts that had entered GB Nagar during afternoon hours from Faridabad, flew over some of the district’s villages of agriculture importance and entered the Bulandshahr district where it’s expected to rest and feed after the sunset before regaining momentum with the sunrise, officials and experts said. According to the experts, the swarm entered the district along with strong winds of about 30-40 km per hour of favourable westerly and south-westerly directions that gave it a trajectory to move forward and out of the city limits.“The locust swarm has passed the Noida area and entered the Bulandshahr, moving towards Agra. It rests during the night time and feeds. So, the time it entered Noida there were good winds which were driving them forward. Also, it was afternoon, so the swarm did not settle here. It was a close shave for this city,” said KL Gurjar, deputy director, Locust Warning Organisation (LWO). He said that the locusts fly in the form of a huge swarm in search of food — crops and other vegetation. “These insects can incur huge loss to crops and trees, but they are not dangerous for urban settlements,” Gurjar said.On Saturday morning, the district administration had raised alarm asking the district level locust control team -- constituted in May as a precautionary measure following the locust attack in Rajasthan – to prepare for taking adequate measures, including spray of insecticides like malathion and chlorpyrifos.“It was a large swarm that was travelling in groups. One such group settled briefly at Muhammadpur Jadaun village, but farmers and a district team were already on alert, and they were successful in shooing them away. However, it was the favourable timing and wind speed that saved the day. Otherwise, it could have been heavy losses to the crops due to the large swarm size,” said AN Mishra, deputy director of agriculture, GB Nagar. Mishra further said that the swarm came through Faridabad, and flew over some of the major villages of agricultural importance, including Usmanpur, Bhatta, Muhammadpur Jadaun, among others, and then flew towards Khurja in neighbouring Bulandshahr.“A large area where it made a pit stop had crops including corn, animal pastures and moong dal, while other areas had rice. Had the timing been a little late and they stopped here, about 33,000 hectares of rice plantations would have affected. Rice is one of the major crops of the city, and we export high-quality Basmati rice grown here,” said Mishra.The swarm is currently being intercepted by the seven vehicle-mounted pesticide spray machines and a few drones of the Locust Warning Organisation (LWO), which aims to terminate it wherever its night resting area is.“We are intercepting the swarm, and have also informed the respective district administrations to stay alert. We will tackle them as and when they settle. They can be shooed away using loud sounds such as drum beats and siren. They could be contained by spraying malathion 96, an organophosphate insecticide. Another insecticide, chlorpyrifos, is also sprayed through drones and fire brigade machines on trees where locusts settle during the night when they are sluggish,” said Gurjar. He added that such locust invasions are common in Indo-Pak border districts of Rajasthan and Gujarat. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), a swarm of locusts spread over just one square kilometre of area can eat as much food as 35,000 people would consume in a single day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/winds-and-timing-save-the-day-for-noida-from-invasion-of-locusts/story-2rwSJwWqB7DzJOxqXBgOPM.html
27-06-2020||City||Noida police report first Covid-19 death||Greater Noida: A 57-year-old diabetic police constable, who had tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday, died on Saturday morning, making it the first coronavirus related casualty in the Gautam Budh Nagar police. His son has also tested positive while reports of his wife and other family members living in Sector 70 are awaited, officials said.“The constable had tested positive on Thursday and he died during treatment today around 4am in a hospital in Greater Noida,” said a senior police official.A statement released to the media by police nodal officer for Covid-19 stated, “The constable was permanently deployed at the Surajpur court as mohrir (clerical level constable assigned with magistrates).” The victim was diabetic and developed complications because of it, the officials said, adding that contact tracing of others who may have in contact with him is underway.The GB Nagar police had reported their first Covid-19 case on May 5 when a sub-inspector with Dial 112 (posted with Sector 20 police station) had been found positive.In the district, 28 police personnel, including a station house officer, have tested positive for the virus so far. However, 24 of them have already been discharged while others are asymptomatic, the officials said. Police personnel are among the front line workers who are randomly tested for the infection to ensure that there is no transmission of the virus in the department.“The personnel working at the city borders, in containment zones or posted at hospitals or isolation centres and shelter homes are tested regularly,” said the senior police officer quoted above.Though those posted at police stations are not tested regularly, sanitization is often carried out along with other measures such as social distancing and use of mask, the police said.In May, the traffic police office located in Sector 14A had shut down the public challan window temporarily when a cop there had tested positive.“But we resumed operations last week and no positive cases are there anymore. Two personnel, however, are in home quarantine,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police (traffic).Meanwhile, the police officials said that the district court has been closed to public after the emergence of positive cases on Friday. At least two undertrials who had been brought for remand hearings had also tested positive.Till Friday, GB Nagar witnessed 1,946 Covid-19 cases while 1,039 have already been discharged from different hospitals after being cured. The death toll for the district is at 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-police-report-first-covid-19-death/story-w9q5A7uOzgTL89eFjnctsL.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s coronavirus case count crosses 5,000-mark in 110 days||As Covid-19 cases continue to rise rapidly in Punjab, the state crossed the 5,000-mark with the total cases now reaching 5,056.Punjab recorded its first positive case on March 9 when a Hoshiarpur resident, who returned from Italy, tested positive for the virus.A total of 99 people contracted infection in Punjab on Saturday. The state also recorded 8 deaths, taking the state’s tally to 130, as per field reports received till 10pm.According to the state government’s media bulletin, Punjab recorded more than 1,000 cases in six days.FIVE SUCCUMB TO VIRUS IN LUDHIANA Five persons succumbed to coronavirus at different health facilities in Ludhiana on Saturday. A 51-year-old resident Pukhraj Colony in Bathinda died at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. He was rushed to the hospital on June 25 in a critical condition and was kept on a ventilator, said medical superintendent Dr Ashwani Chaudhary.A 65-year-old resident Jalandhar died at SPS Hospital near Sherpur Chowk. He was referred to the hospital from a private health facility in Jalandhar on June 23. He was suffering from renal cancer. A 43-year-old woman of Pathankot, who was rushed to hospital on June 13, died on Saturday. Besides, two persons from Malerkotla in Sangrur, aged 40 and 63, succumbed to the virus i the city.With this, the total number of deaths reported in the city from other districts has reached 22, while 19 from Ludhiana have succumbed to the deadly virus.Meanwhile, Ludhiana reported 16 more positive cases taking the tally to 744.While two cases were reported from Haibowal Road and Chandigarh Road, respectively, one person each was tested positive from, Model Town, Dugri, Bhamia Kalan, Jaswant Nagar, ATI Road, Basian village and Nandpur village.TWO DEATHS IN AMRITSARTwo persons died of Covid-19 at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, health officials said. “A 65-year-old man, resident of Prem Nagar at Daburji Road, was admitted to GNDH when he showed symptoms of Covid-19. His samples were tested and reports came out to be positive. He was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension. He, however, did not show any signs of recovery and passed away on Saturday. Also, a 63-year-old woman of Rayya Mandi, here, was suffering from cancer. She was also tested positive for Covid-19, a few days back, but died on Saturday,” said civil surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh.“The district also reported 14 fresh cases on Saturday, of which nine are fresh community transmission cases and five are close contacts of the Covid-19 patients,” he said. ONE DEAD, SIX POSITIVE IN PATIALA A 33-year-old resident of Khanpur Warring village of Patiala died of coronavirus on Saturday. Civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said he was admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, where he died due to the infection. Besides, six more persons tested positive in the district, of which two are contacts of earlier positive patients and four returned from other states.Jalandhar reported 19 fresh cases and SBS Nagar four. Three persons tested positive in Bathinda. These include a police constable and two army jawans from Bathinda cantonment. Five persons contracted infection in Hoshiarpur, two in Faridkot and one in Muktsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-coronavirus-case-count-crosses-5-000-mark-in-110-days/story-Y6dllJLNCooJwCkPQY2rxM.html
27-06-2020||City||Cases doubling fast in Ghaziabad, health department to focus on reducing death rate||Ghaziabad on Saturday stood second in Uttar Pradesh in number of active Covid-19 cases and third in most deaths due to the disease.In the absence of total number of tests in the daily state health bulletins, however, these numbers are not indicative of the prevalence of the disease in the state or even the district. The sharp rise in number of cases in June, however, is due to better testing and surveillance, according to the district’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr. N K Gupta.During the first two weeks of June, there were 22 positive cases per day. The third saw this number jump to 42 and in the ongoing last week, the average is about 78 per day, according to officials. “During the past five days, we have had ranging between 70-80 per day and in one instance they also went over 100. The cases have shown increasing trend in June and will continue in July as well,” said Gupta.With the surge in cases, the district administration is now working on getting one more L-1 category hospital (for mild cases), either at SRM University, Modinagar or IMS College, Dasna. The recently acquired privately-run 250-bedded Divyajyoti Hospital at Niwari is almost on fully occupied.“We will have about 180 patients at Divyajyoti Hospital by Saturday night and need to open one more hospital soon. We are expecting that discharges of more patients will start taking shape, as per new discharge guidelines, from next week. Till then, one more facility is needed for L-1 patients who are generally symptomatic,” CMO added.According to the state control room figures till June 26, Ghaziabad had a total of 1333 cases (69 fresh), which included 50 deaths and 680 active cases. Till May 31, there were four deaths.According to the CMO, the district tested 18,000 samples so far and pegged the positivity rate (which is the number of samples testing positive per test) at 7.4%. The recovery rate is 45%.“The more of positive cases have resulted as we have now started with sampling of high risk groups and cases of influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory illness.This sampling towards the fixed groups is intended to reach out to the potential cases at the earliest and prevent them from getting into critical state and deaths due to Covid-19. Our prime focus is to reduce deaths. Since we have also started with antigen testing directed at the specific groups, the positive cases will rise further,” CMO added.“The sampling figures will provide correct picture about density of cases and will further help in policy decisions. It could be an internal decision not to reveal sampling figures which they were providing earlier. But it is ideal that sampling should be enhanced to wide range of groups to know the exact incidence of Covid-19,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad.The state of Uttar Pradesh, unlike Delhi, has no provision for home isolation of Covid-19 positive cases. As per the new discharge guidelines issued on June 19, asymptomatic patients in hospitals can be discharged on the 10th day if they still showed no symptoms without undergoing any test. But, such patients will have to remain in home quarantine for seven days after discharge.As per the earlier guidelines, a positive patient needed to have two successive negative reports in order to get discharged.“We have initiated the antigen testing in 10 districts of the state including six districts of western Uttar Pradesh. We conducted about 826 antigen tests on Friday and 26 persons were found positive for Covid-19 infection,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health).The western UP districts of the state which also includes Meerut are worst affected in terms of rising number of cases as well as number of deaths which have taken place so far.The six districts Meerut, Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar and Hapur account for 26.74% of total cases and 28.65% deaths in UP till June 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cases-doubling-fast-in-ghaziabad-health-department-to-focus-on-reducing-death-rate/story-SLXj4f3HPr4sZXQVZoM01H.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||Court denies bail to man who sexually abused grandchild||The special court under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act refused to grant interim bail to a 64-year-old painter from central Mumbai who has been booked for sexually abusing his 10-year-old granddaughter, observing that the minor and her mother are not traceable.The accused had approached the special court for interim bail, claiming that he is in prison since July 2017 and is also suffering from fever. The accused claimed that he is falsely implicated by his daughter over a property dispute. The daughter, a complainant in the case, alleged that on May 11, 2017, the accused raped her and threatened her that he would kill her children.Later, on June 27, 2017, the 10-year-old daughter of the complainant told her that the accused attempted to sexually abuse her. Further, the complainant alleged that on July 1, 2017, when she visited her mother, her father had raped her again.The prosecution claimed that the complainant and her daughter are not traceable. While objecting to the accused’s plea, the court maintained that the accused cannot take benefit of the Covid situation. The special court, while rejecting the bail application, observed that the police have not yet succeeded in securing the presence of the minor and his mother, but the trial is going on. The court held that since the accused is a close relative of the survivor and is the father of the informant, there is every possibility that the accused might try to influence the minor and her mother, after being released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/court-denies-bail-to-man-who-sexually-abused-grandchild/story-y7LVAhGtWIUM3gJ9osLCEO.html
27-06-2020||City||Two LED TVs, 12 bottles of whisky stolen from Ludhiana’s Lodhi Club||Burglars struck at the posh Lodhi Club here and decamped with 12 bottles of whisky and two LED TVs. The club authorities came to know about the incident on June 22, when the club was reopened.Following a complaint by Rajinder Singh, manager of the club, the Sarabha Nagar police have lodged a first information report (FIR) against the accused.According to Rajinder Singh, the bar of the club was closed from June 11 to 21. On June 22, when they opened the bar they found two LED TVs missing. When checked, they also found that 12 bottles of whisky had also been stolen.ASI Kuldeep Singh, investigating the case, said an FIR under sections 454 and 380 of the IPC has been registered. The police have been scanning CCTVs installed in the club to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-led-tvs-12-bottles-of-whisky-stolen-from-ludhiana-s-lodhi-club/story-pRsXYJ1MIVayMUhpFPwupL.html
27-06-2020||City||Ex-airman shoots at former navy officer in Kharar society||A former Indian Navy officer was shot in the chest as an ex-Indian Air Force officer opened fire at him after an argument over a petty issue at Jal Vayu Vihar in Kharar on Saturday evening. In all three shots were fired.The injured has been identified as Narinder Verma, 46, who is presently working with the Haryana government. The accused, Rajesh Malik, 45, is a retired flight lieutenant who stays in the same housing society and is a former president of its residents’ welfare association (RWA).The incident took place around 6:30pm when Verma along with three other residents was sitting on a bench near the parking lot of the housing society. According to the witness account, Malik reached there and objected to their sitting on the benches. As an argument erupted, Malik allegedly threatened Verma of shooting him. When Verma ignored the threat, an agitated Malik allegedly asked his domestic help to get his licensed pistol from the house. After a few minutes, according to the witnesses, Malik fired a shot in the air, and then pointing the pistol at Verma, he fired another shot that hit him in the chest. An injured Verma reportedly managed to snatch the weapon, but not before a third shot was fired, which luckily missed him.Meanwhile, other residents overpowered Malik and informed police. Verma was rushed to a private hospital in Phase 6, Mohali. An investigating official said he kept holding on to the pistol, and finally handed it over to police upon their arrival at the hospital.“Verma’s condition is stable. Malik has been taken into custody. A case of attempt to murder will be registered after recording the victim’s statement,”said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Mohali.RWA president Karnail Singh Dhillon told police that Malik had earlier, too, picked up fights with other residents over petty issues, such as pet dogs and parking of vehicles, and even threatened to shoot them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ex-airman-shoots-at-former-navy-officer-in-kharar-society/story-WyPv4omY2gzHzLaje0973L.html
27-06-2020||City||Residents declare their own lockdown to flatten curve||With the rapid increase in number of Covid-19 cases in Thane, few residents of Majiwada Manpada ward, which houses many plush complexes, have themselves decided to opt for a lockdown for the next seven days. This lockdown will be followed by residents of Kolshet, Dokali and Balkum areas. The lockdown will be imposed from Monday with only medical stores, milk dairies and hospitals remaining operational. This is the first instance of residents deciding to impose a lockdown in Thane. This comes after Majiwada Manpada ward reported the highest number of 64 cases on Friday. A meeting was held on Friday evening with the representatives of housing societies and residents wherein the decision to impose lockdown was taken. Residents have used social media to spread awareness regarding the lockdown.Omprakash Patil, a resident of Balkum, said, “After mission unlock, the number of cases in this ward, which till date had few cases, increased rapidly. We had expected that the corporation will impose a lockdown. However with no such decision from them, we ourselves have decided to go for one week lockdown from Monday.”Milk delivery will be allowed from 5am to 8am while only medical and hospitals will be allowed to function. No other shops including vegetables, groceries or meat will be allowed to remain open in the coming week.Sanjay Bhoir, Shiv Sena Corporator from the area, said, “There are over 250 residential complexes while 50% of the area is covered with slums. After the lockdown norms were eased, social distancing was violated which led to increase in number of cases. The residents also requested to impose a strict lockdown to flatten the curve in this area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-declare-their-own-lockdown-to-flatten-curve/story-baO2f0iIS8hsxs9IfPRXaN.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||HC orders inspection of residential towers taken over by TMC for quarantine facility||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday appointed a senior court official to inspect a newly constructed residential complex at Shil, after purchasers of flats in the complex, objected to the Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) plans to take over two high-rise towers in the complex and convert them into a quarantine facility.Over a hundred flat purchasers in the complex, who wanted to move in their respective premises, had clashed with civic authorities on June 2, when the officials visited the residential complex for a survey for setting up quarantine facility in some of the towers.A bench of justice Ujjal Bhuyan and justice Riyaz Chagla has directed judicial registrar of HC to visit My City Complex at Shil - between Mumbra and Dombivli, and submit a report to the court in seven days.The bench has asked the judicial registrar to examine all the buildings in the complex and disclose in his report whether any of the buildings are occupied or not.The order came to be passed on a petition filed by five flat purchasers in My City Complex, having ten 24-storey towers. They have strongly opposed the move of the civic body to take over two 24-storey buildings for setting up quarantine facility for high-risk Covid-19 contacts.The bench ordered the senior court official to visit the site and submit a report, as the petitioners maintained that some of the flats in the buildings were occupied, whereas the civic body asserted that the buildings were not yet occupied.Senior advocate Ram Apte, who represented TMC, claimed that the occupation certification for the buildings was granted on March 9, a fortnight before imposition of the nationwide lockdown, therefore the towers could not have been occupied.The court has posted the petition for further hearing on July 7, and directed TMC to maintain status quo till then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-orders-inspection-of-residential-towers-taken-over-by-tmc-for-quarantine-facility/story-KfJK6TfROmyyxGpm3WxXOI.html
27-06-2020||City||Navi Mumbai reported 150 Covid cases on Saturday||Navi Mumbai on Saturday reported 150 new Covid-19 cases and seven deaths, taking the tally of positive cases to 6,003. The death toll is now 201. A total of 3,405 people have recovered so far, with the recovery percentage being 57%. The active cases figure has increased further to 2,397.Over 43,458 people have completed their quarantine period while 13,277 people are quarantined at home.19,410 people have been tested for Covid-19 in Navi Mumbai so far. Of these 12,334 tests have been negative. 1,073 tests results are awaited.Over 111 recoveries were reported on Saturday. A total of 3,405 people have recovered so far in Navi Mumbai.The breakup of 150 positive cases ward wise is Belapur ward 14, Nerul ward 30, Vashi ward 7, Turbhe ward 7, Kopar Khairane ward 26, Ghansoli ward 29, Airoli ward 32 and Digha ward 5.14 children have tested positive on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-reported-150-covid-cases-on-saturday/story-Wh5XknrppRYL5pvKwOZkWI.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s first air traffic controller tests positive for Covid-19||The first air traffic controller (ATCO) of Mumbai has tested positive for Covid-19. The first ATCO is a deputy general manager-level official of Mumbai air traffic control (ATC) and is responsible for handling flights in and over the city’s airspace. He had isolated himself after his mother developed symptoms of Covid-19 a week ago. She was admitted to an Andheri-based private hospital and succumbed to the disease later. On June 23, the first ATCO tested positive for the virus.“After completing his work last week, the ATCO concerned accompanied his mother to the hospital after she developed symptoms caused by the virus. He later informed the office and was home-quarantined for 14 days,” said an Airports Authority of India (AAI) official, who did not wish to be named.“A few days later, he lost his mother to the virus and he, too, developed symptoms. After the officer’s body temperature increased and he experienced loss of taste, a swab test was conducted and he was found to be positive,” said the official.ATCOs at Mumbai ATC said their colleague’s health is improving. Three other staff from AAI’s regional executive director’s (RED) office in Andheri (East) have tested positive for Covid-19 so far.“Another senior deputy general manager-level official, working in the Mumbai RED office tested positive. He was isolated in a hotel for 14 days. He has tested negative in his second swab test. There have been a couple of more cases in the RED office, one of which proved to be fatal. There have been cases among AAI employees and their immediate family members elsewhere in the country too,” said a Delhi-based AAI official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-first-air-traffic-controller-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-M0xRUmWiTqPKzjYHnnATgI.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Industrialists’ body demands 50% rebate on night tariff, waiver of fixed power charges in Punjab||At a time when the industry is reeling under crises, the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) has demanded that the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) should give 50% rebate on night tariff and should waive off fixed power charges for the industry till March 31, 2021.A delegation, led by president Gurmeet Singh Kular and general secretary Rajeev Jain, conducted a meeting with PSPCL chief engineer (Ludhiana central), Varinderpal Singh Saini on Saturday. The delegation also demanded that PSPCL should upgrade its infrastructure in the city and state government should provide electricity at Rs 5 per unit as promised. Kular said, “In contradiction to the claims of state government, the industry is being charged Rs 10-15 per unit. Also, the infrastructure is not being improved as 50 applications for industrial connections are pending as the grids are working at full capacity.”The government should provide a 50% rebate on night tariff in the state and the fixed charges should also be waived off at least till March 31, 2021, to provide relief to the industry at this hour of crises, said Kular.Jain said that the PSPCL is also demanding advance consumption deposit from the industry even when security is already with the PSPCL. The department should not demand a deposit for the next two years as the industry is already going through a tough phase post lockdown, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/industrialists-body-demands-50-rebate-on-night-tariff-waiver-of-fixed-power-charges-in-punjab/story-51oWuCbtL1zE8E8mooSRDI.html
27-06-2020||City||KDMC forms special committee to fight Covid||A day after the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) declared 32 containment zones in its vicinity and restricted public and vehicular movement, the civic body has decided to set up a ‘Containment Zone Corona Committee’, comprising elected representatives, local politicos, ward officers, social groups and local police. The committee will be set up in all 32 containment zones. The committee will also comprise representatives from primary health care centre, political leader, medical stores, grocery stores, vegetable vendors. The ward officer of the area will be the member secretary of the committee. The elected representative or the senior person of the committee will be its president. The committee will look into curbing the spread of Covid-19 in their respective areas, and adopt measures like preparing a list of doctors, acquiring the details of the patients with fever from the OPDs, check on the patients, test them, and if infected, isolate them.The committee members will work on tracing the high-risk and low-risk contacts of the infected patient and then either quarantine or isolate them at home, as per their condition. They will check on non-essential shops and ensure they are shut in these zones. The members of the committee will also ensure there is no public or vehicular movement in these zones and also make arrangement for home delivery for the residents in these areas.“There measures will be undertaken by the committee and will be under the monitoring of executive engineers and deputy engineers of the civic body,” said Madhavi Pophale, public relations officer, KDMC. The KDMC recorded the highest one-day spike of 436 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total toll to 5,309. With this, the KDMC crossed 5,000 mark on Saturday. Five deaths were on Saturday, taking the death toll to 101.On Saturday, the KDMC chief Vijay Suryavanshi and deputy commissioner of police Vivek Pansare, visited containment zones. The zones were sealed using bamboos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-forms-special-committee-to-fight-covid/story-kQfW1O8jnVo4NQmuvyKoLI.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||PHD Chamber of Commerce in Chandigarh organises webinar on digital marketing||PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry in collaboration with Digiflame Media organised a webinar on “Digital marketing in the current scenario” on Saturday. As many as 50 entrepreneurs from Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana participated in the discussion addressed by digital marketing expert- Bhuvan Mittal.Emphasising on the importance of social media, Mittal said it has proved its effectiveness in every sector of society and business. He said digital marketing can improve the condition of small and medium industries through social media, e-mail marketing and content marketing at a low cost.He said government agencies are also adopting strategies based on data acquisition solutions to reach their audience using brand integrity, agency recruitment and political campaigns.Mittal said that as per research, there are 27 lakh social media users in the tricity region, of which 7,000 to 11,000 people can be reached daily on a limited budget.DK Aggarwal, chairman, PHD Chamber of Commerce, said demand in industries is still slow amid the Covid lockdown and entrepreneurial class is exploring other options to reach its consumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/phd-chamber-of-commerce-in-chandigarh-organises-webinar-on-digital-marketing/story-cUHCEpFp5t3tQOhRcUqRiI.html
27-06-2020||City||Delhi University postpones online open-book exams to July 10||New Delhi: Delhi University on Saturday postponed to July 10 the online open-book examinations (OBE) for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students that were to begin on July 1, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a varsity statement.In the statement signed by DU’s dean of examinations Vinay Gupta, the varsity said all stakeholders, “especially students may find it difficult to attend their scheduled activities of examinations.” The city added 2,948 cases of the infectious disease on Saturday, taking the city’s total to 80,188, of whom 2,558 have died.Dean (exams) Vinay Gupta said the new date sheets will be announced by July 3 and students can appear for mock tests, designed to facilitate open book exams, from July 4.“All other activities/facilities notified by examination branch related with OBE mode of examinations adopted as one-time measure for academic session 2019-20 through various notices/notifications shall remain unchanged and no further notification shall be issued either as corrigendum or amendment,” Gupta added.The development comes after the Union minister for human resources development, Ramesh Pokhriyal, on Wednesday advised the University Grants Commission to “revisit the guidelines issued earlier for intermediate and terminal semester examinations and academic calendar.” The minister had said the revisited guidelines would have the “health and safety of students, teachers, and staff” as its foundation.Some DU officials, however, said they are not pleased with the move. Rajesh Jha, a member of the varsity’s executive council, said, “Instead of postponement, there must be cancellation of OBE exams. Arbitrary decisions like these will leave psychological scars on final-year students.” Former DU academic council member Pankaj Garg said, “The University is making a mockery of examinations for final year students. The Covid-19 situation is not going to improve in the next 10 days. This decision will further create an atmosphere of confusion, and add to stress on teachers and students of DU.”The dean of examinations, however, said the decision was taken keeping in mind the demands of students also. “We postponed the exams because students wanted more time to appear for the mock tests, since this is the first time online OBEs are being conducted. We had earlier planned to conduct a mock test on two days but will now give students four-five days to appear for the mock papers,” Gupta said.DU academic council member Saikat Ghosh said the postponement was a direct result of the administration’s failure to conduct mock tests. “DU’s OBE system is clearly faulty and not able to cater to the needs of students. The administration wants to buy time to try and rectify technical shortcomings. Hence, the postponement has no relation to students’ welfare,” he said.Maidnee Goja, a final-year student of microbiology, said, “I don’t understand the idea of postponing semester exams for 10 days. We have been asking them to promote us on the basis of previous semesters. This is not like board exams where the score of one paper is being considered for promotion and we have grades for the past five semesters. Yet, everyday there is a new notification on the exams which is causing students more stress.”DU Students’ Union (DUSU) also opposed the development. “We demand the DU administration comes out clear on issues and lets us know if exams are going to take place or not. If yes, we need to know the arrangements,” said Shivangi Kharwal, DUSU joint secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-university-postpones-online-open-book-exams-to-july-10/story-g0GyMHZDJVA5aoj5vVkdtO.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Well-to-do patients should replenish stock of costly Covid drug: PGIMER||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has ordered that well-off patients be asked to replenish stock of the expensive drug -- Tocilizumab – which is seeing increased use for management of critical Covid-19 patients. The drug was originally used for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said the orders will not be applicable for patients who cannot afford it.A senior official said treatment of Covid-19 patients is free at the institute, but, as this drug is costly, it will not be viable for them to support every patient who needs it. It costs around ₹35,000 in the market. Dr GD Puri, dean academics and head, department of anesthesia and intensive care, in his blog stated that patients belonging to well-to-do families who have more than enough resources are reluctant to come forward to replenish stock of the drug for economically backward patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/well-to-do-patients-should-replenish-stock-of-costly-covid-drug-pgimer/story-JflmtbYR4HenLhbPCemSLM.html
27-06-2020||City||Ludhiana residents concerned over waste along Buddha Nullah||The lackadaisical approach adopted by the municipal corporation (MC) in cleaning the Buddha Nullah is likely to take a toll on the residents during the coming monsoon season as silt has again accumulated at different points including, New Kundanpuri and main Haibowal Puli.The residents have also been raising concern over the dumping of silt, which is removed from the nullah, along its banks. They rued that it would again flow into the nullah during rainfall and the MC should regularly shift the silt from the site.Ratan Singh, a resident of the New Kundanpuri area, said, “Every time the residents have to bear the brunt for the MC’s failure in getting the nullah cleaned. This year also, the MC had commenced the desilting work with a delay of around two months. The work was being carried out rigorously during the initial days. Now again, filth has accumulated in the nullah which reduces its capacity and leads to overflowing of the nullah during the rainy season.”Former BJP councillor Narinder Malhi said, “The desilting process is not being taken up properly and silt is not being removed from the centre. The silt which is being removed is being dumped along the banks, which will again flow into the nullah during rainfall.” MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “Poclain machines have been deployed and the nullah is being cleaned regularly. Machinery has also been deployed to shift the silt which is lifted out. Residents are also at fault as they dump waste into the nullah. The officials of operations and maintenance cells have been told to keep the nullah and internal drain lines clean so that residents don’t face trouble due to water accumulation or overflowing of nullah during monsoon.”The nullah overflows almost every year near the New Kundanpuri area, Upkar Nagar and surrounding areas, leaving the residents in a fix as the rainwater mixed with sewer enters their houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-residents-concerned-over-waste-along-buddha-nullah/story-nqf4B8l2ArvHbFLhTVjyzN.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Reader’s take: Is Chandigarh ready for monsoon?||The heavens opened up on June 19, giving Chandigarh residents a breather from the stifling 40 degrees Celsius heat. But there was a problem, as 23.7mm rain over 50 minutes left roads waterlogged, an indication of how ill-prepared the city is for the monsoon.From Sector 39 B to the northern sectors, resident welfare association heads complained about road gullies being in bad shape, covered with leaves and debris. The inner sector road in Sector 19 was also flooded with roots from old trees choking the drains.Manimajra fared badly as a railway under bridge (RUB) was flooded.Municipal corporation (MC) chief engineer Shailender Singh, when questioned about the matter, said that around 50% of the 30,000 road gullies have been cleaned and the rest will be done soon.However, despite his optimism, how the MC handles the situation is the big question as it’s already struggling with a financial crunch after the Covid-19 lockdown failed to yield adequate revenues.The civic body is expecting to earn around ₹81 crore less than the budget estimates. A major shortfall of around ₹50 crore is expected in water collection. Revenue from community centre bookings is also expected to come down by ₹4 crore. Will it be able to rustle up the funds to immediately clean the drainage system? Checking of power lines too will be required to prevent outages and damaged roads repaired quickly to ensure no potholes appear, raising risks of accidents and fatalities.Also, with the world in the grip of the Covid-19 pandemic, planning needs to be done on a war footing to prevent outbreaks of waterborne diseases.Too much needs to be done in very little time? Are the city authorities ready for it?RAIN PAINIs Chandigarh ready for monsoon?Is Chandigarh ready for the monsoon? What steps does the MC need to take immediately to prevent waterlogging and other problems? Send your answers to Chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by July 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/getting-set-for-the-monsoon/story-uBr1l9bmJwHMOTgTchuVYN.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Vande Bharat Mission: 129 arrive in Chandigarh from Ukraine||Under the Vande Bharat Mission, 129 Indians were brought back from Borispol (Ukraine) in an Air India flight which landed at Chandigarh International Airport at 12.50 am on Saturday.This is the second flight from Ukraine which has arrived at Chandigarh with stranded Indians. The first had arrived from Kiev.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all passengers arriving from Borispol have been asked to undergo strict institutional quarantine at their respective districts and their passports have been taken into possession by the administration. All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per government guidelines.Six flights under phase 2 of Vande Bharat evacuation mission have arrived in Chandigarh till date including one each from USA, Ukraine and New Zealand and three from Dubai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vande-bharat-mission-129-arrive-in-chandigarh-from-ukraine/story-wu9zjkAhlBb9fy2ZeLjYuL.html
27-06-2020||Kolkata||6 killed after lightning strikes at 2 places in Bengal’s Murshidabad district||At least six people were killed in two incidents of lightning strikes in West Bengal’s Murshidabad district on Saturday.While three people including a woman were killed and two others were injured at Sagardighi, another three were killed at Bharatpur.Police said that five labourers working in a brinjal farm at Sagardighi, took shelter in a pump house when a thunderstorm hit the area. However, the house was struck by lightning.“While three people died, two were injured. The dead were identified as Samar Mondol, 30, Bharati Mondol, 40 and Shibram Mahato, 45. Two others Rajbula Mondol and Tetri Mahato were injured and had to be rushed to a hospital,” police said.At Bharatpur, three villagers were returning from the field when they were struck by lightning. After the storm subsided, the villagers started a search and found their bodies. They were rushed to the hospital where they were declared dead.“The dead have been identified as Imtiyaz Alam, 19, Motichand Ali, 37 and Shefali Sheikh, 55,” police said. Meanwhile,some districts in south Bengal including Kolkata were hit by thunderstorms and rain on Saturday afternoon and evening. Kolkata was hit by a storm with a speed of 81km per hour.The regional meteorological department said that heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected in some districts of north Bengal on Sunday. The lightning strike incidents in Bengal came just two days after similar incidents were reported in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. At least 125 people were killed due to lightning strikes in several parts of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh on Thursday. According to officials, the majority of those killed were farmers and labourers who were hit while working in agriculture fields.EOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/6-killed-after-lightning-strikes-at-2-places-in-bengal-s-murshidabad-district/story-P8sPfNhZBpw56QITnWbwBO.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab health minister lays foundation stone for dispensary in Mohali’s Sohana||Punjab health and family welfare minister and Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu laid the foundation stone for a dispensary in Sohana on Saturday.“Strengthening infrastructure, especially in the healthcare sector at the grassroots level, is the main priority of the Punjab Government. A robust healthcare structure is of utmost importance in tackling the pandemic,” said Sidhu.The minister said dispensary will come up in about six months at a cost of ₹ 40 lakh. He added that a community centre in the area is also in the pipeline and will come up at a cost of ₹ 2.5 crore.Sidhu said the constituency will undergo radical transformation under the Urban Environment Improvement Programme (UEIP) and ₹10 crore would be used to beautify the urban infrastructure.On the occasion, the minister exhorted the people to strictly follow the health department protocols regarding social distancing guidelines, washing hands with soap and the hand sanitisers and wearing masks while going outdoors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-health-minister-lays-foundation-stone-for-dispensary-in-mohali-s-sohana/story-C1um0IzzbXmtkoYtLfUh1H.html
27-06-2020||City||District administration de-notifies containment, red zones in Jammu||The district administration on Saturday de-notified all containment /red zones in Jammu as per the guidelines issued by the state executive committee of the disaster management, relief rehabilitation and reconstruction department (DMRRR).As per an order issued here by deputy commissioner Sushma Chauhan, who is also the chairperson of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), Jammu, the de-notified red/containment zones are Janipur, Bhawani Nagar, Gujjar Nagar, Kalka Colony, Gurkha Nagar, Gurah Bakshi Nagar, Digiana, Raipur Satwari, Simbal and Kharian villages in Miran Sahib, Kalyanpur and Channi Mawalian villages in Kanachal, and ward number 48 of Gurkha Nagar.All these areas were governed by the standard operating procedures (SOPs) notified by the state executive council of DMRRR, the order added.It further stated that the areas were de-notified as “intensive testing has been carried out in all the afore mentioned red zones and no fresh positive case (other than travelers) has been reported for the last 30 days in the respective areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/district-administration-de-notifies-containment-red-zones-in-jammu/story-3c4itItYparo8JFa5XYVSJ.html
27-06-2020||City||Two deaths, 204 new infections take J&K tally to 6,966||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday reported two Covid-19 deaths and 204 fresh cases, taking the total number of people infected with the disease in the Union territory to 6,966, officials said. With 145 patients cured on Saturday, the number of recoveries so far has reached 4,225, taking the recovery rate above 60%.Of the new cases, 191 are from Kashmir and 13 from Jammu division. Among these, 34 patients have a travel history and 33 are CRPF and BSF personnel. “Two Covid-19 deaths have been reported from Kashmir division,” the J&K administration stated.While a 45-year-old woman from south Kashmir’s Anantnag, who was admitted at Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Science here died on Saturday, another 70-year-old woman from Sopore tested positive for Covid-19 posthulously.“The Anantnag woman was hypertensive, diabetic with community-acquired pneumonia,” said a doctor, adding that the Sopore woman had pneumonia and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.With the deaths, the total fatalities in J&K have reached 93, of which 82 pertain to Kashmir division and 11 to Jammu division. The number of active cases stands at 2,648 after 145 more patients recovered on Saturday. Among them, 58 people were discharged from Jammu division and 87 from Kashmir.So far, 4,225 people have been cured in the UT, taking the recovery rate to 60.65%. Of the total recovered, 3,175 have been cured in Kashmir while 1050 in Jammu division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-deaths-204-new-infections-take-j-k-tally-to-6-966/story-jqm3ttq03ZkjTfdFBdglLM.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Tomar dwells on Modi govt’s feats at Ludhiana BJP unit’s virtual rally||Members of the district unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) participated in a virtual party rally on Saturday from at least 200 places in the district.The rally was addressed by Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Union state minister Som Parkash, Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma and member of Parliament (MP) from Gurdaspur Sunny Deol.In Ludhiana, at one place 15 to 20 people were present to be part of the rally, keeping in view the guidelines against coronavirus. It was the first virtual rally of the Punjab BJP.After the rally, district BJP president Pushpinder Singal made all present in the rally to take a pledge against using Chinese goods and asked them to encourage people to buy country-made things.While addressing the rally, Tomar said, “The Union government is giving farmers Rs 6,000 per year under the PM-Kisan yojana and the government also started a pension scheme for them. We did not make only promises, but also fulfilled them.”“Jandhan and Ujjwala schemes brought relief to the poor, while surgical and air strikes added to the dignity of country,” he added.He said the one-nation, one-tax slogan was realised with the imposition of goods and services (GST) in the country and Jammu and Kashmir became an actual part of India with the abolition of Article 370.He said the central government also gave houses to 2.5 crore people and many other important decisions were taken by the Narendra Modi government. Tomar said the Modi government made triple talaq a punishable offence and enacted the Citizen Amendment Act and also cleared the way for the Ram Temple in Ayodhya.Condemning the Congress government in Punjab, Tomar said that not even a single promise has been fulfilled by the Captain Amarinder Singh government be it drugs menace, waiving farmers’ loans, unemployment allowance, one job for every house, smart phones to youngsters, etc.He said the Captain government had failed on every front and people are upset. He said people did not get any relief in terms of electricity bills or other dues even in the tough situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tomar-dwells-on-modi-govt-s-feats-at-ludhiana-bjp-unit-s-virtual-rally/story-trcNKPmqUJSMNax1k3k73N.html
27-06-2020||City||J&K Police busts narco-terror module, 2 held, narcotics worth ₹65 crore seized||The Jammu and Kashmir Police on Saturday claimed to have busted a narco-terror module with the arrest of two terrorist associates, who were in close contact with their Pakistan-based handlers, and the seizure of narcotic substance worth ₹65 crore in Kupwara district.Officials said that police and the army launched a joint operation after receiving inputs about the delivery of a consignment at Kralpora in Kupwara.“We got information about a narco-terror smuggling module and a joint operation was executed by Indian Army’s 17 Bihar and Kupwara police which led to arrest of two smugglers,” said Kupwara senior superintendent of police, Ambarkar Shriram Dinkar.The officer said that huge quantities of narcotics and arms and ammunition have been recovered from their possession.He said the arrested duo have been identified as Manzoor Ahmad Lone and Ghulam Mohammand Lone, both residents of the Lachipora area of Bijhama in neighbouring Baramulla district.Narcotics, weighing 13.5 kg and having an estimated value of ₹65 crore, were seized from them, he added.Both Kupwara and Baramulla are frontier districts sharing Line of Control with Pakistan occupied Kashmir(PoK).“It is a big success. The two were in contact with their handlers in Pakistan. We suspect a link of Lashkar-e-Taiba,” he said.“The duo was working in close tandem with PoK based terrorist handlers and were involved in drug trade and supply of weapons to terrorists operating in the valley,” the officer said.A case under Sections 8/21 of the NDPS Act, Section 7/25 of the IA Act and Sections 13, 18,39 of the UAPA was registered at Kralpora police station.The officer said that they have also taken the driver of the vehicle in which the duo was travelling into custody. “But his role so far has not been established in the crime,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-police-busts-narco-terror-module-2-held-narcotics-worth-65-crore-seized/story-K9ESBqZ9ogwXdxPDc3tKSP.html
27-06-2020||City||As Kashmir’s first multiplex nears completion, films may hit screen from next year||If all goes well, Kashmir will be getting its first multiplex next year.Ever since militancy broke out in Kashmir in the early 1990s, people lost all chances of experiencing outdoor cinema as movie theatres in the valley were forced to shut down.Decades later, a Kashmiri Pandit business family from Srinagar has almost completed the construction of a multiplex at Shivpora near Badami Bagh Cantt.“The building is complete. We had got permission from the cantonment board to establish a commercial complex. The then governor, Satya Pal Malik, wanted it to be a cinema and we said alright. The cinema will be one of the components besides commercial places and food court. It will take time till March-April next year,” said Vijay Dhar, who is also the owner of Delhi Public School, Srinagar.His two sons Vikas and Vishal had applied for the permission for Kashmir’s first multiplex.“We know it’s not easy to setup the multiplex and hope the government will remove all the impediments which are required for this project. We are almost done with the multiplex, it needs finishing touches and people can come and the watch films once it opens next year,” Vikas said adding that he came to know that some people in the Badami Bagh Cantt board had raised some objections. “I hope everything will be sorted out by the time it gets ready,” said Vikas, who currently shuttles between Delhi, Jammu and Srinagar. “Once complete, I will be permanently stationed here and the latest movies will be released and we would love to see families coming to watch them.” Vijay said since the pandemic is ongoing, we are waiting for the new rules on social distancing and seating arrangements. “My purpose for this complex is to provide the youth with the same recreational facilities as they get in the rest of the country. Besides, this initiative will also generate employment. Will people come or not, I will not go into that? If they don’t want to come we can’t force them.”Officials said the Srinagar municipal Corporation has also granted permission to the owner of the single-screen theatre, Naaz Cinema, to renovate the building into a multiplex. Many former theatres and cinemas have been converted into shopping complexes, nursing homes and some have been occupied by the paramilitary forces.Srinagar deputy commissioner Shahid Iqbal Choudhary said once the building and project is complete, licences will be issued to other people who wish to open cinemas or multiplexes.“As of now, building permissions have been given for repairs of old cinema complexes. M/S Taksal Hospitality Pvt Ltd, owned by Dhars, has applied for permission for the multiplex and we have told them once the building is complete the licence will be granted to them after checking safety, security and other measures,” he said.After the closure of movie theatres in the militancy-ridden valley, the first attempt to open cinema halls was made in 1999, when movie theatres – Neelam, Regal and Broadway – opened in Srinagar. However, after militants lobbed a grenade on Regal Cinema, which also led to the death of one person, it closed down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-kashmir-s-first-multiplex-nears-completion-films-may-hit-screen-from-next-year/story-SLhkAUjtIVgBzQ8m0z4bgJ.html
27-06-2020||City||Capt allows buses to run at full seating capacity, masks mandatory||Chandigarh Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced to allow all buses to ferry passengers to their seating capacity with the condition that everybody should wear masks.The CM made the announcement during his Facebook Live interaction programme #AskCaptain while replying to a question by a Patiala resident regarding problems being faced by them due to non-availability of buses.The state government had earlier allowed plying of buses with 50% capacity.The CM said he had learnt that buses were still off the road as restricted passenger load leads to financial losses. He also announced extension in the deadline for applying for mini bus permits from June 30 to July 15.Applications have been invited by the state government for permits covering more than 1,400 rural routes. The Punjab & Haryana high court had on Tuesday rejected a plea of the existing private mini bus operators for a stay on the government move.‘Extending lockdown depends on future’Amarinder said the decision on extension of the lockdown in the state beyond June 30 will depend on the situation, adding he was prepared to take whatever steps needed to control the Covid spread. “It is in your hands. If we are able to control the pandemic then there will be no need for the lockdown but if it goes out of control, then we have no choice. Lockdowns were imposed for the safety of Punjab’s people,” he said.Underlining the need to wear masks in public places, he pointed out that on Friday alone, 4,024 people were challaned for not wearing masks and 45 for spitting in public in Punjab. Pointing out that experts had projected Punjab’s peak yet to come, Amarinder said the state could not afford to be lax in any way.To a question on overcharging by private hospitals, the CM said the state government was in the process of fixing rates. On cancellation of examinations in universities and colleges as had already been announced by some states, the CM said the vice-chancellors will be meeting education department official and take a decision in consultation with the University Grants Commission.Follow heart to protect farmers’ interests, Capt tells AkalisAmarinder also urged the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders to keep their political compulsions aside and follow heart in the interest of the state and its farmers on the issue of ordinances of the central government.Stressing that there should be no politics when it came to issues of Punjab’s interests, Amarinder recalled that during his first tenure as the chief minister, he had abrogated the water agreements with neighbouring states to save Punjab’s water for its people. “Not only did I go against my own party on the issue, but also put my career at stake with this move. Punjab’s interests are paramount for me, they should be so for the Akalis too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/capt-allows-buses-to-run-at-full-seating-capacity-masks-mandatory/story-IYI5jIMzrnl3ChedsNEPxL.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Home they brought the flowers for the dead||Fathers of our Kargil War heroes have made pilgrimages to the high battlefields where their sons laid down their lives. Some walked up, took a pony ride, others took a vehicle to those sites where the Indian Army fought an exemplar of high-altitude warfare in the summer of 1999. They brought back memories from those pilgrimage points, where their sons had died.On June 29, 1999, Capt Vijayant Thapar ‘Robin’, Vir Chakra, of the 2 Rajputana Rifles was shot through the head by a Pakistani sniper at Knoll in the Drass sector. A few days later, in the Batalik sector on July 1, 1999, Capt. Keishing Clifford Nongrum, Maha Vir Chakra, of the 12 JAK Light Infantry died fighting during the assault on Point 4812. Their fathers, Col VN Thapar (retd), and Keishing Peter, erected petite memorials at those heights. A Vijayant Memorial Mandir stands at Knoll while a Memory Cross was installed at Point 4812 for Capt Nongrum by their loving parents. Col Thapar brought back wildflowers of the high mountains that had magically flourished around the temple and bloomed in the dried blood that had merged into the alpine soil. He pasted them in Vijayant’s Baby Book and wrote the poignant words: “These were flowers which were growing at Robin’s temple up at Knoll. Brought when I went there in September ’03. It was a bit of a miracle because at that place not a blade of grass grows. Also, in that place were a family of four chicks of Ram Chakore. Life grows around Robin.” Born in Naya Nangal, Punjab, Robin had studied at Chandigarh’s DAV College while staying with his maternal grandmother in Sector 21. Col Thapar and Neha Dwivedi have recently authored a book on Robin, Vijayant at Kargil: The Biography of a War Hero.Keishing, who is based in Shillong, Meghalaya, made the journey to Point 4812 after the War and he set up that Memory Cross with a bouquet of flowers and candles. “On that lonely hill, the eternal flame in honour of our son shall ever flicker, his memories bloom in our hearts forever like those flowers at the Memory Cross,” Keishing told this writer.  Baya weaver nests have gripped our imagination and spurred a popular interest in bird life. But the Baya is only one of the four weaver bird species found in India. Of the other three, the Finn’s weaver may be headed for extinction. According to the Bombay Natural History Society, there may be less than 500 adult birds of this species left in India. The Finn’s weaver is a bird of grasslands, especially of the Terai region, and the conquest of these habitats by the “Development JCB” has left these birds without homes to bring up their little ones in lamp post-like nests. Associated with this threat was the menace of illegally trapping the Finn’s weaver for the grey market to serve as a cage bird.The nest of the Finn’s weaver is different from that of the other three weaver species. The rarity of this bird is underscored by the fact that expeditions were launched since 1934 to trace this bird. It was first brought to light as a species by the celebrated ornithologist AO Hume in 1866, who, struck by the bird’s huge bill, named it Ploceus megarhynchus. That stands till today as the zoological nomenclature for the Finn’s weaver.In contemporary times, ornithologists and researchers were trying very hard to trace a breeding colony of this bird to set up a captive breeding project on the lines of those initiated for vultures and the Great Indian Bustard. Efforts did not make much headway till last week when renowned birder and photographer, Rajesh Panwar, discovered a breeding colony of the Finn’s weaver at the Haripora-Baur reservoir near Kaladhungi in Uttarakhand. The discovery has thrilled researchers and conservationists. The nesting colony was on the water reeds of the Ipomoea plant, a substantive find. For Panwar, it marked the culmination of a six-year search for a breeding colony of the Finn’s weaver. He has also other feathers in his cap. Panwar is credited with the first photographic record from India of the migratory Red-breasted goose and a contested first Indian record of the “Japanese Paradise flycatcher”.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-home-they-brought-the-flowers-for-the-dead/story-eDSuHw1Rmznp1SyEKhLJeO.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Welcome to the age of social media and herd mentality||It was the birthday of a dear friend of mine a few days ago. Sadly, she had lost her battle with cancer three years ago. However, on that particular day, Facebook popped up a reminder.As thoughts flew to her and her cheerful smile, I browsed Facebook and saw that 303 people had posted on her timeline. When I clicked on the newsfeed and started reading the messages I found that barring two or three that said: ‘Missing you dear on your birthday’ or ‘May God grant you a better life,’ in remembrance, the others had simply sent birthday wishes.The hollowness and the falsity of it all hit me like a brick. I realised that 99% of her ‘Facebook friends’ did not even know that she was no longer in this world. What made this even more surprising was that my friend’s husband had replaced her earlier profile picture with a copy of her obituary. And most people had not noticed!This made me think that our friends on social media are perhaps just in name. True friends are those that care and share our joys and sorrows.Another incident got me thinking. Yesterday morning, one of my WhatsApp groups showed 49 messages. On opening it I saw that most of them were birthday wishes for a friend.On a hunch, I checked the participant list of the group and my sixth sense proved right. The birthday girl of the day was not a member of the group. I posed an innocuous query, saying: “Is she even a member of this group?” After a pregnant pause, the group admin posted a sheepish emoji saying, “No, she is not! Sorry!”I really wonder why we just do what everyone is doing without applying our minds to it, just because a notification or a message prompts us to do so. Would it not be prudent to pause and think before you act?This reminds me of a little anecdote of a man seeing a young boy gazing at the sky. So he also stood near him and did the same thing. Another and yet another followed suit. Eventually, there were about 20-odd people looking up. When the young boy looked around him and saw the group, he asked the first man, “What are you looking at?” The reply was, “Oh nothing! You were looking up, so I thought it would be something interesting and did the same.” The second man and the third and so on... All lowered their heads and fumbled and mumbled as they were humbled by their own foolishness. The little boy said, “Oh! I wasn’t looking at anything. I had a stiff neck. Was just trying to ease it!”priyatandon65@gmail.com(The writer is a Chandigarh-based freelance contributor)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/welcome-to-the-age-of-social-media-and-herd-mentality/story-gUA3o5ZKqudtmv4JD4tvtL.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Dilemma over staying safe during the Covid-19 pandemic||What does it take to make the human mind understand the stark truths of life? We are collectively hard nuts to crack when it comes to following a discipline.We need a pandemic to keep our environment clean. Nature can blossom only when man’s ravaging instincts are controlled.We need a lockdown to put us in our place, but do you think we have learnt a lesson from it?That’s hard to say, if we go by the restlessness that we are exhibiting in the unlocking phase. The tough part is that we need to prevent the spread of the dreaded disease, but doing so is totally dependent on our understanding of how precautions are to be taken.But there we are, unabashedly compounding the task, by an obnoxious display of our reluctance to stay indoors.They say ‘ fools march in where angels fear to tread’. Sadly, many people have started going out and about just because lockdown hours have been relaxed.This foolhardiness is not just confined to India , but has a universal overtone. People have decided to get out of their homes as a matter of right. That they are bored at home is reason enough for them to embrace the chance of getting infected.The other day, a few families in my neighbourhood went for a picnic. I was the odd one out and was scoffed at for what they said was my cowardly behaviour. To their erudite minds, they were playing safe, because all of them knew each other and were not infected. Well, I wonder if they had enlightened the virus about the rules of the game.As the pandemic rages, we face a dilemma: At one moment it feels right to face the challenge and resume normal life with a brave heart, and on the other it seems wise to stay confined indoors.Society has been divided in two factions. One section has started its normal routine and is gleefully posting its deeds of bravado on social media. By refusing to wear a mask in public Donald Trump is trying to project a macho image. The others are still terrified of contracting the disease and hiding indoors. These topsy-turvy times have brought us all to sixes and sevens. The temptation to go out is too strong while the option of staying put sounds mundane. No one knows how safe we are or for how long will we remain safe. Each person is interpreting safety measures in his or her own way. We were ecstatic at the news of tennis star Novak Djokovic holding a tournament, but, later, happiness turned to horror when we heard about him getting infected with his wife Jelena, three other players, three coaches and one player’s pregnant wife.As we oscillate from one extreme to another , I hope we are able to sort out the right way of living through this dark phase. Let better sense prevail where we do not give in to our whims and fancies at the drop of a hat. This drudgery of life is reiterating the point, that till the dust of the unseen enemy settles down, it is better to play safe, than to be sorry. I wonder how many have heard it, and how many are still waiting for tougher times, till reality sinks in. Life is not to be taken chances with, because you only live once.alkagaurkashyap@gmail.comThe writer is a Chandigarh-based lawyer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dilemma-over-staying-safe-during-the-covid-19-pandemic/story-aXRsNEcc4hPhptGot0u01K.html
27-06-2020||City||SGPC admits 267 ‘saroops’ missing, denies they perished in 2016 fire||COUNTERCHARGE Gurdwara body officials say allegations of ex-employee through a rights body is a ploy to save his own skin as he is an accused in the caseAMRITSAR A day after Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO) accused Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) of keeping under wraps the matter of damage to Guru Granth Sahib’s ‘saroops’ in fire at its publishing house, the management body on Saturday refuted the charges, but admitted that 267 ‘saroops’ are missing and a probe is already underway.Before presenting their side on the matter, SGPC senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta, chief secretary Roop Singh, secretary Manjit Singh, additional secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhoora held a meeting at Teja Singh Samundari Hall here.Terming the accusations as “misleading” and “condemnable”, the SGPC functionaries said the rights body has maliciously attempted to create a new controversy within the community. “Actually, Kanwaljit Singh, former employee of the SGPC’s publication department, who is an accused in the missing ‘saroops’ case, is making this matter complex to get off the hook,” said Mehta.“On his superannuation day on May 31 this year, Kanwaljit while handing over the charge confessed that the publishing house is short of 267 ‘saroops’, and the SGPC is probing it. He accepted in writing to pay the fine for the same. Now, he is tarnishing the image of the gurdwara body to save his skin by linking it with the 2016 fire incident and giving it a political colour.”On the PHRO, Mehta said, “It should have come to the gurdwara body before levelling these allegations publicly. This is not the jurisdiction of this organisation.”He said only five ‘saroops’ were destroyed in the 2016 fire after a short circuit and nine ‘saroops’ got damaged due to water in the fire-control operation. “The incident was also reported by the media then. Now, it is being given the colour that the SGPC deliberately hid this incident. This is a deep-rooted conspiracy. The allegations are politically motivated and baseless,” he said.“The ‘saroops’ that were damaged were taken to Goindwal Sahib for cremation. Care of rest of the ‘saroops’ is the responsibility of the publication department.”‘SGPC officials forced me to sign affidavit’Ex-employee of the publication department Kanwaljit Singh said the confessional affidavit was forcibly taken from him by senior SGPC officials on the day of his retirement. “On the day of my retirement, senior SGPC officials called me in a room and tortured me. They forced me to sign the document,” he said.Meanwhile, the then chief secretary, Harcharan Singh, who visited the spot after the fire incident as per the version of the SGPC, said, “I had paid a brief visit to the spot. I do not remember the count of ‘saroops’ damaged but one thing I remember is that some ‘saroops’ are repairable. A sub-committee was constituted then to probe the matter.”The sub-committee comprised the then senior vice-president Raghujit Singh Virk, junior vice-president Kewal Singh Badal, general secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhaur, executive member Rajinder Singh Mehta, secretary Roop Singh and additional secretary Balwinder Singh Jaurasingha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sgpc-admits-267-saroops-missing-denies-they-perished-in-2016-fire/story-YYMD4Tjavgs3vW8w28n4cJ.html
27-06-2020||City||Himachal CM directs for making elaborate arrangements for apple season||While presiding over a meeting to review the preparedness regarding the harvesting of the apple crops, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur directed the officials to make elaborate and comprehensive arrangements for transportation of apple produce so that orchardists do not face any inconvenience for taking their produce to the markets amid the Covid-19 pandemic. He said that to facilitate the fruit growers, HPMC has empanelled 26 firms for the supply of packaging material viz. cartons, separators, trays and other material. About 1.20 crore cartons are ready with these firms for supply to the orchardists, he added.Thakur said that the horticulture department has made arrangements for the marketing of the crop at Aazadpur mandi in New Delhi and Gannaur Mandi at Sonipat in Haryana. He said that controlled atmosphere stores have been identified in government and private sectors in Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Delhi having a total capacity of about 1.17 lakh metric tonnes. Besides this cold storage facility of 32,000 MT is available to facilitate the horticulturists, he added.He directed the public works department to ensure proper maintenance of the roads and other linking roads in the apple growing areas to make to ensure smooth movement of vehicular traffic. He said that law and order situation must be ensured during the apple season in the areas for which control room at various locations must be set up to ascertain the smooth movement of trucks, to and fro.The Chief Minister said that the horticulture department must also hold a meeting with the contractors to make arrangements of labour. Thakur said that adequate arrangements must be made to facilitate the labourers. He said that the farmers must be motivated to avoid the use of colour spray so as to slow down to the season. He said that alternative arrangements of labourers must be made. He said that if required the state government could even consider sending buses up to even Dehradun and other places to bring Nepali labourers to the state. He said that matter should also be taken with the district administration of bordering districts of Nepal to bring labourers to the state. Thakur said that the farmers of the state would get a remunerative price of their produce as this year the import of apples from other countries would not be possible this year due to the pandemic. A mechanism must be developed to bring labour from different parts of the state to the apple growing areas. This would not only reduce the over-dependency of growers on Nepali labour but also facilitate the horticulturists, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-directs-for-making-elaborate-arrangements-for-apple-season/story-K3ZCNHFGoP7IJt5ReMwOpM.html
27-06-2020||Bangalore||Lockdown in Karnataka on Sundays from July 5, night curfew timings changed||The Karnataka government on Saturday took a slew of decisions including imposing total lockdown on Sundays starting July 5 in view of the spike in the number of coronavirus cases in the state.It was also decided that there will be night curfew from 8 pm to 5 am, which will come into effect from Monday, according to an official statement.A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa with the ministers and officials amid growing opposition outcry to impose stringent lockdown to contain Covid-19 cases in the state.“Lockdown would be imposed every Sunday, with effect from July 5, 2020 until further orders. No activities shall be permitted on that day except essential services and supplies.All government offices shall remain closed on all Saturdays, along with second and fourth Saturdays with effect from July 10,” the statement read.The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner was directed to set up more number of wholesale vegetable markets to avoid crowding in large wholesale vegetable markets in the city.It was also decided to have a centralised bed allocation system to speed up hospitalisation of Covid-19 patients.The Chief Minister directed the officials to enhance the number of ambulances to carry coronavirus patients and to arrange separate ambulances for carrying mortal remains of patients who die due to the contagion.He also directed the officials to use the police control room wireless system to identify location and easy movement of ambulances.Yediyurappa told the officials to publish details of nodal officers working for Covid Management.It was decided at the meeting to delegate more responsibilities to joint commissioners of eight municipal zones in Bengaluru and also appoint Karnataka Administrative Services officers in these zones to assist the joint commissioners.The 180 ESI doctors appointed by the labour department will also be pressed into service and probationary Tahsildars will be appointed as nodal officers for coronavirus hospitals and COVID care centres.Marriage halls, hostels and other institutions in Bengaluru will also be reserved for COVID care centres and to avail railway coaches with beds.The Deputy Commissioner of Bengaluru Urban was directed to identify more places for the last rites of coronavirus victims.Yediyurappa told the official to form teams for conducting last rites.Besides notifying reservation of 50 per cent of beds in medical colleges and private hospitals, the BBMP Commissioner will also notify tie-up with hotels with hospitals to avoid any shortage of beds for treatment, the Chief Minister said during the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-announces-total-lockdown-on-sundays-starting-july-5/story-PIm7M1eX3TkdRKDjPgDuUK.html
27-06-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru to get 10,000 bed Covid care facilities by Monday evening: Karnataka Minister||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, Karnataka Medical Education Minister S Sudhakar on Saturday said arrangements will be made to have 10,000 beds in government and private hospitals by Monday evening and multi-storey residential apartment complexes will also be used to treat infected patients. “By Monday evening, we will have a definite information about the number of beds available in the government and private hospitals. Efforts are afoot to arrange 10,000 beds to treat coronavirus patients by Monday evening,” Sudhakar said in a statement on Saturday after video conferencing with the health department officials. Apart from government and private hospitals, buildings belonging to the Bengaluru Development Authority, housing board, apartments constructed by the private builders, government and private sports facilities, playgrounds, hostels and major commercial buildings will be utilised to treat coronavirus patients, the minister said. “Since covid care centres do not require much facilities, the multi-storey residential apartment complexes built by BDA and housing department will be utilised. BDA has around 1700 flats. BDA commissioner Mahadev will inform the exact number of flats available for use on Monday,” Sudhakar explained. Based on the facilities available, these will be converted to either COVID care centres or hospitals, Sudhakar said. He underlined that for the past one week about 30 to 35 per cent of the infected cases are showing symptoms. It has been instructed to experts to classify the symptomatic cases as mild, moderate and severe and prepare treatment protocols, he said, adding that private hospitals have been instructed to reserve 50 per cent of the beds for COVID treatment. Discussions will be held with managements of private hospitals and they will be provided details of capping of treatment cost. The possibility of utilising almost entire capacity in private medical colleges is being examined, Sudhakar said. The minister explained that all necessary arrangements in the identified facilities will be made with the help of private sector. Karnataka State Reserved Police, Home Guards, NCC cadets and para-military forces stationed in city will be utilised for security arrangements, the minister said. Senior officials including Additional Chief Secretary Javed Akhtar, BDA commissioner Dr M Mahadev and Medical Education Secretary T K Anil Kumar were present during the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-to-get-10-000-bed-covid-care-facilities-by-monday-evening-karnataka-minister/story-DmQhpbdgNAtP6sTXg2wk7L.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||Politicians scale down festivities they organise||Dahi Handi and Ganeshotsav will be a low-key affair this year, as many politicians, who organise festivities, have decided to scale them down owing to the spread of novel coronavirus.Political analysts point out that the politicians are averse to taking any risk in the current pandemic situation. “There is a fear that if there is a spike in Covid-19 cases in their areas, it will hurt their political image and their credibility will be damaged,” said Surendra Jondhale, a political analyst. BJP legislator Ram Kadam, who organises a grand Dahi Handi at Ghatkopar, has decided to cancel the celebration this year. “Lakhs of people get together every year to celebrate Dahi Handi, hence social distancing is impossible. We have decided to cancel the event this year,” said Kadam. Ganeshotsav, on August 22, too, will be a low-key affair this year as the height of the idols has been restricted. The ruling party Shiv Sena said it will abide by the government’s directive to scale down festivities. Ganeshotsav has played a vital role in the growth of the Shiv Sena, as most of its top leaders have headed Ganesh mandals. Even the secretary of Lalbaugcha Raja, Sudhir Salvi, is a senior Sena office bearer.Sena legislator Ajay Choudhari said the party is coordinating with the mandals. “Most of the office bearers of these mandals are from Sena. They have all decided to scale down the festivities and adhere to the directions given by the state government,” said Choudhari. “Our main priority is the safety of the local population.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/politicos-decide-to-scale-down-festivities-dahi-handi-ganesh-festival-to-be-a-low-key-affair/story-ixEMpNnfEMXTjY04GamEAM.html
27-06-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news||When Bains brothers forced cops to drive slowA cycle rally of the Lok Insaaf Party, led by MLA Simarjit Singh Bains and his brother Balwinder Singh Bains, was headed from Mohali to the Punjab chief minister’s residence in Chandigarh on Saturday when the UT Police stopped them. The rally, Kisan Bachao, Punjab Bachao Rosh Yatra, was flagged off from Amritsar two days earlier but the police allowed only the Bains brothers to pedal on to Sector 2. The cops had no choice but to drive slow while escorting them to their destination. Some rued the wastage of fuel at a time when oil prices are rising.Need to keep distance at UT SecretariatWhile the UT administration is strictly enforcing social distancing in Chandigarh, a visit to government offices reveals that it needs to put its own house in order, too. “Rooms are small and with most staff now attending office, social distancing goes for a toss. In fact, in some offices, there is no scope for distancing and employees sit shoulder to shoulder,” said an employee of the UT Secretariat in Sector 9.Chandigarh DGP takes to Twitter to salute staffChandigarh director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Baniwal was not only prompt to appreciate the good work done by a woman sub inspector and her husband but also quick to share the appreciation on social media. “Continuing to uphold our motto: We care for you. SI Eram Rizvi and her husband have been taking care of 48 kids at a quarantine centre,” the proud boss tweeted last week.Cop gets dressing down for calling gangster Bhaji!A Chandigarh Police inspector got pulled up the other day for addressing gangster Sampat Nehra as Bhaji (brother). During the investigation into the recent firing incidents in the city, an overenthusiastic cop called up Nehra, who is jailed in Punjab, and addressed him as Bhaji. Little did he realise that he was speaking in front of a superintendent of police rank officer. The SP reported the matter to the Chandigarh DGP, who gave the inspector a piece of his mind.Queries pour in for the weather man as rains arriveThe monsoon arrived on Wednesday, six days before scheduled. Excited residents kept calling the local office of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) with mundane questions. A resident called up to say that he was constructing his house and wanted to know how much it would rain so that he could cut cost on watering the foundation that was to be laid that day. Another resident wanted to know if it would rain daily so he could give his gardener a few days off! Wonder what the weather man told them.UT health department gets digital upgrade thanks to CovidFor the first time, the UT health department conducted review meetings with its frontline health workers via video-conferencing last week. The status of service deliveries under maternal and child health, family planning and immunisation was reviewed by Dr G Dewan, the health director of Chandigarh. Tablet devices have been provided to healthcare workers for discussing steps to improve services in Covid times. Now that’s what we call a positive side-effect.Debate over term of PU students’ councilA debate over the term of Panjab University Campus Students Council has been going on among student organisations. The term of the council ended on May 31 but a student party submitted to the dean, students’ welfare, that the members of the council are still using their stamps and official positions while approaching the university authorities. However, Chetan Chaudhary, who was the PUCSC president, refutes the claims, saying the outgoing office-bearers were only helping students in difficult times. A former DSW said it’s better to talk to former elected representatives and take student organisations into confidence before any such initiative.Musical chairs at UT education departmentIt’s a game of musical chairs at the UT education department. Just as Harbir Anand was set to take charge from Alka Mehta as district education officer (DEO), former DEO Anujit Kaur filed an application in the Punjab and Haryana high court, seeking a departmental promotion committee (DPC) meeting. Let’s see who wins this round.(Contributed by Munieshwer A Sagar, Hillary Victor, Shailee Dogra, Rajanbir Singh, Amanjeet Singh Salyal, Dar Ovais, and Srishti Jaswal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-kb6CJlgvJrwQNvmBcFgjnO.html
27-06-2020||Jaipur||CBI files charge sheet in violence after slain gangster’s case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday filed a charge sheet in the court of ACJM, CBI Cases, Jodhpur, against 24 accused in a case related to alleged riots and violence that occurred at Sanvrad, the native village of the slain gangster Anandpal Singh, in Rajasthan’s Nagaur district after he was killed in a police encounter on June 24, 2017.The 24 accused against whom the case was registered are Lokendra Singh Kalvi, Sukhdev Singh Gugamedi, Hanuman Singh Khangta, Mahipal Singh Makrana, Yogender Singh Katar, Durg Singh, Ranjit Singh Mangla, Ranjeet Singh Gendia, Ranveer Singh Guda, Okender Rana, Charanjeet Singh Kanwar alias Cheenu, AP Singh, Seema Raghuvanshi, Giriraj Singh Lotwara, Mahavir Singh, Pratap Singh Ranawat, Prem Singh Banwasa, Bhanwar Singh Reta, Dilip Singh, Jabbar Singh, Mohan Singh Hattoj, Yunus Ali, Rajender Singh Gudha, and Ghanshyam Singh Tyod.The accused have been booked under Section 307 (attempt to murder), 332 (hurting public servant), 353 (use of criminal force on public servant), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting with a deadly weapon), 283 (obstruction or injury to any person in any public way) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and violation of Section 3 (committing mischief by doing any act in respect of any public property) and Section 4 (damaging public property by fore or explosive) of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984.Singh’s daughter Cheenu refused to comment on her name being included in the CBI’s charge sheet as among the 24 accused.Earlier on June 24, 2017, gangster Anandpal Singh was killed in a police encounter in Churu district’s Malasar town.Soon, violent protests erupted against the encounter in Sanvrad in which one person had died and over 30 were injured.The state government had to send additional security forces and imposed a curfew to bring the situation under control.Cheenu, the slain gangster’s lawyer AP Singh, and several Rajput leaders were booked on charges of rioting.The CBI had registered a case on January 5, 2018, on the request of the Rajasthan government, at Jaswantgarh police station in Nagaur district.The CBI had issued a statement that Singh had died on June 24, 2017, in an encounter with the police, but his body was not cremated and a prayer meeting was instead organised at Sanvrad in a bid to mount pressure on the state government to accept his supporters’ demands bringing the guilty to book for the fake encounter killing. The CBI also alleged that one of the accused invited a large crowd to gather in the village to protest against Singh’s death.The accused and his supporters also visited the police control room at Sanvrad Tiraha and threatened the local police administration to accept their demands.While several people gave hate speeches to instigate the crowd. The angry mob also pelted stones at police vehicles, and many police personnel sustained injuries.Some of the police personnel was allegedly held captive in a house and the mob also snatched their arms, including .9 mm service pistols, cartridges along with mobile phones and other items.Nagaur’s superintendent of police’s (SP) official vehicle was also torched by the mob.“A charge sheet has been filed after a thorough investigation. The findings are based on the probe and the accompanying evidence,” the CBI said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/cbi-files-charge-sheet-in-violence-after-slain-gangster-s-case/story-dPCTv6gAHj4sBZhrhAgtTM.html
27-06-2020||Bangalore||Yediyurappa joined by Shivakumar, Deve Gowda at Kempegowda statue ceremony||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa did a bhoomi puja (ground breaking ceremony) on Saturday for a 108-feet tall bronze statue of Kempegowda, who is considered as Nadaprabhu - founder of Bengaluru, on his 511th birth anniversary. The statue is set to come up at the international airport in Bengaluru – which is the country’s third busiest – and which is named after Kempegowda.Flanked by former Prime Minister and JDS leader Deve Gowda, KPCC president DK Shivakumar and a host of leaders cutting across political lines as well as religious leaders, Yediyurappa said that a 23-acre park would also be built around the statue to serve as a tourist attraction. Officials estimated the total cost of the project to be anywhere between Rs 66-80 crore.Well-known architect Ram Sutar, who worked on the Sardar Vallabhai Patel statue in Gujarat, would be executing this project which will be implemented by the Kempegowda Development Authority. The statue is expected to be completed in 1.5 years.Deputy chief minister Ashwath Narayan also said that Kempapura village in Magadi taluk, where Kempegowda’s tomb is present, on the outskirts of the city would also be developed as a tourist destination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/yediyurappa-joined-by-shivakumar-deve-gowda-at-kempegowda-statue-ceremony/story-28MpjniZzptgkIAMPEKwRK.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||SAD accuses AAP, Bhagwant Mann of colluding with Congress||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday accused the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and its state convener Bhagwant Mann of betraying the interests of Punjabis by colluding with the Congress party and chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.In a statement here, former minister Daljit Singh Cheema said even at a time when the state was battling a pandemic, the AAP was humming the same tune as the Congress party.“Instead of raising peoples’ issues and exposing the government, AAP has entered into an unholy alliance with the Congress party to take on the SAD collectively,” he said, adding that this was visible in the statements of the AAP convener who was not interested in targeting the chief minister or the council of ministers for the various multi-thousand crore scams perpetuated during the Congress rule, but was obsessed with attacking SAD. “It seems Mann has forgotten it is the Congress party and not SAD which is in power in the state,” he added.Stating that this open collusion was not good for the state’s polity, Cheema said the AAP had surrendered its position as the principle opposition party in the state.He said while AAP was working as a B-team of the Congress party earlier, it had now apparently become an unofficial partner in the Congress government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-accuses-aap-bhagwant-mann-of-colluding-with-congress/story-hT3nkmsk0xtv5yMfGo1vdO.html
27-06-2020||City||Tarn Taran murders: Son hacked father, 3 others before being killed by elder brother: Police||TARN TARAN It was a war within the family with a history of drug peddling and addiction that resulted in five murders at Kairon village of the district on Wednesday night, police said on Saturday.Police claimed to have solved the murders saying that one of the sons first hacked his father, two sisters-in-law and the driver to death before he was killed by his elder brother, who was arrested on Saturday.Brij Lal (60), his two daughters-in-law Amandeep Kaur (24) and Jaspreet Kaur (28), son Daljit Singh, alias Bunty (25), and driver Gursahib Singh (35) were found murdered in separate rooms of the house on Thursday morning.Police said their investigation has revealed that Bunty hacked his father, two sisters-in-law and the family’s driver to death on Wednesday night, a few hours before he was killed in ‘vengeance’ by one of his elder brothers Gurjant Singh, alias Janta (29).Police arrested Gurjant from the village on Saturday morning and also recovered two sharp-edged weapons used in the crime.Police said Bunty killed his father after the latter stopped him from taking drugs while the two women fell prey to as he doubted their ‘character’ and ‘closeness’ to the driver. Bunty’s two brothers—Bakshish Singh, alias Sonu (30), and Paramjit Singh, alias Pumma (24)—who are the husbands of the victim women are undergoing treatment at a drug rehabilitation centre in Tarn Taran.Addressing a press conference, Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruv Dahiya said: “Our investigation found that at around 11:30pm on Wednesday, Bunty killed his father with a kirpan during a quarrel and then hacked to death his sisters-in-law.”He said, “During the quarrel, Brij Lal called his driver Gursahib and as soon he turned up, Bunty attacked him with the same ‘kirpan’. Bunty then went into a drug-induced stupor. After some time, Gurjant saw what had happened. He slit Bunty’s throat in a fit of rage.”DSP Kamaljit Singh said Gurjant left the house after killing Bunty.A case under sections 302 (murder), 450 (house trespass), 148 (armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of the unlawful assembly) is already registered at Patti City police station.Police said Lal and his four sons were involved in drug peddling and nearly 50 cases were registered against the family members. Lal’s wife Ranjit Kaur died on May 22 this year in Amritsar Central jail where she was lodged in connection with a drug case. Gurjant is facing around seven cases, including of murder. Bunty was also booked in several cases, including of rape.The DSP said investigations are on to find out the status of cases against Gurjant and Bunty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tarn-taran-murders-son-hacked-father-3-others-before-being-killed-by-elder-brother-police/story-ydsBQ2B1gUH7j8IrkoXQgL.html
27-06-2020||City||Ex-Himachal MLA booked for sedition, sent to four-day police remand||Former Himachal Pradesh legislator and Congress leader Neeraj Bharti, who was slapped with sedition charges, was sent to four-day police custody by a local court on Saturday.Bharti was arrested by the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) wing of Himachal Pradesh Police on the charges of sedition for posting ‘objectionable remark’ against Prime Minister Narendra Modi.After the hearing, Bharti said that asking a question to the government was not a crime and he will continue his battle against the fascist regime.The Congress leader’s wife Monika Surjewala Bharti, who was also present in the court, said that the case was part of a political controversy against her husband.The court will hear the bail petition of the Congress leader on Monday.Bharti, in a series of posts on Facebook, had made ‘offensive remarks’ against the Prime Minister and RSS after the violent face-off between India and China in Galwan valley of Ladakh.A Shimla-based lawyer Narender Guleria had lodged a complaint against Bharti with the Crime Branch, CID on June 20.The former Jawali legislator was booked under Sections 124A (sedition), 153a (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ex-himachal-mla-booked-for-sedition-sent-to-two-day-police-remand/story-Iu9WxbfK290cDjFsMeyi6K.html
27-06-2020||City||Himachal govt committed to provide quality education: Jai Ram Thakur||The government is committed and making all-out efforts to provide quality education in Himachal Pradesh with thrust on strengthening the existing educational infrastructure so as to prepare the students for state and national competitions according to their aptitude, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Saturday.He was presiding over a review meeting of the education department.Thakur said that the government has constituted the HP State Higher Education Council under Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) for the development and growth of higher education institutions. Under RUSA, the authorities are working access, equality and quality status of higher education in the state,” said Thakur.He said that since the RUSA grants and funds were linked to NAAC accreditation, there would be a healthy competition amongst the colleges to be on the top of the ladder.He added that Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cluster University Mandi has been set up as per RUSA guidelines.“The Centre has approved ₹55 crore for this university out of which ₹27.50 crore has already been released,” said Thakur directing the officers to expedite work to make the institute functional.He said that since 2018 funds amounting to ₹92 crore has been sanctioned for Himachal Pradesh University (HPU), Shimla as infrastructure grants to 26 colleges.Thakur said that there were 929 high schools and 1871 senior secondary schools in the government sector besides 138 government colleges.“The state government has allocated ₹3,671.95 crore to the education sector for the current financial year,” said the chief minister.He said that ₹116.37 crore capital budget had been earmarked for buildings and educational infrastructure.While 1171 construction works had been completed, work on 314 projects was in progress, he added. Thakur directed the officers to implement the national flagship schemes including scholarship schemes, RUSA, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, Khelo India School Games and National Disaster Management Programme, etc.He said that ₹98.98 crore had been spent on centrally sponsored scholarship schemes during the year 2018-19.The education department has been ensuring maximum use of information technology for teaching students in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, he said.Education minister Suresh Bhardwaj thanked the chief minister for regularising the services of about 10,097 PTA, PAT and PARA teachers serving in different schools of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-govt-committed-to-provide-quality-education-jai-ram-thakur/story-UugfGYLqk6QwcqDjxAa9gO.html
27-06-2020||City||Patiala records 44% of 274 Covid cases in last 16 days||Patiala A spurt in Covid-19 cases has been witnessed in Patiala district lately as 123 of the 274 cases (44%) were recorded in the last 16 days. Also, the district recorded the highest single-day spike on Friday when 28 people found positive for the virus. The district had recorded its first positive case on March 29.District epidemiologist Sumeet Singh said, “Most of the positive cases are linked to patients from Malerkotla and Sangrur.”Currently, there are 127 active cases in the district while 142 got cured and five lives were claimed by the virus. The health department has tested 20,101 samples so far, of which 18,682 tested negative and reports of 1,112 are pending.A health department official said, “The movement of people to and from the district is making things difficult.”The district health department also earmarked Warraich Colony, Doger Market and Sidhu Colony as micro containment zones in Patiala in the last six days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patiala-records-44-of-274-covid-cases-in-last-16-days/story-UsFQhgkNHr5sQXl9BYBnEI.html
27-06-2020||City||Renowned Jammu advocate Bhupinder Slathia passes away at 70||Senior advocate and former president of Jammu and Kashmir High Court Bar Association, Bhupinder Singh Slathia passed away after a brief illnees at PGIMER Chandigarh on Saturday morning.The 70-year-old was known for voicing the region-centric issues and remained at the forefront of several pro-Jammu agitations.Slathia is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son. His will be cremated at Jogi Gate around 4pm here on Sunday.Lt Governor G C Murmu condoled the demise of the senior advocate stating that Slathia, a prominent public figure, would always be remembered for his services to the legal fraternity. He expressed solidarity with the bereaved family members.Considered close to former chief minister and senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, he had been one of the prominent faces leading the 2008 Amarnath land row agitation in Jammu and at times had differed with Azad on issues pertaining to Jammu.Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Azad expressed his heartfelt condolences on Slathia’s passing. “I am deeply saddened by the sad demise of Shri Slathia. A leading lawyer from Jammu, he was the Bar Council president for two terms. He was a vocal proponent for the development of Jammu region. In his demise, Jammu has lost a strong voice. He was actively involved in social service throughout his life,” said Azad.National Conference also expressed deep grief over Slathia’s demise, describing it a great loss for Jammu region and the legal fraternity.Senior National Conference leaders stated that Slathia was one of the most vocal legal practitioners who took keen interest in the issues pertaining to the Jammu region. “He was respected by his colleagues and his death has left a vacuum that would be hard to fill,” they said.Congress, PDP, Apni Party and BJP also condoled the passing away of Slathia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/renowned-jammu-advocate-bhupinder-slathia-passes-away-at-70/story-3YENPMJ99F8zT5X9Ok6fFK.html
27-06-2020||City||Communities deprived of equal rights for years in J&K, finally get domicile certificates||Deprived of citizenship for over 70 years under successive Kashmir-centric regimes, members of the Valmiki Samaj, West Pak Refugees and Gurkhas were finally handed over their domicile certificates here on Saturday.Valmiki community leader Gharu Bhatti said, “It is a red-letter day for us. The first domicile certificate was given to 70-year-old Deepo Devi. She had retired long back as a sanitation worker from Jammu Municipal Corporation (JMC).”“We are very happy that we have been finally considered as citizens of J&K. There is new hope among our youth, who can now also become officers and get jobs in other departments,” he added.Bhatti slammed Kashmir-centric parties like National Conference and PDP for opposing the new domicile law. “Since the beginning they have been saying that these are attempts to change the demography. Instead, they were the ones attempting to make it a Muslim state. They never allowed equal rights to us, be it Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah or Mehboob Mufti,” he said.He said the domicile certificates have brought an end to their slavery by the successive Kashmir-centric regimes.Brought from Gurdaspur and Amritsar in 1957 on the assurance of then J&K ‘Prime Minister’ Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed that they will be given permanent resident status and other privileges, Valmikis ended up working as sweepers for 62 years irrespective of their educational qualifications.West Pakistani Refugees Action Committee (WPRAC) chairman Labha Ram Gandhi said it was all due to sincere and human approach of the BJP-leadership that they got the right to live a dignified life.“Except betrayals by previous governments at the Centre as well as in the erstwhile J&K state, nothing was done to solve our issues,” Gandhi said.West Pak refugees were not considered residents of the state since 1947. No jobs and no admission in professional courses were given to them. They had fled Pakistan during partition from Sialkot and settled in Jammu, Samba and Kathua districts.The process of distribution of domicile certificates under the new domicile law was kick-started here with the distribution of over 50 domicile certificates by Jammu divisional commissioner Sanjeev Verma during a special camp.Speaking on the occasion, Verma said with the handing over of domicile certificates, the long-pending demand of the public has been fulfilled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/communities-deprived-of-equal-rights-for-years-in-j-k-finally-get-domicile-certificates/story-HoUJGIFNqvuUahpE26rM3O.html
27-06-2020||City||HP governor announces ₹1.5L grant for three women boxers of Kinnaur district||Governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Saturday announced that he will facilitate three women boxers of Kinnaur district with Rs 51,000 each for winning gold medals and representing India at the international level.The three boxers are Vinakshi Devi, who won gold medals (under-19 category) in Khelo India Games 2019 and in Bhutan International event, Sneha who won a gold medal in under-19 boxing 2020 and a silver medal in Junior World Boxing Championship in Spain and Deepika who won a gold medal in World Boxing Youth Championship 2020, Sweden.He said due to ongoing coronavirus pandemic, sportspersons and athletes are not able to perform but they are continuing with their training. It is important to encourage these sportspersons so that they continue to practice and make the state and country proud.He said this through a video conference with prominent persons, non-government organisations, social workers, panchayati raj representatives and officials of Kinnaur district.They also apprised the governor about problems of phone connectivity in the district, demanded a sports centre in Kalpa, widening roads near border areas and construction of CA stores in the district.Dattatreya assured them that he will take up these matters with the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-governor-announces-1-5l-grant-for-three-women-boxers-of-kinnaur-district/story-2fyuT7oeXs78AV9Lo443mI.html
27-06-2020||City||Bihar shelter home casesRecommended action against erring officials, CBI tells SC||New DelhiThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has informed the Supreme Court that its probe into allegations of sexual and physical exploitation in 17 shelter homes in Bihar has been completed, except in two cases where further investigation is on, and that they have recommended departmental action against “erring” public servants, including district magistrates, in several matters.The CBI has said that evidence of “gross negligence” was found on part of public servants and NGOs running the shelter homes in several cases, and reports have been sent to Bihar government for taking departmental action against erring government officials and also for cancellation of registration of NGOs and blacklisting them and their office bearers.In an application filed in the apex court, the CBI has said that further probe regarding Muzaffarpur shelter home and a short stay home at Motihari was going on and final reports had been filed before the competent courts in 13 cases.The top court had, in November 2018, asked the CBI to probe into the allegations of physical and sexual abuse in remaining 16 shelter homes in Bihar which were flagged in a report of Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS).The issue had cropped up before the apex court which was hearing the Muzaffarpur shelter home case where several girls were sexually abused. Later, 19 people were convicted by a trial court in connection with the Muzaffarpur shelter home case.In its fresh application filed in the top court, the CBI has said that in pursuance to the November 2018 order, it had taken over probe of remaining 16 shelter home matters and lodged 12 regular cases and four preliminary enquiries spread over 10 different districts of Bihar, including Patna, Gaya and Bhagalpur.“Enquiry of all four preliminary enquiries has also been completed and no evidence proving commission of criminal offences could be gathered in the said preliminary enquiries,” it said.“However, evidence of gross negligence was found on part of public servants and NGOs running the shelter homes for which CBI reports have been sent to the Government of Bihar for taking departmental actions against erring government officials and cancellation of registration of NGOs and blacklisting them and their office bearers for future social/governmental contracts,” the application said.It said the CBI reports and notes have been forwarded to chief secretary of Bihar for taking action against erring public servants, including several district magistrates, in these cases.The CBI has said that enquiries have been completed in these 17 shelter home cases, except the ongoing further probe in two matters.In its application, the probe agency has sought the apex court’s permission for utilizing services of team members of the investigating team of Bihar’s shelter home cases for other official works, saying the “assigned task has been completed except further investigation in Muzaffarpur shelter home case and short stay home, Motihari case”.The top court, in its October 2018 order, had said that CBI’s investigating team of the Muzaffarpur shelter home case should not be changed without its permission.In 2018, the apex court had said that report of TISS, which was also given to the Bihar government, had raised grave concern about 17 shelter homes in the state and the CBI must look into all of them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-shelter-home-casesrecommended-action-against-erring-officials-cbi-tells-sc/story-IzRCaqeZOcKYSyf2pwiIgI.html
27-06-2020||Patna||Sushant Singh Rajput’s Patna home to be turned into memorial, says family||The childhood home of late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, located at Patna’s Rajeev Nagar on road number six, would be turned into a memorial, said an official statement released by his family members on Saturday.The memorial will house his telescope, books, flight simulator, guitar and other personal belongings.The family will also set-up a foundation — Sushant’s Singh Rajput Foundation (SSRF) — to support budding talents in the fields of cinema, sports, and science.His family will also maintain his social media accounts in his remembrance. “From now on, we intend to maintain his Instagram, Twitter and Facebook page as legacy accounts to keep his memories alive. We once again, thank you all for the thoughts and prayers,” it stated.Rajput’s admirers in Bihar are paying tributes to him in different ways.Rajeev Nagar Chowk was renamed as Sushant Sigh Rajput Chowk in his memory by Shri Rashtriya Rajput Karni Sena on Friday.However, Patna Municipal Corporation is yet to approve the name change.Rajput was found dead at his apartment in Bandra, Mumbai, on June 14. His last rites were performed at the Pawan Hans crematorium at Vile Parle, Mumbai, on the following day and his ashes were immersed in the Ganges in Patna on June 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/sushant-singh-rajput-s-patna-home-to-be-turned-into-memorial-says-family/story-t3O7UgfQRZhmJSHPJ6hk1I.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Doaba farmers bring back migrant labourers for sowing, transplanting paddy||In absence of migrant labourers, who left for their native states amid the Covid-19 pandemic, farmers in the Doaba region had little choice but to hire high-priced local labour for sowing and transplanting paddy. Some enterprising farmers also made arrangements to bring back the migrant labour. Paddy transplantation had begun in the state from June 10, which was ten days in advance because of labour shortage. However, due to shortage of migrants, most of farmers are still transplanting paddy and also paying higher wages than the previous years.Transplantation traditionally begins on June 20 and lasts around 20 days.Jagjit Shergill of Bajwara village in Hoshiarpur said he had hired local village women for sowing paddy. He is paying each labourer Rs 4,000 per acre.“I decided to transplant paddy on 10 acres of my land against last year’s 20 acres as this year the process is proving to be very costly. There is shortage labour and there is no clarity on the MSP rate of paddy,” Shergill said.He said that migrants were demanding Rs 5,000 per acre while he had paid them Rs 3,100 last year.Harmanveer Singh, a farmer from Sultanpur Lodhi in Kapurthala district, said all his labourers had gone to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and the ones that had stayed behind were demanding Rs 4,500-Rs 5,000 for sowing paddy as compared to last year’s Rs 2,800-Rs 3,200.‘LOCALS TAKE LONGER, WASTE PADDY’ “I hired some local people who had recently lost the job and paid them Rs 3,500 per acre. Though they took more time and also wasted some of the paddy but it solved my problem,” Harmanveer said. He owns 60 acres of land.Sukhpreet Singh of Mahal village in Jalandhar a group of farmers from the village had collaborated to bring 33 migrants from Bihar. It cost Rs 4,500 to bring each labourer.“Covid-19 has made paddy sowing very expensive for farmers. We have almost spent double the amount we usually spend,” he said.Avtar Singh of Bajuha Khurd village in Jalandhar said many small farmers had hired unemployed locals to sow paddy. “Paddy transplantation is still under progress on my 40-acre land. I have hired at least 20 local villagers and also brought in seven migrant workers after spending Rs 45, 000 as they are experts,” he said.A driver, Sundeep Kumar, who was fired by a leather factory, said, “I was unable to find work. My family is dependent on me so I have been working in fields for the last two weeks and have earned Rs 500.District agriculture officer Naresh Gulati said some farmers had brought back the migrants while some had opted for direct sowing by machines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/doaba-farmers-bring-back-migrant-labourers-for-paddy-sowing/story-LGwCnUJ1J9GuNbx07VB2MO.html
27-06-2020||Patna||Sushant’s Patna home to be turned into memorial, says family||The childhood home of late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput at Patna’s Rajeev Nagar will be turned into his memorial, said an official statement released by Sushant’s family on Saturday.The memorial will house his most prized possessions, including telescope, thousands of books, flight simulator, guitar and other personal belongings for keeping his memory alive for his fans and admirers.Besides, the family will also set up a foundation, to be named Sushant’s Singh Rajput Foundation (SSRF), to support aspiring talents in fields of cinema, sports and science, subjects that were extremely close to Sushant’s heart.His family will also maintain his social media account in his remembrance. “From now on, we intend to maintain his Instagram, Twitter and Facebook page as legacy accounts to keep his memories alive. We once again thank you all for the thoughts and prayers,” the family statement reads.Sushant was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14. After performing his last rites at the Pawan Hans crematorium at Vile Parle in Mumbai, his ashes were immersed in river Ganga in Patna on June 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/sushant-s-patna-home-to-be-turned-into-memorial-says-family/story-am60qInG428S3hhBiigxLI.html
27-06-2020||Bangalore||Elderly woman becomes oldest in Karnataka to beat Covid-19||Offering a ray of hope to all those battling the deadly coronavirus, a woman here has successfully recovered from the disease at the ripe old age of 99, leaving the medical fraternity and her family elated. Marceline Saldanha had contracted the pathogen after coming in contact with her grandson and was hospitalised on her 99th birthday on June 18. The woman was taken to the Government Victoria Hospital along with her 70-year-old son Vincent, daughter-in-law Rita and grandson Vijay. Nine days later, the nonagenarian walked out of the hospital with her grandson on Friday after her results came out negative, becoming the oldest in the state to beat the disease. “While we three developed symptoms like cold, cough and fever, my mother remained asymptomatic,” Vincent, the woman’s son, told PTI. The family members are still wondering how they got infected by the virus as all except the woman’s grandson, were confined to their Kumaraswamy layout residence most of the time. Her 29-year-old grandson was the only one who ventured out to purchase groceries. Initially, the family approached a private hospital nearby for treatment, but they refused to accept Covid-19 patients. Left with no option, the family got admitted to the Victoria hospital. “We had reservations about the Victoria hospital, but it turned out be a good one. We did not spend a penny since the day we were admitted and my mother and son fully recovered,” the woman’s son said. According to Dr Asima Banu, nodal officer of the Trauma Care Centre at the Victoria hospital, the woman was reluctant to get treatment at the hospital. “With moral support from doctors and nurses at the Trauma Care Centre, she recovered very fast. She is always positive in life,” the doctor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/elderly-woman-becomes-oldest-in-karnataka-to-beat-covid-19/story-DcfLbiQbYrm7NQ4bwmpxEK.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||3 cops among 30 test positive in Himachal; Covid-19 tally rises to 894||Thirty people including three cops tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal in 24 hours taking the state’s tally to 894.Five cases were reported from Bilaspur, three from the tribal district of Kinnaur and one from Chamba late on Friday.Ten cases were reported in Hamirpur, seven in Kangra and one in Mandi on Saturday. THREE COPS TEST POSITIVE IN KINNAURThree jawans of the Himachal Pradesh Police, including two head constables and one constable, tested positive in Kinnaur district. The cops were deployed at Bhabha Nagar police station.Kinnaur deputy commissioner Gopal Chand said the health authorities were trying to trace the source of infection.He said that the three cops, who live in rented accommodation, had been on duty at the police station for several days. Two of them are from Kangra and had returned on June 12 while one was deployed at Chaura police post and may have contracted the disease there.“Their contacts are also being traced. The police station has been sealed and the staff isolated. Bhabhanagar has been declared a containment zone,” said the DC.Kinnaur district had become Covid-free on June 25. However, the tribal district has recorded four new cases in the last two days, taking the tally to seven.FIVE CASES IN BILASPURMeanwhile, five people, including a three-year-old child, tested positive in Bilaspur district. All the five patients belong to the Ghumarwin sub-division and were under institutional quarantine.They have travel history to Delhi, Gurugram and Sonipat. The patients have been shifted to a Covid-care centre.One case was detected in Chamba district where a man from Bharmaur sub-division was found Covid-19 positive.He had returned from Rewari of Haryana and was under institutional quarantine.KANGRA’S TALLY CROSSES 250-MARKKangra’s tally breached 250-mark with seven more people testing positive in the district.The fresh cases include three members of a Gurugram returned family, including a couple and their two-year-old child.The other two patients have travel histories to Faridabad and Noida while two are primary contacts of a Covid-19 patient, Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said. Ten cases, nine men a two-year child tested positive in Hamirpur late evening. Three cases were reported in Solan. 373 ACTIVE CASESSo far, Himachal has recorded 894 cases. At present, there are 373 active cases while 501 people have recovered. Eleven people have migrated to other states and seven have succumbed to the infection.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 251 cases, followed by Hamirpur with 238 cases, Una with 101 cases, Solan with 95 cases, Chamba with 51 cases, Bilaspur with 43 cases, Shimla with 39 cases, Sirmaur with 37 cases, Mandi with 27 cases, Kinnaur with seven cases and Kullu with 5 cases. Eleven of the 12 districts in Himachal are affected by Covid-19. Lahaul-Spiti is the only corona-free district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-cops-among-nine-to-test-positive-in-himachal-covid-19-tally-rises-to-373/story-7QbLVDjYXqQetCJ9lIOElN.html
27-06-2020||Delhi||Diagnostic material for 4.7 lakh RT-PCR tests, 50k Rapid Antigen Tests given free to Delhi by ICMR||To bolster Covid-19 management efforts in the national capital, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has supplied diagnostic material for carrying out 4.7 lakh RT-PCR tests to the 12 functional labs in Delhi till date, the Union Health Ministry said. It has provided 1.57 lakh RNA extraction kits essential for carrying out tests and 2.84 lakh VTMs (Viral Transport Medium) used for collecting and transporting swabs to laboratories. Besides, a 1,000-bed full-fledged hospital for Covid-19 patients in Delhi, developed by DRDO and to be manned by doctors and paramedical staff from the Army would be functional next week from an area near Dhaula Kuan, the ministry said. This new hospital would have a referral relationship with AIIMS, New Delhi and the facility would be equipped with oxygen, ventilators as well as an ICU, the ministry said in its statement. A 2,000-bed Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre and Hospital at Radha Soami Satsang Beas in Chhatarpur here has been made operational. The facility, which will have 10,000 beds, will function as an isolation centre for mild and symptomatic coronavirus patients. The entire operation of this Centre, including ensuring availability of requisite numbers of medical personnel, has been entrusted to the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), with Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) taking the lead in this process. In view of the sudden surge in coronavirus infections, the apex health research body ICMR has approved antigen-based rapid tests and supplied 50,000 such kits to Delhi government free-of-cost for supporting Covid-19 containment efforts, the statement said. The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), under Ministry of Health has supported the efforts of Delhi Government through technical guidance on all aspects of Covid-19 surveillance and response strategy, the ministry said. The areas include identification and assessment of quarantine facilities and Covid Care Centres (CCC) in the beginning of epidemic, orientation training and technical support on surveillance, contact tracing and lab aspects including infection prevention and control, data analysis and timely feedback to the Delhi government on the gaps identified and suggested solutions. The NCDC has also provided laboratory diagnostic support for processing of samples by RT-PCR including training of lab professionals of the Delhi government, the ministry said. Technical support by NCDC included deployment of multiple central teams of experts for situational analysis and subsequent recommendations accordingly, and deployment of public health experts to coordinate. The central agency also provided technical inputs to district level teams in implementation of revised Delhi COVID Response Plan and planning and execution of sero-prevalence study on coronavirus infection in the city. The Revised Delhi Covid Response Plan has been prepared with the active support of NCDC, the ministry said.The NCDC in collaboration with Delhi government will also conduct a serological survey across Delhi from June 27 to 10 during which blood samples from 20,000 persons will be tested to ascertain the presence of antibodies. The government of India has centrally procured and distributed 11.11 lakh N95 masks, 6.81 lakh PPE kits, 44.80 lakhs HCQ tablets to Delhi. Besides, 425 ventilators were allocated to Delhi and have been delivered to various hospitals in the city. Delhi has 34 Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH), 4 Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC), 24 Dedicated Covid Centers (DCCC) to treat Covid-19 patients based on their severity. Thus, a total of 62 facilities in Delhi are engaged in treating Covid-19. The number of these facilities is being increased on a daily basis, the ministry said in a statement. A high-level committee set up by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on June 21 had suggested Delhi government that every case of death should be analysed from the point of when the person was admitted to hospital and from which area was the deceased brought. The panel said it should be very important to find if the deceased was in home isolation and if he or she was brought to the hospital on time. Every death has to be reported in a timely manner to Government of India. All hospitals have been given strict directions that there should be no delays in handing over the dead bodies to their next of kin and performing last rites of Covid-19 deceased patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/diagnostic-material-for-4-7-lakh-rt-pcr-tests-50k-rapid-antigen-tests-given-free-to-delhi-by-icmr/story-b6olYyYG2BsoonXEzdkKqJ.html
27-06-2020||City||Yashwant Sinha joins Bihar fray, attacks Nitish||PATNAFormer BJP leader Yashwant Sinha on Saturday announced he would work for a new political alternative in Bihar to replace the Nitish Kumar government due to its “utter failure on multiple fronts”.Assembly elections are due in Bihar in October-November.Sinha, who quit the BJP in April 2018, said at a press conference that the new formation was in the process of making and would contest elections on the agenda of ‘Is Baar Badlo Bihar’ (Change Bihar this time)’. “The government will have a big role to play in the making of a better Bihar and the present dispensation is incapable to doing it, as has been proved in the last 15 years. The focus is on replacing it with a government that is sensitive to people’s needs,” he said.A former Union finance minister, Sinha did not rule out the possibility of contesting the elections himself. “I don’t cross my bridges before I get to them. I am known for surprising at times. I have decided to devote the rest of my life for changing Bihar after the worst ever humiliation I have had to face due to heart-rending sight of migrants from Bihar returning to the state braving untold miseries,” he said.Flanked by former ministers in the Nitish Kumar cabinet, Renu Kushwaha, Narendra Singh, former Jehanabad MP Arun Kumar, five-time MP from Jhanjharpur Devendra Prasad Yadav, former MP Purnmasi Ram, former union minister Nagmani and a host of other leaders, Sinha said more leaders were in touch with him to give the people of Bihar a viable alternative, “as they were badly looking for one after feeling cheated”. Former Bihar Speaker Uday Naraayan Choudhary is also said to be in touch with Sinha.“If this is the condition of Bihar 73 years after independence that 40 lakh people have to move out every year in search of livelihood, it speaks a lot about governance. If Bihar remains at the bottom of the human development index (HDI) index and poverty index, has the lowest per capita income of Rs 47,541, which is one-third of the national average, and the education and health sectors remain in a deplorable state, there is not much left to explain,” he said.Himself an alumnus of Patna University, Sinha said the university had been left with barely one or two teachers in several post-graduate departments, as most of the posts had remained vacant in Bihar’s higher education institutions. “In the last fiscal, barely 33% of the rural road construction target could be completed. Bihar has barely 1.5% share in industries across the country. And to top it all, there is all-pervasive corruption, with money disappearing from treasury,” he said, in a direct attack on the Nitish Kumar government.He also urged the Election Commission to consider the prevailing situation before deciding whether it would be proper to hold elections. “Virtual campaigns and digital voting are mere tools of cheating the people. It will be heavily loaded in favour of rich parties. Besides, one never knows what shape Covid-19 would take. It may peak in October-November. Right now, there is hardly any testing in Bihar, but the figure has gone past 8,000. There also could be a flood situation in 21 districts. The EC has to take a call taking everything into consideration,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yashwant-sinha-joins-bihar-fray-attacks-nitish/story-s5X6lZ33kfULQmb6lFvVxL.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||One dead, two injured as car plunges into gorge in Sirmaur||One person was killed and two people were injured when the car they were travelling in plunged into a gorge in Sangrah sub-division of Sirmaur.One Dawlat Ram was killed while Kaviraj and Suniel were injured. All victims are residents of Bhagani, Sirmaur.The accident took place on Friday evening when the victims were on their way to Nohradhar and the driver lost control of the vehicle near Sangrah.The victims were rushed to the Community Health Centre, Nohradhar, where they are undergoing treatment. Dawat Ram was referred to the Government Hospital, Solan, but he succumbed to his injuries.Sirmaur superintendent of police (SP) Ajay Krishan Sharma confirmed the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/one-dead-two-injured-as-car-plunges-into-gorge-in-sirmaur/story-FxxtMJCrTkblTwCj9sbEAN.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Five test positive for Covid-19 in Hoshiarpur||Five people tested positive for the novel coronavirus here on Saturday. Three of the infected persons, including one from Aslamabad Colony, had recently returned from Algeria. They had been in quarantine since their return.The other four patients are residents of Rourki Khas village, Saidpur, Bahira and Nasrala. Civil surgeon Jasbir Singh said the patients had been shifted to the civil hospital.FEROZEPUR ADC RECOVERSFerozepur additional deputy commissioner (development) Ravinderpal Singh Sandhu, who had tested positive for the novel coronavirus on June 17 , has recovered. The ADC, who was under home isolation, tested negative on Saturday.After recovering the ADC, said, “The virus is not invincible and one can recover by maintaining a high morale and following the guidelines issued by the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/five-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-hoshiarpur/story-P4yn1l0yi9ANk1TkWyeAVI.html
27-06-2020||Pune||No heavy rainfall for a week: IMD||Pune: The city will continue to receive light to moderate rainfall for the next four days, however, heavy rain will only be seen after seven days, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).On Friday until 5:30 pm, the city did not receive a single drop of rain through the day. The maximum temperature was recorded at 31.9-degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature was at 23.4-degrees Celsius. “Since monsoon is not at its peak and it is a bit slow, so Pune will not receive heavy rains in the next six days. Although intermediate spells of moderate rains are expected in between,” said Anupam Kashyapi, IMD Director.The big update is that southwest monsoon covered the entire country on Friday. In Pune, IMD has predicted light to moderate rain for the next four days.Pimpri-Chinchwad has been receiving sporadic heavy showers for the last three days. No rain was reported on Friday in PCMC.“Even if it is called light rain, it is still monsoon. A similar pattern of rainfall is expected for the next two to three days,” added Kashyapi.Until June 26, Pune received 153.9mm rainfall while Lohegaon and Pashan have received 265.8mm and 155.4 mm rainfall respectively.Pune forecast June 27: Light to moderate rain, thundery activity, lightning very likelyJune 28: Light to moderate rain very likelyJune 29: Light to moderate rain very likelyJune 30: Light to Moderate rain very likely||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-heavy-rainfall-for-a-week-imd/story-WW32aIf6QsT6lql5r8E4BK.html
27-06-2020||Pune||Pune’s bargain bazaar decides to go China-free: Tulshibaug traders unveil local produce plan||Tulshibaug market, one of the city’s oldest bargain bazaars, announced a “China-free” plan on Friday, a plan to not sell any made-in-China item.Three hundred shops and 300 registered hawkers make up this city shopping centre for bargain deals on every type of knick-knack, imported and otherwise; with cosmetics, toiletries, household and decorative items the fast movers.Tulshibaug exited lockdown last week, and against the backdrop of the China aggravation along the LAC in Ladakh, which resulted in the 20 Indian soldiers losing their lives, traders have decided to boycott all Chinese-made items.“When the incident happened, and our soldiers were brutally killed, since that day there has been a lot of anger amongst all the shop owners and traders in Tulshibaug. So we decided to appeal to all shop owners to boycott Chinese goods - buying and selling - in the market. Thirty per cent to 35 per cent of ‘Made in China’ goods come into the Tulshibaug market every year,” said Nitin Pandit, secretary, Tulshibaug market shop owners association.Pandit claims that the process of becoming a “China- free Tulshibaug” has begun, within some traders destroying their current made-in-China inventory.The process to completely de-link from China is expected to take at least six months.“Tulshibaug is known for its prices and varieties. There is demand for Chinese products. Due to lockdown, almost every trader is now facing a financial crisis as there was no business for three months. Despite this, traders who have stopped buying Chinese products are working on options for local production of goods which were coming in from China. For this, traders have approached manufacturers in Ulhasnagar and Gujarat.” Pandit added.Pandit says the Tulshibaug market as a whole suffered a loss of at least Rs 40 crore during the 90+ days of lockdown.“Some Chinese inventory already exists and some goods have already been dispatched from China, so it is not possible to immediately stop. We have appealed to traders that if possible, destroy the goods or return it to the distributors. As a last option sale will be allowed of current stock. All the traders have agreed, but it will not happen overnight. In the next six to eight months, Tulshibaug will be a China-free market,” Pandit said, adding, “On the association level we will help our traders in all possible ways to be self-dependent.”Pandit estimates that a ballpark figure for the price differential between manufacturing in India and manufacturing in China will be between 35 per cent and 40 per cent.That is a cost some traders are willing to bear.Fifty-five-year-old Babu Navale, a shop owner at Tulshibaug, destroyed all his China goods.Navale said: “There is lot of anger against China. Being a proud Indian I decided to stop selling and buying any kind of Chinese goods. I had several Chinese products in my shop like plastic bottles, utensils, laundry bags, mosquito-repellent rackets; around Rs 25,000 worth of goods. I threw it all in the garbage. I am ready to suffer a loss in business, but will never buy and sell Chinese products.”Annually the total value of goods imported from China into the Tulshibaug market is between Rs 25 crore and Rs 30 crore, according to the Tulshibaug market shop owners association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-bargain-bazaar-decides-to-go-china-free-tulshibaug-traders-unveil-local-produce-plan/story-7oF29Ifs1sMoKcBwrUKfuK.html
27-06-2020||Delhi||8 states contributed 85% Covid-19 caseload, 87% deaths: Health Ministry||Eight states, including Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu, contributed 85.5 per cent of the active Covid-19 caseload and 87 per cent of the total deaths due to the disease in India, according to the Union Health Ministry.The ministry said it briefed the Group of Ministers on Covid-19 on the coronavirus situation in the country and the efforts to boost healthcare infrastructure on Saturday.“It was mentioned that presently eight states - Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Telangana, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal - contribute 85.5 per cent of active caseload and 87 per cent of total deaths in India,” it said in a statement.India has reported five lakh Covid-19 cases with the worst single-day jump of 18,552 cases on Saturday. The death toll has climbed to 15,685.The health ministry said it also briefed the GOM during its 17th meeting about the recovery and mortality rates, doubling rate and ramped up testing in various states. It told the GOM 15 central teams consisting of public health experts, epidemiologists and a senior joint secretary-level officer have been deployed to provide support to the states.Another central team is currently visiting Gujarat, Maharashtra and Telangana to strengthen ongoing efforts for management of Covid-19, it said.The GoM was also briefed about the utility of ITIHAS and Aarogya Setu in contact-tracing and prediction of potential hotspot areas. The Group of Ministers was told that the key focus areas continually communicated to states and UTs are strict containment measures and surveillance, utilizing full testing capacity and focus on monitoring of co-morbid and elderly population and predicting emerging hotspots leveraging digital tools such as Aarogya Setu.They have also been asked to ensure seamless patient admission processes, fatality mitigation by effective clinical management; focus on infrastructure preparedness (critical care beds, oxygen, ventilators and logistics) and ensuring that non-Covid healthcare services are not impacted.Balram Bhragava, the ICMR Director General, gave a detailed presentation on the testing strategy. He explained about the serological survey and the increasing capacity for enhanced per-day testing through various tests.The samples tested in the last 24 hours have increased to 2,20,479, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 79,96,707, the statement said.India now has 1,026 diagnostic labs dedicated to Covid-19. This includes 741 in the government sector and 285 private labs, Bhargava told the Group of Ministers.The GoM was also apprised that as of June 27, the Covid-related health infrastructure has been strengthened with the availability of 1,039 dedicated Covid Hospitals with 1,76,275 isolation beds, 22,940 ICU beds and 77,268 oxygen-supported beds, the ministry said.Also, 2,398 dedicated Covid Health Centres with 1,39,483 isolation beds, 11,539 ICU beds and 51,321 oxygen-supported beds have been operationalised.  Moreover, 8,958 Covid Care Centres with 8,10,621 beds are now available in the country. The Centre has provided 185.18 lakh N95 masks and 116.74 lakh Personal Protective Equipment to the states, UTs and Central institutions.In a detailed presentation by K Shivaji, the chairman of the Empowered Group-10, the GoM was briefed that the stipulated redressal time on Covid-19 public grievances was brought down from the usual 60 days for normal public grievances to three days.The National Dashboard for Covid-19 was launched on April 1 for exclusive monitoring of related public grievances.From March 30 to June 24, the Empowered Group disposed 93.84 per cent of the 77,307 grievances received for central ministries and  63.11 per cent of the 53,130 grievances received pertaining to state governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/8-states-contributed-85-covid-19-caseload-87-deaths-health-ministry/story-zGqegwQTZ9U7BEiLZjVwqL.html
27-06-2020||Pune||Staring at losses, PMPML plans voluntary retirement for employees aged above 55||The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) is struggling for survival due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Now, the organisation is planning Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS) for employees above 55 years of age.The PMPML is calling it a precautionary step as the elderly are at a greater risk to the Covid-19 infection. The decision has been taken by the PMPML board of directors, and a committee has been formed to set guidelines to carry out the procedure.On the other hand, PMPML employees and worker unions are not happy with the decision. Most employees are not willing to opt for VRS and want to work in any other alternate government office.PMPML chairman and managing director (CMD) Nayana Gunde, said, “The organisation is undergoing financial losses, secondly the Covid-19 infection is spreading in the city and elderly employees are at more risk. Therefore, we are going to give them VRS. There was a discussion on thr issue in the recent board of directors’ meeting. Now, a committee has been formed to make guidelines to execute the VRS. Once the committee submits its report further procedure will start.”When asked whether it will be optional or compulsory retirement for the employees, she said, “It has not yet been decided whether we will compulsorily send them on VRS or it will be optional. According to the committee report, a decision will be taken.”There are around 10,000 employees and workers in PMPML currently consisting of drivers, conductors, mechanical workers and clerical staff. Out of them, around 2,100 employees are above the age of 55.Sunil Nalawade, vice-president of PMPML nationalist workers’ union, said, “It is unacceptable that the management will directly send workers on voluntary retirement. If they are planning anything related to elderly workers’ retirement, they should consult and take suggestions from the worker unions and we will give our inputs. If the scheme is beneficial to workers, it will definitely be considered and we will accept it. But if there are any glitches and financial losses to the workers, then it will not be accepted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/staring-at-losses-pmpml-plans-voluntary-retirement-for-employees-aged-above-55/story-0HEAex90CTyf4ZlxaYEcKL.html
27-06-2020||Pune||595 fresh Covid cases and 14 deaths in Pune||The city reported 595 fresh Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths on Friday taking the count of progressive positive cases to 14,780 and the city’s death toll due to the Covid-19 infection to 572.A resident of Daund also died at a city hospital on Friday.There are 5,575 active cases in the city, out of which 330 are in a critical condition.Over 3,378 fresh samples were collected on Friday and over 104,055 samples have been collected till date. The number of patients discharged rose to 331 on Friday taking the count of such people to 8,633. On Friday, 5 patients died at the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital (DMH), that included an 89-year-old male who was a resident of Lokmanya Nagar, Pune. The patient was declared dead on June 24 and the cause of death is said to be Covid positive pneumonia.The second death reported was of a 74-year-old male who was a resident of Janata Vasahat. The patient was declared dead on June 25 and the cause of death is said to be acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) due to Covid positive pneumonitis and hypertension.The third death reported at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital was of a 93-year-old male, a resident of Sinhagad road. The patient was declared dead on June 26 and the cause of death is said to be Covid positive pneumonia.The fourth death at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital was of a 64-year-old female, a resident of Nana peth. The patient was declared dead on June 26 and the cause of death is said to be ARDS with pneumonia and hypertension.Three deaths were reported at the Sassoon Hospital that included a 48-year-old female, a resident of Aundh. The patient was admitted on June 25 and died on the same day. The cause of death is said to be type 1 respiratory failure and pneumonia in Covid. The patient had hypertension, diabetes, anaemia and heart ailment.The second death at Sassoon Hospital was of a 37-year-old male, a resident of Hadapsar. He was admitted on June 18 and was declared dead on June 26. The cause of death is said to be type 1 respiratory failure acute respiratory failure with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), hypertension and diabetes.The third death at Sassoon Hospital was of a 75-year-old female, a resident of Nana peth. She was admitted on June 24 and was declared dead on June 25. The cause of death is said to be an acute respiratory failure in Covid-19.A 55-year old male was dead from Naidu hospital, a resident of Mangirbaba chowk. The person was declared dead on June 24 and the cause of death is said to be acute respiratory distress syndrome. Another death from the hospital was of a 62-year old male who was a resident of Hadapsar. He was declared dead on June 26 and the cause of death is Covid-19 positive pneumonitis.Two deaths were reported from Noble hospital that includes a 62-year old female, a resident of Hadapsar who was declared dead on June 25 due to ARDS and the second death was of a 60-year old female, a resident of Hadapsar who was declared dead on June 25. The cause of death is reported as ARDS, type 1 and type 2 respiratory failure with septic shock and hypertension.Another 72-year old male was reported dead from Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital on June 25, who was a resident of Ambegaon and the cause of death was severe hypoxemic respiratory failure.A 69-year old male who was a resident of NIBM road was declared dead on June 26 at the Ruby Hall Clinic. The cause of death was severe ARDS with sepsis and septic shock.A 55-year old female who was a resident of Kondhwa was reported dead from the KEM hospital on June 26 with the cause of death as septic shock.A 74-year-old male who was a resident of Daund was declared dead on June 25 at the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital and the cause of death is said to be ARDS with pneumonia and hypertension. As of Friday, until 5:30 pm, the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation reported a total of 2,405 Covid-19 cases. Those cured are 1,443 and 919 are undergoing treatment. The virus has claimed 41 residents in PCMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/595-fresh-covid-cases-and-14-deaths-in-pune/story-QTjkQ5EumUfmn65mzbjsmI.html
27-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi Gymkhana Club still reeks of ‘imperial mindset’: NCLT||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in a scathing interim judgment on Saturday said the Delhi Gymkhana Club still reeks of an “imperial mindset”, as it continues to embrace the colonial past and panders to the privileged and elites in keeping with its Lutyens’ Delhi setting.“It is on record that soon after independence, the word “Imperial” is wiped off from the club’s name. But, I doubt whether it has been wiped off from its mindset,” stated the judgment, accessed by HT. “It is not a barb against the club…. there is no space to commoners unless they are positioned on the highest pedestal …” On Friday, the NCLT had asked the government to appoint two nominees to the club’s governing body and also set up a five-member committee to look into the alleged “irregularities”, officials told HT. The judgment said the club, which is in the midst of a takeover battle by the Centre, would be allowed to make no “new policy decisions, appoint new members and/or begin new constructions”.September 7 has been set as the next date of hearing, when the five-member panel will submit its report. The club, which shares a wall with the Prime Minister’s residence at 7 Lok Kalyan Marg, has been under investigation for around three years. The government has cited “parivarwaad” (nepotism), financial irregularities, misuse of allocated land and issues related to membership as the primary reasons behind its move to acquire the club. The Union Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) filed a petition, seen by HT, with the NCLT seeking to take over the club.The government had asked for the dissolution of the governing body and the appointment of an administrator as interim relief. Taking on the claim over the “public interest”, argued by the club as baseless since the matter pertains to the club management, the NCLT said “…the club members make rules for themselves…. the club is sitting on the monies of the public in the name of entrance fees or registration fees. On the contrary, the club is 24x7 open to the family members of permanent members from generation to generation… The club is enjoying 27 acres of land of the state in the prime area of Lutyens’ Delhi…”.It added: “It is coined by the petitioner as a “parivar” club”.“It is legally untenable,” said a Gymkhana official, requesting anonymity.“What ‘public interest’ can be prejudicial once it is purely a private club. All private clubs are governed by their own rules. It is not a public place such as the Lodhi club or a marketplace where the government can even levy parking fees. NCLT is also not clear how the government can take back the lease given to the club in ‘ perpetuity’ in 1928 and the lease fees the club has been paying since then,” he argued.But, the NCLT’s interim order said: “…anybody can infer the club has come into existence for the then ICS (Indian Civil Service) officers. That time it was mostly for the English to chill out in the evenings. Obviously, it is their culture; therefore they cherished their culture wherever they ruled. That’s why bars and ballrooms have come up. Of course, Indian kings had it in a different way. Of course, a king is a king, whichever country it is.After the English left this country, this ruling elite culture has seeped into independent India through the usage of this club, once you get into it, it is always relishing. It is hardly possible to come out of this kind of culture. It could be that this club must have come into the hands of Indian officers after the English left India. After Independence, democracy governed by the Constitution has come into force. Since democracy has become reality, this club should have left its doors ajar for many, if not all, because not only has it bar and ballroom and swimming pool with roof, but has a wonderful library and many other sports facilities.”The NCLT also slammed the club for violating Article 14 -- the right to equality – as enshrined in the constitution.“The club counsel has argued that the right to form associations and clubs is a fundamental right under Article 19. Any interference with the affairs of the club is a violation of fundamental right endowed upon this association, whether it is right or wrong. But there is another article, that is Article 14, which speaks volumes about equality, when any organisation is basking in the past glory on the state largesse, whether the shade of Article 14 will fall upon the said organisation or not? I believe yes. It is no doubt if anybody comes in the way of forming clubs or associations, or continuation of those associations, such right shall not be truncated, but the right of forming association cannot be extendable to say that it has the right to use acres of land of the state for lazing around...”The NCLT said that the “club all through its submissions, through its counsel, keeps on reminding me it is a privileged club, and it is a privilege that is selectively given to high-level officers, judges, eminent persons, businessmen. The shadow over the club is it is so obsessive of its privilege”. It said: “In the name of privilege, the club has erected an unbuilt wall around it and not permitting the people to have that whiff which they have been having for decades.”The NCLT observed that the membership of the club changes on a “purely selective basis”. “It is an ongoing process in this club that membership is purely on a selective basis, the selection basis is changing from time to time, though permanent membership is limited, under the cover of dependents, green card holders, the use of club premises (UCP) holders; the number of people using the facilities of the club is increasing without any restrictions. But the people, who applied for membership, were kept waiting because the dependents became members by fast-tracking their applications,” the judgment stated.“This club has been enjoying 27 acres of the land of the state which costs around thousands of crores. All this shows imperial behaviour and the insensitiveness of the club against the tenets of democracy … the discussion is about inequity and prejudice,” it added.“Self-elevation of some people under the cover of positions, eminence, richness, and inheritance as a privilege of the elite is anathema to the fundamental rights,” it stated.“And in turn prejudicial to the public interest, when somebody appropriates largess of the state for pastimes and whiling away the time drinking wine and whisky in a sprawling land, I believe it is a mockery of the system,” it added. “In AoA (Articles of Association), there is a provision of a membership category called “Distinguished”, which the club redefined it as the Eminent category. High Court/Supreme Court judges, Bharat Ratnas, Nobel laureates, ambassadors of foreign countries, Central Cabinet ministers, and civil servants, etc; fall in that category. Besides, government secretary, director-general of police, chairman of the railway board, chiefs of Intelligence Bureau, National Investigation Agency & Research & Analysis Wing, lieutenant-generals of armed forces also belong to this category,” said the Gymkhana official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-gymkhana-club-still-reeks-of-imperial-mindset-nclt/story-i8xFTancOfWOE6OYlsnBhJ.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||61-year-old man arrested for murdering neighbour in Himachal’s Mandi||The Himachal Police on Saturday arrested a 61-year-old man for allegedly murdering a woman in Sanoti village of Karsog sub-division, in district Mandi.The accused, Tej Ram, 61, a resident of Nagra village, allegedly murdered his neighbour, Bimla Devi, a widow, who lived with her two sons. The accused committed the crime under the influence of alcohol. Teja had an argument with Bimla while she was alone at home, after which he attacked her with a sharp weapon. Bimla was killed on the spot. Teja fled after the incident and was arrested from the nearby jungles. The victim’s body was found in the bushes near her house on June 22 and inquest proceedings were initiated under Section 174 of The Code of Criminal Procedure. Mandi superintendent of police (SP) Gurdev Sharma confirmed the report and said the accused will be presented in court, after which he will be sent to police remand.There are already six cases registered against the accused, including a rape case and domestic violence case. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/61-year-old-man-arrested-for-murdering-neighbour-in-himachal-s-mandi/story-HcCvehT4cA8jeDMvOcu37N.html
27-06-2020||Pune||Dressing up Khadakwasla as tourist destination: tender deadline extended||The state irrigation department, under whose purview Pune’s main water-source, the Khadakwasla dam operates, has allowed the Maharashtra Krishna Valley Development Corporation (MKVDC) to undertake a “beautification and development”project on 28 acres in the immediate area surrounding the dam. MKVDC has already invited tenders for the project.The Maharahtra government has developed the green spaces around dams at Jayakwadi and Koyna, but not with a private developer.V P Patil, executive engineer at the Khadakwasla dam, said, “This is a pilot project and 28 acres owned by the irrigation department is to be developed by a private entity on a build, operate and transfer (BOT) basis. The land will be handed over to the developer for 30 years. We are looking at an amusement park, museum, gift shops, planetarium, banquet hall, ball room, resort and restaurant, multi-purpose pavilion, and village theme park.”Patil said, “The object of this proposal is to beautify Khadakwasla dam and to utilise the unused excess government land available in the vicinity of the dam. It would be developed for tourism purposes and to maximise revenue for the water resource department. It is expected that all 28 acres will be developed by a single developer.”The project’s request for proposal (RFP) has been called for and the Swiss Challenge Method will be used to award the tender.The Swiss method is mainly use for tenders of government projects; and mainly road works. In this process any person or company who submits a proposal to the government, that proposal is later made public for other bidders to beat the offer. Due close on June 25, the tender period has now been extended by 15 days due to Covid-19.This proposed development is downstream of the dam and near the National Defence Academy (NDA). When asked if the NDA would object, Patil said, “The land is owned by the irrigation department and the government can do any project on its own land. The defence institutes’ main worry is about height, for security reasons, and we have put the height restriction condition in the tender document.”Opposition beginsAapale Pune, an organisation fronted by BJP and Shiv Sena’s party workers have raised queries about the project. BJP’s Ujwal Keskar, Suhas Kulkarni, and the Sena’s Prashant Badhe claimed that the state government “has not published any resolution for the project”. However, sources confirmed that recently, the state irrigation minister and top-level officers of the irrigation department visited the Khadakwasla dam to keep themselves abreast of the plan.A dam good plan?What the tender document states:13 acres - amusement park, rides, village theme park, restaurant, resort 9 acres - miniature park, exhibition hall, other activities 4.30 acres - landscape and gardening 1 acre - parking 0.70 acre - administration building Water sports?Currently no water sports are permitted on the Khadakwasla dam, but the tender states that in future, the state government may allow water sports on the dam. As per the tender, if the state government allows such activity, the developer would be allowed to offer the same, but will have to pay an additional fee for the sameDam of the agesKhadakwasla dam was constructed between 1860-1872, and is situated on the Mutha river, 18km west of Pune city.This dam supplies water to Pune city for irrigation, industrial and drinking purposes. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has is already begun to implement a plan that would see food and snack stalls set up in its proximity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/dressing-up-khadakwasla-as-tourist-destination-tender-deadline-extended/story-JpecRYnB8SuiM9GsP86fVL.html
27-06-2020||Bangalore||Legal action against those flouting Covid-19 norms: Bengaluru Police||Bengaluru Police on Saturday said it will initiate legal action against those flouting Covid-19 norms.Bhaskar Rao, Commissioner of Police of Bengaluru City, said that shops, malls, banks, hotels, offices and establishments are already aware of precautions to be taken.“If you do not wear a mask and do not ensure safe distance, police will raid and initiate legal action, which it has already started,” Rao said. On Friday, Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa clarified that the state government would not impose another Covid-19 lockdown in Bengaluru as it has already sealed some areas.Earlier, Yediyurappa had asked citizens to cooperate by adhering to the safety norms put in place for the control of coronavirus if they do not want another lockdown or sealing in the capital city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/legal-action-against-those-flouting-covid-19-norms-bengaluru-police/story-lV3xFmd37iYK1FQGcl5qbP.html
27-06-2020||Patna||Bihar shelter home case: CBI recommends action against ‘erring’ govt servants||The CBI has informed the Supreme Court that its probe into allegations of sexual and physical exploitation in 17 shelter homes in Bihar has been completed, except in two cases where further investigation is on, and they have recommended departmental action against “erring” public servants including district magistrates in several matters.The CBI has said that evidence of “gross negligence” was found on part of public servants and NGOs running the shelter homes in several cases, and reports have been sent to Bihar government for taking departmental action against erring government officials and also for cancellation of registration of NGOs and blacklisting them and their office bearers.In an application filed in the apex court, the CBI has said that further probe regarding Muzaffarpur shelter home and a short stay home at Motihari is going on and final reports have been filed before the competent courts in 13 cases.The top court had in November 2018 asked the CBI to probe into the allegations of physical and sexual abuse in remaining 16 shelter homes in Bihar which were flagged in a report of Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS).The issue had cropped up before the apex court which was hearing the Muzaffarpur shelter home case where several girls were sexually abused. Later, 19 people were convicted by a trial court in connection with the Muzaffarpur shelter home case.In its fresh application filed in the top court, the CBI has said that in pursuance to the November 2018 order it had taken over probe of remaining 16 shelter home matters and lodged 12 regular cases and four preliminary enquiries spread over 10 different districts of Bihar, including Patna, Gaya and Bhagalpur.“Enquiry of all four preliminary enquiries has also been completed and no evidence proving commission of criminal offences could be gathered in the said preliminary enquiries,” it said.“However, evidence of gross negligence was found on part of public servants and NGOs running the shelter homes for which CBI reports have been sent to the Government of Bihar for taking departmental actions against erring government officials and cancellation of registration of NGOs and blacklisting them and their office bearers for future social/governmental contracts,” the application said.It said the CBI reports and notes have been forwarded to chief secretary of Bihar for taking action against erring public servants, including several district magistrates, in these cases.The CBI has said that enquiries have been completed in these 17 shelter home cases, except the ongoing further probe in two matters.In its application, the probe agency has sought the apex court’s permission for utilizing services of team members of the investigating team of Bihar’s shelter home cases for other official works, saying the “assigned task has been completed except further investigation in Muzaffarpur shelter home case and short stay home, Motihari case”.The top court, in its October 2018 order, had said that CBI’s investigating team of the Muzaffarpur shelter home case should not be changed without its permission.In 2018, the apex court had said that report of TISS, which was also given to the Bihar government, had raised grave concern about 17 shelter homes in the state and the CBI must look into all of them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-shelter-home-case-cbi-recommends-action-against-erring-govt-servants/story-1Zn6JOk8J0O6UCwRPoDE1J.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Government is not ending MSP system, says Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar||Defending the recent ordinances brought by the Union government in the form of agricultural reforms, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday categorically said the system of procuring farm produce at minimum support price (MSP) will continue.Addressing the BJP’s virtual rally through videoconferencing, Tomar said the Congress party in Punjab was misguiding the people by telling them that the new reforms meant the end of the MSP system.“This is a bundle of lies. No such move has been taken. MSP thi, hai aur rahegi,” asserted Tomar.Claiming that new reforms will prove to be a game changer for farmers, the Union agriculture minister said the reforms will level the playing field for farmers.“These reforms allow farmers to sell their produce wherever they want. Earlier, farmers were compelled to sell their crop at state government facilities to licence-holding players. Under this process, farmers were being duped as they were not getting a fair price for their produce. If the manufacturer of a pen is allowed to sell his product wherever he or she wants, why should farmers not be allowed to sell their produce wherever they choose?” said Tomar.‘FARMERS WILL NOT BE TAXED OUTSIDE MANDIS’ Now a farmer from Bathinda can sell his produce in Kolkata as farmers can move inter-state without paying tax, Tomar said. The Union minister said farmers will always have the option to sell their produce at the state government’s markets. “But outside these mandis, farmers will not be taxed,” said the minister.The reforms have been brought to increase private investment in the agriculture sector so as to make farming a more lucrative business, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/government-is-not-ending-msp-system-says-union-minister-narendra-singh-tomar/story-PKbfx7xGgVxbck3CFk4wbO.html
27-06-2020||Delhi||After swarms of locusts descend on Gurugram, Delhi on high alert||With swarms of locusts descending on neighbouring Gurugaon, Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Saturday asked the national capital’s south and west districts’ administrations to remain on high alert, said officials.According to an official who attended the meeting, the minister was informed that a small swarm of locusts has also reached the Asola Bhatti area in South Delhi. The Agriculture Department has been asked to issue a detailed advisory to all district magistrates and sub-divisional magistrates to deal with a possible locust attack in Delhi. The minister also asked Forest Department to play DJs, beat drums and dhols to repel the swarms of locusts, the official said. Rai also asked officials of the Agriculture Department to make field visits to areas close to Gurgaon. The development secretary, divisional commissioner, director, agriculture department and district magistrates of South Delhi and West Delhi attended the meeting, the official said. Earlier in the day, the skies over many parts of Gurgaon turned dark as swarms of locusts descended on the town. The migratory pests, however, are likely to spare the national capital for now, said officials. The swarms of locusts, spread across two kilometres, moved from west to east. They entered Gurgaon around 11.30 am, K L Gurjar of the Locust Warning Organisation, the Ministry of Agriculture, told PTI. The pests, he said, were headed towards Faridabad and Palwal in Haryana. Alarmed at the invasion by locusts, which settled on trees, rooftops and plants, many residents of Gurugram shared videos from their high-rise perches. In May, India battled a devastating desert locust outbreak. The crop-destroying swarms first attacked Rajasthan and then spread to Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. According to experts, broadly four species of locusts are found in India -- desert locust, migratory locust, Bombay locust and tree locust. The desert locust is considered the most destructive. It multiplies very rapidly and is capable of covering 150 kilometers in a day. This insect, a type of a grasshopper, can eat more than its body weight. A one square kilometer of locust swarm containing around 40 million locusts can in a day eat as much food as 35,000 people. Experts blame the growing menace of desert locusts on climate change. They say breeding of locusts is directly related to soil moisture and food availability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/after-swarms-of-locusts-descend-on-gurugram-delhi-on-high-alert/story-ncefb01gfJF5Weog4c0HcK.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||‘Remember 1962’: Sharad Pawar’s brutal snub to Rahul over Chinese ‘intrusion’||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar said on Saturday matters of national security should not be politicised and one must remember what happened after the 1962 war when large tracts of land were occupied by the Chinese.Pawar’s comments came in response to a question about Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s charge that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had surrendered Indian territory to the Chinese aggression. The Congress party, led by its former president Rahul Gandhi, has been taking jibes at the Centre since the June 15 violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley.Also Watch | ‘Why were 20 soldiers killed if China hasn’t occupied our land?’: Sonia Gandhi It wants PM Modi to clarify whether China has intruded into India in Ladakh.The NCP president said the first time something like this happened was after the 1962 war when the neighbouring country had laid claim on large swathes of Indian land.Also Read: Galwan clash ‘huge mistake’ by China, world already fighting Covid-19: Experts“We can’t forget what had happened in 1962 when China occupied 45,000 square kilometres of India’s territory. While making these allegations, one should also look at what had happened in the past. This is an issue of national interest and once should not bring in politics here,” the former defence minister said while speaking to reporters in Satara.Pawar’s NCP is an ally of the Congress and they are part of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government led by the Shiv Sena.The senior politician was referring to the disputed Aksai Chin area, which is controlled by Beijing but claimed by New Delhi.The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488km Line of Actual Control (LAC). While China claims Arunachal Pradesh as Southern Tibet, India asserts that the dispute covered Aksai Chin area which was occupied by China during the 1962 war.The NCP chief also said the Centre cannot be blamed for the standoff at Galwan Valley. “Our soldiers tried to push back Chinese army men when they tried to encroach upon Indian soil. To say this is the failure of anyone or of the defence minister isn’t correct. Had our army not been on alert, we wouldn’t have known Chinese assertion,” he said.“The scuffle itself means that we were vigilant else we would have been caught unaware. Hence, I don’t think such allegations are fair to make,” he added.Pawar also cited the agreement between India and China when two nations decided not to use guns at the LAC.Twenty Indian soldiers of 16 Bihar Regiment, including its commanding officer, were killed following a clash with Chinese troops at Galwan Valley on June 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/remember-1962-sharad-pawar-s-brutal-snub-to-rahul-over-chinese-intrusion/story-NFPOPjXXm1XGPF3AcL0lBM.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC orders inspection of residential towers taken over by TMC for quarantine facility||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday appointed a senior court official to inspect a newly constructed residential complex at Shil after the homebuyers of the society took exception to the Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) plan to requisition two high-rise towers in the residential colony and convert them into a quarantine facility for high-risk coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients.A two-member HC bench, comprising Justices Ujjal Bhuyan and justice Riyaz Chagla, has directed the court’s judicial registrar to visit My City Complex at Shil, located between Mumbra and Dombivli, and submit a report within seven days.The judicial registrar has been asked to examine all the buildings in the complex and their occupancy status.The court gave its order after a plea was filed by five homebuyers in My City Complex, which has 10 24-storey towers, of which TMC authorities plan to requisition two for high-risk Covid-19 patients.Though the Thane civic authorities claimed that the two towers that they had sought to requisition were unoccupied, the petitioners challenged TMC’s assertions.Senior advocate Ram Apte, who appeared on behalf of TMC, said the buildings were given their occupancy certificate on March 9 – a little over a fortnight before the nationwide lockdown restrictions were imposed on March 25 to contain the viral outbreak – and logically they couldn’t have been occupied in such a short span of time. The next date of the case’s hearing will be on July 7, and the court has asked TMC authorities to maintain the status quo until then.On June 2, over a 100 homebuyers of the My City Complex had clashed with TMC authorities when the latter visited the residential complex to conduct a survey in a bid to requisition two high-rise towers as a quarantine facility for high-risk Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-orders-inspection-of-residential-towers-taken-over-by-tmc-for-quarantine-facility/story-lpXmYX2TEuHnyetsywtTCO.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab-based lance naik drowns after boat capsizes in Ladakh’s Shyok river||A 24-year-old Lance Naik drowned after his boat capsized in Ladakh’s Shyok river on Friday. Lance Naik Saleem Khan was a resident of Patiala’s Mardanheri village. He was posted with the 58 Engineer Regiment of the Indian Army and was posted at Ladakh. A Punjab government spokesperson said Khan was setting up ropes in the river for some rescue work when the boat capsized. The incident took place around 3.20pm. His body is expected to reach his family by Saturday evening.Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh also condoled his death on Twitter. “Saddened to hear about the demise of Lance Naik Saleem Khan in Ladakh. He belonged to Mardaheri village in Patiala district. My sincere condolences to his family. The nation salutes the brave soldier. Jai Hind!” Saddened to hear about the demise of Lance Naik Saleem Khan in Ladakh. He belonged to Mardaheri village in Patiala district. My sincere condolences to his family. The nation salutes the brave soldier. Jai Hind! 🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/BPOQjXmKLASaleem was recruited in 2014 in the Bengal Engineering Regiment. His father, Mangal Deen, was also part of the Indian Army and passed away around 18 years ago.Saleem is survived by his mother and two siblings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-based-lance-naik-drowns-after-boat-capsizes-in-ladakh-s-shyok-river/story-ZxWcXWxHUJrQ0SSylak4lM.html
27-06-2020||Delhi||Serological survey to analyse Covid-19 spread commences in Delhi||A serological survey to undertake a comprehensive analysis of the spread of Covid-19 in Delhi commenced in some parts of the city on Saturday amid a rise in the number of infections.As part of the survey, blood samples of 20,000 people will be tested to ascertain the presence of anti-bodies, the Union health ministry has said.The exercise will be carried out jointly by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the Delhi government and will be held till July 10.“The serological survey has started from today and it will cover 20,000 people. The survey is being conducted door to door and it will reveal the extent of coronavirus spread in Delhi,” Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said in an online briefing.The survey started in Central district on Saturday, officials said.According to an official from East district, the NCDC would train lab technicians on how to collect samples on Saturday and they were likely to commence the exercise from Monday. Similarly, in the Southeast district, the survey did not start on Saturday as logistics were being worked out.The serological survey is part of a new Covid-19 response plan prepared by the Delhi health department, as per the recommendations of a committee headed by NITI Aayog member V K Paul. The committee comes under the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/serological-survey-to-analyse-covid-19-spread-commences-in-delhi/story-DyI6dpZ9815vUPIN2IYayI.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Locust attack in Haryana sets alarm bells ringing in Punjab||After receiving reports of locust invasion in parts of Haryana on Friday, Punjab’s agriculture department is also keeping a look out for the short-horned grasshoppers that leave a trail of destruction in their wake. Top officials at the Locust Warning Organisation (LWO), a subsidiary of the central ministry, have said that there are no signs of such an infestation in Punjab, but officials say it is tough to trace the exact movement of the swarms during monsoon and thus it is best to stay alert.South Malwa districts such as Fazilka, Muktsar and Bathinda, which share the boundary with Rajasthan and Haryana, are believed to be most vulnerable.Farmers in the region are in a tizzy as cotton has been sown and paddy sowing is also in full swing. State agriculture director Sutantar Kumar Airi said locust invasion in Punjab could potentially affect the crops.“We are ready for any emergency situation caused by locust swarms. Special monitoring teams are working in different districts in coordination with central agencies and adjoining states,” he said.Fazilka chief agriculture officer Manjit Singh said tractor-mounted sprayers, fire engines and manpower were on standby. They will be used to spray insecticide on the migratory pests.“We are keeping a close watch on the locusts. Early this week, swarms were reported in Gharsana in Rajasthan’s Sri Ganganagar, about 250km from Abohar town in Fazilka, a vulnerable region, but they did not enter the district,” said the official. LWO deputy director and national coordinator on mitigating locust attacks KL Gurjar said locusts move according to wind direction and during the monsoon wind directions change frequently.“After entering parts of Mahendragarh and Rewari on Friday, this morning swarms were seen flying towards Palwal and Gurugram. Swarms of locust can cover a distance of 150 km a day and if the wind direction does not change, they may hit Uttar Pradesh soon. So far, Punjab is not under threat but the state has been asked to stay fully prepared,” said Gurjar.“The prevalent climatic conditions are worrying as locusts breed when the weather is humid,” he said. “Locusts are expected to return to Rajasthan to mature and lay eggs. The desert locusts normally live and breed in semi-arid regions. So far, we have been able to contain the insect invasion significantly,” said Gurjar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/locust-attack-in-haryana-sets-alarm-bells-ringing-in-punjab/story-FNtQA8aJqSimdE5FzAaJHL.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana issues high alert after swarms of locusts enter Rewari, Gurugram||The Haryana government has issued a high alert after a swarm of locusts entered Rewari and Gurgaon districts, with officials on Saturday asserting that all necessary measures have been taken, including deploying tractor-mounted spraying facilities.Swarms of locusts from Rajasthan after passing through Mahendragarh district of Haryana settled in various villages of Jatusana and Khol blocks in Rewari district on Friday evening.On Saturday, they went towards Jhajjar and entered Gurgaon district with insects covering the skyline in some parts of the “millennium city”.Alarmed at the invasion of the locusts, which settled on trees, rooftops and plants, many residents of Gurgaon shared videos from their high-rise perches.  At many places in Gurgaon, residents kept their windows closed to prevent the insects from entering homes.Also read: Delhi govt calls emergency meeting after locust swarms seen in Gurugram“It was a huge swarm of 5 km in length and 2 km in width which passed through Mahendragarh and settled down in Rewari. In the night, this swarm was near Jatusana block,” Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department, Sanjeev Kaushal told PTI. “Heavy insecticide spray was done during the night and early morning. About 35 per cent of the swarm was destroyed, but the rest which was still uge in number took off from there and crossed Jhajjar district and then got on to Gurgaon,” he said. Kaushal said that according to the inputs he had received from the central government, “it is likely that from the wind velocity and direction, it (locust swarm) will cross Palwal district and may then head towards Uttar Pradesh”.About the measures taken by the Haryana government, he said, “We are fully on alert, our districts have been alerted. We have sufficient quantities of insecticides stored there. We have tractor-mounted spray guns and these were deployed wherever necessary.” Officials said when locusts entered Rewari district, they settled on trees and standing crops like cotton and bajra, which had been recently planted.Any damage caused was being assessed, they said.To take stock of the situation, state Agriculture Minister J P Dalal visited Rewari and enquired from villagers and officials about the damage caused by locusts.Talking to reporters in Rewari, Dalal said Mahendragarh, Bhiwani, Jhajjar and Rewari districts had been put on alert on Friday itself.About Rewari district, he said 15 fire tenders, besides several tractor-mounted spray facilities were pressed into service during a night-long operation, which was carried out and personally monitored by Deputy Commissioner Yashendra Singh.Dalal said even experts from the central government who visited Rewari to take stock of the situation had appreciated the timely measures taken by the district administration.Replying to a question, he said that while the locusts are air-borne there was not much that could be done and measures are taken only after they have settled down on trees and in fields.In many villages where locusts were spotted, the farmers beat ‘thalis’ (plates) and other utensils in a bid to ward off the insects away while local administration deployed tractor-mounted spray facilities.Officials from the agriculture and other departments were keeping a close watch while supervision teams had been formed to tackle the situation. Village-level WhatsApp groups too had been formed to keep the farmers informed, the officials said.A month ago too Haryana had issued a high alert after locust swarms had attacked crops in neighbouring Rajasthan and a few other states, but luckily the insects had moved away from the state.Earlier in January, locusts were spotted in some villages in Punjab’s Fazilka and Muktsar districts but were effectively contained then.Locusts, popularly known as ‘‘tiddi dal’‘, are short-horned grasshoppers with highly migratory habits and voracious feeding behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-issues-high-alert-after-swarms-of-locusts-enter-rewari-gurugram/story-91PKQJKPazu7Wpju9UAxyH.html
27-06-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka govt to focus on overall development of Bengaluru: CM||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday emphasised on giving a new dimension to the city by strengthening the infrastructure and improving various other sectors including health and housing. He was speaking at the groundbreaking ceremony of the 108 feet tall bronze statue of Kempe Gowda, the founder of Bengaluru, at the Kempegowda International Airport near here. The statue would be built at a cost of Rs 66 crore in one-and-half years. Yediyurappa said Bengaluru has earned the fame of Garden City and Silicon Valley of India. Noting that the state capital was one of the fastest growing cities in the world and internationally acclaimed hub of information technology and biotechnology, he said, “We need to give a new dimension to this city and strengthen the infrastructure. “We have to focus on health, housing, pollution control, traffic management. Our government has taken various measures to develop the city,” the chief minister said. On Kempegowda, Yediyurappa said though the city did not have a perennial river, Kempegowda built hundreds of lakes and interconnected them. His water management reflects on his foresightedness, he added. “Kempambudhi, Dharmambudhi, Sampaniram and Halasuru lake are among the major lakes gifted to the people of Bengaluru. He had set up the markets called Chickpet, Akkipet, Balepet, Kumbarpet, are still the major trade hubs,” Yediyurappa said. Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda, Union Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi, deputy chief ministers Govind Karjol, Dr C N Ashwath Narayan, Laxman Savadi and many other ministers were present on the occasion. The event was organised on the 511th birth anniversary of Kempegowda. Kempegowda was a chieftain of Vijayanagara dynasty who founded Bengaluru around 550 years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-to-focus-on-overall-development-of-bengaluru-cm/story-n6ldgeHc9wmSz6vSAPfHWN.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Struggling due to labour shortage, Himachal’s apple growers demand higher MSP||Himachal orchardists are dealing with shortage of labour amid the apple harvesting season, anticipating losses they have asked the state government to increase the minimum support price. The apple season is scheduled to begin in a week but the orchardists are still scrambling to arrange manpower to help harvest and pack the fruit. For decades, the fruit growers have been dependent on the services of Nepalese labourers. This year, the labour could not return to the hill-state in wake of the pandemic. The Nepalese labourers have been the backbone of the state’s Rs 4,500-crore apple economy. They help with all kinds of strenuous work, including digging pits, planting saplings, spraying chemicals, plucking, packing and transportation. Representatives of the Federation of Apple Growers Societies (FAGS) conglomerate of different fruit grower associations had recently met chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and apprised him of their difficulties.‘70% CROP MAY ROT’ FAGS convener Rajeev Chauhan said, “If the state government fails to provide labour, 70% of the crop will rot in the orchards and the government has told orchardists that it will not be able to provide labour and they must make their own arrangements.” The apple growers’ association had asked the government to approach the Nepalese government through the ministry of external affairs to allow Nepalese labour to travel to Himachal Pradesh for harvesting apples. They had also urged the horticulture minister to arrange labour from Bihar, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.“Now, farmers will not be able to repay their bank loans. The state’s economy will also be affected,” Chauhan said, adding that the apple economy was the key contributor to the state’s gross domestic product (SGDP).Chauhan further said that the government should buy apple crop under the minimum support price (MSP) scheme instead of the market intervention scheme (MIS) during these difficult times. “The MSP for apple should be at least ₹20 per kilogram as the apple production cost comes around ₹15 per kg,” he said. ‘MEAGRE INCREASE IN MSP’ Chauhan said that the government had increased the MSP by only 50 paise per kg to ₹8.5 per kg, which was not sufficient. “There has been a sudden 30% increase in the prices of trays used for packing apples,” Chauhan said. Chauhan said the federation had also raised the issue of charging ₹20 per box. “Agriculture minister Ramlal Markanda has assured us that he will look into the matter,” said Chauhan. He said the government had fixed labour rates in the market at ₹5 per box, for which the federation was thankful to the authorities. “The matter of weather-based crop insurance was also raised in front of the chief minister, who assured us that a high-level meeting will be called soon and all the demands and suggestions of the farmers will be taken into account,” Chauhan said. Congress demand state govt to increase apple support price State Congress president Kuldeep Rathore on Saturday hit out at state government’s decision to hike apple support price by 50 paise and has demanded the state government to raise support price by at least ₹20 per kilogram.In a statement issued by Rathore said that orchardists have already suffered huge losses due to hailstorms and lockdown, therefore, the government should increase support money by ₹20 per kg in order to provide relief to them.He also demanded the state government pay the outstanding amount to orchardists and said that they need money so that they can make arrangements for transportation of their produce to markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-labour-shortage-himachal-s-apple-growers-demand-higher-msp/story-xF4te5XJbWa5YxWt5gIdRP.html
27-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt calls emergency meeting after locust swarms seen in Gurugram||The Delhi government called an emergency meeting on Saturday after swarms of locusts were seen in several areas in nearby Gurugram, environment minister Gopal Rai said.News agency PTI cited Gopal Rai as saying that the Delhi government will issue an advisory to deal with the situation after the meeting.Development secretary, divisional commissioner, agriculture director and district magistrates will also attend the meeting, according to news agency ANI.Also Watch: Locust swarms spotted in several areas of Gurugram Several residents of Gurugram posted videos of the invading insects flying on social media as some clanged kitchen utensils and played loud music to repel the swarms of locusts.The Gurugram district administration had on Friday issued a warning about a likely invasion by swarms of locusts and asked residents to play loud music and beat utensils to repel the insects that feed on standing crops and green vegetables.The short-horned grasshoppers are known to devour everything in their path, posing an unprecedented threat to food supply and livelihoods of millions of people.An adult locust can eat quantity equal to its weight daily, and just a single square kilometre of the swarm can contain up to 80 million adults. Locusts can fly up to 150km daily and a one square km swarm can eat as much food as 35,000 people in terms of weight in a single day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-calls-emergency-meeting-after-locust-swarms-seen-in-guragram/story-LCGcon4Lxt6AnkRY04NwOP.html
27-06-2020||Jaipur||FIR against Baba Ramdev, Patanjali CEO for claiming Coronil as a cure for Covid||A First Information Report (FIR) has been filed at Jyoti Nagar police station in Jaipur against Baba Ramdev, his aide and the chief executive officer (CEO) of Patanjali Ayurved, Acharya Balkrishna, and three others for allegedly making misleading claims that the herbal medicine company has found a cure for the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) called Coronil.Ramdev, Acharya Balkrishna, Dr. Balbir Singh Tomar, Dr. Anurag Tomar and Anurag Varshney, have been booked under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954, on the basis of the FIR lodged by Balbir Jakhar, said Avnish Parashar, additional deputy commissioner of police (DCP), south, Jaipur.“The accused have put the life of common people at risk. Neither the Rajasthan government nor the Centre was informed about the clinical trials about Coronil,” said Jakhar, an advocate.Two of the accused, Dr. Balbir Singh Tomar and Dr. Anurag Tomar, are the chairman and the director, respectively of the Jaipur-based NIMS University. While the fifth accused, Varshney, is a scientist at Patanjali Ayurved.Patanjali Ayurved has launched Coronil tablet and Swasari vati medicine that claimed to cure the contagion within seven days.The herbal medicine firm also claimed that the two Ayurveda-based medicines have shown 100% favourable results during clinical trials on Covid-19 patients except those on a life support system.However, the Union Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, and Homoeopathy (AYUSH) said it was unaware of Patanjali Ayurved’s claims.The ministry has sought a report from the company about the composition, testing and other data of the drugs.Patanjali Ayurved has also been asked to “stop advertising/publicising” the drug until the ministry examines its claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/fir-against-baba-ramdev-patanjali-ceo-for-claiming-coronil-as-a-cure-for-covid/story-cS2u4E44KCseyHFvNu8tUJ.html
27-06-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan to begin trying rapid antigen test for coronavirus cases||The Rajasthan government will soon begin rapid antigen tests on a trial basis for screening coronavirus cases in the state as per guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), according to an official statement.  Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday gave this direction to officials during a video conference with medical experts, the statement said.Additional Chief Secretary, Medical and Health, Rohit Kumar Singh said the ICMR is sending 200 test kits to Rajasthan for the trial.Gehlot said this will help ramp up coronavirus investigation infrastructure and get quick reports. In the discussions related to Covid-19 with the faculty members of medical colleges, doctors and other medical experts, Gehlot said the state government’s objective is to bring down the mortality rate due to the disease. He said the medical fraternity has played an important role in controlling the spread of coronavirus in the state. “Due to our coordinated efforts, the Rajasthan model is discussed all over the country. Detailed assessment of the deaths of Covid-19 patients is also being conducted and the study can be used to prevent coronavirus,” he said. Health Minister Raghu Sharma said that seasonal diseases were another challenge the state may have to face soon, but added that his department has made all preparations for handling any situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-to-begin-trying-rapid-antigen-test-for-coronavirus-cases/story-ctz3emVBnFzYNlFtQd5G0I.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Locust alert sounded in Panipat||After locust swarms entered the southern districts of Mahendergarh, Jhajjar and Sonepat, an alert was sounded in Panipat on Saturday.Farmers of the district have been advised to remain vigilant as locusts are expected to enter the district, especially the Samalkha and Israna blocks, by Saturday evening through Sonepat. Panipat deputy commissioner Dharmendra Singh has advised farmers to use utensils and drums to drive away the locusts. “The short-horned grasshoppers can cause widespread damage to standing corps and plants,” the DC said. The DC has directed officials of district agriculture department to ensure the availability of the insecticide ‘chlorpyrifos’: “Farmers should be ready with their tractors mounted with chemical sprayers as locusts may settle on trees at night,” the DC said. Locusts had entered several villages in Mahendergarh district and some areas of Rewari and Jhajjar district on Friday. They had also damaged crops in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and parts of Uttar Pradesh.Swarms of locusts can travel up to 150 km per day and eat every bit of greenery on their way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/locust-alert-sounded-in-panipat/story-JhSqcnOnPmuZLyoHdUqQxN.html
27-06-2020||Jaipur||Nine deaths due to Covid-19, 127 fresh cases in Rajasthan||Nine deaths due to coronavirus and 127 fresh cases of the disease were reported in Rajasthan on Saturday, taking the total number of positive cases to 16,787 and the death toll to 389 in the state.Three deaths each were reported in Jaipur and Jodhpur, one death each in Ajmer and Pali besides one death of a patient from outside the state, according to an official report.   Alwar reported a maximum of 38 cases, while Dholpur reported 30 cases. Jaipur, Kota and Sikar reported 13, 12 and 10 cases respectively, the state government report said.Five cases were reported in Ajmer, four in Udaipur, three each in Jhunjhunu and Bikaner, one case each in Dausa, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Nagaur and Swai Madhopur besides four cases of patients hailing from other states.  Of the total, 12,869 patients have been discharged and there are 3,249 active cases in the state, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/nine-deaths-due-to-covid-19-127-fresh-cases-in-rajasthan/story-YPDsHBnPZQpOtH61c3tLKJ.html
27-06-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19 cases cross 11K mark in Karnataka; 445 new cases and 10 deaths||The number of Covid-19 cases in Karnataka breached the 11,000 mark with the state on Friday reporting 445 new positive cases and ten fatalities, taking the death toll to 180. The day also saw 246 patients getting discharged in the state after recovery. As of June 26 evening, cumulatively 11,005 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 180 deaths and 6,916 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 3,905 active cases, 3,727 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 178 are in ICU. Those dead include- three from Bengaluru urban, and one each from Kolar, Dharwad, Shivamogga, Bagalkote, Bidar, Kalabuaragi and Ballari. Out of the 445 new cases, 65 are returnees from other states, while 21 are those who returned from other countries. The remaining cases include contacts of patients earlier tested positive, those with history of severe acute respiratory infection, influenza like illness, inter-district travel, among others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 144 cases, followed by Ballari 47, Kalaburagi 42, Koppala 36, Dakshina Kannada 33, Dharwad 30, Raichur 14, Gadag 12, Chamarajanagara 11, Udupi 9, Yadgir 7; Six cases each from Mandya, Uttara Kannada, Bagalkote, Shivamogga and Kolar, Mysuru reported five, four each from Chikkamagaluru and Kodagu, three each from Hassan and Bengaluru rural, two each from Vijayapura Tumakuru and Haveri, and one each from Bidar, Belagavi, Davangere, Ramanagara and Chitradurga. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases with 1,935 infections, followed by Kalaburagi 1,331 and Udupi 1,125. Among discharges, Udupi tops the list with 1,028 discharges, followed by Kalaburagi 935 and Yadgir 685. A total of 5,68,058 samples were tested so far, out of which 14,733 were tested on Friday alone. According to the bulletin, 5,41,548 samples have been reported as negative, and of them 13,817 were reported negative today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-cases-cross-11k-mark-in-karnataka-445-new-cases-and-10-deaths/story-6yQUKPPT0VQrnkJ1MsaGuK.html
27-06-2020||Gurugram||Large swarms of Locusts invade Gurugram city||Large swarms of desert locusts invaded Gurugram on Saturday, catching residents, mostly confined at their homes because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, across neighbourhoods unawares. Many of them posted videos on social media, where the invading insects could be seen flying over their housing societies amid clanging of kitchen utensils and playing of high-decibel music to repel the swarms of locusts.Earlier on Friday evening, the Gurugram district administration had issued a warning about a likely invasion by swarms of locusts and asked residents to play loud music and beat utensils to repel the insects that feed on standing crops and green vegetables.The swarms were spotted at Rajendra Park, Sector 5, MG Road, Nathupur, DLF Phase 2, and 3 and also other parts of the millennium city.Dinesh Vashisht, president, Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA), Sector 4,5, and 6, Gurugram, said that the swarms of locusts came from Sector 4 and hovered over their area for about 10-15 minutes.“It was an eerie feeling, as the sky had turned black because of the swarms of invading locusts. People started clanging kitchen utensils that were accompanied by loud music to chase the insects away,” said Vashist.Residents said birds such as crows, sparrows, and pigeons could be seen flying away to safety because of incoming swarms of locusts.The district authorities have asked residents to keep their doors and windows shut due to the locust invasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/large-swarms-of-locusts-invade-gurugram-city/story-iXP0tkHX5gtvzwBQukk7RP.html
27-06-2020||Bangalore||99-year old woman recovers from coronavirus at a government hospital in Karnataka||A 99-year old woman has recovered from Covid-19 at a government hospital in Karnataka, Health department officials said.The elderly woman, who was admitted to the Victoria Hospital on June 17 with mild symptoms of coronavirus was discharged today, they further said.“After her son and daughter-in-law were tested positive for coronavirus she too was hospitalised along with them as a primary contact,” a health department official told P T I.She had mild symptoms of the virus and was taken care accordingly, the official added.A doctor who attended on her, said the elderly woman did not trouble the staff and remained in good spirits all along.The elderly woman was discharged on Friday after her reports came negative while her son and daughter-in-law are still in the hospital, the doctor said.The doctor further said even though the 99-year old woman has been tested negative, she will be under observation and tests will be conducted at regular intervals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/99-year-old-woman-recovers-from-coronavirus-at-a-government-hospital-in-karnataka/story-OsMkXm4l5o1g2kTpnKxI7K.html
27-06-2020||Lucknow||20 people, 46 animals injured in UP’s lightning strike||Besides 24 people who died on Thursday due to lightning, at least 20 people and 46 animals were found injured on Friday in different parts of the state, said Uttar Pradesh Revenue Secretary and Relief Commissioner, Sanjay Goel.Speaking to ANI, Goel said that injured are being treated in hospitals.“In yesterday’s thunderstorm and lightning, around 20 people were injured, they are being treated. 46 animals were harmed and aid will be provided to their owners after assessment of the damage. Around 24 people died due to thunderstorms and lightning in the state yesterday,” he said.“We are spreading awareness regarding precautionary measures at such times. The administration has been instructed to give Rs 4 lakh compensation to victims’ families,” he added.Goel further said that the administration has been given advanced financial aid to compensate for the affected. Earlier on Thursday, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath expressed condolences and announced financial assistance of Rs 4 lakh each to the families of deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/20-people-46-animals-injured-in-up-s-lightning-strike/story-cBbGkbkRIyAHTwnKfVOUNL.html
27-06-2020||Kolkata||Police prevent elderly woman, two sons from dying by suicide||An elderly woman and her two sons, who were living in apenury, tried to commit suicide but were saved by the Kolkata Police at the nick of time.A 65-year-old woman and her two sons, aged 42 and 38 years, consumed poison inside their home located in the Regent Park police station area in the city, police sources said.“One of the sons called up a relative to tell him that they had consumed poison. The relative informed the police and requested them to save them,” a police official said.The police quickly reached their house, broke open the door and took them to a state-run hospital where their condition is stable now.Preliminary investigations revealed that the family was going through financial problems during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/police-save-elderly-woman-two-sons-trying-to-commit-suicide/story-onjwl48cTrQzN7arQWTXwN.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Pakistan ready to reopen Kartarpur Corridor for Sikh pilgrims from Monday||Pakistan is ready to reopen the Kartarpur Corridor for Sikh pilgrims from June 29, three months after the corridor was closed as a precautionary measure to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.Announcing this, foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi on Saturday tweeted that the decision was taken on the death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, the founder of the Sikh empire in the early 19th century.“As places of worship open up across the world, Pakistan prepares to reopen the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor for all Sikh pilgrims, conveying to the Indian side our readiness to reopen the corridor on 29 June, 2020, the occasion of the death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjit Singh,” Qureshi tweeted. As places of worship open up across the world, Pakistan prepares to reopen the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor for all Sikh pilgrims, conveying to the Indian side our readiness to reopen the corridor on 29 June 2020, the occasion of the death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjeet Singh.Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president Satwant Singh said that the PSGPC and Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) have made all arrangements to host Indian pilgrims at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, in the wake of the reopening of the corridor. “We are ready to welcome pilgrims and all precautions will be taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19 ,” he said. Immigration officials on the Indian side said they have not received any communication in this regard from the government. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had inaugurated the corridor connecting Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur district of Punjab with the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara in Pakistan last November. Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his predecessor Parkash Singh Badal along with Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal and the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee leadership were present at the inaugural ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pakistan-ready-to-reopen-kartarpur-corridor-for-sikh-pilgrims-from-monday/story-Qnjbqf6f6UxX0QopUxJ4nK.html
27-06-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal registers highest single-day spike of 542 Covid-19 cases; tally climbs to 16,190||West Bengal registered its highest single-day increase in the number of Covid-19 cases on Friday, recording 542 fresh infections that pushed the tally in the state to 16,190 as the number of fatalities due to the disease also rose by 10, officials said.A total of 10,535 patients have so far recovered from the respiratory ailment in the state, a bulletin issued by the health department said.Of the latest fatalities, eight patients died because of comorbidities where Covid-19 was incidental, it said, adding that the death toll due to the disease now stands at 616 in the state.Four deaths were reported from Howrah, three from Kolkata and one each was reported from Hooghly, Darjeeling and South 24 Parganas, the bulletin said.Since Thursday, 345 coronavirus patients have been discharged from various hospitals in the state, it said. The state has 5,039 active Covid-19 cases at present.Kolkata accounted for the maximum number of 128 new infections, followed by Howrah (110), the bulletin said.“The number of cases has been increasing every day and most of the fresh cases are asymptomatic,” a senior health department official said.At least 9,537 samples have been tested for the disease in the state since Thursday, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-registers-highest-single-day-spike-of-542-covid-19-cases-tally-climbs-to-16-190/story-y8vwqhGoKLJFjDKsyCvDVO.html
27-06-2020||Lucknow||19 more Covid-19 deaths in UP, toll 630; 750 fresh cases take virus count to 20,943||Lucknow, Jun 26 (PTI) Uttar Pradesh on Friday reported 19 more coronavirus fatalities, raising the toll to 630, while 750 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection count near the 21,000-mark, a senior official said. Three deaths were reported in Meerut, two each in Sultanpur and Etawah, one each in Agra, Lucknow, Kanpur, Ghaziabad, Firozabad, Basti, Gonda, Siddharth Nagar, Pratapgarh, Bareilly, Hardoi and Farrukhabad, an official report said here. The state also recorded 750 fresh Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally to 20,943, Additional Chief Secreatry, Medical and Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said. He said 13,583 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection so far, leaving 6,730 active Covid-19 cases in the state. The maximum 86 deaths have been reported from Agra, followed by Meerut at 79, it said. Prasad said over 6.42 lakh samples have been tested for Covid-19 till now, of which a record 19,387 samples were examined on Thursday. He said accredited social health activists (ASHA) workers have tracked over 18.69 lakh migrant workers who returned to the state and 1,643 of them were found symptomatic. “Of the symptomatic people, 225 have tested positive and are undergoing treatment. The state government is emphasising on surveillance to check the spread of Covid-19 and break the chain of its transmission,” Prasad said. He said the chief minister has directed officials to use the Covid Care Fund for setting up coronavirus testing laboratories in every district of the state and to start rapid antigen tests as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/19-more-covid-19-deaths-in-up-toll-630-750-fresh-cases-take-virus-count-to-20-943/story-e2P7yCkHLDTiI807su2bCO.html
27-06-2020||Delhi||5 weapons helped Delhi fight Covid-19, says Arvind Kejriwal as he thanks Centre||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said authorities in the national capital are using five weapons in the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the city, which has seen a surge in cases, as he thanked the Centre for lending a helping hand.Arvind Kejriwal, while addressing a virtual news conference, said increasing the number of beds, testing and isolation, pulse oximeters and oxygen concentrators, plasma therapy and survey and screening has helped the Capital to tackle the respiratory disease.“When the lockdown was lifted, we estimated that Covid-19 cases will increase. But, the rise in cases was much more. We had two options—either bring back lockdown or fight corona. We took people’s opinions as well who said the lockdown wasn’t an option,” he said.Initially, people had trouble getting beds which in turn increased the number of deaths, the chief minister said.Also read| Serological survey to begin in Delhi today: All you need to knowThe Delhi government, he said, decided that all the big hospitals will reserve at least 40% of their beds for patients and then converted hospitals into dedicated Covid-19 facilities. Hotels have been also attached with hospitals to ramp up the number of beds, he said.“The number of beds has increased significantly in the last one week. There are 13,500 beds in Delhi right now and of which 6,500 are occupied,” Kejriwal said.Next, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader, was testing and isolation. Kejriwal said action against errant laboratories and increasing the number of tests have helped.“In the first week of June, there were around 5,000 tests daily. Now, we are conducting nearly 20,000 tests every day. No other state is doing this. I want to thank the central government for helping us and giving us the first antigen kits. Now, we have ordered over six lakh antigen kits,” he said.He had said earlier in the day that Capital is following a strategy of “very aggressive testing and isolation” and conducted the highest number of Covid-19 tests in a single day on Friday.Also read| These states have extended Covid-19 lockdown: Here’s a list“Delhi conducted highest no of tests in a singly day yesterday- 21,144. We have increased testing 4 times. Delhi now following strategy of very aggressive testing and isolation,” Kejriwal had tweeted.Pulse oximeter and oxygen concentrators have also helped and the government has given this device to every patient under home isolation. “Pulse oximeter is working as a security cover for Covid-19 patients,” Kejriwal said.“It helps them check oxygen levels at frequent levels and alert us if there’s anything serious… We have bought nearly 4,000 oxygen concentrators. Our attempt is to make oxygen available on every Covid bed in every hospital in Delhi,” he added.The fourth weapon is plasma therapy and Delhi has paved a way for the entire country, he said. “Plasma therapy is being used by many now. This doesn’t work for patients who are on ventilators or who have multi-organ failure but helps those with moderate symptoms,” he said.Survey and screening is the fifth weapon to tackle the highly-contagious disease. He was referring to the serological survey of 20,000 people being conducted in the Capital from Saturday.“We want to especially thank the Centre, which has helped us in every step in this fight. We want to thank the media which pointed to our mistakes and we could rectify them,” he said. “Our victory is sure but we cannot say when. Corona will be defeated and Delhi will win. All these five weapons are proving to be very effective,” he added.Delhi, which is overtaken Mumbai in terms of the number of Covid-19 cases, has seen a surge in infections prompting the Centre to ramp up efforts to contain the spread through a five-pronged approach.There are 77,240 Covid-19 cases and 2,492 deaths in the national capital so far, according to the Union health ministry’s coronavirus dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-lists-5-weapons-in-fight-against-covid-19-thanks-centre/story-8gDZ8JM4ecqjZNHWp62POI.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||417 personnel of Thane Police infected with Covid-19; death toll at 3||As many as 417 personnel of the Thane police commissionerate have tested coronavirus positive so far, an official said on Saturday.Three of them, all constables, have died due to the infection till now, Thane police spokesperson Sukhada Narkar said.“A total of 313 police personnel have been discharged after recovery, while 101 others are undergoing treatment at different hospitals. The patients include officials,” she said.Apart from Thane city, the Thane police commissionerate covers areas under Bhiwandi, Kalyan-Dombivli, Ambarnath, Ulhasnagar and Badlapur.Meanwhile, Thane Police Commissioner Vivek Phansalkar has urged the personnel to remain “extra cautious” while performing their duties in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.He was speaking at a health camp organised on Friday for the police staff in Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/417-personnel-of-thane-police-infected-with-covid-19-death-toll-at-3/story-uNNZwDQRYcMlcuWeH0MQoK.html
27-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: HC asks govt’s reply on petition seeking opening of Baidhyanath Temple||The Jharkhand High Court on Friday asked the state government to file a reply to a petition seeking opening of the Baidhyanath Temple in Deoghar and allowing Kanwar Yatra next month.Hearing the petition filed by BJP MP Nishikant Dubey, the division bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad also asked to make Bihar government a party and sought replies from the Deoghar deputy commissioner and Baidyanath Dham Temple Management, Dubeys counsel Ravi Prakash Mishra said. Devotees fetch water from the Ganga at Sultanganj in Bihar and then walk over 100 kilometres with ‘kanwars’ to pour water on the ‘Jyotirlinga’ at the temple.The bench fixed June 30 as the next date of hearing.In his petition, the MP from Godda constituency urged the court to allow the opening of Baidhyanath Temple to let devotees offer prayers in July and August when Shravani Mela and Kanwar Yatra are observed.Citing the recent directives of the Supreme Court for allowing Rath Yatra at Puri with certain conditions, Dubey in his petition urged the court to pass an order as it may deem fit.Making the Central and the state governments as respondents, the writ petition also urged the High Court to allow opening of Basukinath temple, about 40 km from Deoghar, as devotees who offer puja at Baidhyanath temple also visit Basukinath temple. The two temples are among the religious places which are closed following the lockdown under the Disaster Management Act as part of the fight against novel coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-hc-asks-govt-s-reply-on-petition-seeking-opening-of-baidhyanath-temple/story-qWquAgjFgcMiAORTkENrxM.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers, labourers flock to newly opened subsidised food canteens in Haryana||The six subsidised lunch-serving canteens launched by the Haryana government 10 days ago have received an encouraging response with at least 200 people visiting each eatery daily. The six Atal Kisan-Majdoor Canteens were launched at grain markets of Sirsa, Tohana, Gharaunda, Rewari, Kurukshetra and Rohtak on June 17.The nominal 10-rupee meals comprise tawa chapattis, rice, fried dal, seasonal vegetables and potable water.Additional chief secretary (ACS, agriculture and farmers’ welfare) Sanjeev Kaushal said, “At least 200 people visit each canteen everyday as the quality of the food is impressive. Women self-help groups look after the cleanliness and hygiene of the canteens.”Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had inaugurated the first canteen at Karnal grain market on December 29 and in February four other canteens were opened at Bhiwani, Panchkula, Fatehabad, and Nuh grain markets. The Haryana government intends to set up these canteens at 25 locations.Officials said the canteens had been closed during the lockdown and were reopened only recently.As per the agriculture department, a minimum of 200 people and maximum 400 people have lunch at the 11 eateries daily. An average of 200 people have lunch at the newly opened Sirsa canteen daily, 250-300 people visit the Tohana canteen, 400 visit the Gharaunnda canteen, 300 the Rewari canteen and around 200 people visit the Kurukshetra and Rohtak eateries everyday.RUN BY SELF-HELP GROUPSWhile the infrastructure has been provided by the Haryana State Agriculture Marketing (HSAM) Board, the canteens are being run by self help groups (SHGs) under the Haryana State Rural Livelihood Mission (HSRLM).Kaushal said in order to encourage the women self help groups a guaranteed meal for 300 persons is ensured by the HSAM Board.The actual cost of a thali served in these canteens is around Rs 25. The HSAM board contributes Rs 15 per meal while customers pay the remaining Rs 10. The objective is to provide good quality food at low cost to the farmers and labourers coming to the mandis. Each canteen has the capacity to serve 300 people. At least 10 women from a self-help group (SHG) prepare the food. The Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board (HSAMB) has set up these canteens in collaboration with the state rural livelihood mission.CCTV cameras have been installed to monitor the kitchen. Electronic billing machines will also be installed.Facilities such as gas burners, chimneys, deep freezers, water coolers and utensils have been provided by a private sector bank under its corporate social responsibility (CSR) scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-labourers-flock-to-newly-opened-subsidised-food-canteens-in-haryana/story-QwwSOLEJpcW64nVQwEfarM.html
27-06-2020||Delhi||A Rainbow of inclusivity: Trans community welcomes move by NMRC to rename metro station||In a press release dated June 24, Noida Metro Rail Corporation announced that the sector 50 metro station will be named Rainbow, dedicated to the transgender community. “NMRC has started this initiative with very noble intentions with the aim to empower the Transgender Community. NMRC will also be providing them with up employment opportunities to help them become self reliant and pave the way for their healthy inclusion and participation in the society”, reads the release from Ritu Maheshwari, Managing Director, Noida Metro Rail Corporation Ltd.We speak to some people from the trans community and what this move entails.“I welcome the move; We are part of the rainbow and the name does justice to it. But then I would like to see what is the workplace policy, what kind of inclusion they are talking about, and whether they are including trans man and trans woman at the same level. It is important how they train and sensitise people,” says Lakshmi Narayan Tripathi, Acharya Mahamandaleshwar Kinnar Akhada and trans rights activist. A planned approach and well-informed outlook will help take things forward in a more positive, inclusive manner, believes Abhina Aher, a trans rights activist working with India HIV/AIDS Alliance. “This is the first ever station in India, and even globally of this kind. But I feel they need more information and knowledge in order to make it a more trans-led station. They should engage people from the community. We have to go beyond just naming a station; tokenism won’t do. I really want to see people from the trans community to work there and lead the way. A community-friendly approach needs to be in place,” she says. She also suggests adding visual elements, such as the colours of the trans flag at the metro station, will help create a connect. “There are more trans people like me who are working with the government and are available to help them take this forward.Read: Noida gets a Rainbow station to recognise transgenders’ place in societyAryan Pasha, a lawyer by profession and the first Indian trans man to take part in national body-building competitions, feels that there is a need for sensitization and education both within the community and outside it. “The name that they had decided on giving it before, She Man, is derogatory and would have given the public another chance to bully us. The name Rainbow covers the entire spectrum of the LGBTQIA+ community. If you own and accept your identity, the world cannot bully you,” he says. As far as workplace policies are concerned, he feels that security should be a top priority. “Trans women should be given security the way female employees are. Even for trans men, employees say that you are biological male, why do you need security. Their preferred names and pronouns should be kept in mind while addressing them. Trans people should not be judged at any workplace. They should be given equal facilities as given to other employees,” he adds.Alex, a Delhi-based trans woman says that the employment opportunities will open more doors for the community, who are otherwise shunned at interviews. “I have a degree in civil engineering but I am jobless. Interviews pe bahut gande tareeke se dekhte hain aur sirf trans hone ke basis pe reject kar dete hain. I hope things change with this move. If the metro opens employment opportunities, I will be the first one to apply,” she says. Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/a-rainbow-of-inclusivity-trans-community-welcomes-move-by-nmrc-to-rename-metro-station/story-yoj51qhEA9L9fFiEcd7uKK.html
27-06-2020||Ranchi||29 more Covid cases detected in Jharkhand; cases rise to 2,294||Twenty-nine more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Friday, taking the total number of confirmed cases in the state to 2,294, a government bulletin said.Forty-two patients also recovered from the disease during the day, it said.The state now has 635 active cases. While 12 people died of novel coronavirus, 1,647 patients were cured of Covid-19 and discharged from hospitals.Of the 12 fatalities, Ranchi district accounted for four, followed by two each in Bokaro and Hazaribag and one each in Giridih, Gumla, Koderma and Simdega.A total of 1,33,914 swab samples were collected and testing of 1,33,082 samples completed so far, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/29-more-covid-cases-detected-in-jharkhand-cases-rise-to-2-294/story-6KmfXUFdqjq6LYjAbQtONP.html
27-06-2020||Patna||With 190 fresh cases, Bihar’s Covid-19 tally rises to 8,678||Bihar registered 190 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the Covid-19 count in the state to 8,678, health department officials said.The state now has 1,953 active Covid-19 cases in 38 districts.While 6,669 patients have recovered from the disease in Bihar, 56 people have died of it.The districts that have reported a large number of coronavirus cases are Patna (529), Bhagalpur (401), Madhubani and Siwan (400 each), Begusarai (382), Munger (332) and Rohtas (322).The number of samples tested for the disease in the state till date is 1,89,643, officials said, adding that the testing capacity has been constantly augmented, which is evident from the fact that 7,906 samples were tested on Thursday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/with-190-fresh-cases-bihar-s-covid-19-tally-rises-to-8-678/story-uo6MblgfrTtcN5ojHDIs3K.html
27-06-2020||Patna||Bihar Cabinet approves job for kin of state’s soldiers killed in Galwan Valley clash||The Bihar Cabinet on Friday approved a proposal to provide a government job to a family member each of the soldiers from the state who lost their lives in the Galwan Valley clash in Ladakh.India lost 20 of its soldiers in the violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops on the intervening night of June 15 and 16. Ten Indian soldiers were also held captive and later released.After the clash, Indian intercepts had revealed that the Chinese side suffered 43 casualties including dead and seriously injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-cabinet-approves-job-for-kin-of-state-s-soldiers-killed-in-galwan-valley-clash/story-U7KYxddpzPGhtj8ELKlPLJ.html
27-06-2020||Noida||Noida: 3 arrested, over 600 vehicles penalised for flouting Covid curbs||Three people were arrested and owners of 611 vehicles penalised across Noida and Greater Noida on Friday for alleged violation of curbs imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Gautam Buddh Nagar police said.Also, five vehicles was impounded for similar violations during a 24-hour period till Friday night, the police said, even as curbs imposed nationwide to contain the spread of coronavirus have been eased now. Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) Section 144, which bars assembly of more than four persons, is in force in Gautam Buddh Nagar, whose urban areas fall in the ‘red zone’ for Covid-19.   “One FIR was registered and three persons were arrested for violating CrPC 144. A total of 1,809 vehicles were checked across 200 barrier points in the district and challans issued to 611 of them, while another five were impounded,” the police said in a statement.  The Noida-Delhi border continues to remain sealed for movement except for essential services and people having passes issued by the district administration, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-3-arrested-over-600-vehicles-penalised-for-flouting-covid-curbs/story-aYnmEZumJik4pwKjn8haNI.html
27-06-2020||Delhi||Police officer injured in Delhi riots promoted to Additional DCP of South Delhi||Former Assistant Commissioner of Police (northeast Delhi) Anuj Kumar, who was injured in riots that took place in northeast Delhi in February, has been promoted and posted as Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police of South Delhi.At least 11 police personnel, which included DCP Shahdara Amit Sharma and Kumar himself, were injured during the violence. Head constable Rattan Lal and an officer of the Intelligence Bureau, Ankit Sharma, lost their lives in the incident.The northeast Delhi riots broke out in late February when supporters and adversaries of Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) clashed with each other. As many as 53 people lost their lives and over 400 were injured.(with inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/police-officer-injured-in-delhi-riots-promoted-to-additional-dcp-of-south-delhi/story-KNYsZJznt1bqdIYUJZZU5L.html
27-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi conducted highest number of Covid-19 tests on Friday, says Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday the Capital is following strategy of “very aggressive testing and isolation” and conducted the highest number of Covid-19 tests in a single day on Friday.The national capital, which has overtaken Mumbai in terms of the number of Covid-19 cases, has seen a surge in infections prompting the Centre to ramp up efforts to contain the spread through a five-pronged approach.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Delhi conducted highest no of tests in a singly day yesterday- 21,144. We have increased testing 4 times. Delhi now following strategy of very aggressive testing and isolation,” Arvind Kejriwal tweeted.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader’s post came on a day authorities will begin a massive mammoth serological survey or sero-surveillance study to determine the spread of the coronavirus disease.The serological survey will be conducted in all the 11 districts in Delhi between June 27 and July 10 to enable authorities to undertake a comprehensive analysis of Covid-19 and then prepare a broad strategy to combat the pandemic.Authorities have already begun a house-to-house screening of people in at least five revenue districts of the Capital on Friday, according to the Covid-19 management plan chalked out after a meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah last Sunday.The aim of the screening exercise is to identify people with Covid-19-like symptoms, create a comprehensive database and then get them tested. It involves checking people for signs of flu such as fever, sore throat, cough and asking them about their travel history to map the virus. Delhi has recorded 77,240 Covid-19 cases and 2,492 deaths so far, according to the Union health ministry’s coronavirus dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-conducted-highest-number-of-covid-19-tests-on-friday-says-arvind-kejriwal/story-AmTky1Q0PMsi2ONFoEjDMI.html
27-06-2020||Bhopal||BJP in a fix over Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s rallies in 24 assembly constituencies||The BJP’s Madhya Pradesh unit is in a dilemma over organising chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s rallies in all the 24 assembly constituencies, which will witness by-polls in the coming months, as the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases are on the rise in the state, according to party leaders.They said social distancing norms will be difficult to ensure even if the party gets permission to hold the rallies from the district administrationLeaders said the Bharatiya Janata Party is planning to hold the rallies in all the 24 constituencies by mid-July as Election Commission of India is expected to announce the dates of election by July end.“Organising of virtual rallies was discussed in the party meetings and it will be held too given the present Covid situation but what worries the party at this moment is dissidence within the party at the local level in many of these constituencies which is difficult to quell through virtual rallies only,” a senior BJP leader familiar with the party’s plan said.Of the 24 assembly constituencies in 14 districts, 16 fall in Gwalior-Chambal region including five in Morena district alone. Twenty-two of the 24 seats fell vacant in March when Congress MLAs resigned from the state assembly in a rebellion against the then chief minister Kamal Nath. All these former MLAs are loyalists of Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia. who quit Congress to join the BJP on March 11.“A traditional rally with the thin presence of people will send out a wrong message about the party’s base and the CM’s popularity but with a large gathering, it will be difficult to ensure social distancing among participants. Another problem is how to get permission from the district administration as the state government itself has banned in the state social, political and religious gatherings and programmes,” the BJP leader cited above said. At the same time, said the leader, “The party leadership wants party workers meetings in every constituency in a bid to mobilise them for the election but given the Covid situation several party leaders are scared as to how to protect themselves from corona if such meetings are held and they have to attend these meetings.”Notably, on Thursday, the BJP’s national president JP Nadda had emphasised on the importance of virtual rallies.“Whereas in traditional rallies a gathering of even 2 lakh persons is considered an impressive gathering through virtual rallies the party could reach out to lakhs and lakhs of people,” Nadda had said.A second BJP leader said, “Virtual rallies are in the offing as a part of the election campaign but the party wants at least one traditional rally in each of the constituencies to be addressed by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and other leaders.”The districts which will witness by-polls include Morena, Gwalior, Bhind, Datia, Shivpuri, Guna, Ashok Nagar, Sagar, Anuppur, Raisen, Dewas, Dhar, Indore and Mandsaur. Many of these districts are hotspots. On Thursday, the district administration in Morena sealed the Madhya Pradesh-Rajasthan border after a spurt in Covid-19 cases. “As of now, the party is planning virtual rallies for the entire state to be addressed by our leaders, including chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and state BJP president VD Sharma, on the completion of one year of the NDA government at the Centre in its second term,” Rajneesh Agrawal, the BJP spokesperson of the state unit, said.“The dates will be announced soon. I am not aware of any such rally about state assembly constituencies,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/bjp-in-a-fix-over-shivraj-singh-chouhan-s-rallies-in-24-assembly-constituencies/story-4yBd3Ch4kPVZlZI2FSVzsJ.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||A helper at home who never smiled||The domestic helper never smiled. Not even a flicker of excitement or exuberance on her face. I did not engage her in lengthy conversations nor did she ever approach me with any complaints. She suited me well. She was living in a village close by. She spoke less, was efficient and took few leaves. Her predecessor was chatty, retorted back and was full of stories.I loved it when my new helper appeared at the gate on the dot at 3.30 pm, when I came back home with my daughter. My bones weary, my body tired, I would bless her for opening the heavy iron grill gate to let the car in. She would dutifully carry the shopping of the day from the car as I unlocked the house.Since the onset of the lockdown my family had barred her from entering the house. They dreaded the invisible Covid-19 invading the home territories. It was everywhere and so pervasive that it inundated all counter arguments.And then came the curfew. Even the inane walks to and from home were not allowed.I had to let her go. The household chores got divided among the family members and things went on smoothly. No one complained about the helper’s absence. My mind too seemed to have made peace with this scenario. How easy was it to pluck people out of one’s life and move on as if they never existed!But all the work I was doing during the lockdown made me wonder how I had developed the strength to do all the household chores that I had never imagined I could manage.How lazy I must have been for piling my work on my helper when I could, whereas, without her, I was managing all the cleaning, mopping up, doing the laundry and dishes. Though every family member had been instructed to clean his or her own plate, bowls, spoons and glasses to avoid a pile-up in the sink, someday rules would be forgotten and regulations thrown to the wind. Then I would have to deal with the chaos of unwashed dishes.Cleaning the plate, scraping off the grime from others’ plates left without a rinse in the sink, was not easy. I found it repulsive, wondering if I had rinsed used utensils before giving them to my helper to wash.I could make out why she never smiled.When it was so difficult for me to do the chores at home, dealing with my own family, how difficult would it have been for her to toil in several homes, for people in no way related to her.I could say for sure I missed her and was waiting for her to come back and start from where she left. I hoped I would be more considerate with her than I was before the lockdown days. Now, I have decided that I will not overburden her with work that I can easily do myself. I will make sure I rinse the utensils before putting them in the sink.I can be kind with my words and gestures and not careless and unresponsive. I might not be able to change her life, but I am hopeful that these little things might add up to bring the smile back on her face.The writer is a Hoshiarpur-based veterinary officer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/a-helper-at-home-who-never-smiled/story-aZ8fYSo5x58xxkSP7hibFL.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Vini Mahajan replaces Karan Avtar to become Punjab’s first woman chief secy||Senior IAS officer Vini Mahajan on Friday took over as the Punjab’s first woman chief secretary, replacing Karan Avtar Singh.A 1987-batch IAS officer, Mahajan is the wife of state’s director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta. She will also hold the additional charge of principal secretary, personnel and vigilance. Singh, a 1984-batch IAS officer, was shunted out of the top bureaucratic position just two months before his superannuation, due on August 31. Singh is tipped to be the first chairman of the Punjab Water Regulatory Authority set up by the state government.Singh has been posted as special chief secretary, governance reforms and public grievances, according to the government order. The officer’s transfer is being viewed in the corridors of power as direct fallout of his run-in with the cabinet ministers who demanded his sacking for his ‘attitude and demeanour” at a meeting held to discuss the excise policy. He had to apologise to ministers for his behaviour and was also divested of the additional charge of financial commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vini-mahajan-replaces-karan-avtar-to-become-punjab-s-first-woman-chief-secy/story-epBiaw7z2XpbdYifnom1KL.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||Students of Mumbai’s Institute of Chemical Technology confused over e-exams||A notice issued by the Institute of Chemical Technology in Matunga, Mumbai, over its plans to conduct online exam left students confused.On June 5, institute registrar RR Deshmukh issued a notice to students announcing that the exams for final-year undergraduate students and final-year Masters in Science (MSc) students will be held between the last week of June and July 15. The notice further said that the first to third-year undergraduate students as well as first-year MSc students will have to take their exams from July 15 to 31. It also stated that the schedule of the exams will be declared a week before the exam dates and that the examination will be conducted in electronic format (e-exam) for all the students.A second round of paper-based or e-exam will be held in August for students who could not take the tests in July. The mode of the second round of examination will be determined based on the Covid-19 situation, the notice said. However, it did not give any further clarity on how the e-exam will be conducted.“The guidelines for E-examination will be prepared by a committee,” read the notice by Deshmukh.Students, particularly from the rural areas, are not sure if they can take the e-exam, as they do not have the facilities for it.“Some of us live in villages and don’t have a computer or broadband connection,” said a second-year student, on the condition of anonymity.“We have a defined pattern for electronic examination. Students can take the test from their homes and will not need any internet connection. We have informed the students of the process,” said VK Rathod, controller of examination of ICT.Following the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus on March 23, students were asked to vacate the hostels and go home. “Many of us left in a hurry and have left our college notes in the hostel. How do we prepare for the exams? This new notice on exams is stressful,” said another student.In the first week of May, state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant scrapped all exams, except those for final-year students. Thereafter, on May 30, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that final-year exams will be cancelled and students will be promoted based on their past performances. However, the state’s rules are not applicable to ICT, which is a deemed university.Meanwhile, the institute plans to begin classes for the new academic year from August 1. Extensive online classes will be held if the lockdown continues and laboratory classes will be deferred until physical classes can resume, said Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-of-mumbai-s-institute-of-chemical-technology-confused-over-e-exams/story-Edb6LV7flQaSmFKs2Z1hPL.html
27-06-2020||City||Seven cops test positive for Covid-19 in Badlapur||Seven personnel from Badlapur police station have tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Four of them are asymptomatic, but they have all been admitted to hospital. They contracted the virus from an accused who was arrested for rioting. One of the assistant police-inspectors (API) nabbed five people for rioting at a public place five days ago. As a part of the protocol, all of the accused were tested for Covid-19, of which one man’s result cam positive three days ago.Senior inspector L Sariputre said, “The API started showing symptoms, following which we tested six other personnel too. All of them were tested positive, following which they were admitted to hospital. We asked five other officers to quarantine themselves. The police station was also sanitised immediately after the first report came positive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-badlapur/story-YFgRBVbxLAO6YLN0mg4fCJ.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||With only three plasma units left, PGIMER invites donors||As the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) moves ahead with clinical trials for convalescent plasma therapy by recovering six more patients, the institute is grappling to maintain adequate inventory as only three plasma units are left now.Though 187 patients have completed 28-day recovery in the city, only six have come forward to donate plasma to the institute so far.Dr Pankaj Malhotra from the department of internal medicine, PGIMER, said, “If patients will not donate plasma, the department will not be able to maintain a proper inventory. Those critical patients who really require the plasma will not be helped.”Dr Malhotra said former plasma donors can be requested to repeat the donation, and if the donor agrees for a repeat donation, it may be scheduled after at least two weeks after the first donation.At PGIMER, around six patients with Covid-19 pneumonia who enrolled for the clinical trial of plasma therapy have been discharged after recovery.“A majority of recovered patients are asymptomatic during Covid illness even though they tested positive on the RT-PCR test. Some donors, however, do not agree to donate as it may not be comfortable for them. Patients from adjoining areas like Punjab and Haryana who have recovered should also come forward for the cause.”The trial suggests that in order to be eligible as a donor for plasma, they should be more than 18 years of age, males or nulliparous (the medical term for a woman who has never given birth; weighing more than 55kg). Besides, the donor should have had a prior diagnosis of Covid-19 documented by a laboratory test (RT-PCR) with symptoms of (at least) fever and cough, and complete recovery for at least 28 days prior to donation.The plasma therapy is aimed at assessing the safety and efficacy of convalescent plasma to limit complications in Covid patients. In this trial, antibodies from the blood of patients who have recovered from Covid-19 are used to treat severely-infected patients. However, the exact role of this therapy in the treatment of Covid-19 is still debatable and hence, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had decided to conduct a multicentric study to clarify its role.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-only-three-plasma-units-left-pgimer-invites-donors/story-abltZSp9A4SZVwKN3NXoxH.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s power couple calls the shots||The ascent of Vini Mahajan, a 1987-batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, to the top bureaucratic position in Punjab is a story of many firsts.Mahajan is the first woman chief secretary of the state. She is the wife of Punjab Police chief Dinkar Gupta. This is the first time any power couple is simultaneously serving as the chief secretary and director general of police (DGP), the topmost administrative and police posts, in the state, and perhaps anywhere in the country.Gupta, also a 1987-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, was appointed as head of the state police in February last year. He was empanelled by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) last month for the post of director general or DG equivalent at the Centre.Another first is that for the first time, both Punjab and Haryana’s chief secretaries are women. In Haryana, 1983 batch IAS officer Keshni Anand Arora, who is not the first woman CS there though, currently holds the top bureaucratic position. Also, Mahajan will have more than four years as the chief secretary if she continues in the office till her superannuation in October 2024.The 1987-batch bureaucrat, who is a mother of two, owes her ascent to her professional credentials and varied experience in the field and at the Centre where she handled economic ministries.An economics graduate from Lady Shri Ram College, Delhi, Mahajan did here postgraduation from the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Calcutta, where she was placed on the ‘roll of honour’ and later also received the ‘Distinguished Alumnus Award’. Mahajan, a decisive and no-nonsense bureaucrat, had served in the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) from 2005-12, handling matters relating to finance, industry, commerce, telecom and IT. Her father, BB Mahajan, was also an IAS officer of the Punjab cadre.SUPERSEDES 5 IAS OFFICERSMahajan has been appointed as the chief secretary, superseding five IAS officers senior to her. They include KBS Sidhu (1984), Arun Goel, C Roul, Kalpana Baruah Mittal and Satish Chandra (all four from 1985).Sidhu, the senior-most bureaucrat in Punjab, is due to retire in July 2021. Both Goel and Roul are currently on central deputation whereas Mittal is additional chief secretary, cooperation, in the state government. Chandra, who has three months left for superannuation, is additional chief secretary, home.KARAN AVTAR’S UNCEREMONIOUS EXITKaran Avtar Singh, who is due to retire on August 31, has been posted as special chief secretary (SPS), governance reforms and public grievances. Though Singh had apologised to the cabinet ministers in the presence of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on May 27 to settle the unprecedented run-in with the minister, his shifting did not come as a surprise to several of his colleagues in the state bureaucracy.Congress ministers and MLAs, who called a truce as the chief minister stood by the chief secretary, were not happy with the IAS officer’s continuation in the top post. They were pressurising the CM to remove him and the recent government notification to adopt the two-rule fixed tenure rule for IAS officers also riled them up.Singh’s new posting as SPS after he remained the chief secretary for more than three years has not gone down well will some of his bureaucratic colleagues who feel that he had just two months left for superannuation and should have opted for premature retirement.FIRST WOMAN DC OF PUNJABIn 1995, Mahajan was the first woman IAS officer to be posted as deputy commissioner (DC) in Punjab. She was posted as DC, Ropar, where she carried out a highly effective ‘Total Literacy Campaign’, for which Ropar received the National Literacy Award for best performance in the country. She has served in various capacities in the state, including MD, PIDB, and as the first director, disinvestment. She was appointed as chief administrator of the new Anandpur Sahib Development Authority in 1997, and also CEO, Anandpur Sahib Foundation, for the organisation for the tercentenary celebrations of the birth of the Khalsa held in 1999. She served as the chairman of the celebrations committee for the 550 year celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev in 2019. Prior to being appointed as chief secretary, she was additional chief secretary, investment promotion, industries and commerce, information technology, governance reforms and public grievances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-power-couple-calls-the-shots/story-EzMNjtr9lvXuMkDCWygSBM.html
27-06-2020||City||Taxi, auto unions want services in Mumbai to resume||In the first online meeting held by the transport task force, rickshaw and taxi unions demanded for the immediate resumption of services in Mumbai. “We are thinking about how the services can be resumed in the coming days. A decision will be taken after discussions with the CM and the cabinet,” Maharashtra transport minister Anil Parab said. He also said three panels will be formed to put forth the demands of autos, taxis, school and private bus operators before. “In the past three months, several vehicles did not ply on the roads. The main demand of the unions was to exempt them from taxes, increase their insurance period and the tenure of their vehicle loans, etc. Three different committees for auto and taxis, private bus and school bus operators, as well as for trucks, tempos and tanker operators will be formed. The committees will put forward their demands before the government,” the minister added.A 13-member transport task force, headed by Parab was formed on Tuesday to address the transportation issues in the state and suggest measures on effective operations during amid the coronavirus outbreak. “There have been huge losses to rickshaw drivers, and many do not have money to survive. We have asked the government to resume all modes of transportation from June 28. The drivers should also be paid ₹10,000 during the entire period of the lockdown.” said Shashank Rao, leader, Mumbai Autorickshawmen’s Union.The autorickshaw unions also asked the state government to release seized autorickshaws and the cancellation of e-challans during the lockdown period, along with waving the interest of the loans taken by the autorickshaw drivers in Maharashtra.Meanwhile, the black-and-yellow taxi drivers’ union in the city asked the state government to increase the number of commuters permitted inside taxis.“The business of black-and-yellow taxi drivers from office goers and traders is 70%, while passengers from airports and railway stations form just 10% of the business. Under the current scenario, it is very difficult for the drivers to survive. We asked the government to allow office goers to commute by taxis as well as to increase the number of passengers to three and in cases of families to four,” said Al Quadros, leader, Mumbai Taximens’ Union that has more than 25,000 drivers under it. A senior transport department official said that if more employees are allowed at offices, then the state would have to allow autos and taxis to ply. “With the trains shut, it would be a burden on the bus services if offices open with more employees. Therefore, the state would have to permit auto-taxi services to resume. The government is still deliberating on these issues. Even if autos and taxis are back on the roads, they will ply with less capacity. The onus of sanitisation and safety should be ensured in a way that it doesn’t burden the auto and taxi drivers financially,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/taxi-auto-unions-want-services-in-mumbai-to-resume/story-QbpVSK8HdF5j3suDskuJaO.html
27-06-2020||City||Elderly cyclist killed in accident near Chandigarh’s Sector 31||A 72-year-old cyclist was killed after being hit by a milk truck at the Sector 31/Industrial Area light point, police said on Friday. The victim has been identified as Rattan Singh, a resident of Phase 9, Mohali, who was on his way to Ram Darbar after some work at Sector 31 when the accident took place on Thursday evening. The truck driver fled the scene leaving his vehicle behind. Identified as Ravi Kumar, 26, of Maloya, he was later arrested, but released on bail. A case has been registered under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code Mini truck driver killed in PinjoreA mini truck driver was killed while three others were injured after three vehicles collided on the Pinjore-Nalagarh highway at Navanagar T-point on Thursday.The deceased has been identified as Balbir Singh of Raipur village in Pinjore. Indervir Singh Sidhu, a resident of Kaputhala, told police that he along with his wife were on their way to Chandigarh from Baddi in an SUV, when a tractor-trailer hit a mini truck in a head-on collision while trying to overtake near Madawala village. The mini truck was ahead of Sidhu’s vehicle, which was also hit before the trailer overturned on the road. Sidhu, his wife and the yet unidentified trailer driver were injured. A case has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/elderly-cyclist-killed-in-accident-near-chandigarh-s-sector-31/story-3GNid47rZedrjwhniEushN.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Gold chain snatched from Chandigarh woman||Two motorcycle-borne persons snatched a gold chain from a 69-year- old woman who was out for morning walk on Friday. The victim has been identified as Sangeeta, a resident of Sector 15. She told police that at around 6 am, one of them parked the motorcycle at a distance and the other came towards her and snatched her chain. She raised an alarm, but the accused sped away. Police are scanning footage from CCTV cameras, one of which has captured the snatchers. A case has been registered under Sections 379A (snatching) and 356 (assault or criminal force in attempt to commit theft of property carried by a person) of Indian Penal Code at the Sector 11 police station. On Thursday, Shobhna Devi, a resident of Sector 47, who works with a insurance company, lost her chain to snatchers while she was out for a morning walk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gold-chain-snatched-from-chandigarh-woman/story-62sJu3tc9wwA5GAdvHKOCN.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Poor fiscal health to be in focus at Chandigarh MC House meet on June 29||Poor financial health of the municipal corporation will be top of the agenda when its General House meets through video-conferencing on June 29.The MC revenue has taken a hit due to Covid-19 pandemic, and all development works are going to suffer because of lack of funds.Against a budget of ₹1,472 crore for 2020-2021, the MC estimates to have revenue of ₹661 crore, ₹340 crores of which will be grand-in-aid from the UT administration. ₹321 crore is revised estimates for the MC revenue receipts.RENTING OUT MAHILA BHAWANIn a bid to raise revenue, the MC will be renting out Mahila Bhawan in Sector 38 to different art and cultural institutions. An agenda for the same will be put before the House.According to the MC’s plan, the first floor will be rented out to literature and theatre academies. In lieu of this, the culture department will pay a rent of ₹2.5 lakh per month. Also on agenda will be revision of tender conditions for advertisement on public toilets and rent waiver for the night food street in Sector 14.TENDERS FOR ₹40-CRORE ROAD RECARPETING PROJECT FLOATEDEven though the municipal corporation will start road recarpeting work for 2020-2021 only after the monsoon ends, it initiated the process for allotting the work on Friday.The civic body floated tenders for road recarpeting and maintenance works for the financial year 2020-2021. The tenders are worth around ₹40 crore. Under the head, 105 major and minor roads will be covered. On 61 roads, major recarpeting work will be undertaken, while on 44, repair and maintenance work will be done. Widening of some of the existing roads will also be carried out.Some of the UT roads that are up for recarpeting include V-6 road of Phases 1 and 2, Ram Darbar; V-5 road, Sector 56; V-3 road, Sector 55/56; V-3 road, Sector 53/54. Others are V-3, V-4, V-6 and parkings of Sectors 34, 35, 44, 45; V-3, V-4, V-5, V-6 and parkings of Sectors 37, 38,39, 40.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/poor-fiscal-health-to-be-in-focus-at-chandigarh-mc-house-meet-on-june-29/story-H6NHBkx4Fa3vahgbPy4hwN.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||No liquor to be served in Chandigarh hotels till June 30||The UT administration on Friday decided against the serving of liquor in restaurants and banquet halls till June 30.The decision was taken during the daily review meeting chaired by Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore.The representation of the hotel owners’ associations to let them serve alcohol during functions was discussed. Though this has been allowed in Punjab, the UT has decided to wait till the present lockdown ends on June 30.On June 8, restaurants and banquets halls were allowed to open albeit with caveats. Representatives of the hospitality industry contended that not allowing liquor was akin to additional financial burden.The hotel and restaurant industry has been one of the worst hit in the city after the Covid-19 pandemic forced the establishments shut for close to three months. Even now, claim hotel and restaurant owners, the occupancy rate is quite low. As restaurants have been instructed to close down by 9pm, many owners have opted not opening their premises at all.Surprise inspectionsFor containing the spread of the covid-19 cases in the city from visitors coming to the city, the UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said in the meeting that he had already instructed the police and other officials to implement more strictly social distancing norms, the wearing of masks, etc. Surprise inspections will be made in all public places including Sukhna Lake to penalise violators, he added.UT deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar said in the meeting that in the last two days, more than 10,000 people had come into the city via trains, road and flights. He also said that 8,972 people had registered themselves on the official website, giving details of their travel plan and accommodation in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-liquor-to-be-served-in-chandigarh-hotels-till-june-30/story-aTBl3jnLOu438Or5J71X4M.html
27-06-2020||City||Bains brothers booked for violating lockdown orders, stopped from entering Chandigarh near SSP’s residence in Mohali||The Mohali police on Friday booked brothers MLA Simranjeet Singh Bains and Balwinder Singh Bains for allegedly violating the lockdown rules.The brothers along with Gurpreet Singh, alias Jimmy, Didar Singh and others were booked after they conducted a cycle rally with a gathering of around 200-225 persons.A case was registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act 2005 at Mataur police station.High drama was also witnessed at Mohali-Chandigarh border after the brothers and their colleagues of the Lok Insaaf Party were stopped from entering Chandigarh near the SSP’s residence in Phase 3A here.The party wanted to proceed to the chief minister’s (CM’s) residence on bicycles during a rally ‘Kisan Bachao, Punjab Bachao Rosh Yatra’ that started from Amritsar two days ago.Bains brothers were adamant, but the police said no more than three people could travel together in a car. That’s when the brothers got on the bicycles to reach the CM’s residence. Assistant superintendent of police (ASP) Neha Yadav led them to the CM’s residence after they met duty officer tehsildar Suresh Kumar. Before leaving for the CM’s residence, Bains brothers said, “Our protest rally ‘Kisan Bachao, Punjab Bachao Rosh Yatra’ is purely in interest of the farmers of Punjab opposing the three ordinances passed by the Centre. These ordinances will ruin the future of the farmers in Punjab. Agriculture and farmers are under threat not only from the corporates, but also from the government. We will be presenting a memorandum in this regard to the Punjab CM.” The rally attendees were also booked by the Phagwara administration for allegedly violating the Covid-19 protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bains-brothers-booked-for-violating-lockdown-orders-stopped-from-entering-chandigarh-near-ssp-s-residence-in-mohali/story-CfjqG0nbhP0Pm7IgQ5Zh1O.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Students, parents in Chandigarh left uncertain amid cancellation of board exams||Parents, students and teachers have been left with questions and uncertainty as board exams for Classes 10 and 12 rescheduled by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) were cancelled on Thursday. Although, most parents welcome the cancellation amid surging cases of Covid-19, outgoing batches are dealing with ambiguity regarding their future despite clarifications released by CBSE on Friday. Deepika Bahari, a parent whose child studies in Class 12 said, “It is not just about the board exams. It’s also about the entrance examinations to follow like NEET and JEE. Such last minute announcements are nothing but harassment for parents and children.”In the notification released on Friday, the board said, “Students of Classes 10 and 12 who have not completed all their examinations will be assessed based on their previous performance.”HS Mamik, president of the Independent Schools’ Association (ISA) said, “I think public pressure lead to CBSE cancelling board exams.” “At the same time, the Karnataka government has agreed to conduct the exams and held them. In the end, whatever is convenient to the government is acceptable,” he added.GD Bakshi, administrator of Kabir High School, Sector 26, said, “We have no choice. In these trying times, some extreme steps have to be taken. Both the CBSE and Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) being the national boards have to take a call on everyone’s behalf.”“Although the lockdown has been eased and one should not panic, but, Covid-19 is here to stay. Till when can we put our lives on hold? Someone has to show courage and take bold step,” he added.On adopting fresh guidelines for evaluation, CBSE in its notification added, “For students who have appeared for examinations in more than three subjects, the average of the marks obtained in the best three subjects will be awarded in subjects whose examinations have not been conducted.”Whereas, “For students who have appeared for examinations in only three subjects, the average of the marks obtained in the best two subjects will be awarded in the subjects whose examinations have not been conducted.”For a handful of students, “who have appeared in the examinations in only one or two subjects, their results will be declared based on performance in the appeared subjects and performance in internal or the practical project assessments.”CBSE has also said that, “These students will also be allowed to appear in optional examinations conducted by CBSE to improve their performance, if they wish to do so.”Siddharth Chopra, an educationist associated with an NGO, Samarthya, working in government schools, said, “CBSE has put good effort into designing the assessment scheme. One disclaimer is that any scheme designed to address this challenge will have its own pros and cons. I think CBSE should have ensured that all students are promoted. Failure at this stage might have extreme implications for students and their parents.”Nitin Goyal, president of the Chandigarh Parents’ Association said, “The new evaluation pattern is not quite fair, but appears to be the best alternative to close the 2019-20 academic session at once. Therefore, whenever the colleges take admissions after 10+2, merit should be evaluated on the basis of entrance exam alone and not on the basis of marks obtained in 10+2.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/students-parents-in-chandigarh-left-uncertain-amid-cancellation-of-board-exams/story-IZEmMieKB0XGbcY94TAANO.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||IMD to give area-specific forecast for heavy spells in and around Chandigarh this monsoon||To give a more detailed forecast and warnings this monsoon, the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Chandigarh centre will be issuing area-specific predictions when heavy spells of rain are expected. The system is expected to be functional in the next seven to 10 days.“An area of 100 square kilometre will be covered under this plan. For heavy rains, the city will be divided into units of five to six sectors each, for which separate forecast will be given. We will also give separate forecast for villages in the periphery of the city and for the adjoining cities of Panchkula and Mohali,” said IMD director Surender Paul. Paul said during monsoons, it is seen that due to the distribution of clouds, rain varies throughout the city. “Even when the monsoon was declared on Wednesday, 23.8mm rain was recorded at the IMD observatory in Sector 39 while only 2mm was recorded at the airport,” he said.HOW IT WILL HELPThe area-specific forecast will be given to the traffic police so that they can assign duties of cops accordingly, said Paul. “We will also provide special forecasts to officials of the administration and civic body, so that teams can be tasked with checking waterlogging and clearing broken branches accordingly,” he said, adding that the warnings will also be displayed for the public along with air quality index on screens, such as at Sukhna Lake and Sector 17.Meanwhile, monsoon has spread to all parts of Punjab and Haryana on Friday, though no rain was recorded in Chandigarh till the evening. In the city, the weekend is likely to stay dry, although light rain upto 20mm is possible from Sunday evening. However, moderate rain upto 60mm is predicted from Monday onwards.Maximum temperature went up from 34.1°C on Thursday to 35.4°C on Friday. Minimum temperature went up from 25.6°C to 27.2°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain around 35°C while minimum will remain around 27-28°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/imd-to-give-area-specific-forecast-for-heavy-spells-in-and-around-chandigarh-this-monsoon/story-NZjHRPF0sGhbhykcFhFX2O.html
27-06-2020||City||Ganpati idols’ height capped at 4ft by Maharashtra government||After meeting representatives of Mumbai’s public Ganeshotsav mandals, the state government on Friday issued a press release, stating that the height of Ganpati idols are capped at 4 feet. The state is expected to issue a detailed notification on the standard operating procedure soon. Every year, many public Ganeshotsav mandals install idols which are more than 20 feet tall. CM Uddhav Thackeray previously appealed to the mandals to keep the celebrations for the 11-day festival beginning on August 22 a low-key affair amid the Covid-19 outbreak, to ensure fewer crowds and social distancing norms.Thackeray held two meetings last week with all the stakeholders, including Ganeshotsav mandals, sculptors and civic authorities to decide on various issues pertaining to the festivities, including the height of the idols, the size of pandals and measures to keep the festivities a simple affair to prevent crowding.During the meetings, the mandal representatives were asked to reduce the height of idols at pandals to 3 feet this year. The representatives however, requested the state to permit them to install the idols which are at least five feet tall.“In the backdrop of rising Covid-19 infections, we should organise the festivities in a subdued manner this year. The virus has not spared religion, culture or customs and thus the government is forced to put curbs on religious celebrations. Though tall Ganpati idols and decorations in Mumbai and Pune attract many from across the world, we will have to abide by the social responsibility.”Sudhir Salvi, secretary, Lalbaugcha Raja Ganeshotsav Mandal, one of the biggest pandals of the city, said they will stand by the government decision but the final decision would be announced after their general body meeting on June 30.“We already said we will abide by the government’s decision, but we need to officially take the decision during the executive committee meeting. We have our meeting on Tuesday and the decision about the festivities this year amid the Covid-19 outbreak will be taken then,” he said.The state government already directed the mandals to reduce the size of the pandals and avoid immersions at seas. The mandals also requested the government to simplify the process of permissions from the authorities and to treat last year’s permissions valid this year for the construction of the pandals. Though the state government did not specify the material to be used for the idols, it is insisting to make idols from clay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ganpati-idols-height-capped-at-4ft-by-maharashtra-government/story-k95p3WpXxR4iN1NKYm0i5L.html
27-06-2020||City||Mumbai goes the social distance, to get 24 bicycle councillors||At a time when walking and cycling are gaining importance across global cities, Mumbai is set to get 24 bicycle councillors, one for each of the 24 wards, with an aim to promote cycling in the city. Cycle sales in the city have also gone up as more and more citizens are opting for sustainable transport that ensures social distancing.The Smart Commute Foundation, founded by city’s first bicycle mayor, Firoza Suresh, is currently in the process of selecting bicycle councillors. A panel consisting of experts from urban planning will scan and select candidates by June-end. They will be councillors for the next two years.“The vision is to make Mumbai the cycling capital of the world by 2030. We want to promote cycling and make Mumbai a bicycle-friendly city. The councillors will be expected to interact with stakeholders that include civic authorities, corporators, MLAs, NGOs, schools and colleges look at setting up docks, cycling paths and also create a zone in each ward to undertake training,” Suresh said.The foundation has started a campaign “Cycle Chala City Bacha” telling citizens the importance of cycling.Shahid Shaikh, who owns three cycle shops in the city, said all cycles are sold out after he re-opened the shops in June. “If we used to sell 100 cycles before the lockdown, we are selling close to 300 now. People are also ready to pay and wait for high-end cycles to be delivered, which was never the case before,” Shaikh said.The Centre and state government have also appealed to citizens to take up cycling for short distance travel. In its Mission Begin Again notification released on May 31, the Maharashtra government encouraged cycling as a form of physical exercise “as it automatically ensures social distancing”. Cities like London, Dublin and Sydney are being reshaped to accommodate more cyclists and pedestrians on its roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-goes-the-social-distance-to-get-24-bicycle-councillors/story-K2OSlZIy2KHfeNS9g5JyhL.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Corona effect: Chandigarh administration, civic body lose big on revenue||Two months of lockdown, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, has cost the Chandigarh administration a whopping ₹342 crore in tax collections. The revenue generation from goods and service tax (GST), excise and value added tax (VAT) has plummeted by 71% for April and May in comparison to the same period last year.Also hit hard by the lockdown, the municipal corporation, which is already struggling with financial crunch, has cut its projected revenue for 2020-21 by 20%.The lockdown was imposed in the city on March 22, with strict restrictions on the movement of people and goods. Subsequently, restrictions were eased in phases, allowing some commercial activity, but it was only under Unlock 1, which started on June 1, that business and industrial units were allowed to open.“In addition to major taxes, the administration has also lost revenue from non registration of properties and other fees and charges collected by public-dealing offices, such as the registration and licensing authority and the estate office,” said a senior UT official. All these offices were closed for more than two months.GST COLLECTION WORST-HITOf the three major receipts of the UT, GST registered a decline of 75% for first two months of the current financial year in comparison for the same period last year. Last year, the collections were ₹230.5 crore, while this year they are ₹57 crore. GST is collected on goods and services except fuel (petrol and diesel) and liquor. Excise collections (mainly from liquor sales) fell by 69% from ₹160 crore last April-May to ₹50 crore for the same period. The revenue from VAT fell to ₹28 crore this year from ₹87 crore last year, a decline of 68%.Ajoy Kumar Sinha, UT finance secretary, said: “The revenue slump is for first two months of the financial year, when all commercial activities were closed. Now, with the business activity picking up, we expect recovery in tax collections. The final June tax collection report, to be out by next month, will show the scale of recovery that has set in.”Developmental works to be carried out by the administration will not to be affected because of revenue fall, he said.The UT in May increased the VAT on petrol and diesel, and also increased excise on liquor sales to augment its revenue. Significantly, the central government has directed a cut by 20% in spending for the fist quarter for the current financial year.MC IN DIRE FINANCIAL STRAITSOn June 29, MC officials will be presenting revised projections of its revenue receipts for 2020-2021 before the General House. The civic body is expecting to earn around ₹80 crore less than the budget estimates. A major shortfall of around ₹50 crore is expected in water collection. Revenue from community centre bookings is also expected to down by ₹4 crore.“The MC will not carry out any additional development, except for the works for which the money has been earmarked and allotted by the UT already. Even then, the MC might find it difficult to pay salaries to its employees,” said KK Yadav, MC commissioner.The MC has a budget of ₹1,472 crore against revenue estimates of ₹661 crore (which includes ₹340 crore as the UT’s grant-in-aid).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/corona-effect-chandigarh-administration-civic-body-lose-big-on-revenue/story-xHT4jMtxYbj2FPQ7cSnuRK.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||NIOS students left in the lurch as board yet to decide on Class 10, 12 board exams scheduled for July||Several students who are registered for Class 10 and Class 12 board exams under the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) are left in the lurch, as the board is yet to postpone or cancel the exams, amid the rising cases of Covid-19 across the country. Around 14,000 students are set to take the Class 10 and Class 12 board exams from the Pune region, which includes all schools and private candidates from Maharashtra, Goa and Diu and Daman. The examination will be held simultaneously for students registered in centres across India. While the board again postponed its practical exams – which were to be held between July 2 and 10 – until further orders on Friday, it is yet to take a call on the theory papers, which are to be held from July 17 to August 13. A senior official from the centre said that a decision to conduct the exams rests with the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development.Parents said that with the cases of Covid-19 surging, especially in cities such as Mumbai and Pune, it is a huge risk for students to appear for their exams.“Most of the students are allotted centres far from their homes because they are at Kendriya Vidyalayas, which are not too many in the city. My son got his centre at Colaba, though we stay in Andheri. Travelling so far for the exam is a huge risk and poses several challenges, owing to lack of public transport,” said the parent of a Class 12 student.“Till then [further notice] exams are on and wherever centres are remotely located from learner’s place, the learners can apply for the exam centre change through e-services,” stated the board’s official response.Students with special needs also find it difficult to get writers. “No parent would allow their child to take a risk and travel. Due to this, students with special needs are under immense pressure even before the exams,” said another parent from Malad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nios-students-left-in-the-lurch-as-board-yet-to-decide-on-class-10-12-board-exams-scheduled-for-july/story-nuV4o4cfxdoBUJVsvF498I.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn yet to release Punjab Engineering College funds for first quarter||Even as the first quarter of this financial year is about to end, Punjab Engineering College (PEC) is yet to receive the planned fund of ₹5 crore from the Chandigarh administration.PEC gets around ₹60 crore from the Chandigarh administration every year, of which ₹20 crore is a planned fund, which the college gets paid in four equal instalments of ₹5 crore in every quarter.PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said, “We are hopeful of receiving the planned instalment in July.”“We have not faced any major financial issues so far, but, payments of some bills have been delayed,” he added.With PEC’s centenary approaching, the institution had asked the Chandigarh administration for ₹750 crore last year to revamp infrastructure. According to the proposal, the institute has sought a ₹150-crore grant every year for a period of five years. But the Covid-19 lockdown has proven a dampener for the institute’s plan. “We have not received any update on that proposal yet. We haven’t sent a reminder to the administration either amid the current crisis,” Sanghi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-yet-to-release-punjab-engineering-college-funds-for-first-quarter/story-SUxtnQnt1OqP6vkETXzkbJ.html
27-06-2020||City||After cuts in budget, Mohali MC seeks additional ₹42 crore from Punjab local bodies department||After the Punjab local bodies department imposed a cut of ₹141 crore in the Mohali municipal corporation’s budget for 2020-21 fiscal, the civic body has asked for additional ₹42 crore from the development works that have been lying pending since last year.MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “We are short of funds to carry on important development, so we have sought another ₹42 crore from the local bodies department for which a letter for approval has been sent.”“We were not granted any funds for cleanliness, solid waste management project and rehabilitation of sewerage system; and funds for road and footpath repairs were partly allotted.”The MC has sought ₹18 crore for cleanliness and solid waste management project, and ₹4.4 crore under AMRUT scheme for rehabilitation of the sewerage systems, two heads that were allotted no funds at all.The civic body has also sought additional ₹7.5 crore more for road repairs, ₹9.1 crore for footpath repairs and ₹3 crore for purchase of machinery, Garg said.The Punjab local bodies department had approved only ₹127.86 crore against the proposed ₹268.72 crore, leaving the already funds-starved MC in a Catch-22 situation.This after the MC House had approved ₹268 crore surplus in February this year. The MC had shown an expenditure of ₹251.66 crore, but the local bodies had approved only ₹92.26 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-cuts-in-budget-mohali-mc-seeks-additional-42-crore-from-punjab-local-bodies-department/story-Iss6pYJRea3wAjQbBtxBpO.html
27-06-2020||City||IAF Cheetah helicopter makes emergency landing on highway in Sonepat||An Indian Air Force (IAF) Cheetah helicopter on Friday made an emergency landing on western peripheral expressway (Kundli- Manesar–Palwal expressway) in Sonepat, nearly 12 kilometres from the district headquarters, police said.Sonepat deputy superintendent of police Hansraj said the helicopter made an emergency landing due to technical snag.“The engineers came on another helicopter , which also made landing on the highway and attended the chopper. Later, both choppers took off. All the senior police officials rushed to the spot after the chopper made an emergency landing. The locals also gathered near the spot but no one was allowed to go near the helicopter. The vehicular movement was restored after 11 am when both the choppers took off,” the DSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/iaf-cheetah-helicopter-makes-emergency-landing-on-highway-in-sonepat/story-oCR5WtAGXbraRqvD4QNYJJ.html
27-06-2020||City||Punjab’s Mohali district sees spike in suicides during lockdown||She was just 14 when she decided to end her life, writing “Sorry mummy-papa,” in the note she left behind. Within two days, two others took their lives. There were 35 deaths by suicide, most of them during the Covid-19 lockdown in Mohali this year from April to June 23. The highest number (13) of deaths were reported in June this year. Before the pandemic fear gripped the world, there had been six deaths in the district in January, 11 in February and five in March.Seventeen such cases were reported last year in the corresponding period (April-June), police records state.Police in all the cases initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code ( Police to enquire and report on suicide), while five were registered under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code.Loneliness, lack of freedom likely causesOn likely reasons, Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Mohali, said symptoms of people with mental health issues could have been aggravated due to loneliness and lack of freedom of movement.Past data showed suicide rates increasing slightly in April, May and June.During this year, however, mental health issues already present could have been aggravated during extended periods of isolation, leading to altered thoughts and behaviour, said BS Chavan, head, psychiatry department and director principal, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Chandigarh.There have been numerous such cases in April, May and June due to bipolar disorder and mental health problems, not just in India but around the world, he added.More cases in Chandigarh before lockdownMeanwhile, in Chandigarh, there were higher numbers of death in the early part of the year, with 34 dying by suicide. During the lockdown period from March 22, 27 persons, including 16 males and 12 females, committed suicide.Of the four suicides reported in Panchkula during the lockdown, two were from Rajiv Colony, one from Fatehpur village, Sector-20 and one from Tanda village, Chandimandir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-sees-spike-in-suicides-during-lockdown/story-KzlXCYwJGwhtAjRM4syXBL.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM says state won’t hold final-year exams for professional courses, requests PM to approve decision||In a significant move, the Maharashtra government decided not to conduct the final-year exams for professional courses such as law, engineering, architecture, pharmacy and hotel management etc. owing to the coronavirus outbreak. Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray wrote on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to instruct All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Council of Architecture (COA), Pharmacy Council of India (PCI), Bar Council of India (BCI), National Council of Teachers Education (NCTE) and National Council for Hotel Management and Catering Technology (NCHMCT) to endorse the state’s decision and issue necessary guidelines.The state also decided to award degrees to the final-year students pursuing professional courses on a formula based on their performance in previous exams.“Considering the current Covid-19 situation in the state, the state disaster management authority in its meeting held on June 18 decided not to conduct final-year examinations for non-professional courses as well as professional courses and award degrees based on a formula decided by the universities. Further, an option would be given to students who want to take exams whenever it is feasible to be held. It was also decided to get decision in respect of professional courses to be endorsed by the respective apex authorities as these courses are regulated by them,” the letter by Thackeray stated.The CM also highlighted how holding the exams would cause more difficulties to the authorities in the state. “As you are aware, the number of Covid-19 patients is increasing in all major cities such as Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Pune Metropolitan Region, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Akola... The present atmosphere is not yet conducive to conduct examinations and classes. Further, conducting them amidst existing pandemic may prove as an enormous task for district/municipal administration, examining authorities, transport authorities besides students and parents,” the letter added.The state cannot take a decision on the cancellation of exams for professional courses and needs the approval of the respective central authorities.The development comes after state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant announced the cancellation of final-year exams for non-professional courses on June 19.Earlier, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari objected to the state’s decision on the grounds that such a decision will jeopardise the future of students. But till the time of going to the press, there was no reaction from the Raj Bhavan (Governor’s office) on CM’s letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-says-state-won-t-hold-final-year-exams-for-professional-courses-requests-pm-to-to-approve-decision/story-7S4lrNML9iO94v6Qst5CUO.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||1,500 of 1 lakh Ayush doctors reported for Covid-19 duty in Maharashtra||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has criticised the state health department for not taking action against Ayush (Ayurveda, yoga and naturopathy, unani, siddha and homeopathy) doctors who are not reporting for Covid-19 duty.Despite Ayush doctors being called upon to join the medical response to Covid-19 since April, only around 1,500 Ayush doctors have reported for Covid-19 duty. Of these, 500 have been posted at various Covid-19 care centres (CCC) in Mumbai to take care of asymptomatic individuals and patients with mild to moderate symptoms. “So far, we have a list of 1,500 Ayush doctors who have been stationed all across the state on Covid duty,” said Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary of medical education and drug department (MEDD).Data from the Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC) shows that there are more than 90,000 registered allopathy doctors in the state. However, to provide treatment and care to growing number of patients, state health officials said more are needed as many doctors are above 55 years old and therefore may not be assigned to Covid-19 duty.To arrange for additional doctors, the state government in April launched an online curriculum for Covid-19 care, designed by All India Institute of Medical Sciences, for Ayush doctors. The training imparted basic knowledge on handling Covid-19 patients through video and those that cleared the video-led course and its online examination, were given a certificate.Kuldeep Kohli, director of Ayush in Maharashtra, said 1 lakh registered Ayush doctors opted for the online test. “As requested, their names have been sent to DMER [Directorate of Medical Education and Research]. After that, we don’t know how many have been posted on Covid-duty. Our responsibility was to send them the list of qualified doctors,” said Kohli.Dr Avinash Bondewe, president of IMA, Maharashtra, said, “In May, the medical education department stated their requirement of 25,000 doctors to handle Covid-19 cases. We suggested that Ayush doctors be included. But we (allopathic doctors) are now being blamed for shortage of doctors.”Last month, the Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC) issued a circular that mad 15 days of Covid-duty mandatory for registered allopathy doctors. The medical education department also threatened to cancel licenses of doctors who violate the directive. “We had to face the heat and criticism from doctors for the circular. But what has the Ayush department done to make their doctors work during the pandemic?” said Dr Shivkumar Utture, chairman of MMC.Despite repeated calls, Dr TP Lahane, director of DMER, and Union minister of state for Ayush Shripad Naik, did not respond to calls from HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-500-of-1-lakh-ayush-doctors-reported-for-covid-19-duty-in-maharashtra/story-TOsLPTmssuE6MufOol6ksL.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Consumer forum directs Chandigarh-based realty firm to pay ₹10 lakh to Patiala woman||For being unable to deliver possession of a flat on time, the consumer disputes redressal forum directed a Chandigarh-based real estate company to return the entire cost of flat at 9 % interest per annum.In 2014, Parminder Kaur, a resident of Patiala, booked a one bedroom apartment at Emerging Valley Private Limited on Landran-Bannur Road in Mohali, against payment of ₹10.9 lakh of which she deposited ₹10 lakh.Kaur said she was promised the flat will be delivered within 24 months of booking. However, in July 2016, the work hadn’t even started.“On being contacted, the real estate firm put off the matter on one pretext or the other,” Kaur said. She alleged that the firm had no intention to deliver possession.Following this, she moved forum.On being served notice, advocate of Emerging Valley Private Limited sought time to file reply and evidence, which was not done. The firm asked for the case to proceed ex-parte. The court observed that the allegations levelled by Kaur were established uncontested.The forum directed the real estate firm to refund the total deposited amount of ₹10 lakh to Kaur along with interest at 9% per annum from the respective dates of payment till realisation. It also directed to pay ₹15,000 to her as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment and ₹10,000 as litigation costs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/consumer-forum-directs-chandigarh-based-realty-firm-to-pay-10-lakh-to-patiala-woman/story-ywnNNn2D99lQWQ416yQmLP.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||Sion hospital video: HC directs Maharashtra government to explain process for disposing Covid-19 patients’ bodies||Stating that the video of Sion hospital – in which Covid-19 patients were being treated next to the bodies of those who died of the virus – was of serious concern, the Bombay high court (HC) on Friday widened the scope of the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Ashish Shelar to include all government and civic-run hospitals in the state. The court also directed the state to inform the procedure adopted to manage and dispose the bodies of Covid-19 patients and asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to update on the progress of the probe into the video of Sion hospital.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice MS Karnik, while hearing the PIL through video conferencing on Friday, was informed by advocate Rajendra Pai who represented Shelar that the viral video of Sion hospital “shocked the conscience of Mumbaiites”. Pai also submitted that there were unconfirmed reports of patients being forced to share their beds with dead victims in some hospitals.When asked about the progress of the probe regarding the video that went viral, senior advocate Anil Sakhare for the BMC informed the bench that the probe was underway and the civic authorities needed time to submit its findings.After hearing the submissions, the court observed that the video raised “serious concerns” about the management and disposal of bodies of Covid-19 victims and said that it was “widening the scope of the petition to include all government and civic run hospitals in the state”. The bench then directed advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni to place the procedure for management and disposal of bodies of Covid-19 victims and also directed the BMC to submit its report on the viral video by Monday and posted the PIL for hearing for July 3.Satisfied with ambulance services in city,court says while disposing Somaiya’s PILExpressing satisfaction on the measures initiated by the state and civic corporation on the availability of ambulances to ferry Covid-19 as well as non-Covid patients, the bench disposed a PIL filed by BJP leader and former parliamentarian Kirit Somaiya. The court was informed that a round-the-clock helpline was started for accessing ambulance services, and information about ambulances was also being updated on the official website of the civic body. Hence, the concerns raised in the petition were addressed. Somaiya earlier sought directions to the BMC to rope in private ambulance service providers in view of civic ambulances proving to be insufficient. Somaiya submitted that as both all patients had to wait for long hours before a civic ambulance reached them, many died and thus there was a need to rope in the around 3,000 private ambulances in the city to make up for the shortage. The court observed that the concerns of the petitioner were addressed and disposed the PIL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sion-hospital-video-hc-directs-maharashtra-government-to-explain-process-for-disposing-covid-19-patients-bodies/story-djGUjzIaGXjDgxzZfW15qM.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to set up bulk drug park in Panipat, medical devices hub in Karnal||In line with the Centre’s plan to promote local manufacturing, Haryana has proposed to set up a bulk drug park spread over 1,000 acres in Panipat and a medical devices hub in Karnal. The Panipat park has been proposed to be set up over developed industrial land under the Centre’s scheme for the promotion of production drugs in bulk. The Panipat park would reduce manufacturing cost of bulk medicines in the country and dependency on other countries for them, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Friday while addressing an inaugural session of CII’s ‘Pharmascope’ event through a virtual platform here, an official statement said. Speaking as the chief guest in the inaugural session of “CII Pharmascope - a step towards Atmnirbhar Bharat - Made in India, Made for the World”, Khattar said the state also plans to set up a medical devices manufacturing hub, spread over 225 acres in Karnal, just 25 km away from the proposed Panipat park. He said the proximity of Panipat to New Delhi is an added advantage and Panipat being centrally located would be able to supply raw materials for bulk drugs to neighbouring states of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, New Delhi and parts of Uttar Pradesh. Haryana has more than 150 pharmacy colleges, institutions and universities ensuring sufficient availability of skilled manpower to cater to the need of bulk drug park, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-to-set-up-bulk-drug-park-in-panipat-medical-devices-hub-in-karnal/story-Iq32Yi3PZDa12c61C1CqsK.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||Complete lockdown in 10 containment zones in Navi Mumbai till July 5||Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal has given orders for a complete lockdown in 10 containment zones covering more than 71,000 households in the wake of increasing number of cases over the past two weeks. The lockdown will be implemented from June 29 to July 5.Misal said, “We have observed that there has been spike in Covid-19 cases in some areas of the city, and hence they have been designated as containment zones and will be placed under lockdown from June 29 to July 5. We have given some time to the residents so they can prepare for the lockdown.”He added that there will be no movement of people going in and out of these zones except for medical emergencies and buying essential goods.Misal warned, “Violation of the order by any person will attract action under Disaster Management Act, 2005, section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and other legal provisions.”Earlier, Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde and Thane MP Rajan Vichare had met police commissioner Sanjay Kumar and Shinde had indicated that a lockdown was being considered. Opposition leader Pravin Darekar had also reviewed the Covid-19 status in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/complete-lockdown-in-10-containment-zones-in-navi-mumbai-till-july-5/story-Ika9OCK9cLT00oxR1bCmSI.html
27-06-2020||City||Swarms of locust reach Mahendergarh, Rewari villages; Jhajjar on alert||Swarms of locust entered as many as 36 villages in Mahendergarh district and some areas of Rewari on Friday, leaving farmers in a worry. The Jhajjar administration also was on high-alert, anticipating an attack by the short-horned grasshoppers, which tend cause widespread crop damage with its voracious feeding behaviour.Narnual sub-divisional officer (agriculture) Harpal said that the locusts entered Mahendergarh through Rambas and Dhancholi villages on Rajasthan border.“The insects have settled on trees and standing crop, mostly cotton and bajra, in two or three villages. In the remaining villages, the insects passed without causing much damage. The insects are now headed towards Kanina but department is monitoring the movement and we will be using tractor-mounted sprayers to kill them,” the official added.The agricultural officials said fresh swarms of locusts came to Rajasthan from Pakistan and the same entered in Mahendergarh villages.“Drone operations are best ways to tackle the locust attack as compared to tractor-mounted sprayers,” the official added.Mahendergarh deputy commissioner RK Singh said that special supervision teams have been formed to tackle the situation.“I appeal to the farmers to inspect their fields and immediately report to the local agricultural development officer if they spot any locust. We have also advised people to make loud noises by beating drums, thalis, sound-producing instruments and tin boxes to drive away the locusts. Patwaris and village secretaries have been directed to visit villages and spread information about the locust attack,” the DC added.He further said that the agricultural officials will attack the locusts in night hours by using pesticides such as chlorpyrifos, deltamethrin, diflubenzuron and cyhalothrin to protect their crops, vegetables and trees.“We have put fire officials on alert to control the situation We will use fire tenders for spraying, if needed. We have formed village-level WhatsApp groups to keep the farmers informed,” the Mahendergarh deputy commissioner added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/swarms-of-locust-reach-mahendergarh-rewari-villages-jhajjar-on-alert/story-IUQCt06APRKok963jxFw7J.html
27-06-2020||City||IAF staffer ends life at 3BRD station in Chandigarh||A 50-year-old junior warrant officer committed suicide at 3BRD air force station in Chandigarh on Friday. He was a resident of Sector 47 and is survived by his wife and two daughters. The Indian Air Force staffer used a net used for cleaning aircraft to hang himself from a window grille, said police.In a suicide note recovered from the spot, the West Bengal native mentioned that he was suffering from depression and had not taken medicines for over a week. Earlier, a 17-year-old boy committed suicide by hanging himself from a window grille using a turban cloth at his house in Nabha Sahib village of Zirakpur in Mohali on Thursday.Police said he was a student of Class 10 at a private school, and according to his family, he was under stress due to his poor performance. No suicide note was found.Inquest proceedings have been initiated in both cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/iaf-staffer-ends-life-at-3brd-station-in-chandigarh/story-rQxsb6yPH32lJjgmeQRhkJ.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||66% rise in sea snakes caught in nets along south Konkan in 3 years: Mangrove cell||A two-third increase in the number of sea snakes caught in fishing nets has been recorded along the south Konkan coastline over the last three years, according to the state mangrove cell. Front-fanged and highly-venomous marine reptiles, sea snakes or coral reef snakes are protected under schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.The mangrove cell under the forest department, Mangrove Foundation and Bengaluru-based Dakshin Foundation found that in surveys conducted during 2016 and 2017, 478 sea snakes of three species were caught by trawlers, gill nets and shore seines. There was a 66% rise in 2018 and 2019 when sampling surveys reported the number had increased to 793 of seven different species along Malvan and surrounding areas of Sindhudurg.“Mass bycatch of sea snakes due to commercial overfishing, mostly unknowingly, has resulted in a major threat to the species. With hardly any research available on the impact to overall numbers, we may be losing countless undiscovered species that are unintentionally caught in trawl and gill nets,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest, state mangrove cell.Sea snakes or coral reef snakes are widely distributed in marine habitats such as corals, mangroves, seagrass meadows and shallow waters across the Indian and Pacific oceans. They can be identified based on their flattened, oar-like tail that allows them to move through the water quickly. Their length varies from 20 inches to over six feet. There are about 70 species found across the world with the highest diversity known among marine reptiles. Along Maharashtra, there are nine species while the Sindhudurg coast is home to seven.Researchers indicated the possibility of species decline for the Shaw’s sea snake (Hydrophis curtus) over the past decade. “Based on studies carried out between 2004 and 2009, and latest sampling studies from 2016 to 2019, we can see a clear change in species composition,” said Shawn Dsouza, research assistant, Dakshin Foundation adding that the Shaw’s sea snake had shown a considerable decline in numbers due to unregulated fishing as a major threat. “We found higher mortalities from large trawlers that scrape the ocean floor bycatch as compared to other fishing gear such as gill nets. As compared to the Shaw’s sea snake, the number of Beaked sea snake (Hydrophis schistosus) has rapidly increased as by catch. We may witness a similar trajectory of suspected decline of the species (similar to the Shaw’s sea snake) if regulations are not strengthened,” said Dsouza.The most dominant species along the Mumbai coast is the Little file snake (Acrochordus granulatus), said Dsouza, adding the threat to the species has not been assessed due to lack of research.Member of the Marine Conservation Committee of International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Species Survival Commission (SSC) Dr Aaron Savio Lobo said harmful fishing practices are being sustained, and if they continue, these may alter species communities. “Fishers are aware about sea snakes but mechanised operations through low quality bulk fishing such as trawls and gill nets submerged for several hours allow these species to drown. There is a need for better fisheries management combined with focused attention to reduce overfishing,” said Dr Lobo.An alarming rise in overfishing in Maharashtra, particularly of juvenile fish and other protected marine species, led to overall losses exceeding Rs686 crore per year, according to the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute. “As this continues, what we will see is silent decline where species are lost without even discovering them. We have probably already pushed species into local decline and there is no knowledge about it,” said Dr. Lobo.The state fisheries department said they were not aware of the impact on the species but with help from the mangrove cell would commence separate awareness activities for the fishing community. “Guidelines have been proposed to curb overfishing but using this time when there is a fishing ban, we will take help from the mangrove cell to build awareness along the Konkan coast and understand how sea snakes are being affected. Such representations have not been made to us so far,” said Rajendra Jadhav, joint commissioner, state fisheries department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/66-rise-in-sea-snakes-caught-in-nets-along-south-konkan-in-3-years-mangrove-cell/story-sY1OinzB873Oqg32xIVMQJ.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Smart City projects pick up momentum in Ludhiana||Moving at a snail’s pace for the first three years after the city was selected under the Smart City Mission in 2016, the projects, taken up under the mission, have picked up pace in the city.The mission was launched by the Union government on June 25, 2015, but the city got selected under the mission a year later.The country observed fifth anniversary of the mission on Thursday.Various projects, including Pakhowal road railway over bridge (ROB)/railway under bridge (RUB), smart road project on the Malhar road, Sarabha Nagar retrofitting project, LED streetlights, waterfront development alongside the Sidhwan canal, carcass utilisation plant, etc, had been commenced under the mission.However, only three projects have been completed so far under the mission during the past four years. These projects included the installation of rooftop solar panels on government buildings (Rs 2.6 crore), construction of the building of the Integration Command and Control Centre (ICCC) (Rs 0.35 crore) and the procurement of sewer cleaning machines (Rs 5.94 crore). Chief executive officer (CEO) of the Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL) Sanyam Aggarwal said, “The projects were moving at a slow pace in the initial years as the focus was on preparing detailed project reports, etc. But, now the work on all the projects has been expedited at the ground level.”The major projects included Sarabha Nagar retrofitting and development of the Malhar road as smart road, LED streetlights project, carcass utilisation plant, etc has commenced. Contractors may be given extensions of up to two months due to lockdown, but these projects would be completed this year, the CEO added.“The major focus at present is on the projects, including the construction of a multi-storey parking lot in the Feroze Gandhi market, installation of compactors, upgrading the fire brigade, upgrading of sports infrastructure in the Guru Nanak Stadium and Rakh Bagh,” said Aggarwal.MC superintending engineer Rahul Gagneja said, “The state-level technical committee has also approved the projects, including the installation of static compactors, retrofitting of the Ghumar Mandi market and fencing alongside the Buddha Nullah.”FOCUS SHOULD BE NEGLECTED AREAS: GOEL One of the directors of the LSCL Sanjay Goel said, “The focus of the smart city projects should be on neglected areas of the city, but most of the projects are being taken up in posh areas of the city. The authorities should also work to decongest city roads and facilitate the smooth movement of traffic.”He added, “Efforts should also be made to improve the condition of old city areas. I will take up these issues in the upcoming meeting of the Board of Directors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/smart-city-projects-pick-up-momentum-in-ludhiana/story-WdXHKgaDwOqIrv6pPuTfcO.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||HC stays GR on schools fees||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday stayed a government resolution issued by the state school education department on May 8, 2020 that restrained schools across the state from hiking fees for the academic year 2020-21 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.A bench of justice Ujjal Bhuyan and justice Riyaz Chagla stayed the GR that also instructed schools to reduce school fees for 2020-21 if the school expenditure is reduced because of not using any facilities. The GR also instructed educational institutions to allow parents to pay balance fees, if any, for 2019-20 and due fees for 2020-21 in quarterly or monthly instalments, and not to charge fees on annual basis.Association of Indian Schools and three educational institutions have challenged the validity of the GR on various grounds.Advocate Saket Mone, The counsel for one of the petitioners, Kasegaon Education Society which runs a school affiliated to the Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) at Kharegaon in Navi Mumbai and several other unaided schools across the country, confirmed that the HC on Friday stayed the GR.The institute contended that the GR was ultra vires not only to the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fees) Act, 2011, but also the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and was issued without any authority in law, as neither of the legislations empowered the state authorities to issue such directions.It added that the GR was in breach of its right to administer the school, and as held by the Supreme Court that right indubitably includes right to regulate and fix fees in accordance with the law, and thus takes away the constitutional right of the petitioner institution guaranteed by Article 19(1)(g).The educational institution has also questioned an order issued by the local education officer who prohibited the petitioner body from asking parents to pay any balance fees for the year 2019-20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-stays-gr-on-schools-fees/story-OBpWI3wwkCcglk6hjTSEhM.html
27-06-2020||City||Suvidha kendras in Ludhiana to remain open on Saturdays||The municipal corporation (MC) has decided to keep the Suvidha Kendras open on Saturday to facilitate payment of property tax with 10% rebate. Residents can also submit the pending water sewer charges without any penalty till June 30. MC superintendent Vivek Verma said the rebate can be availed of till June 30, and suvidha kendras will remain open from 9am to 3pm on Saturday. The residents can also submit the tax online at www.mcludhiana.gov.in||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suvidha-kendras-in-ludhiana-to-remain-open-on-saturdays/story-exTvPRLF3MH1MNafKO6WQI.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||Will only test prisoners with comorbidities initially: State to HC||The state government has informed the Bombay high court (HC) that it has planned to provide rapid antigen testing for inmates with comorbid conditions depending on the availability of the test kits. The advocate general submitted that as inmates were relatively safe in the confines of the prison, testing kits would be deployed in high-risk areas on a priority. The state made the submissions in response to a clutch of petitions seeking various reliefs for prison inmates after Covid positive cases emerged across prisons in the state.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice MS Karnik, while hearing through video conferencing PILs filed by People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), an NGO and individuals like politician Geeta Jain, activist and lawyer Archana Rupwate among others, was informed by petitioners that they had prepared a list of suggestions and objections to the draft modified guidelines submitted by the state in the previous hearing.Senior advocate Mihir Desai for PUCL said the state’s assurance in the guidelines that regular thermal screening of inmates would be conducted and only those inmates having fever, breathing problems and other symptoms would be subjected to swab tests was not sufficient and there should be mass testing of inmates. The petitioners also submitted that the lower courts were not abiding by the recommendations of the high-power committee (HPC), as a result of which many applications for interim bail and parole were pending.AG Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, while responding to the suggestion of mass testing inmates, said the state was awaiting rapid antigen testing kits and once the kits were available it would be used for testing inmates and jail staff. He, however, added that as the kits were required on a priority in high-risk zones, it would not be possible to conduct mass testing of inmates, and added that only inmates with comorbidities would undergo the rapid antigen test initially.After hearing the submissions, the court directed the state to update its website on the status of the inmates regularly and also directed senior counsel Milind Sathe, representing the HPC, to issue a circular to all district legal service authorities to assist lower courts to expedite the hearing of interim bail and parole applications and posted the matter for order on Tuesday, June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/will-test-only-prisoners-with-comorbidities-initially-state-to-hc/story-cyUDPyJhb3AtStmDfjtoHI.html
27-06-2020||City||Infant, PGIMER scholar among 11 Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh tricity||A seven-month-old boy from Sector 22 is among two Covid-19 cases reported in Chandigarh on Friday.Six people, including a 29-year-old woman research scholar of the PGIMER and a resident of Baltana in Zirakpur, tested positive in Mohali, while three fresh cases surfaced in Panchkula. A 21-year-old youth, stated to be of Chandigarh, also tested positive in Panchkula after returning from Kazakhstan. His case has not been added to any city’s tally so far.The Chandigarh infant is the family contact of an already positive case from the same sector. The other case in the UT is that of a 25-year-old woman of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26. She has four family contacts, who are asymptomatic.Meanwhile, six people were discharged on Friday, taking the number of recovered patients in the city to 335 and recovery rate to 79%. There are 425 confirmed cases in the city, of which 84 are still active.In Mohali, the number of cases has climbed to 242, though there are only 52 active cases.The PGIMER research scholar’s husband had also tested positive on Thursday. Her 16 workplace contacts have been quarantined, said a PGIMER release.Other patients in Mohali are five females, two aged 18 and others 15, 19 and 34, all from Behda village in Dera Bassi. They are migrants and were working in a meat factory.Meanwhile, seven persons from Dera Bassi subdivision were discharged, taking the number of recoveries to 185.In Panchkula, a 76-year-old kidney patient from Sector 12 is among three women who were found infected. With this, the district’s total count has reached 106, of which 56 cases are active.The elderly woman was tested on being admitted to a private hospital. The other two patients are a 20-year-old woman from Manakpur Devilal and a 25-year-old woman from Surajpur. The former had returned from her paternal house in Uttar Pradesh after delivering a child. The other works in a factory at Kot village in Mohali and is a workplace contact of a positive person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/infant-pgi-scholar-among-11-covid-19-cases-in-tricity/story-l1TbhZIhsKIcWTmxLliG1M.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||‘Rise in cases in suburbs may be due to easing of lockdown’||The increase in Covid-19 cases in north Mumbai could be due to relaxation in lockdown, said Parambir Singh, commissioner of police (CP), Mumbai. He, however, added that civic officials and the police department took multiple effective measures in accordance with the situation, and now they are yielding positive results. Singh on Friday visited many hotspots in the northern suburbs, including Santosh Nagar in Goregaon (East) and Appa Pada in Kandivli (East), which have seen a spike in new cases recently. Speaking to journalists, Singh said a trend of increasing cases in buildings in slum and non-slum areas has been observed and said, “We are sealing those buildings and making them containment areas.” “It is sometimes difficult to control cases in high-density population areas, but by following social distancing norms it can be effectively dealt with. We enforce lockdown in areas where these norms are not being followed,” the top cop said.Currently there are around 750 containment zones in the city, of which 250 to 300 are in the north region. Around a fortnight ago when there was sudden increase in cases, lockdown was re-enforced 27 hotspots in northern suburbs. “Now, the number of cases is going down. If cases keep on dropping, we would allow partial relaxation in lockdown,’ Singh said.While answering a question on the possible reasons that led to the sudden increase in cases, Singh said, “Health officials would be the right people to comment on it. But we believe that when the lockdown was relaxed many people may have not followed social distancing norms, because of which cases have increased. But now everything is in control.”Singh has also asked senior police officers to prepare a list of essential service staffers who commute out of the area for work. “Sometimes these people become potential carriers. Hence they would be identified and after their list is prepared, the CP would speak to the municipal commissioner requesting to arrange accommodation for these staffers near their work places,” said Dilip Sawant, additional commissioner (north region).2,634 cops positive, 1,979 recovered So far 2,634 policemen from the city police force tested positive for Covid-19, of whom 1,979 have recovered completely. OF the recovered personnel, 1,110 have also joined duty. In the Maharashtra Police, which includes Mumbai, more than 4,200 policemen were infected, of whom 3,000 have recovered.500 FIRs by Cyber policeAmid the spread of Covid-19, some anti-social rumours spread through social media are creating an atmosphere of fear among the citizens. As these rumours are leading to social rifts in many places, the cyber police have started cracking down on the people spreading the rumours and they have registered more than 500 cases and arrested 262 people so far. Beed, Pune Rural and Jalgaon districts have seen the maximum cases related to circulation of fake news, objectionable content, etc.Two held for stealing autorickshaws Oshiwara police on Thursday arrested two thieves who stole parked autorickshaws during lockdown and later used those to ferry passengers to earn a living. The arrested accused Raju Kanaujia, 27, is a a resident of Behram Baug, Jogeshwari and Rambabu Varma, 34, is a resident of Madh Island, Malad.(With inputs from Suraj Ojha and Vijay Kumar Yadav)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rise-in-cases-in-suburbs-may-be-due-to-easing-of-lockdown/story-MCOggnw0EFJjzvLUEdESqJ.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||166 drug peddlers held, 126 drug cases registered so far this year in Ludhiana: Police chief||The district police have registered as many as 126 drug peddling cases and arrested 166 smugglers during this year so far. The police also made a list of infamous habitual offenders and took 30 such offenders in preventive detention.These figures were released by commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal in a press release issued on the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking here on Friday.He said action against drug peddlers continued during lockdown also.Agrawal added, “The police have seized 1.7kg heroin, 3.6kg opium, 350kg poppy husk, 1.7kg charas, 43.5kg ganja, 124gm narcotics powder, 23,333 intoxicant pills and 35 injections. Besides, five proclaimed offenders in drug cases have also been arrested.”The district police chief added the Ludhiana police also unearthed the entire chain of drug supply and systematically worked out forward and backward linkages in the supply chain through proper investigation in each case of recovery of illicit drugs.Action against drug smugglers and traffickers for forfeiture of their illegally acquired property was also started under various provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.He said ‘Operation Rat Hunt’ has also been launched to eradicate drugs and drug peddlers from the district.“Activities of drug smugglers are also being monitored through safe city cameras installed in the district. Special round-the- clock inter-district nakas have been set up in the district to monitor inter-district smuggling of drugs,” said the police chief.“The olice are also focusing on generating a mass movement to make the public aware of the bad effects of drugs through community partnership. Under this movement, as many as 129 seminars were organised in various villages and wards. A massive awareness drive is also being undertaken on the social media,” he added.The police chief also said strict action would be taken if any policeman is found negligent in doing his duty or supporting any illegal activities in any manner relating to smuggling of drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/166-drug-peddlers-held-126-drug-cases-registered-so-far-this-year-in-ludhiana-police-chief/story-o80ooLCySZ3wvM3swSMg2L.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||State mobile app offers free non-Covid medical consultation||The Maharashtra government has developed a mobile application, eSanjeevaniOPD, that will provide free online tele-consultation medical services to non-Covid patients in the state. People will have to register on the app using their mobile numbers and then will be able to directly chat with expert doctors through video conferencing or text messages. The app, available on Google Play Store, works as an online OPD service without patients having to physically visit a doctor. The services can be availed between 9.30am and 1.30pm, six days a week, with it being shut on Sundays.Earlier in a joint venture with the help of the Central government, the service was made available through a portal named www.esanjeevaniopd.in. The portal was made fully operational from May 12 after a pilot run. So far, 1,606 patients have used the portal.State health minister Rajesh Tope said the decision to start free OPD services was taken considering the difficulties faced by the people in the absence of services from private practitioners. Patients will be able to upload their medical report or other documents on the mobile application after registering. They will be given a token number and will be notified about the appointment so that they can log in accordingly. Patients will have to wait until a doctor gets free to connect via video conferencing or text message. The app will also provide e-prescriptions to patients, Tope said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-mobile-app-offers-free-non-covid-medical-consultation/story-8a49UxXNO9D89aQ6toEIGM.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||‘Societies can’t bar entry of house help and drivers’||The state cooperation department has asked the registrars of cooperative societies to inform the housing societies that they cannot frame their own rules to bar the entry of house help and drivers on their premises. The issue arose as many societies restricted the entry of house help during the lockdown and are not ready to allow them despite the easing of curbs by the state government.The department has pointed out that the state government, in its various notifications on Covid-19, had never restricted the movement of house help and drivers. It said it has come to the notice of the state government that some housing societies are framing rules and regulations contrary to those issued by the state. It said the office-bearers need to allow help and drivers as notified by the government and not flout the rules. Registrars monitor the working of the housing society. Members of the housing society can complain to them if they have grievances against the elected members. They also conduct the elections of the housing societies.Office-bearers, however, said the restriction was for the betterment of the residents. “Housing society members are restricting help and drivers to protect the spread of Covid-19,” said Dhaval Shah, chairman, Lokhandwala-Oshiwara Citizens’ Association.The association of house help, however, called it discriminatory. “Our livelihood is at stake and we are as careful as others regarding the virus,” said Babli Rawat, president, Ghar Kamgar Molkarin Sanghatana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/societies-can-t-bar-entry-of-house-help-and-drivers/story-wrZbfBWPL9OV5OGTloVy4H.html
27-06-2020||City||Body of drowned mason fished out from Ludhiana canal||The body of a 28-year-old man, who drowned in Kaind canal on Wednesday, was fished out from near Khanpur village on Friday morning. Clothes of the deceased, Mandeep Singh, a mason and resident of Daba, were found near the canal after he went missing.Mandeep had left the house saying he was going with his friends to Khanpur village. However, he did not return. While his friends claimed that they had gone to the canal to take a dip, and Mandeep lost his balance and drowned, the deceased’s kin had alleged that his friends dumped the body in the canal after murdering him.Inspector Pavittar Singh, SHO at Daba police station, said they had interrogated the friends, but found nothing suspicious. The body had been sent to the civil hospital for autopsy, and further action will be taken based on its report, he added.Meanwhile, police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/body-of-drowned-mason-fished-out-from-ludhiana-canal/story-STB6ibxyt2pCgCC3KLYDPP.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab school students in a quandary over common entrance exam date||The students who have been preparing for the common entrance test (CET) to get admission in meritorious schools across the state are in a dilemma as the Society for Promotion of Quality Education for Poor and Meritorious Students of Punjab has not announced the date for the exam yet.Earlier, the CET was scheduled to be held on April 16 but it was postponed due to the Covid-19 outbreak.A total of 19,000 students have got themselves registered online for the entrance exam, the date for which has been extended five times till now.With uncertainty regarding the exam date, the students are worried and concerned about how to take forward their preparation for the exam that used to be held in the first week of May till last year.Avani Sharma, a former student of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Cemetery Road, said, “I feel frustrated as the authorities have not yet given any clarity regarding the entrance exam date. I am also staying in constant touch with my teachers to inquire about the CET date. There is no information regarding it on the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan website as well.”“I scored 84% marks in Class 10 pre-board exams and was promoted to the next class. I have been preparing for the entrance exam since the lockdown was imposed,” she added.Manvi Dholan, a student of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Jagraon, said, “I registered online for the exam last month and was very excited to take admission in a meritorious school as such schools provide free of cost professional coaching to medical, non-medical and commerce students.”“But now I feel I will have to continue with my studies online therefore I took admission in Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Jagraon, last week. With the rising number of Covid cases, all boards have cancelled the board exams so I’m worried that the test might get cancelled as well.”All ten meritorious schools in the state had been turned into quarantine centres last month. Patients with mild symptoms are being treated there. Inderpal Singh Malhotra, assistant project director, Punjab Meritorious Schools, said, “We are planning to conduct the entrance exam in July and will finalise the date soon. The online classes can be started in August. In total, 19,000 students have registered online for Class 11 admissions.”On being asked how the exam would be conducted next month with the number of Covid cases on the rise, he said, “We cannot admit the students in Class 11 in meritorious schools without an entrance exam. It will not be easy to conduct the exam for 19,000 students but we are considering several ways and might increase the number of exam centers. We have to follow the social distancing norms while conducting the exam.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-school-students-in-a-quandary-over-common-entrance-exam-date/story-u7QVfXRF5Yqs8qdv0BnQSM.html
27-06-2020||City||City bus service remains off road in Ludhiana, residents at receiving end||While the municipal corporation (MC) allowed the contractor to operate the local bus service in the city a week ago, the service remains off the road as the contractor is seeking a hike in fares.In the absence of the service, residents continue to bear the brunt, especially amid the hike in fuel prices.When put to a halt after the imposition of curfew in the state in March, the city bus service used to ferry around 3,500 passengers daily on four routes in the city. The routes included Sahnewal to Clock Tower, Kohara to the bus stand, Dugri to Metro Supermarket and Railway Station to Meharban.An official of the MC, requesting anonymity, said, “The contractor has been seeking a hike in the fare for a long time, but the authorities are demanding that the contractor should first clear the dues. A case regarding the same is also sub judice in the Punjab and Haryana high court.”He said the contractor is claiming that rates of diesel have increased by Rs 26 per litre during the past five years, but the fare has not been increased.He said the contractor has also claimed that he will have to run the buses at half the capacity as per the Covid-10 guidelines issued by the government.MC additional commissioner Sanyam Aggarwal said, “The MC permitted the contractor to commence the service last week. Now, it depends on the contractor when he resumes it. There is no proposal to increase the fare as of now and if the contractor fails to run the buses, then action would be taken against him.”Contractor Jaskirat Singh from Horizon Connect Transways Private Limited said, “We are expecting low footfall as the labour has moved back to their home towns. Also, fuel prices are rising. Meanwhile, we are conducting a survey to judge the feasibility of resuming the service.”The residents, however, demanded resumption of the service at the earliest.A resident of Jawahar Nagar camp, Jaswinder Singh, said, “I always used to travel in the city bus, but now I am forced to travel in the auto rickshaws, where chances of spread of coronavirus are higher and we also have to shell out more money. The MC should operate the buses on its own, if there is issues with the contractor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/city-bus-service-remains-off-road-in-ludhiana-residents-at-receiving-end/story-w8ct6GtUGgAtTRGGfGPpUN.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||How Dharavi flattened the curve, and showed Mumbai the way||On May 8, Dharavi-based labour contractor and community volunteer Avirath Shinde, 36, was carrying a large package of food to distribute to families in India’s worst-affected Covid-19 slum cluster. He was in a hurry that day, and on the unevenly paved inner lanes of Dharavi, Shinde slipped and fell, breaking his hand. He walked to the nearest private hospital to get his bones fixed, and it was here that he began to complain of fever. The doctors immediately tested him for Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. When the reports came in later that day, Shinde was found to be positive.Dharavi is India’s largest slum, with over 8.5 lakh people living in around 55,000 dwelling units spread across approximately 2.5 sqkm. The population density here is 3.4 lakh per sqkm, more than 10 times the average population density of Mumbai (32,303 per sqkm) according to a July 2019 United Nations Population Review. On average, in Dharavi, around 10 people live in every housing unit that averages 100 sqft in size.Shinde’s household is no different. There are at least 14 people in his joint-family house that measures approximately 1,200 sqft, a large unit by Dharavi standards. As soon as Shinde tested positive, his family was classified as ‘high-risk contacts’, and every member was tested the same day. Between May 11 and May 12, Shinde’s wife, his 56-year-old mother and his 88-year-old grandmother also tested positive.The Shinde family was one of scores from Dharavi that tested positive in April and May, the months when Covid-19 peaked in this region, making it one of the country’s worst-affected Covid hotspots, along with Worli Koliwada in Mumbai’s G-South ward. In May, Dharavi reported an average of 48 cases per day, with May 3 recording 94 cases, its highest single-day spike. In April, while the average was 18 cases per day, the second half of the month saw intermittent spikes. For instance, on April 28, Dharavi reported 42 cases, and on April 20, 30 cases. But in June, Dharavi seems to have turned the corner; cases are rising only by 18 per day. In fact, on June 23, it recorded only five cases, the lowest since April 5, prompting the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to shutter two Covid care centres (CCC), a Covid facility at the Rajiv Gandhi Sports Complex, and a quarantine centre at a local municipal school.Noted epidemiologist and the state’s Covid-19 surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate, said, “Dharavi’s cases plateaued in early June, and the curve has now flattened. We are seeing signs of further reduction, and soon the curve will begin to dip. The challenge is to maintain this momentum.”The dip in cases led to recognition by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. On June 21, it issued a release touting the Dharavi model.Dharavi’s current daily growth rate is just 0.47%, compared to the May average of 4.3%. While 34 new cases were recorded on June 1 (the month’s highest number), June 2 saw 25 cases. The downward trend continued with 19 cases on June 3, 23 on June 4; 17 on June 5; 10 on June 6; 13 on June 7; 12 on June 8; 26 on June 9; and 11 on June 10. Since then, the highest number was reported on June 12 (29, with two deaths). On June 24, Dharavi saw only 10 cases, while eight cases were recorded on June 26.Overall, Dharavi – which is part of the 9.07 sq km G-North ward – has recorded 2,218 Covid-19 cases and 81 deaths as of June 26. The same day, Mumbai had a total of 72,175 cases and 4,179 deaths. While it was one of the country’s worst hotspots in April and May, Dharavi’s doubling rate on Friday rose to 140 days, compared to Mumbai’s average of 41 days (June 24) and the national average of 19.1 days (June 26, source: covid19india.org). “It seems (that Dharavi has flattened its curve). Even in my hospital, there used to be a waiting list of patients, but for the last four or five days we have some vacant beds. ICU beds are still full, so the critical patients are still recovering, but overall it seems that cases per day are decreasing,” said Dr Behram Pardiwala, head, department of medicine, Wockhardt Hospital.It was not easy achieving this plateau, though. Kiran Dighavkar, BMC assistant commissioner and the G-North ward officer said Dharavi’s population density was the biggest challenge “right from the beginning”. Four-fifths of its population still relies on the 450 community toilets, and an average dwelling unit is not more than 250 sqft big with at least 10 persons living in each. “Social distancing is impossible here,” said Dighavkar.The Dharavi model, therefore, had to be different, and more aggressive. The BMC used what it called the ‘4Ts’ approach – Tracing, Tracking, Testing, and Treating. According to Dighavkar, strict containment measures have been in place since the beginning, and BMC even delivered cooked food, or grocery packets to residents to ensure they do not need to break containment zone rules for essentials. “We proactively screened residents through fever camps, and that helped us identify those with Covid-19 risk from the community randomly. With early detection, the suspected cases and high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients were identified and placed at quarantine centres,” said Dighavkar. “Over 90% of Dharavi’s cases were treated within Dharavi, and only critical patients were moved out for treatment.”While the government and civic institutions such as sports complexes and schools were converted into isolation and treatment centres, BMC acquired three private hospitals in Dharavi, in addition to erecting 22 Covid care centres with 4,447 beds and four dedicated Covid health centres with 266 beds. BMC staffers and volunteers even organised laughter therapy and music sessions at these centres to keep up the spirits of Covid-19 patients.The tracing and tracking programme included a massive door-to-door screening exercise using mobile dispensaries, which was run by hundreds of BMC staffers and healthcare volunteers. While mobile dispensaries screened 14,970 people in Dharavi, over 3.6 lakh people were screened by private doctors working with BMC, and municipal staff in door-to-door visits to 47,500 homes. Senior citizens and comorbid patients, considered as vulnerable groups for Covid-19 were screened for oxygen concentration in the body, and simultaneously treated. A Union health and family welfare ministry statement issued on June 21 said that “8,246 senior citizens were surveyed and as part of its policy of ‘Timely Separation’, they were separated from the other community to effectively limit the transmission of the disease”. In addition, over 25,000 grocery packets and 21,000 food packets have been distributed in Dharavi so that people stay indoors and do not leave the containment zones.This programme was so successful that BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal announced on June 22 that it will be replicated across Mumbai’s western and central suburbs as part of BMC’s Mission Zero project. Across the city, 879 municipal dispensaries are operational and 5.8 lakh people have been screened so far.In Dharavi, the Shinde household was among the hundreds that were isolated. “We did not interact with anyone and were locked up in our house at all times for 14 days,” said Avirath Shinde, who had tested positive in May.“We had home quarantine stamps on our hand. All food, including vegetables and milk, were brought to us by volunteers or BMC staff. Because my grandmother is old and had cough in her chest after she tested positive, the kind of hospital bed needed for her was not easily available. We had to look for an entire day for a bed, moreover, I was already quarantined and could not contribute to the hunt.” Shinde beat the virus in May itself, and is back to being a food distribution volunteer.Despite the victory, the challenges of maintaining the downward curve remain, as Dharavi’s economy largely depends on small enterprises run from single rooms or homes within the slum. As businesses open as part of the state government’s Mission Begin Again, migrant labourers who had returned to their hometowns are gradually returning, and physical distancing may once again pose a huge challenge, say activists and healthcare professionals.“Migrant workers left Dharavi throughout the lockdown months. But they will all eventually return and we will kickstart the local economy,” said Dighavkar. “We will then continue with tight containment measures to ensure cases are in check.”Dharavi has over 15,000 single-room factories, and over 5,000 GST-registered enterprises. During the lockdown, according to BMC estimates, over 1.45 lakh workers left Dharavi to go to their hometowns. Dr Awate said, “Such infections [Covid-19] are known to bounce back. The future trend in cases will depend on the quality of interventions and their efficacy. Strong containment measures have proved successful in Dharavi, so we will have to maintain them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/how-dharavi-flattened-the-curve-and-showed-mumbai-the-way/story-iK8dGivPh69bZ3xJbHih6I.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||SAD demands financial package to bail out Ludhiana industry||President of the district unit of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) Ranjit Singh Dhillon along with his party colleagues, including Gurmeet Singh Kular and Madan Lal Bagga, handed over a memorandum to Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore through the deputy commissioner demanding a financial package to bail out the city industry, which has been hit hard due to the spread of coronavirus. Representatives of various industry associations also accompanied the delegation. They said that the package for the industry should also include a clause under which the state government should take on the responsibility of paying salaries of industrial workers for the lockdown period.Dhillon, who led the delegation, said financial packages for small and medium scale industries and traders had already been approved by other state governments, including Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. The delegation also demanded waiver of fixed charges till March 31, 2021 and asked the government to provide electricity at Rs 5 per unit and early disbursal of VAT refunds of nearly Rs 80 crore. Besides they also demanded waiver of property tax and free train service for labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-demands-financial-package-to-bail-out-ludhiana-industry/story-cwPhJ337uinU448f3uaIHK.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||Dal, rice, veg and rotis: Andheri gurudwara delivers free daily meals||Working two shifts daily, the one thing Susheel Singh waits for is the food that is delivered to him twice a day. Since the lockdown, Singh, a watchman at a society in Seven Bungalows, and others working in societies in and around the area, receive meals from the local gurudwara. Volunteers drive around distributing rotis, dal, and rice to whoever is hungry.“Food is prepared since 5am and volunteers work in shifts to help in packaging and delivery. Tea is served at the gate of our gurudwara twice a day. Everyone is invited to take food,” said Devinder Singh Kochhar, president of Gurudwara Sachkhand Darbar.The gurudwara was known for its langar (kitchen) that feeds 2,000 people on average, even before the lockdown was implemented. Since March 22, the management started cooking and serving meals to anyone in need of food twice a day.The gurudwara currently manages to produce over 7,500 rotis and 150kg of rice and dal for every meal. In the evening, another 300kg of vegetables are cooked and served.Recently, the management also started delivering meals to residents stuck at home, either due to their age or health concerns.“Several people who live alone and are old do not step out of the house to buy groceries for fear of contracting the virus. Some people have lost their jobs and can’t afford food anymore. Earlier this month, we decided to start delivering meals to such people at their doorsteps twice a day to ensure no one goes hungry,” said Kochhar.However, they faced a couple of challenges along the way. Volunteers said they faced difficulty travelling to and from the gurudwara, and there were constant orders by the police to stop gathering to cook food.“For some time, we ended up cooking food in another area and then delivering it. Even when we had to shut the gurudwara gate, volunteers who stayed back managed to cook as much as possible,” said a volunteer.As the need for food kept increasing, so did donations. “Oer the past few weeks, local hoteliers have also helped us by sending their staff to cook more food. All this work is possible only because our donors and volunteers never give up, and our management is always on our side,” said Kochhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dal-rice-veg-and-rotis-andheri-gurudwara-delivers-free-daily-meals/story-gr7Y6tf1Y8SG3wGxYQ31YO.html
27-06-2020||City||Suicide pact: Farmer, paramour end lives in Khanna||A 37-year-old farmer and his paramour ended their lives by consuming some poisonous substance in a suicide pact at Mohanpur village, Khanna, on Friday evening.After consuming poison, the man called his wife over the phone and informed her about his extreme step. But, before the police could reach the spot, the duo was dead. Both deceased were married and had three children each.Police said the man, who was a resident of Harkrishan Nagar, Khanna, had an illicit relationship with a 36-year-old homemaker from Khanna Lhurd village. Their families were aware about their relation and were against it.Inspector Jaspal Singh, SHO, Sadar police station, said they had initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure following the statements of their family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suicide-pact-farmer-paramour-end-lives-in-khanna/story-kUXjUNMAItSSPvjES4aQmK.html
27-06-2020||City||32-year-old carpenter tries to murder wife, arrested||Suspecting her of infidelity, a 32-year-old carpenter attacked his wife with a sharp-edged weapon in Shimlapuri on Friday morning. The victim, Manmeet Kaur, 28, was on her way to a local shrine with her sister-in-law around 6am, when her husband, Amarbir Singh of Shimlapuri, attacked her on the head, face, neck and back.He then also hurt himself with the weapon, but onlookers managed to snatch it from his hand, before he made good his escape.Kaur was rushed to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, where her condition is stated to be serious.The Shimlapuri police arrested the accused after a few hours.He was booked for attempt to murder under the Indian Penal Code.Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, SHO, Shimlapuri police station, said Amarbir often used to thrash his wife in an inebriated condition, and also suspected her having an extramarital relationship. Due to this, Manmeet and her five-year-old son were living with her parents for the past one year. He was aware that she used to visit the local gurdwara with her sister-in-law, and attacked her on Friday morning, the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/32-year-old-carpenter-tries-to-murder-wife-arrested/story-K3V0ZYxukkGQHowdEd1E5I.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||Report pending deaths: BMC’s final warning to all hospitals||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday issued a final warning to all municipal and private hospitals to report pending Covid-19 deaths to the civic body before 5pm on June 29, or face action. This is the second such warning issued to hospitals, after the Maharashtra government added 862 Covid-19 deaths to Mumbai’s cumulative toll on June 16, after reconciling figures that were received late from hospitals. The first such warning was issued on June 18.The latest order was given by municipal commissioner IS Chahal during a meeting with superintendents of major hospitals and municipal doctors on Friday. During the discussion, it was reported that in some cases, private hospitals did not inform BMC about deaths within 48 hours. Despite repeated opportunities, if hospitals fail to report deaths within 48 hours henceforth, strict action will be taken, Chahal said during the video conference. The civic body had also announced that reconciling figures of Covid-19 deaths would be a recurring process over the next month until all data was cleaned up.Chahal had told Hindustan Times last week that BMC would not take any action against hospitals for reporting Covid-19 deaths late. Subsequently, an official clarification issued by BMC attributed the delay to shortage of staff and limitations in means of communication. BMC had also clarified that while the 862 deaths had occurred in March and April, 750 of them were reported to BMC on June 12.On June 8, BMC made it mandatory for all hospitals to report Covid deaths within 48 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/report-pending-deaths-bmc-s-final-warning-to-all-hospitals/story-QNkecJSkprtbMPRcPZ6SlJ.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||Allow teachers to work from home if possible: Education department to schools||After several schools in red zones demanded clarity on the state education department’s standard operating procedure (SOP) for reopening their institutes, the department released specific guidelines on Friday evening.As per the guidelines, all schools in Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, and Palghar should allow teachers to continue working from home until schools reopen physically.“Travelling is a big issue in these places as public transport is still not fully functional. However, in case the principal deems fit, teachers can be called in twice a week for the development of e-learning content or in preparation for the physical reopening of schools,” the guidelines state.Women teachers, those with comorbidities like diabetes, respiratory issues, and blood pressure problems, and those above the age of 55 years are exempt from physically attending school.“Care should be taken to ensure that teachers who are called to school are not all called at the same time to avoid crowding,” the guidelines state.For schools that have been used by respective civic bodies or the state government as quarantine centres, teachers cannot be asked to report to work until the buildings are handed back to the principals. Teachers who are involved in Covid-19 related duties have to be relieved from the frontline work so that they can contribute towards online learning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/allow-teachers-to-work-from-home-if-possible-education-department-to-schools/story-mQgisADgi86sDggG6rqKqO.html
27-06-2020||Delhi||Schools to remain shut in Delhi till July 31, online classes and remote learning will continue||All schools in the national capital, both public and private, will remain closed till July 31, the Delhi government said on Friday, while announcing that online classes for students will continue.Schools in Delhi have been shut since March 19 in the wake of the coronavirus disease outbreak, though they have switched to online learning by conducting classes via video conferencing and sharing study materials on WhatsApp groups.On Friday, education department officials presented before Manish Sisodia, deputy chief minister and education minister, district-wise reports prepared based on the suggestions of school authorities, students and parents. The decision to extend the closure of schools was announced after the meeting. The Delhi government has been holding consultations with principals of private and public schools along with teachers and parents on how to resume operations in schools after the summer vacation ends on June 30. Classes usually begin on July 1 after summer break.Friday’s meeting was aimed at designing an action plan for schools so as to ensure that they are well-prepared whenever they reopen, according to government officials.After the meeting, a statement by the government said suggestions were given by teachers, parents and students in order to provide “learning opportunities and emotional support to children using remote methods and support of parents till the schools reopen”. “Continuing with the online classes wherever possible, carrying proper sanitization work in classrooms, distributing masks to students, thermal screening of every student at the school entrance gate, and reduction of the syllabus were some of the major suggestions given at the meeting,” the statement said, referring to the reopening plans.The recommendations to the government also said primary classes should be held once or twice a week with just 12-15 students in a class. While students from classes 3 to 5 could attend school on alternate days, those between classes 6 and 8 may be present once or twice a week, according to the suggestions. For students in 9th and 10th standards, classes should be taken in very small groups once or twice a week along with online classes, it was discussed.“It was suggested during the meeting that class 11 and 12 should be conducted on alternate days and online classes should be carried (out) on remaining days. There was also a suggestion of reducing their syllabus. Some also suggested that only 3 to 4 hours of classes should be carried per day,” the government statement said.According to officials from the directorate of education, Sisodia said in the meeting: “In light of all the suggestions, we should make a plan to reopen schools in a way that would teach students to live with the coronavirus and prepare them for a new role in new circumstances.”Sarita Batra, principal of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya in Shalimar Bagh, said, “We will continue with the online classes. We have tied up with Microsoft Teams for a safer online learning experience and have created student IDs on it. There have been workshops with teachers on learning pedagogies...Since teachers were already coming to schools to manage the hunger relief centres, it gave us an opportunity to meet and engage in micro-planning.” Government schools have been acting as hunger relief centres since the lockdown began, providing meals to needy. Teachers come to these centres to help with the managerial work.SK Bhattacharya, the president of an action committee for unaided recognised private schools, said: “As far as private schools are concerned, we will be opening schools as per the Delhi government guidelines. Most of us have resumed or will be resuming online classes from July 1 to ensure learning continuity among children.”In the three-phase unlock plan of the central government, reopening educational institutes including schools and colleges is in the second phase. While detailing the outlines of the plan in May-end, the Centre said a decision on this was likely in July. In the first phase, places of worship, dine-in restaurants and shopping malls have reopened earlier this month in several parts of India, where a hard lockdown was imposed on March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/schools-to-remain-shut-in-delhi-till-july-31-online-classes-and-remote-learning-will-continue/story-mmH8IbR2w8kQjpVoIh4hcP.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||MMR’s case positivity is high, the situation is grim, says Fadnavis||Highlighting the high Covid-19 case positivity rate in the city and its metropolitan region, former chief minister and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Friday wrote another letter to chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, cautioning him of the grim situation on hand.Fadnavis pointed out that the case positivity rate in Mumbai and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) as on June 24, was in the range of 20.46% (Palghar, Vasai-Virar) to 48.55% (Bhiwandi-Nizampur) as against the national average of 6.43% to 7.86%.Case positivity rate refers to the number of positive Covid-19 cases against the number of tests carried out.“The situation in Mumbai and MMR is getting to be extremely grim. Panvel has a case positivity rate of 45%, Bhiwandi’s is 48%, and Mira Bhayander’s 43%. In Mumbai as of June 24, 2,99,369 tests had been done and there were 69,528 [Covid-positive] patients, with a case positivity rate of 23.22%,” said Fadnavis.The Shiv Sena, however, refuted Fadnavis’s allegations as “irresponsible”. Pointing to figures released on Friday, Sena MP and party spokesperson Priyanka Chaturvedi said that the city’s case positivity rate was 17.52%, and the recovery rate across Maharashtra was 52.25%.Fadnavis also alleged that the government and Mumbai civic body had been deliberately testing less to ensure the city’s daily figures did not show an unwieldy spike in cases.“From May 12, the tests have been kept under 10,000. There was some attempt to increase the tests, but whenever there is a hike in positive cases, the number of tests is brought down,” he added.Rebutting Fadnavis’s allegations, Chaturvedi said, “Mr Fadnavis continues to be irresponsible in his comments and checking facts on ground. Maharashtra government is being applauded by the Ministry of Health for the strategy to contain Covid-19. Does he disagree with his own government at the Centre? I think this is a case of living in denial.”A senior BMC official said, “The former CM is finding conspiracy when there is none. There is no manipulation of data or control of tests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mmr-s-case-positivity-is-high-the-situation-is-grim-says-fadnavis/story-opkM9fl1WackI4jgEDwZoN.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Reader’s Take: ‘Private schools should make spends public’||Disclosing accounts should be mandatoryThere appears to be no plausible reason for schools not to withhold this piece of information from those who are spending a major chunk of their earnings on their wards’ education. It should be made mandatory for the school management to share the requisite information so that nothing remains under wraps.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhNo fee structure prescribedI don’t think putting a balance sheet online will serve any purpose because there is no fee structure prescribed by the administration for these schools, which are definitely making profits. If the administration is so concerned, it can pass an administrative order regarding payment of fee during lockdown.Prof Dr Arun BhardwajSchools not getting land for freeThe contention of the administration that since the schools are built on government land they are bound to follow its directions is unfair. The administration allots government land on concessional rates and not free as given to Central government organisations, hospitals, temples and gurdwaras etc. Secondly, uploading of the accounts amounts to breach of privacy. Why should it be open to everyone to see? School accounts must have been audited. If the administration is still not satisfied let a high power committee of learned luminaries, chartered accountants of repute, academics and judges be appointed to investigate every two years. Perhaps this may bring in the cherished transparency and accountability. Teachers, the backbone of the schools should be respected and not used as consumable articles.Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliSchools are not profit-making entitiesI am of the considered view that schools must put their balance sheets online to curb the practice of making this noble cause a profit-making business. Of course school owners have to make money to meet expenses, but this trend has put private education out of reach of most Indians. Uploading balance sheets online will help the government evaluate the fee structure and make norms more rational.HL GuptaParents need information on school expenditureWhat’s the problem with putting balance sheets in public domain? Private players are running schools as a corporate entity for business purpose to make profits. Parents who are paying fees and other hidden charges have every right to information on the income and expenditure of the school to justify the high fees. As a private school education is a full-fledged business, it is mandatory to file the balance sheet as per company law so that public interests are not exploited. Many schools have been getting grants from the government but do not maintain records and also charge a high fee from parents. Anil VinayakPrivate schools will start compromising on qualityAsking schools to make their expenditure public is not the right step as private schools are running for profit to provide quality education and better facilities. But once the administration starts checking balance sheets and day-to-day expenses of the school they will start compromising with the quality of study of the child on the one side and on the another side start reducing expenses on the grooming and safety of the children. People in the high income category, such as bureaucrats and businesspersons, send their children to private schools. If they think the fee is high then they should put their children in government schools which the bureaucrats run anyway. Yes, maybe the private schools can waive off some fees which they have not spent during the Covid-19 lockdown. Otherwise, fee should be deposited by parents. Avinash GoyalSchool passing on expenses to parentsMost schools work for profit, and some do not even follow Central Board of Secondary Education guidelines strictly. Some schools pack 45 to 50 students, putting a burden on parents. Many such schools have an annual income of about ₹8 crore to 12 crore. One finds it difficult to understand how they claims they don’t have money payment to release the salary of their teachers and non teaching staff. They want to pay back their schools’ loan by passing on the burden to parents who are suffering during the Covid-19 pandemicKK Bijoy, Chandigarh No hidden agenda, please There should not be any hidden agenda while publishing a school’s balance sheet in the public domain by private institutions as it is evident that they are making good profits. Acres of land have also been provided to the private institutions at subsidised rates by the administration since long . Sreenivasan APSchools should be asked to keep reserve fundsParents believe schools should tap their reserves to pay teachers ,while they are exempted from paying fees.Every school must by law have some reserve funds.These should be put to use judiciously to constantly upgrade and improve educational facilities,which is the school’s prime purpose. Not paying fees and draining the schools of their reserves will, in the end,impact the quality of education being provided to our children.Nina MimaniParents have a right to know about school expensesThe Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown has made it difficult for some of us parents to keep paying the high fee charged by parents. Our children are not using the school buildings, electricity,water, library and computers. Why are we being asked to pay the full fee? All we are asking is that we should pay the basic costs to run the school, but the authorities ave merged all the fee heads into tuition fee. Their plea is that they don’t have funds to pay the salaries of watchmen and gardeners. So we have every right to see the balance sheets to find out whether they have enough to pay their staff. Mamta DuvediAre local education authorities helping private schools?Many school managements are holding back teacher’s salaries on the grounds that they do not have money to pay them. However, they seem to have enough money to contest court cases, or hire lawyers. All the public limited companies submit their balance sheets to the statutory authorities and make them public, as per laid down rules. The private limited or registered companies are submitting their audited reports to the Registrar of Companies in their respective states. Private individuals, small shopkeepers, even vendors have to file their income tax returns with their profit and loss statement. So it is really ridiculous, that privately managed and aided schools, which have been built on the land allocated under concessional rates or otherwise, dealing with a large section of public and governed under the rules and regulations of local or state education board, want exemption from putting their balance sheets on their websites. The local education authorities seem to be either in favour of school managements, as their wards are admitted to prime institutes or they are too stupid t realise that the schools are taking advantage of the situation. Suresh VermaGovt should step in to help studentsThese days many people have lost their jobs and are unable to pay their children’s fees. Therefore, the government should take responsibility for all those children so that they can continue their studies. To do this, it is important for the schools to give an accurate idea of children’s school fees. So the government should make it mandatory for schools to upload their accounts on their websites.Priyam Aggarwal, Chandigarh.Uniformity in facilities and fee structureThere should be uniformity in facilities provided by the private schools to students as they charge extra fee under the heads of filtered water, air conditioners, food, language classes or co-curricular activities. The government should regulate private school fees too with a uniform structure across the countries. Similar facilities should be provided in all the private schools and the same fee structure maintained. A tuition fee ceiling and other expenses for annual day and sports day should also be fixed. Uniform salaries should also be paid to teachers. Stress should be laid on quality of education.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliPublic has every right to scan accountsThe fact that schools are business entities run with fees paid by parents who are deemed financiers, proves beyond doubt that these are funded by the public that earns every right to scan the balance sheets.Land for schools is earmarked at reduced rates by public authorities.Reluctance of school managements to put accounts in public domain gives rise to suspicions. Why should schools not favour transparency and fair play? Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaDoes every independent body upload account details?Private schools form an integral part of the society’s education system.Having been granted the right to decide their system of working, why should they be expected to upload their balance sheets? Are they not filing their income tax or is it that every independent body uploads its balance sheet on its website? Why are they not trusted for finances if they can be trusted for the creation of an impeccable future for our coming generations? I don’t think any government school or institution uploads its balance sheetsAarti SoodSchools not answerable to allBalance sheets have been uploaded for the kind perusal of the Central Board of Secondary Education, the administration and the DEO .What is disturbing is that somehow everyone has, all of a sudden,taken the responsibility of questioning the schools. Schools are not answerable to everyone.It is a humble request that people mind their own business and let the authorities concerned do the needful .Arti MalhotraGive special concessions to schoolsThe present situation is extraordinary; the lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 has disrupted life. The administration must give some special concessions to the schools as they are expected to cover the deficit both academically and financially.Usha Verma, ChandigarhStop commercialisation of education Putting information in the public domain will provide clarity on the deployment of funds . It will lead to orderly growth of education and prevent its commercialisation. One would like to see such models in all educational institutes in the country, but states need to come on board too . The move is also aimed at finding out whether schools are genuinely out of budget to pay salaries of staff as claimed by them when asked to not charge fee from parents during the lockdown. CPA had even written to the education department to ask schools for their balance sheets to see if they were are actually out of money to pay the staff as they had been pleading. Some schools that uploaded their balance sheets showed surplus money in their accounts. The Chandigarh education department should start issuing show-cause notices to the schools who are not putting their balance sheets online.Vijay Malia, Chandigarh.Fee waiver mustBalance sheets uploaded on websites will show whether schools are earning profits or are non-profits. This is an emergency and every parent is suffering due to the economic crises resulting from the lockdown. These schools must give fee waiver to parents: Take tuition fees but waive development fee, annual charges, transport fee or computer fee.Samasya Samadhaan Team, ChandigarhTransparency, honesty, expected Schools have been entrusted the task to educate, teach discipline, honesty and morality to students. How can they exempt themselves from those principles and duties? Its an open secret that many of the private schools make exorbitant profits from their fee, which is hiked every year. Many private brands are being run by influential individuals, industrialists, politicians and corporate giants. Some function more like professional business entities and academic mafia with the sole motive to earn money through unethical tactics and profiteering agenda. Parents are forced to buy books sets, uniforms and even stationery from schools or the shop selectively designated by them. How can they resist transparency and accountability when many of them has been provided land by the government at highly subsidised rates? Despite making profits they are making a hue and cry while giving salaries to teachers and staff during the Covid-9 crisis. Many have been accused of harassing parents of wards for fees despite clear directions from government in these testing times. An educational institute is said to be a temple of knowledge with primary aim to teach students and build a better society. There is nothing unethical or illegitimate in sharing account details as schools are also an integral part of the society and have to be responsible to the nation.Dr Karan Singh VinayakStrict RTE enforcement requiredThe political class is not doing its bit to enforce the Right to Education laws and ensure quality education for children of this city. The directorate of school education in Chandigarh should release a toll-free number or a helpline to register complaints against schools violating the RTE Act. These helplines should keep the callers’ identity under wraps, else their wards will become soft targets for these “education-oriented businesses”. It needs to be noted that over a 100 public schools were under scanner of the DEO for violations of the RTE Act in Chandigarh for various offences last year. A few more are likely to be joining the queue. The education department needs to wake up and take cognisance of institutions making education a ‘profit centre’ like a grocery shop.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurCancel registrationsIt should be strictly / mandatory for the all private schools to upload their balance sheets on their websites and on their school notice board too ever year. Schools that do not comply should have their registrations cancelledHarpreet Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/reader-s-take-private-schools-should-make-spends-public/story-K7LuBgXg5uKnqG0HugQggO.html
27-06-2020||Gurugram||Aravalli Retreat residents oppose derecognition of farmhouses||Residents of the Ansal Aravalli Retreat Welfare Association (AARWA), at a press conference in the city on Friday, voiced their opposition to a recent order by the district administration, derecognising farmhouses built on Aravalli land in Gururgam. Following instructions laid down by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the deputy commissioner, on June 11, had ordered that the land use category of ‘gair mumkin farmhouse’ be struck from revenue records and replaced with ‘gair mumkin pahad’ — the original nomenclature. This move, according to residents and landowners from Aravalli Retreat — a 1,200 acre complex consisting off 670 farmhouses in Raisina village — sets the precedent for demolition of their properties. Gagandeep Singh, a resident and AARRWA member, said, “Until just a week ago, our land was recognised as ‘farmhouse’, and not ‘pahad’. By reversing this decision, the administration has put us in a position where we could lose what we have built here.” ‘Gair mumkin pahad’, as a land-use category, is protected under the ministry of environment, forest and climate change’s (MoEFCC) Aravalli Notification of May 7, 1992, which prohibits any non-forest activities in the Aravallis. On June 6, 2020, the Municipal Corporation of Sohna served show-cause notices to over 400 farmhouses in Aravalli Retreat, on grounds that they had been constructed in violation of the MoEFCC’s notification. Sharad Mohan, another resident of Aravalli Retreat and a member of the AARRWA, said, “The deputy commissioner’s instructions, and the show-cause notices are misinformed. They are based on the NGT’s instructions that all structures built on gair mumkin pahad land after May 7, 1992, are illegal. However, before the MoEFCC’s Aravalli Notification could come into force, Aravalli Retreat had already ceased to be gair mumkin pahad.” Experts and environmentalists explained that the ‘gair mumkin farmhouse’ category was introduced in revenue records around 1991, and has been used, over the years, by private developers to circumvent the MoEFCC’s Aravalli Notification. “There is no such term in revenue records historically. It’s sudden emergence around 1991, just before the Aravalli Notification was to come into force, raises questions as to who allowed these changes to be introduced in the record books, and why,” said Sarvadaman Oberoi, a city-based legal activist.The validity of ‘gair mumkin farmhouse’ as a revenue term has been previously struck down by the Punjab and Haryana High Court. In a 2014 judgment, the court observed, “Concededly, the developers have got changed the kind of land from Gairmumkin Mountain (Pahad) to Gairmumkin Farmhouses. If any Patwari without any legal authority had made the stray entries... then such stray and illegal entries are non est, void and are not sufficient to hold that the land in litigation was Gairmumkin Farm houses (sic).” The court also said that these lands will continue to be recognised as ‘pahad’, and not as ‘farmhouse’. Arvinder Brara, an AARRWA member, contested that the administration’s order was in contempt of court. “This matter has also been fought in the Faridabad environment and sessions courts, in different instances. There are two orders, one from 2013 and another from 2017, which state that the Aravalli Retreat project does not violate the Aravalli Notification of 1992.” In a letter to Amit Khatri on June 24, Brara wrote, “We request you to withdraw your order... as it is in contempt of the orders of the Hon’ble Faridabad Environment and Sessions Court.”However, in October 2018, in the case of Soniya Ghosh v/s State of Haryana, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) ruled that, “Any construction raised on the forest area or the area otherwise covered by the Notification dated 07.05.1992 without permission of the competent authority (after the date of the said Notification) has to be treated as illegal and such forest land has to be restored (sic).” According to activist Sarvadaman Oberoi, “The NGT’s ruling naturally overrides that of any other lower courts, so the deputy commissioner’s instructions are not in violation. On the contrary, it obeys the instructions of the highest environmental court in India.” Representatives of Ansal Developers were not present at Friday’s press conference and did not respond to requests for comment through the day. Neither did the deputy commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/aravalli-retreat-residents-oppose-derecognition-of-farmhouses/story-6g3MU0vUTzmRBTWK6zbcqK.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||Tiger Memon’s brother, 1993 blasts convict, dies in prison||Yusuf Memon, a 1993 serial bomb blasts convict, suffered a heart attack and died in Nashik Central Jail on Friday morning. The 53-year-old was the younger brother of fugitive Ibrahim Mushtaq Abdul Razzaq Memon, alias Tiger Memon, one of the masterminds of the blasts that killed 257 people and injured more than 1,000 others when bombs went off at 12 locations across Mumbai on March 12, 1993. Yusuf, who was convicted to life imprisonment in 2007 by a TADA court, was brushing his teeth around 10.30am when he complained of chest pain to his brother, Issaq Memon, and collapsed, said Pramod Wagh, Superintendent of Nashik Central Jail. “Yusuf was rushed to Nashik civil hospital where he was died during treatment at 11am,” said Wagh, adding that Yusuf had “no known medical condition” and his body has been sent to Dhule Medical College for a post-mortem. “We have informed Altaf Shaikh, a family member of Yusuf, about his death.” Yusuf was sharing a cell with Issaq – also convicted in the 1993 blasts case – and 13 other prisoners. He was earlier lodged at Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai and later moved to Aurangabad prison. On December 12, 2018, he and Isaaq were shifted to Nashik, said Wagh. Another Memon brother, Yakub, who was arrested in the blasts case and convicted, was hanged in 2015 at Nagpur Central Jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tiger-memon-s-brother-1993-blasts-convict-dies-in-prison/story-R9iy7huc2P517qRYn3gqaO.html
27-06-2020||City||Khanna factory owner escapes bullet, robbed of ₹1.75 lakh, revolver||Two men opened fire at a factory owner and robbed him of Rs 1.75 lakh in cash and his licensed revolver in Payal near Khanna on Thursday night. The victim, Paramjit Singh, owner of Sona cattle feed factory, had a miraculous escape as the bullet hit the wall of his office.Paramjit told the police that two men arrived in a car and barged into his factory’s office on Thursday night. Holding a bag, they flashed a gun and asked him to handover all the cash in the office.When he resisted, they fired a shot that hit a wall. The duo then took Rs 1.75 lakh in cash from the office and his licensed revolver before fleeing towards Dhamot in a silver car, he said.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Khanna) Harpreet Singh said the police were scanning CCTV cameras installed in the area to identify the accused. They had formed several teams to track down the robbers, he added. A case of robbery has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khanna-factory-owner-escapes-bullet-robbed-of-1-75-lakh-revolver/story-EqK3setmsecs4Uke2ERdrO.html
27-06-2020||Delhi||House-to-house Covid-19 screening begins in Delhi||Government officials in at least five revenue districts of the Capital started house-to-house screening of people across neighbourhoods on Friday, according to a five-point Covid-19 management plan chalked out after a meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah last Sunday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe screening exercise involves checking people for signs of flu such as fever, sore throat, cough and asking them about their travel history to map the virus. The aim is to identify people with Covid-like symptoms, create a comprehensive database and then get them tested. While the health survey is scheduled to be completed by July 6, several district officials still await a clear standard operating procedure (SOP).For now, the districts that have kick-started the exercise are largely relying on protocols prepared by magistrates and chief medical officers concerned, at least until an SOP is issued, senior government officials said.Delhi has around four million households, according to the records of the government’s planning department.For the screening exercise, the district officials have roped in civil defence volunteers, accredited social health activists (Asha), auxiliary nurse midwife workers, booth level officials (BLO) and municipal staff, including domestic breeding checkers, licensing inspectors and sanitation workers—apart from the government health workers who have experience on the job. With time, primary school teachers and clerical staff from zonal offices are likely to be roped in as well, a senior government official said.On Friday, the survey was conducted in neighbourhoods such as Karol Bagh, Keshav Puram and Civil Lines, among others. HT followed several such teams throughout the day. GROUND REPORTAround 11 am, over 30 DBC (domestic breeding checkers)—who play a major role in anti-dengue and anti-malaria drives — gathered at Dev Nagar dispensary in Karol Bagh zone to check people. After a short briefing about the process by the nodal officer, workers headed towards Reghar Pura nearby to start the campaign. People surveying households in containment zones wore PPE (personal protective equipment) kits, while those in non-containment zones wore basic safety gear such as masks and gloves. .In several households, residents cooperated and provided all details. But there were many where residents were unwilling to share any details.“Not every resident is cooperative. There are people living as tenants and do not want their landlords to know about any illness in their family because they fear losing their place of residence. We have to convince that it’s a public welfare exercise and a government order and they have to follow it,” a worker engaged in the survey said.Till 3 pm, the workers had covered nearly 1,100 houses in the area. Similar surveys were carried out in Bapa Nagar, Inderpuri, Kirti Nagar and Civil Lines on Friday.All wards have been attached to nearby dispensaries for necessary guidance. The information collected at the end of the exercise will be compiled by the chief district medical officer. At the ward-level, a nodal officer has been appointed to monitor the door-to-door screening. The nodal officer has to divide the jurisdiction into sectors and appoint a survey officer in each sector.The three municipal corporations have 5,500 mosquito breeding checkers and 71,000 sanitation workers. In the days to come, they are likely to be deployed in all 272 wards. The district administration, however, is yet to finalise a comprehensive manpower plan for the survey.QUESTIONS ASKEDThe workforce conducting house-to-house survey has a definite set of questions such as name, age, address, contact numbers.The questionnaire seeks specific information about any illness or flu-like symptoms or Covid-19 symptoms, travel history, information about elderly people and children. People were asked if they had been using the Aarogya Setu mobile application.The teams red flag houses where people with serious medical conditions live.Some districts used an app called ‘SS Corona’ wherein volunteers fill in answers to multiple-choice questions asked in each household.“By using this app, an excel sheet is prepared automatically each evening, and the report is sent to the state integrated disease surveillance programme,” said another district official. The data can then be used to map out areas that are reporting more fever cases and help in further surveillance activities, the official said.SOP AWAITEDDistricts that have initiated the drive have developed their own protocols. Several district officials said they were awaiting the SOPs.“In a joint meeting of the state and the central government held on 21 June (Sunday), the union home ministry had proposed a master plan to screen and survey every household in Delhi. The Centre had assured they have a ten-day strategy in their master plan. But the state government is waiting for detailed guidelines for a week now and has received none so far. Officials across the city are yet to see a uniform SOP,” said a senior government official.The plan is to be implemented by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, who reports to the Union home ministry. Its vice-chairman is chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.SYSTEM FOLLOWED“This exercise is similar to one we had earlier done in different containment zones and other areas where Covid-19 cases had emerged. We will give this information to the nodal officer who will pass it on to the area medical officer. The area medical officer will contact the concerned health officers to test those with flu-like symptoms,” a municipal official supervising the survey said.He said the target is to cover over 2,500-3,000 houses per day in one locality. He said it was the first day of the campaign so the first-day target could not be achieved. “The teams have been given a thermal gun to check temperatures. If anyone has signs of the infection, they are asked to go to the nearest testing centre. This will help the government recognise cases of Covid-19 early on—ensuring they reach the hospital on time or are isolated so that they do not spread the infection to others,” said one of the doctors from Delhi’s East district, on condition of anonymity.An official from the New Delhi district said their teams have been screening houses even outside the containment areas for a few days and there wouldn’t be any trouble in finishing the survey by the July 6 deadline. “We have intensified the survey and increased manpower from the civic bodies. The problem is that we have been asked to screen houses within the containment zones every day. This would be impossible given the current manpower we have,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/house-to-house-covid-19-screening-begins-in-delhi/story-MBttqwhnutcYkbJx1eqMbL.html
27-06-2020||Gurugram||District administration to impose lockdown-like restrictions on 8 municipal wards in Gurugram||The district administration on Friday identified eight municipal wards in the city as large outbreak regions (LOR) due to the high incidence of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in these areas. In order to slowdown the spread of infection and break the chain of transmission, the administration has now decided to impose stricter restrictions on the movement of residents in these areas and launch an intensive public health campaign, including screening and door-to-door rapid testing, among others. The order issued by Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, also stated that socio-economic activities in these areas must not suffer because of the restrictions. The restrictions in the large outbreak regions will come into effect from 10am on June 30 and will remain in force till July 14. The areas that have been categorised as LOR include ward no 4 (Dundahera police station road, Aggarwal Sweets Gali (Sector 21), Dundaher Community Centre Street, Vishal Mega Mart street; ward no 16 (Arjun Nagar, Jyoti Park, Madan Puri), Ward no 17 (Rattan Garden, Shivpuri), ward no 20 (Shivaji Nagar, Shanti Nagar), ward no 21 (Baldev Nagar, Firoz Gandhi Nagar, Ravi Nagar), ward no 22 (Heera Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Shivaji Park), ward no 23 (Hari Nagar, Shakti Park), ward no 35 (Nathupur Abadi).Khatri said,”The decision has been taken to contain the spread of Covid-19 in those areas that have reported a high incidence of such cases. In these areas, the movement of the people will be curbed and an intense public health campaign will be carried out,” As per the directions, industrial activity will be permitted in these areas only if the workers stay inside the factory premises. Only essential shops and commercial establishments will be allowed to be opened. Supply of essential commodities shall be managed by the zonal administrator, Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board in association with drug control officer and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG). To restrict the movement of people in these areas, the police has been asked to identify exact boundaries, entry and exit points and put up barricades. If the movement of a person is unavoidable then the authorities will have to ensure Aarogya Setu application has been downloaded. Additionally, the administration has decided to launch an intense public health campaign that includes extensive spread of information, education and communication related to Covid-19 among the people of these areas. It has also proposed to fully sanitise these areas, hold intensive sampling and rapid testing, door-to-door screening and thermal scanning of all residents. If required, children below 10, pregnant women and senior citizens can be shifted to isolation facilities, the order stated.In another late night development, the district administration also issued a new order increasing the number of containment zones to 106 in the district. Gurugram will now have 99 containment zones, Pataudi four, Farukkhnagar one, and Sohna two such zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/district-administration-to-impose-lockdown-like-restrictions-on-eight-municipal-wards-in-gurugram/story-A96XuTG2ELVybKIVYlBPOM.html
27-06-2020||Gurugram||2 men, including an army man, arrested for stealing ₹1.29 lakh from ATM||The police on Thursday arrested two men, including an army man, for allegedly stealing ₹1.29 lakh after cutting open an ATM in Badshahpur on Monday. The police said the army man was under a debt of ₹30 lakh and decided to loot from an ATM to recoup a part of the losses and pay some of his debtors. He enrolled a friend and both learnt hacks on stealing from a video streaming website.On Tuesday morning, the police received information that at least two men had stolen ₹1.29 lakh from an ATM on Sohna road. Preliminary probe had found that the suspects had sprayed a chemical on the CCTV around 10pm on Monday and used an electronic cutter to steal cash from the ATM.The police said the suspects, identified as Praveen, 29, and Rahul, 24, both the natives of Hodal, Palwal, were arrested from Hodal on Thursday. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said, “Praveen, an army man, was posted as a sepoy in Jammu and had returned to his residence in Hodal in March for a break. After the lockdown was imposed, he could not return to Jammu and had been staying at his house. A police official, privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “Praveen had a debt of ₹30 lakh. He had borrowed money from several people for personal reasons and had lost several lakhs through investments in the share market. So, he planned to recoup his losses by stealing money from an ATM. He roped in his friend, Rahul, who earlier used to work at a factory and knew how to use an electronic cutter.”The police said the suspects had learnt how to steal money from ATMs by watching videos on YouTube. “During questioning, they confessed that they had seen videos on how to use a cutter to cut open an ATM and some hacks on thefts. They chose an ATM, which was unmanned, and outside the ATM, a JCB had been operational for some construction activity. The suspects said that the JCB would filter any noise during the break-in,” said the police official quoted above. The police said the suspects had parked their motorcycle 700 metres from the ATM, which the police were able to trace by going through the footage of 25 CCTVs in the area. The suspects were produced in a district court on Friday and sent to police custody for two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/2-men-including-an-army-man-arrested-for-stealing-1-29-lakh-from-atm/story-uurJkYcu2XFVSOKMSRpDZM.html
27-06-2020||City||Containment zones in city to witness stricter measures||Gurugram: The authorities said Friday that strict measures in containment zones and hotspots in the city to slowdown the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease are expected to be taken soon. According to the district administration, the state was moving towards unlocking public movement and there was no reason to implement a citywide lockdown; it is instead planning to enforce stricter measures in areas where the number of Covid cases were high.The health authorities in the city have identified several wards which have witnessed a high number of Covid-19 cases. It now plans to check the spread of the disease in these areas.Downplaying the idea of re-imposing the lockdown, which was proposed by Gurugram MLA Sudhir Singhla, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said: “The country is moving towards unlocking and in such a scenario there is no reason to implement the lockdown again. We have no plans in this regard.” Khatri made the announcement in an address to the media Friday afternoon along with Gurugram municipal commissioner (GMC) Vinay Pratap Singh and deputy commissioner of police Nitika Gahlaut, at John Hall in Civil Lines.To check the spread of the pandemic, the administration is now planning to deploy additional police force at the exit and entry points of containment zones so that movement of people is restricted. “Inside these zones, the unfettered movement of people would be checked and it would be ensured that people wear masks and follow social distancing rules,” said Khatri. There are also plans to install CCTV cameras in these areas to keep a watch. Apart from enforcing social distancing along with other safeguards, Khatri said that there was a need to ensure intensive screening of the residents of these areas, which would be done by the health department.“We will focus on intensive health screening, rapid testing and contact tracing in these areas so that the spread of this virus is checked. House-to-house surveys will be conducted and focus would also be on making people aware about what needs to be done to stay safe,” he said.To boost the immunity of residents in containment zones, the administration will also get immunity booster medicine kits distributed through the Ayush department, which has already given out around 1.80 lakh kits in the city.TRACKING THOSE IN HOME ISOLATION The city police, meanwhile, said all measures are being taken to ensure containment zones are monitored and regulated. According to Gahlaut, as many as 2,000 police personnel are engaged in managing the response to Covid-19. “These police personnel have been deployed near containment zones and hospitals and around inter-state check posts. We identify containment zones, prepare a sealing plan and enforce it in tandem with the district administration” Gahlaut said.She further said the police have also constituted a dedicated Covid-19 cell at its district headquarters to enforce strict adherence to home isolation norms by residents. “So far, the cell has reached out to 1,617 persons under home quarantine. We are also engaged in geo-fencing using mobile phones and the Aarogya Setu application. Police officials have advised those in home isolation to keep their phones running at all times, and also requested them to download the Aarogya Setu app,” she said. The DCP further said that at least 67 policemen have been infected so far and most of them have recovered. Currently, only eight personnel are infected. She informed that a dedicated quarantine centre has been set up in Manesar by the district administration for police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/containment-zones-in-city-to-witness-stricter-measures/story-4VQPIDxnUeaR66C3JINgKN.html
27-06-2020||Gurugram||Haryana fixes package rates of Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals||The state health department, on Friday, issued an order capping the daily package rates for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals between ₹8000- ₹18,000. This move reduces the treatment rates by up to 64% after high costs of treating critical Covid-19 patients were heavily criticised in the public domain. The new package rates for Covid-19 treatment includes all laboratory investigation, radiological investigation and diagnostic procedures. Additionally, drugs, consumables, including Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), and masks are also covered. It also incorporates monitoring charges, such as doctor’s consultation, nursing care, physiotherapy, etc. Charges of procedures, such as intubation, intra-arterial catheterization, chest tube, cardio-diversion, hemodialysis, echocardiography, among others, are covered by it. The rates are also inclusive of the cost of medical care of underlying co-morbid conditions. The same rates are applicable for children who are infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus. The order, however, gives no clarity on whether the rates charged by private hospitals are inclusive of the charges of the facilities provided in the high-end rooms, such as deluxe and super deluxe categories of rooms. The treatment costs also do not include costs of experimental therapies, such Ramdesivir. Pregnant women having either normal or C-section delivery have also been left out of the package. Neo-natal care has also been excluded. In such cases, hospitals can charge extra as per the prevailing Ayushman Bharat packages.As per the order, the per day rates in hospitals accredited by the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare providers (NABH) are ₹10,000 for isolation beds, ₹15,000 for Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds without ventilator, and ₹18,000 for ICU beds with ventilator. Likewise, the rates in non-NABH accredited hospitals will be ₹8,000, ₹13,000 and ₹15,000 respectively. Some of the major hospitals of the city are currently charging over ₹20,000 for general beds, ₹40,000 for ICU beds, and ₹50,000-80,000 for ICU beds with ventilators. There are at least 40 hospitals, including two government hospitals, in the city treating Covid-19 patients. “The disparity in charges across various private hospitals is hampering access for inpatient hospital care. Therefore, the rates of various facilities in private hospitals or medical colleges need to be standardized for Covid-19 patient (sic),” read the order issued by the director-general of health services. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, said, “Covid-19 treatment cost is being standardised for the benefit of patients who require hospitalisation. In fixing the package rate for the state, we are going with the recommendations of Dr VK Paul committee. It will be uniformity with other parts of Delhi-NCR.”Notably, in Union minister of home affairs, in a meeting with officials of Delhi-NCR earlier this week, gave the mandate to consider Delhi-NCR as one unit for Covid-19 management. Earlier this week, the Delhi government too had capped the treatment costs, following the recommendations of the Dr V K Paul committee. Almost similar price packages are being followed in other states of India, such as Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Telangana.The Haryana government, exercising the power under the Epidemic Diseases Act, also said that no hospital or medical college in the state would charge an amount in excess of the prescribed limit. Reacting to the new rates, Dr Naresh Trehan, founder and CEO of Medanta Medicity, said, “Our priority is to protect the patient. It is certainly a problem that the treatment cost has dropped. We are incurring huge losses. But people need to be saved.” When asked about the charges of deluxe rooms, he said, “There is no clarity on the issue.” As per the government order, the new rates would be applicable to all Covid-19 beds in private hospitals, up to a maximum capacity of 60% of the total beds. According to a senior government official, privy to the matter, only 60% of the beds can be reserved in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients. “We have reserved 25% beds so far, which can now be exceed up to 35% only,” said the official. The state government in the last two months has issued a series of orders on fixing the package rates of Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals. As per earlier orders, state government employees, pensioners and their dependents can avail Covid-19 treatment as per the government’s reimbursement policies. Arora said, “Any patient who has public or private health insurance will avail the treatment as per the policy clauses, while the beneficiaries of Ayushman Bharat scheme would be covered under it.”As per the rates under the Ayushman Bharat scheme, the per day cost of beds is between ₹2,000 and ₹5,000.If a patient does not fit in any of the above-mentioned categories, then the hospitals will charge as per the new fixed rates. The state government would reimburse the expenditure as per Ayushman Bharat scheme. The balance amount will have to paid by the patient. Out of the final medical bill, the details of the portion covered under the Ayushman Bharat scheme will have to be submitted to the civil surgeon. The bills submitted by the private hospitals will be reimbursed to them only after the verification by a committee chaired by civil surgeon (chief medical officer) and district nodal officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-fixes-package-rates-of-covid-19-treatment-in-private-hospitals/story-QDf0Llf5jEj5hEOQzqJ6GO.html
27-06-2020||City||As CBSE reworks method of evaluation, students from northeast Delhi unsure of options||New Delhi: While the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) notification on the revised assessment scheme in place of board exams brought closure for many parents and students on Friday, candidates from northeast Delhi, which was rocked by communal riots earlier this year, are still uncertain about their future.The board on Friday said there are “very few students of class 12, mainly from Delhi, who have appeared in the examination in only one or two subjects. Their results will be declared based on performance in the appeared subjects and performance in internal/practical/project assessment.”Mohammad Arsh, a class 12 student of Victoria Public School in Yamuna Vihar, said the revised assessment scheme is likely to be a disadvantage for him. “My English paper, which was pending, will be graded on the basis of the Physics, Chemistry, Biology, and Physical Education papers that I appeared for. These are difficult subjects compared to English where scoring is easier. Most students who perform well in English tend to have a higher best-of-four score. In case I try for the Delhi University, my low aggregate might prove to be a hindrance.” He also said that many of his friends were unable to appear for multiple papers and run the risk of getting sub-par scores, unlike the rest of the students.Due to the communal violence, which had spread in various northeast Delhi localities in late February, the CBSE was unable to conduct tests on four examination days and “a very small number of students from and around this district were not able to appear in exams on six examination days,” the board had said in April.On Friday, it said that class 10 students across the country, including northeast Delhi, would be promoted on the basis of the revised assessment scheme, under which their pending papers would be graded on the basis of the average of their three or two best scores in the papers they had already appeared for.Gulsara Kamal, a class 10 student of St Lawrence Public School in Dilshad Garden, said, “My English and Hindi papers were pending, which generally help students fetch more marks in board exams and improve our aggregate. Now, these exams have been cancelled. I was hoping to switch schools after my results as my current school doesn’t have the subjects I want to study. If the revised assessment scheme affects my aggregate, I might not be able to do that.”The results of all students will be declared by July 15, based on the revised assessment scheme, the board said.While class 10 students will not get a chance to appear for improvement papers, the Board has allowed class 12 students to appear for optional exams, which may be conducted at a later stage when the situation is “conducive”, so as to improve upon their performance. Jyoti Rani, principal of Arun Modern Public School which was damaged in the riots, said, “Students have approached teachers for clarifications and what the CBSE revised assessment would mean for them. A lot of students were unable to appear for exams as they could not travel to exam centres or had gone back to their home towns. They are now concerned if this will affect their undergraduate admissions.“Most of the documents in our school were damaged in the fire,” Rani further said, adding, “Though we had sent the marks for internal assessment, we don’t have the projects with us anymore. We are a little concerned about what we would do if the board asked for the projects.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-cbse-reworks-method-of-evaluation-students-from-northeast-delhi-unsure-of-options/story-EB3Vc8HLguDyZ4BdrkSJwI.html
27-06-2020||Delhi||Plasma therapy has helped reduce Covid-19 death rate by more than 50% at LNJP Hospital: Delhi CM Kejriwal||Plasma therapy, which involves the transfer of blood from a recovered Covid-19 patient to someone who is stricken by the disease, has helped reduce the Covid-19 death rate by more than half at Lok Nayak Hospital, the only local government hospital authorised to conduct trials based on the therapy, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday. He also said the Delhi government was focussing increasing intensive care unit (ICU) beds in the city as soon as possible as the number of coronavirus disease cases increases.When asked, Lok Nayak hospital said they were not authorised to share the number of deaths in the hospital, and the chief minister’s office said they were still compiling the data.“We administered plasma therapy to 29 patients in Lok Nayak Hospital and the results were shared with the Central government, following which we got permission for 200 more trials,” Kejriwal said at a virtual media briefing after a meeting of his Cabinet. “And now, plasma therapy will be done in the Delhi government’s Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital too. Other than that, several private hospitals have acquired permission for plasma therapy trials on their own.” The cabinet meeting approved a move to earmark 450 beds for patients of the disease at a new hospital in Burari, which will be turned into a Covid-19 facility.Eight hospitals in Delhi are conducting plasma therapy trials. They include Lok Nayak as well as the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital, which come under the Central government, and five prominent private hospitals. The results of the trials, said senior officials in Delhi’s health department, will be made public only after they are published in a peer-reviewed medical journal.Kejriwal said the Covid-19 fatality rate in LN Hospital dropped by more than 50% n the past few weeks because of plasma therapy. “The trends suggest it is difficult to save the lives of patients who are on ventilator support or have already witnessed multiple organ failures. But for other patients with moderate to severe symptoms, plasma therapy helped save lives,” he said. He attributed a spike in Covid-19 cases in the city over the past week to increased testing. “Till now, we have around 74,000 Covid-19 cases in Delhi. But if we analyse the trend, the situation is under control…Tests have been increased to around 18,000 per day, from 5,000 to 6,000 per day. With that, the average cases per day have increased from 2,000 to 2,500 to around 3,000 to 3,500. This increase is natural.”He added: “But people are recovering at a fast rate too. There are around 26,000 active patients now, of which around 6,000 are in hospitals. The others are recovering at their residences. In the last one week, total bed occupancy has remained around 6,000 on an average, despite around 3,000 to 3,500 patients adding up every day. Which means most cases are patients with mild or no symptoms. However, we have around 13,500 beds ready in hospitals, of which around 7,500 are vacant on an average.“In the coming days, we may need to scale up ICU beds, especially in GTB, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital and Lok Nayak hospital. We are doing our best to accomplish this at the earliest.”Kejriwal identified his government’s decision to distribute pulse oximeters to patients in home isolation as a measure that has helped reduce Covid-19-related deaths.“In Covid-19 cases, we have seen oxygen levels can suddenly drop even in cases of patients with mild symptoms. So, we stared delivering oximeters to all cases of home isolation so that patients can keep assessing their oxygen levels periodically, and call a helpline number the moment they see the saturation level drop to 94% or less.”“Plasma therapy uses the antibodies produced in one person who has recovered from the infection to fight off the virus in another. It is a passive kind of immunisation, where the antibodies of another person help neutralise some of the virus in the body thereby preventing the progression of the disease. This means the therapy has to be administered in patients who are moderate but progressing towards a severe disease. Current evidence from across the world shows that there is some recovery benefits of the therapy, especially those on ventilators” said Dr Neeraj Gupta, a professor from the department of respiratory medicine at Safdarjung hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/plasma-therapy-has-helped-reduce-covid-19-death-rate-by-more-than-50-at-lnjp-hospital-delhi-cm-kejriwal/story-whQLicBuY1ouArHZKd0UhN.html
27-06-2020||Delhi||1000-bed DRDO facility near Delhi airport to be operational by next month||Wooden slabs were being laid out and the ground was being levelled with multiple machines set in motion at a large open field. The white makeshift tents, the roofs and the pillars being placed could be spotted right from the road near Mehram Nagar village in southwest Delhi, which goes up to the Delhi Airport’s domestic terminal.Construction work is on in full swing at the site to turn the place into a full-fledged temporary air-conditioned 1,000-bedded Covid facility to meet the need for more beds to house Covid-19 patients in view of the rapid surge in cases. Till Friday, Delhi had recorded 77,240 cases of the disease.The facility is being readied by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), which is under the Ministry of Defence. It has been roped in by the Union Home Ministry for the construction. The Directorate of Civil Works and Estates (DCW&E), a wing of the DRDO, is handling the construction. Officials said the hospital is likely to come up by early next month.According to officials at the site, the facility is coming up on around 25,000 square metres of land belonging to the Indian Air Force. Besides, patients and doctors’ blocks, a testing lab and a pharmacy will come up. A mortuary is also being planned.“The structure is coming up fast to meet the need for extra beds for Covid-19 patients. All services will be available within the premises, from testing of samples to accommodation for staff. There will be a patient block with four hut-shaped sections housing 250 beds each. In each of the huts, there will be around 120 cabins such that two patients can stay per cabin,” Gagan Wadhwa, chief construction engineer (CCE), DRDO said.Of the four sections to house patients, one will be dedicated for ICU beds with oxygen support. The complete facility will be fully air-conditioned.“The facility is being designed as per World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines for hospital care. Every bed will have oxygen support so that patients do not need to be shifted in case of a sudden drop in oxygen levels. Each section will have a set of toilets and bathrooms,” he said.Authorities said they are working on logistics of shifting patients to the centre, and which hospital will be attached to the facility. Patients will be given charging points for mobile phones/laptops and storage units by their beds to keep their belongings. Alongside the patients’ block, will be the doctors’ area where patients will be assessed, plus another area to house the medical staff.“Two doctors will be on duty for assessment. A separate block with cabins and an attached set of toilets is being built to provide on-site accommodation to around 50 doctors and paramedic staff. A cafeteria will be set up for medical staff,” said another senior official on site, who did not wish to be named. Authorities said they were working out provisions for food and other such services.The doctors’ block will have a donning and doffing area for personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. There will be a three-metre corridor for the movement of medical and support staff in order to maintain physical distancing.The DRDO has tied up with BSES for power supply and back-up while Delhi Jal Board will be provide water supply. “A separate waste disposal and sewage management system is being developed. We were able to get water and power connections in such a short time because of the support of the union home ministry,” Wadhwa said.On Tuesday, union home minister Amit Shah had tweeted: “I would also like to inform the people of Delhi that a 1,000 bed full-fledged hospital with 250 ICU beds is being developed for Covid patients. DRDO and Tata Trust are building the facility. Armed forces personnel will man it. This Covid Care centre will be ready in next 10 days.”The Covid facility is being built to augment hospital infrastructure in the national capital. The Centre is collaborating with the Delhi government to set up adequate number of beds to cater to patients after a spike in Covid-19 cases.This will be the second such facility to be manned by armed personnel after the 10,000-bedded one at Chhattarpur Radha Soami Satsang Beas, where a large part of the facility is set to be operational from Friday and will be manned by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1000-bed-drdo-facility-near-delhi-airport-to-be-operational-by-next-month/story-fEILsKiwRrEA8Ed2HMUO1K.html
27-06-2020||City||Religious leader dies of Covid in Ludhiana||Swami Jyoti Maa Mahadev, 69, head of the Jai Maa Mission of the Usha Mata Ji Trust, Bassi Pathana, died of Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Friday. He was rushed to SPS Hospital on June 19 in a critical condition. Besides diabetes and hypertension, he was also suffering from kidney and heart disease.He had tested positive on Thursday.Hospital medical superintendent Dr Rajiv Kundra said the patient was on ventilator support but his health kept deteriorating and he could not survive.Spokesperson of the trust said Swami Mahadev had travelled to Haridwar recently, following which he started feeling sick and was taken to SPS Hospital for check-up. Chandigarh girls test positive after deathA 17-year-old girl from Chandigarh, who had died at CMCH on June 23, was also found positive for Covid-19 on Friday.She was rushed to another hospital with breathing difficulty on June 21. Her tests there were inconclusive.In the meantime, her condition deteriorated, following which she was shifted to CMCH, but was declared brought dead. Her sample was collected again, and returned positive report on Friday.As many as 17 patients from other districts and states have succumbed to the virus in various city hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/religious-leader-dies-of-covid-in-ludhiana/story-Mioh6rpHJb5PNjauw2YKoI.html
27-06-2020||City||BLOs roped in for door-to-door survey worried about safety, want adequate safety gear||New Delhi: Deployed as front line workers in the fight against Covid-19, booth level officers (BLOs), who have now been roped in for the door-to-door screening that began on Friday, say they are ready for the job but need adequate protective gear to keep themselves from getting infected. BLOs are grassroots-level workers -- mostly drawn from government school teachers and aanganwadi workers -- engaged in voter identification and other election-related exercises . Delhi has more than 13,000 BLOs. So far, only BLOs living in containment zones were assigned the task of contact tracing work along with Accredited Social Health Workers (ASHA) workers and Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANMs). Now with the door-to-door survey starting-- as per the Union home ministry’s recommendations -- all BLOs have been roped for in the mammoth city-wide exercise that has to be completed by July 6. The BLOs say they have to visit at least 300-350 houses during this time and there are chances they may get infecting and put their families at risk. These BLOs are paid Rs 1000 per month throughout the year for poll duties. During elections. they do get some extra benefits but so far no other compensation has been announced for Covid workSarita Singh (33), a BLO who teaches at a government school in east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar said, “We have been visiting houses and making calls to people in containment zones. In the name of protective gear, all we have is a mask and sanitiser. I fear carrying the infection home. At least, we should get face shields.” A day before, Singh said, a BLO on duty in a nearby area died of Covid-19. There is a lot of anxiety among workers. Santosh Kumar, a BLO and a Sanskrit teacher in Mandawali who was on duty in a containment zone and had just turned 60 on June 21, died of Covid-19 on June 24. “My father was due to retire on June 30. He was a heart patient and applied for leave. But he was put on duty. They were not given any protective gear except for a mask. He developed Covid symptoms on June 9. A private doctor said it was viral fever and gave some medicines. On June 15, he had breathing difficulty and we rushed him to the clinic where we told his oxygen levels had dropped and he needs to be shifted to a hospital. Aday after, his report came positive and he died on Wednesday,” Mukesh Kumar, his son, said. Earlier this month, two government teachers and a principal working on ration distribution work and at hunger relief centres died of Covid-19. Last month, a municipal corporation teacher and a security guard on Covid duty died. District officials, however, said all ground workers who make home visits, including ASHA, ANMs and BLOs, get masks, gloves, shoe covers and face shields. So far, these have been given one time.Sumit Kumar, a lab assistant, said he will cover at least 1,200 people in his area, which will mean at least 400 houses. “We have been working all this time without any safety. We have been asked to collect material such as notes and thermal screening guns from the office. I hope they give us some safety gear as well,” said Kumar. A senior Delhi government official said, “For all the workers, protective gear has been procured and is being distributed. In some areas, it will start tomorrow as the survey is yet to take off in some places.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/blos-roped-in-for-door-to-door-survey-worried-about-safety-want-adequate-safety-gear/story-aaYSSh3o6VEinb2EQ0Vl8H.html
27-06-2020||Gurugram||MCG to collect biomedical waste on two days per week from each ward||In order to reduce the risk of transmission of Covid-19 and cope with logistical difficulties, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram(MCG) has decided to restrict the collection of biomedical waste from each of its 35 wards to two fixed days in a week, said officials of the civic body on Friday. The decision comes after several residents, especially those who are under home isolation, complained that collection of biomedical waste in the city was not taking place properly. As per MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, there are more than 1,500 people who are currently under home isolation in the city. The civic body has hence streamlined the process of collecting biomedical waste in such a manner that risks of exposure to the virus can be reduced to a bare minimum. Further, people under home isolation only need to step outside their houses for two days in a week to dump waste. The civic body has further divided the city into four zones and has allocated an area supervisor for each of these zones. As per MCG’s schedule, the civic body will collect waste from wards 1-4, 10-13, 25, 26, 30 and 31 on Monday and Thursday. Wards 5-8, 14-16, 20, 27, 28, 32 and 33 will be catered to on Tuesday and Friday. Finally, waste from wards 9, 17-19, 21-24, 29, 34 and 35 will be collected on Wednesday and Saturday. MCG has also created a toll-free helpline number —18001805952 — for residents to lodge any complaint in regarding the collection of biomedical waste. “Our staff involved in both collection and transportation of biomedical waste visit thousands of households across the city every day. This measure has been taken so that our staff members do not turn into mass carriers of the virus,” said Vinay Pratap Singh.“From now on, any person from the family under quarantine can dump their garbage into the MCG vehicles after ensuring they are wearing masks and gloves and are maintaining social distance. In condominiums, a staff member from the RWA can also be allocated for doing the same,” he said.Singh also highlighted logistic issues as another factor for streamlining the waste collection process.“Each of our staff members covers multiple condominiums, societies, gated colonies, and independent floors, across the city every day. Hence, it will also be virtually impossible for them to visit every quarantined household individually and collect waste. As such, it was necessary to streamline the process of waste collection,” said Singh. Singh also mentioned that the MCG has fined around 800 people for not wearing masks and collected fines in excess of ₹4 lakh for it. He further said that 18 residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) have already established isolation centres in their respective condominiums, societies and gated colonies. Both MCG and the administration are assisting more such RWAs for setting up isolation centres within their housing complexes.Singh also said that there are currently no plans for opening any religious institutions in the city and that in order to provide employment to voluntary groups located in urban and rural areas of Gurugram district, the MCG has assigned to them the task of making masks. An amount of ₹4 or ₹5 is being given for every mask they produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-collect-biomedical-waste-on-two-days-per-week-from-each-ward/story-nORstHMvEMb2NRTtC1dDgO.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||Courts can’t provide permanent protection against cyber fraud: Bombay HC to HUL||The Bombay high court (HC) expressed its inability to provide permanent protection to business houses from fraudulent websites that use deceptive domain names, similar to those used by a brand, to cheat citizens.The court was hearing a plea filed by Hindustan Unilever Limited (HUL), seeking orders for suspending and blocking several websites and e-mail addresses launched using its generic name or its deceptively similar variants, after it noticed that those were fraudulently being used for luring unsuspecting public into parting with significant amounts of money on a completely false promise of being made authorised dealers of HUL products. One such site had defrauded some individuals of over ₹70 lakh.“Eternal vigilance is not just the price of liberty; it is also the cost of doing large-volume business,”a single-bench of Justice Gautam Patel held. Justice Patel in his 16-page order also explained how ‘trivial’ it was to get a domain name registered, and how difficult it is to ensure continued suspension of a domain name.“One only has to look up availability of a combination of words and choose a desired top-level or other domain (.in, .com, .net, etc),” said the judge, adding, “The entire process of registration is automated and requires no manual intervention.”Justice Patel held that it was not possible for a continued suspension of such domain names because the registration is only for a limited period, and the domain name becomes available for fresh registration once the period is over.The court also pointed out that blocking access to websites was of seriously doubtful efficacy. Justice Patel said any such ‘block’ can be easily circumvented by using a commonly available Virtual Private Network (VPN) to connect to another network, by-passing region restrictions, shielding browsing activity and so on.He added that though access to such bypassing technology is still not common, and the average user may not know about it or even how to use it, VPN products are available for mobile phone platforms as well now.“Therefore, other than lulling an applicant into a completely hollow and faux sense of safety (and conceivably giving some ill-informed government functionary an entirely unwarranted sense of power or authority), blocking access achieves next to nothing,” noted the bench.Justice Patel instead suggested that HUL should take up the matter with the domain name registrars concerned for suspending the infringing domain name, and move HC with a fresh plea, if the matter is not resolved at that level.HC said there was no doubt that the registration of these domain names was entirely mala fide and constituted an infringement of HUL’s valuable statutory and common law rights. The court, however, rejected the consumer giant’s another plea urging the court to devise a suitable mechanism and pass appropriate orders to effectively deal with further fraudulent domain names, websites, e-mail addresses which may be encountered by the company.“I do not think it is for any court to come up with mechanisms to protect the plaintiff’s interest at low or no cost,” said justice Patel rejecting the company’s plea for perpetual protection by ordering blocking of such offending websites and e-mail addresses that might noticed later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/courts-can-t-provide-permanent-protection-against-cyber-fraud-bombay-hc-to-hul/story-XunvChUBgzmVqQWtjIhWyI.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Open manholes, potholed roads in Ludhiana pose threat to residents during rainy season||While the civic body is making tall claims regarding monsoon preparedness, broken manhole covers and potholed roads in different parts of the city are giving an open invitation to road accidents during the rainy season.Potholes can be witnessed on both main and internal roads in Dugri, Model Town Extension, Shastri Nagar, Giaspura among other areas. Apart from potholes, gravel spread on roads is also a major threat to two-wheelers riders as vehicles skid over the gravel.A shopkeeper in Preet Nagar of Shimlapuri, Gurjit Singh, said, “The condition of manhole covers is pathetic in their area even though deputy mayor Sarabjit Kaur represents the ward in the General House of the MC. At a coverless manhole, residents have placed bricks around it to avoid accidents. However, accidents can take place at such places when roads are flooded during rainy season.”A resident of Dugri, Baljeet Singh, said, “Roads in their area have been in a bad shape for a long time. During the rainy season, it becomes difficult for people to judge a pothole on the road due to accumulated water. Accidents have also taken place in the past, but no one is paying heed to the problem.”Difference in the level of roads and manhole covers is also a major issue, as a sudden bump makes it difficult for a commuter to balance the two-wheeler.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillor, representing ward number 2, Gurmail Singh Jajji, said, “Manhole covers in Khajoor colony, 30 Feet Road and main Bahadurke Road are in a bad shape. After the construction of roads in the area, there is a difference between the level of roads and manholes, which gives a bumpy ride to the commuters. Also, it is difficult to judge the manholes due to water accumulation.”Despite attempts made to reach MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, he was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/open-manholes-potholed-roads-in-ludhiana-pose-threat-to-residents-during-rainy-season/story-MUNbq65EXMzIbYzeLzIzGI.html
27-06-2020||Gurugram||Brick kiln owner shot dead over personal enmity in Sohna||A 42-year-old brick kiln owner was allegedly shot dead by two armed men in Sohna on Friday morning. The police said he suffered eight gunshot wounds and died on the spot. Personal enmity is suspected to be the alleged reason, the police said, adding that a case of murder has been lodged.The police said that the deceased has been identified as Virendra Ram, a resident of Chungi number 1 in Sohna, who had a brick kiln business in Palwal.According to the police, the incident took place at 10.40am when Virendra Ram was sitting on a chair outside his house. According to the police, a white Alto car, in which at least three men were seated, stopped outside his house, and two men alighted from the car.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “Both the suspects were armed and they started firing indiscriminately at the victim before escaping in the car. He suffered at least eight gunshot wounds on his body and was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Sohna, where doctors declared him dead on arrival.”Prima facie, the police said the man was killed over “personal enmity”, adding that they were interviewing the members of his family to ascertain the exact reason.The victim’s brother, Narendra, said, “I was sitting in an office space, which we have opened in our house, when the incident took place. I heard gunshots and immediately rushed out of the room. I saw two men escape in a car but could not note down the registration number. My brother did not mention of a specific threat or rivalry with anyone. We don’t know who could have done this.”A case has been registered against the unidentified suspects under sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at City Sohna police station on Friday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/brick-kiln-owner-shot-dead-over-personal-enmity-in-sohna/story-5vNWStNeLMwpnKyE5UCdaN.html
27-06-2020||Mumbai||Inflated bills: MSEDCL’s special cells to look into complaints||With an increasing number of complaints from consumers over receiving inflated power bills, the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has formed grievance redressal cells at all its branches to address queries related to bills. MSEDCL will also organise webinars related to bills.These cells will comprise officials from the technical, finance, accounting and IT departments. Apart from this, the power distribution company will also arrange meetings in societies to address queries. The state distribution agency supplies power to 2.30 crore consumers in Maharashtra.“We will try to address all the doubts raised by consumers. We will also adhere to social distancing norms while addressing the meetings,” a senior official from MSEDCL said.Consumers have taken over social media to complain about inflated bills received in the last week.Owing to the lockdown and as per the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) guidelines, meter-reading was suspended in March-end and consumers were billed as per average usage in the months of December, January and February. MSEDCL and other distribution companies, however, started actual meter reading in June (except in containment zones) and have released combined bills to consumers. The companies have maintained that there are no errors and the bills reflect actual usage.Tata Power, which has seven lakh consumers in Mumbai and Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML), which has 27 lakh consumers in the city, has also stated that usage has increased owing to consumers being home 24*7 during the lockdown.In a statement released recently, Tata Power said, “For the period of 91 days for which the bills are being sent out, the family remained inside the home for all 24 hours. Tata Power would like the consumers to look for such lifestyle changes while reflecting over the last three months of lockdown and compare it with pre-lockdown lifestyle or last year same months.”An AEML spokesperson said, “Bills were generated on the lower side being an average of preceding three months - Dec, Jan and Feb, which are winter months. Actual consumption in the months of Apr, May and June is comparatively higher due to seasonal impact (summer) and increased usage (the advent of lockdown/ work from home).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/inflated-bills-msedcl-s-special-cells-to-look-into-complaints/story-9dZz1MwikutFLHvH3RTHbN.html
27-06-2020||City||Sero survey from Saturday||New DelhiDelhi government health teams will start collecting blood samples across Delhi from Saturday to detect the presence of virus-fighting antibodies in the population to know the spread of Covid-19. Phlebotomists – or lab technicians – from government-run dispensaries and mohalla clinics will collect 20,000 samples from across 11 districts in Delhi by July 10.“People will not have to come to testing centres for the antibody sample collection. It is a simple blood draw that can be done at their homes with minimal risk of the infection spreading. The samples will be sent to NCDC for processing,” said a district official. The district teams had been trained by experts from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the processes to be followed were discussed Friday evening. However, no formal SOPs or guidelines were received.“Yes, we are all set to roll out the survey tomorrow, all the protocols are in place,” said an NCDC official on condition of anonymity.Every district will have to collect about 2,000 samples that is statistically representative of the population of Delhi. “The samples have to be collected from within and outside the containment zones. It has to be collected from rich and poor neighbourhoods. A method of random sampling has been decided upon by NCDC and we have to just follow the methodology to collect the samples,” said another district official.Officials say that the biggest hurdle for the sero-surveillance will be manpower.“We already have our health teams conducting the door-to-door screening, antigen testing, contact tracing, and checking people’s home for suitability of home isolation. All activities need some level of medical understanding and our staff is already stretched thin. For sero-surveillance too we will need trained technicians who can draw blood,” said a third district official, on condition of anonymity.Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, in a late evening meeting on Thursday, reviewed the implementation of various decisions pertaining to Covid-19 situation in Delhi which were taken in a meeting by home minister Amit Shah on June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sero-survey-from-saturday/story-kV9ZbLBgvut8qn9o40emKL.html
27-06-2020||City||District court shut after one employee tests Covid-19 positive||GREATER NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar district court was closed for two days after an employee posted in the court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday morning. “Today morning one employee posted in the court of CJM tested positive for Covid-19. CJM informed the District and Sessions Judge who then issued an order for closure of the court complex from afternoon and informed the district magistrate and chief medical officer,” said Sanjiv Verma, president, District Court Bar Association. Aditya Bhati, an advocate, said, “The court administration has been directed to do sanitization of the premises on Saturday and Sunday which are off days. The District Judge has also directed the administration for sanitization of advocates’ chambers.” GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said the situation will be assessed after 48 hours.“As per protocol, the district courts will remain closed for 48 hours during which sanitization of court premises will be done,” Suhas said.“On Monday we will assess the situation. If more cases are detected, closure may be extended,” said the DM.Meanwhile, on Friday, the district homeopathy department distributed immunity booster medicines to advocates and their family members. “Today, we distributed 5,000 packets of homeopathy immunity booster Arsenicum album 30 to advocates and their family members. Ten days ago, we had distributed 3,000 packets to undertrials at the district jail,” said Dr Lalit Mohan Johri, district homeopathy officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/district-court-shut-after-one-employee-tests-covid-19-positive/story-GXugpgi57FiWPMDD7tNfUO.html
27-06-2020||City||College teachers to be quizzed before they get participation certificates for attending webinars||The regional higher education officer (RHEO) of Meerut and Saharanpur division on Friday directed government colleges in the region to issue participation certificates to teachers for attending webinars only after they get at least 50% answers coorect in a follow-up questionnaire. As online education slowly becomes the norm amid the coronavirus pandemic, several colleges in the region are also organising webinars on different themes for teachers who would earlier attend seminars and get participation certificates. These certificates are factored into their annual assessments. “ Earlier as per University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines, teachers were attending various seminars and now webinars have replaced seminars. Teachers get benefited from such webinars as eminent educationists from various universities and departments deliver lectures and present research papers as well,” Dr RK Gupta, RHEO, said. To ensure participants took the webinars seriously, the RHEO has directed the colleges to questionnaires for the teachers. “I have directed webinar organisers to prepare questionnaires based using Google Forms on topics delivered by the speakers. The organizers should get this questionnaire filled from each participant. This will give us the exact picture on how much attention were the participants paying. If participants answer more than 50% of questions correctly, only then should they be given the participation certificates. ,” Dr Gupta said.The move comes in the light of the RHEO receiving complaints about teachers not attending the webinars seriously and only participating for the sake of getting certificates.“There were complaints that several participants just took part in the webinars for getting the participation certificates. Many participants would often switch off their videos and audios during the webinar making it difficult to access whether they are actively participating or not,” said Gupta. “ There were instances where participants would just put up their pictures in front of the camera instead of attending the webinar themselves.”Several colleges have already started making the participating teachers fill questionnaires. Dr RS Panwar, officiating principal, Mihir Bhoj Postgraduate Degree College, Dadri, said: “We are issuing participation certificates to teachers only if they get more than 50% answers on the questionnaire correct.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/college-teachers-to-be-quizzed-before-they-get-participation-certificates-for-attending-webinars/story-KBy62aYvvDGEn816E6WQ3J.html
27-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi health minister tests negative for Covid-19, discharged||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain has recovered from Covid-19 and was discharged on Friday, 12 days after he was admitted to hospital with high-grade fever and a drop in his oxygen saturation levels. Jain tested negative for the infection earlier on Friday, according to sources from Max Hospital in Saket, where he was admitted.He had been initially admitted to the Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital (RGSSH) in Tahirpur on June 15, the day he had attended an all-party meet with Union home minister Amit Shah, but was moved to the private hospital after his condition deteriorated on June 19 (Friday). He was shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and administered plasma therapy the same night.Following this, his condition improved and he was moved to the general ward of the hospital on Monday.Jain’s first Covid-19 test came back negative but a subsequent test on June 17 came back positive.At RGSSH, he had been put on intermittent oxygen support to raise his oxygen saturation. “The oxygen support was removed once the saturation reached about 97%. However, he was not able to maintain the saturation and had to be put on oxygen intermittently,” a doctor at the government-run hospital had told HT on condition of anonymity.However, on Friday morning his condition deteriorated – he started feeling dizzy and tired. His CT scan showed that his pneumonia, a known complication of Covid-19, had increased after which he was shifted to the private hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-health-minister-tests-negative-for-covid-19-discharged/story-TQLeHkvm0Y70xsCLuhGQEP.html
27-06-2020||Delhi||DU admissions won’t be affected by changes in CBSE’s evaluation process: Officials||Ending the apprehensions of students seeking admission to honours courses, for which the Central Board of Secondary Education’s (CBSE)’s Class 12 exam could not be held due to the Covid-19 pandemic, officials in the Delhi University (DU) on Friday said that they would consider the board’s alternative plan of evaluation for these subjects. They also said that the changes in the CBSE’s evaluation mode would not affect the DU’s merit-based admission process for undergraduate courses, which started on June 20 and would continue till August. The University is yet to release the release dates for the cut-off lists.The DU officials said that students will be able to take admission to all courses, irrespective of whether they have appeared in the exam of that particular subject.The CBSE, on Thursday, informed the Supreme Court that it would not conduct the remaining exams for classes 10 and 12, scheduled between July 1 and July 15, due to the pandemic. The board, on Friday, issued a detailed plan under which the remaining exams would be evaluated based on the average of the top two or three exams students appeared for, before the lockdown to contain the Covid-19 pandemic was announced.However, those who could appear in only one or two exams will be evaluated based on those subjects and internal assessments. These students will also get a chance to appear in exams conducted by the CBSE to improve their marks later. The board will announce the results of the Class 12 exams by July 15.Soon after the board’s announcement, students of Class 12 seeking admissions to courses for which exams were pending raised a few concerns regarding a possible dip in their overall scores. Exams for 12 subjects, including Hindi, geography, business studies, biotechnology, computer science and sociology, are yet to be held across the country. An additional 11 subjects are pending for Class 12 students in northeast Delhi, where exams were suspended due to the communal riots.However, DU’s Dean of Admissions Shobha Bagai said that the average marks of students are generally the same every year, which is why CBSE’s changed evaluation process would not affect the University’s admission process. “If we look at the bigger picture now, the CBSE’s changed evaluation process will not affect the merit-based admission process for undergraduate courses much. Generally, the average marks of all subjects are more or less the same. It would have been a problem if they were not marking the subjects for which exams cannot be conducted,” she said.Bagai said that the University’s admission committee would hold a meeting next week to discuss the changes brought in by the CBSE. “We will still wait for a while before announcing anything in case the CBSE comes up with some more clarifications. Otherwise, we don’t have a reason to make any change in the admission process,” she saidIn DU, for admission to BA (Hons) or BSc (Hons) courses in any subject, one has to include the particular subject in which the admission is sought while calculating the average of ‘best of four’. Failing which, there is a deduction of 2.5% marks from the average.AK Bhagi, a former member of the DU’s executive council, said, “If the CBSE board is marking all subjects irrespective of whether a student has appeared for the exam, DU will not have to make any changes in the admission process. The issue would have arisen if there were no marks given in some subjects. Now, even those seeking admission to courses like Sociology (Hons) or BSc in Computer Science, for which exams could not be conducted, will face no issue since they will be awarded marks in these subjects as well,” he said.Some principals, however, are of the opinion that the change in the evaluation process could lead to high cut-offs this year. Manoj Khanna, the principal of Ramjas College, said, “In DU, the admission process is CBSE-driven. Over 90% of applications come from CBSE students. There is a high probability that more students will score between 95% and 100% marks this year since their exams will be scored based on averages. Colleges will have to keep the cut-off high to avoid over-admission.”However, some teachers said students who usually focus on one particular subject could score less overall if the exam is not held. Pankaj Gupta, a faculty member at Rajdhani College and a former member of DU’s admission committee, said, “There is a possibility that some students were good in certain subjects for which exams could not be conducted and were preparing hard for them. In such cases, they might not be able to score much in other subjects. This will drop their total percentage, due to which they could miss a chance to get a seat in a DU college,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-admissions-won-t-be-affected-by-changes-in-cbse-s-evaluation-process-officials/story-4rNqD4BQDgQ3fV7Dt7vNuJ.html
27-06-2020||City||Malls to reopen in city by next week, to follow strict social distancing norms||Gurugram: Malls in Gurugram will reopen next week, three months after they were closed in a bid to limit the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the district administration said on Friday.The city’s municipal commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said the malls will have to enforce social distancing norms and adhere to the standard operating procedure (SOP) laid down by the Union health ministry. Violation of norms will invite strict action against such establishments and these are liable to be closed again, he said.“It has been decided that malls will be allowed to open next week and they will have to follow the SOP issued on June 4. All norms pertaining to social distancing will have to be strictly followed,” said Singh, who was addressing a joint press conference with deputy commissioner Amit Khatri.However, officials did not specify a date when malls would reopen.Cinema halls, gaming arcades and children play areas shall remain closed inside the malls as per SOP, Singh said. Barring Faridabad and Gurugram, malls and religious places were allowed to open in Haryana June 8 onwards. Given the rising number of Covid 19 cases, the state government had on June 7 decided against opening shopping malls and religious places in these two districts. Restaurants and hotels across the state were also allowed to open, with some restrictions in place, across the state from June 8.Religious places in Gurugram shall remain closed till further orders, Singh said on Friday. He warned that shopping malls found flouting social distancing regulations and SOPs would be penalised, and the establishments shut.As per the Centre’s guidelines, visitors as well as staff at shopping malls must ensure distancing of six feet as far as possible, wear masks at all times, and wash hands frequently.Additionally, mall authorities must ensure hand sanitisers and provisions for thermal screening are made available at entrances. Malls have also been asked to ensure only those people who show no symptoms of Covid-19 are allowed entry, and they must wear masks throughout.The directions also said older employees, pregnant women, and those with underlying health conditions should be engaged in work from home “wherever feasible”.The SOP also reads that malls must follow the Central Public Work Department’s norms for air-conditioning and ventilation, and temperature and humidity should be kept above 24 degree Celsius and 40 to 70% respectively. Shopping malls operators welcomed the decision and said they had already prepared a detailed SOP to ensure the safety of visitors.Vijay Aima, vice president of Ambience Group which operates the Ambience Mall, said steps have been taken to ensure visitors are thermally screened, sanitiser dispensers have been installed and markings made to ensure social distancing. “Only those visitors who wear a mask and have temperature under the permissible limit will be allowed entry,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/malls-to-reopen-in-city-by-next-week-to-follow-strict-social-distancing-norms/story-iO6z4tXLh3oduUvZiaKGdP.html
27-06-2020||Noida||Residents troubled with stray dog menace, conflicts continue||Residents in the district say the administration was not taking any action despite complaints of stray dogs biting people.Residents of Prateek Wisteria in sector 77 had filed a complaint with the local police on June 24 after a person was bitten in the society’s basement. “In the last one year we have had at least 14 instances of dog bites and aggression. The problem is that no one is ready to take responsibility for stray dogs. There have been multiple complaints, but apart from sterilization nothing has been done. Residents are scared of going into the basement where many of them stay. A permanent solution needs to come for this problem before more such cases happen,” said Amit Gupta, president of the society’s apartment owners association (AOA).Residents allege that any time they object to animals’ presence, local people harassed them.“They rope in NGOs and start threatening us with legal action even though all we want is that public spaces where kids play or people walk remain safe. Basements become a special problem where these animals reside in large numbers. We must have at least 60 stray dogs in the society. A woman had recently complained that her Mercedes had been scratched by a dog. There needs to be a solution to this menace,” said Arun Sharma, president, AOA, Supertech Capetown.A local NGO said people need to be educated on how to handle such situations.“On June 10, a man had been arrested for assaulting a woman who was feeding the dogs in the Omicron 2 area. He even attacked a teenager who tried to intervene. These incidents show that people are not willing to co-exist,” said Kaveri Bhardwaj, president, People for Animals, an NGO working for animal welfare.She said that for most dogs, sterilisation helped rein in their aggression. In Gautam Budh Nagar, an organisation has been roped in by the Noida authority for sterilization.“We have been working for three years now and sterilisation helps with an aggressive dog. In case, the aggression continues we rehabilitate them at the animal shelter for 15-20 days and then they are taken back to their areas while we urge the local feeders to continue with the medication. The only solution to this problem is if both groups stop being adamant and come to amicable solutions,” said Rafat Ahmad, project manager, sterilisation unit, Noida authority.The animal shelter in sector 94 houses nearly 900 dogs while the stray dog population in the district hovers around 6000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/residents-troubled-with-stray-dog-menace-conflicts-continue/story-vIAy9ggryu2kkSFDnEtuzI.html
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records 13 deaths, 421 fresh cases, 636 recoveries||Thirteen coronavirus infected persons in Haryana died on Friday taking the death toll past 200. Among the dead, five persons each were from Gurugram and Hisar districts, while two were from Faridabad and one from Karnal.A medical bulletin said that 421 fresh cases were reported from 16 districts on Friday, taking the cumulative number of positive cases to 12,884. Six districts-- Rewari, Hisar, Fatehabad, Charkhi Dadri, Panipat and Kaithal-- did not report any fresh case.The number of active cases, however, came down on Friday with 636 patients recovering from the respiratory illness. As on Friday, there were 4,657 active cases in the state.The total number of patients who have recovered from the contagion stood at 8,016. Also, the recovery rate on Friday was up by three per cent – 62.22% from 59.22% on June 25. The fatality rate, however, has surged from last week’s 1.50% to 1.64 % on Friday.There were 64 critically ill patients admitted in 12 hospitals across the state, which included 15 who are on ventilator support in three Gurugram and one Faridabad hospital.The three districts bordering the national capital – Faridabad (194 cases), Gurugram (93 cases) and Sonepat (35 cases) were yet again the main contributors to the number of infected persons, collectively throwing up 76% of the cases reported on Friday. The three districts have 3,339 active cases, which is 71% of 4,657 active cases across the state.With 1,329 active cases, Faridabad, in fact, is fast catching up with Gurugram (1,596) in terms of number of active patients. Sonepat has 414 active cases as of Friday.Among the other districts, Bhiwani reported 24 new infections followed by Rohtak,15, Mahendragarh, 10, Jhajjar,9, Palwal, 8, Ambala and Karnal (7 each), Nuh (6), Yamunanagar (5), Jind (4), Panchkula (2), Kurukshetra and Sirsa (1 each).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-records-13-deaths-421-fresh-cases-636-recoveries/story-sKq8EyKioS4MIzvQgZKOeO.html
27-06-2020||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad to launch drone surveillance in containment areas||The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and PCMC police will be monitoring containment areas within civic limits to check violation by residents.Anandnagar, Dapodi, Bhatnagar, Vitthalnagar, Ajantanagar, Bopkhel, Dighi and Kalewadi have been designated as hotspots by the civic administration.PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar said, “A discussion with the police has taken place and the containment areas will be covered by drones. Violators will face action.” Hardikar said that residents must follow social distancing norms, mandatorily wear masks and avoid public spitting. Areas where violations are being observed will be sealed for a minimum of three days. PCMC sealed Pimpri Camp area after receiving complaints of violation of social distancing norms. PCMC police commissioner Sandeep Bishnoi said, “PCMC will procure drones and operate it after training our men.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pcmc-to-launch-drone-surveillance-in-containment-areas/story-lVReXpeLlFdLwAxjfPGixJ.html
27-06-2020||Pune||Bajaj Auto confirm 140 Covid cases at Aurangabad plant since June 6; factory still operational||PUNE In the past 20 days, since June 6, 140 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed at Bajaj Auto’s manufacturing facility at Waluj, Aurangabad district, Maharashtra. In a statement issued to the press on Friday, the company stated that the plant has continued to function normally. The statement, issued by Ravi Kyran Ramasamy, chief human resources officer (CHRO), Bajaj Auto, states: “”We have more than 8,100 employees and contractors employed in our Waluj plant. Our current incidence of 140 cases of Covid is less than two per cent of our strength. Two of our infected employees with underlying conditions of hypertension and diabetes have unfortunately succumbed to the infection.”“While there were no Covid-19 positive cases at the plant from April 24 till June 6 2020, the first case was reported on June 6. We have immediately taken all necessary measures for testing, contact tracing, self-isolation and complete sanitation as per protocol. All incidences were reported to the appropriate authorities,” the statement read.The statement also said, “Post the country-wide lockdown, the Waluj facility has been ramping operations from April 24, 2020, and as part of the ramp-up, detailed cleanliness and health check protocols have been drafted and implemented in consonance and compliance with all Government regulations and guidelines.” “We continue to provide all support including medical assistance to affected employees. We at Bajaj Auto, like the country at large, are now learning to live with the virus. We will continue our normal business operations, while taking all necessary safety measures, as the alternative is to shut down our operations with ‘no work no pay’ which will have a drastic impact on our employees and supply chain.”The Bajaj statement came in clarification to media reports earlier in the day that 79 employees were found Covid-19 positive at the plant and the Aurangabad factory had to be shut down.Rajiv Bajaj, managing director or Bajaj Auto, trended on Twitter for most of Friday, following these media reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bajaj-auto-confirm-140-covid-cases-at-aurangabad-plant-since-june-6-factory-still-operational/story-DaWXNx33hoKrVilgGW8hUL.html
27-06-2020||Pune||Sharad Pawar calls for action against private hospitals charging high fees||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Friday raised concern over overcharging by private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment.Pawar took a review meeting of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad at Council Hall on Friday. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, home minister Anil Deshmukh, health minister Rajesh Tope, Pune MP Girish Bapat, Srirang Barne, Amol Kolhe, Vandana Chavan, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol and elected representatives were present.Pawar instructed the administration to strictly follow the guidelines issued by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Pawar said, “If there are complaints that private hospitals are overcharging patients, administration need to initiate necessary action.”Deputy chief minister Pawar said that already the administration had conducted meetings with private hospitals and instructed them not to overcharge Covid-19 patients.Many elected members raised questions over bills issued by private hospitals.NCP city unit president Chetan Tupe alleged that hospitals are selling medicare facility packages. Though patients are declared negative and staying in hospitals, hospitals are charging bills up to Rs50,000 for two-day stay.Pawar later visited Pune Smart City’s control room and reviewed city’s Covid-19 dash board.Tope said, “Pune city need to follow Mumbai regarding virus prevention measures. Many good practices emerged in Mumbai to handle Covid-19 situation and Pune must adopt it.”Kin of cops who died of Covid-19 can stay in quartersHome minister Anil Deshmukh said, “Some police personnel died due to Covid-19. The state government has decided to allow their family members to stay in quarters till the retirement of that employee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pawar-calls-for-action-against-hospitals-for-charging-high-fees/story-dT8tKYw6L2R0BngDvpRnkM.html
27-06-2020||Pune||Outside containment zones in Pune report more cases than inside limits||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) was the first civic body in the country to declare the entire city as a containment zone to check the spread of Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19 (coronavirus). The number of positive cases reported lately from micro containment zones is almost the same as from non-containment areas.The positive cases reported from city’s 73 micro containment zones is 45.9% and the rest are coming from outside containment limits, according to PMC health department.With more cases reported from outside containment zones, the civic administration is taking steps to bring down the numbers.The civic body in May announced its first list of containment zones which included restricting people movement in the three kilometres radius around the area where a positive case is reported and sealing not only the building where the resident is found positive.While the number of containment zones has gone up from 69 zones comprising 9.81 square kilometres as of May 3 to 73 zones comprising 6.64 sq kms as of June 17, the difference in cases between containment zones and non-containment zones has reduced.On May 3, when the zones were first declared almost 74.6% of Covid-19 cases were reported from containment zones and 25.3% from outside these zones with a difference of 49.3% in number of cases.On June 17, the difference in cases from containment zones and outside its limits reduced to 8.2% cases, with 45.9% cases reported from inside the zones and remaining 54.1% from outside containment limits.Shekhar Gaikwad, PMC commissioner said, “Containment areas are vibrant and so now we will review these zones not every 15 days as earlier but every Monday and Thursday. Many may get added during this exercise. The municipal commissioner has been given the discretionary powers to decide on whether to declare an entire society complex as a containment zone or just one particular building. The radius of the containment zones are definitely shrinking so as to avoid any inconvenience to someone who might have never come in contact with a positive person. We place barricades and other such blockages to avoid physical movement of residents which is only allowed for using toilet or for essential services.”Dr Abhijit More, who is working with Jan Aarogya Abhiyan, an NGO that works for public health, said, “The fact that more cases are coming up from outside restricted zones shows that more aggressive contact tracing and isolation of possible contacts is needed. By barricading a particular location, the civic body is only restricting the movement of those living in that place, but what about a person who might be living outside the zone but had come in contact a few days ago? He is also a potential carrier. At least 100 contacts could have been traced in the beginning which did not happen and so now even areas like Aundh and Kothrud which did not report any cases are reporting multiple cases rapidly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/outside-containment-zones-report-more-cases-than-inside-limits/story-DQBJiBL1raF3JWMyTEVuYK.html
27-06-2020||Pune||Chikhali residents protest against formation of isolation wards in housing society||The Gharkul society residents in Chikhali have again objected to the administration’s decision to set up Covid-19 isolation wards in their society.The residents had protested in March when Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) put up a quarantine facility in the residential zone.On Thursday, residents staged protest in front of their society.“PCMC constructed buildings under the low house scheme projects. Many are occupied and those vacant will be turned into isolation wards,” said Dr Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer of PCMC.The civic administration okayed the option of home quarantine for residents with asymptomatic signs or mild fever after a surge in positive cases was reported last week.PCMC will turn four buildings in Gharkul Society — D5, D6, D7 and D8 — into isolation wards. There are 42 houses in one building and 168 units in total. Till June 26, 336 fans, 168 water geysers and 1,160 bulbs have been fitted in the isolation wards.“Why PCMC wants to set up isolation wards in our building. We have senior citizens as residents and all are worried about contracting the virus,” a Gharkul society resident said requesting anonymity. “Residents are concerned about virus spread, but we need centres to quarantine patients. All safety measures are in place,” said Salve.As of Friday, till 5:30 pm, PCMC has reported a total of 2,405 Covid-19 cases. Those cured are 1,443 and 919 are undergoing treatment. The virus has claimed 41 residents in PCMC.On June 9, residents of Anandnagar in Chinchwad staged protest against containment restrictions and damaged police vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chikhali-residents-protest-against-formation-of-isolation-wards-in-housing-society/story-lvsbq9eEonOppwI6vNAJdN.html
27-06-2020||Pune||7 LPG cylinder blasts reported during fire incident at Kothrud; no casualties||At least seven Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinder blasts were reported during a fire incident which took place at Shastrinagar, Kothrud, around 2.30 am, on Thursday.According to fire brigade officials, no casualties were reported in the incident.At least 15 small and big LPG cylinders were recovered from one of the four makeshifts shops made of tin sheets.Gajanan Pathrudkar, station fire officer, Kothrud, said, “We received a fire-related call at 2.53 am. When we reached the spot four temporary tin sheets shops were on fire.”“One big LPG cylinder had already exploded which lead to panic in the area. Similarly, six mini LPG cylinder were found in mangled condition as they had burst during the fire,” said Pathrudkar.“Huge crowd had gathered from the nearby slums as we doused the flames which took almost half an hour. Four fire tenders and a water tanker were rushed to the spot to assist the firemen,” said Pathrudkar.“The shop was illegally used to store LPG cylinders,” he said.According to Pathrudkar, the exact reason behind the cause of the fire could not be ascertained as a technical investigation is underway.Prashant Ranpise, chief, fire brigade, said, “We brought the fire under control within a short period. The place was used to store LPG cylinders illegally. The police were there on the spot and assessing the case,” he said.The fire brigade officials recovered gas supply pipes, gas stoves and other spare parts required for running gas cylinder business from the area.According to officials, cases can be evoked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 285 (negligent conduct concerning fire or combustible matter), 287 (negligent conduct concerning machinery), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy a house, among others), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3 and 7 of Inflammable Substances Act, 1952, and Section 9 of Explosives Act 1884 against persons indulging in the illegal sale of LPG cylinders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-lpg-cylinder-blasts-reported-during-fire-incident-at-kothrud-no-casualties/story-i7HhwjVjFbJJRqSvrQzAXO.html
27-06-2020||Pune||PMPML postpones bus purchase, Rs10 travel anywhere plans||Facing financial crunch to even pay staff salaries, the board of directors of public transport utility Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has postponed the purchase of new 350 e-buses. It has also decided to put on hold the scheme to travel in peth areas for Rs10.Hemant Rasane, PMC standing committee chairperson and PMPML director, said, “PMPML has 9,000 employees on roll and 2,000 on contract. The utility is unable to pay staff salaries for the past two months because of poor business due to the Covid-19 situation. Our top priority is to pay salaries of employees even as bus operations is severely affected and income generation is poor. There is a limit to Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations to bear the losses. Hence, we have decided to stop the purchase of new 350 buses.”The director said that the transport utility is facing loses because of less commuters. “Though the Centre has agreed to help fund the purchase of e-buses, it is better to put the proposal on hold though the tendering process is almost in its last stage,” Rasane said.PMPML chairperson and managing director Nayana Gunde confirmed that the new bus purchase plan is on hold.Rasne said, “The Rs10 scheme was announced in the 2020-21 PMC budget. People can travel in any part of the central city by paying Rs10. We have decided to postpone the scheme. Instead of hiring buses for executing the scheme, it is our plan to launch it after purchasing medi-buses.”Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The public transport utility is facing financial crisis due to the Covid-19 situation. We are taking steps to pay the salaries of employees and the proposal to buy new buses is on hold.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmpml-postpones-bus-purchase-rs10-travel-anywhere-plans/story-ei7zPnjqv6bDaynymrZn0O.html
