28-06-2020||Mumbai||Maha sees sharpest one-day case spike for 5th day in a row||The state on Sunday, for the fifth day in a row, recorded its sharpest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases with 5,493 more infections, even as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the ongoing lockdown would not be lifted after June 30. The state case count went up to 164,626 and toll rose to 7,429 with the addition of 156 deaths on Sunday. Mumbai saw 1,287 more infections on Sunday, taking its total to 75,539. With the addition of 87 deaths, the toll of the city is 4,371. The state health department has, however, said that 60 of the fatalities added on Sunday were reported in the past two days, while the remaining 96 are from the past few weeks. Thackeray, who completed seven months as the CM on Sunday, said the ongoing lockdown will not be lifted after its fifth phase ends on June 30, although the government was mulling more relaxations under its ‘Mission Begin Again’ — a staggered plan to lift curbs.Thackeray said that as the government is opening up activities in a calibrated manner, cases are expected to rise in the coming days. Thackeray, in his address through Facebook live, said that the risk of Covid-19 and the battle against the virus has not passed yet, but the government is relaxing curbs in a phased manner. The state government is expected to decide on relaxations in industrial, commercial activities after the Central government issues its guidelines. Thackeray is scheduled to hold high-level meetings with his cabinet colleagues and top officials over the next two days. He also has warned that the government machinery will be forced to impose stricter lockdown curbs again if the guidelines were not followed by people. “I have been getting requests from a few civic authorities for permission to impose stricter lockdown, owing to the rising numbers. There are cases of violations of curbs in some cities such as Mumbai, Pune and even in rural areas. In case of violations of curbs, we will have no option, but to go for stricter imposition of lockdown in areas with rise in cases,” he said.Thackeray said that there will be a spike in infections in the next few weeks. “As we have been opening up activities to ensure the revival of the economy, we have been witnessing a rise in cases. As part of the relaxation, people step out of their homes, come in contact and spread the virus. Even in the near future, there will be a rise in cases as we open up more activities,” he said. State health department expects the rise in cases during July and August. “There will be a modulating trend in terms of cases for the next few weeks, before we expect the plateau in August,” the official said, requesting anonymity. After allowing salons and beauty parlours to open from Sunday in the fourth phase of Mission Begin Again, the state government is expected to extend more relaxations in transport facilities and industrial operations. It has also hinted at allowing more workforce in private and even government offices. State has been reporting more than 5,000 cases a day for the past three days. It has seen 32, 551 cases and 1,259 deaths in the past seven days, with a daily average of 4,650 cases and 180 deaths respectively. Mumbai’s growth of cases has comparatively improved as it reported 9,051 cases and 700 deaths during this period. State’s case fatality rate (CFR) dropped to 4.51% from 4.69% on June 16, the day on which there was an addition of 1,328 deaths as part of the reconciliation of data. The CFR was 3.79% on June 15. The recovery rate of the state has improved to 52.59% as 86,575 patients were reported to have recovered from the infection. Thackeray said that the state government is ready to take on the surge. “We have increased testing facilities. Instead of waiting for the virus to attack us, we have been chasing it. After it has proven successful in Mumbai, the ‘chase the virus’ drive is being implemented elsewhere in the state. It will help us in containing the spread. The government has received permission from the Centre for the use of remdesivir and favipiravin, the antiviral drugs, and they will be made available to citizens free of cost once adequate stock is procured,” he said. Thackeray said that the government was inaugurating plasma therapy testing centres in Maharashtra on Monday and it will, perhaps, help us Maharashtra become the top state to provide the facility with the highest number of tests for the therapy. We appeal to people who recovered from the infection to come forward for the test of therapy so that other patients can benefit from them,” he said. The CM also appealed to doctors from the private sector to come forward and guide their colleagues from the healthcare sector to treat patients effectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-sees-sharpest-one-day-case-spike-for-5th-day-in-a-row/story-3wE3vEjFJlFu5m3uJn1CsN.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Seat next to the driver can also be occupied in cars, clarifies Chandigarh administration||The UT administration has instructed the Chandigarh Police not to challan motorists as long as there are only two occupants besides the driver.There were complaints that police were challaning people if two persons were sitting in the front and one in the back. UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said, “It has been clarified to the police that a third person can sit in the car, either in the front or back as per their choice.”The administration also intensified the drive against non-wearing of masks and violations of social distancing norms on Saturday and Sunday.As per information, 17 people in Dadumajra; 20 in Sectors 37 and 40; 20 in Sectors 33, 44 and 45; and 20 in Kajheri market were fined on Saturday for either not following social distancing norms or not wearing masks.Action was also taken against those travelling in numbers higher than the prescribed ones in vehicles. Those who did not pay fine on the spot were booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.As per guidelines, only one person on a two-wheeler, one customer with the driver in an auto, and two people with the driver in a car have been allowed. The fine for bikes and autos is ₹500 and for cars ₹2,000.Also, there is a fine of ₹500 for spitting in public places, not wearing masks and breaking the rules of social distancing. There is a provision of a fine of ₹2,000 for breaking home quarantine rules.On Sunday, Parida also shared on Twitter: “Mask,social distance checking will be intensified in Sukhna Lake from today. Please cooperate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/seat-next-to-the-driver-can-also-be-occupied-in-cars-clarifies-chandigarh-administration/story-KtKZhWloR7OU3hbmHM9p7I.html
28-06-2020||Mumbai||Senior citizen loses valuables worth ₹5 lakh in house break-in||Police on Saturday arrested two persons accused of a house break-in in an upscale society at Bandra. The arrested accused have been identified as Mukesh Gavde, 25, and Kunal Mhadik, 27, both residents of Khar Danda.According to Bandra police, on June 8, the accused broke the lock of the flat and stole gold, silver ornaments, and foreign currency worth a total of ₹5 lakh.“On June 23 morning, when one of the neighbours saw the broken lock, he informed the owner who had gone away to his hometown in Gujarat to his son due to the lockdown. The owner is a senior citizen,” said an officer from Bandra police station.“The family of the senior citizen contacted us and a first information report [FIR] against unknown persons under sections 380 (theft in dwelling house), 454 (house trespass) and 457 (house trespass in night) of the Indian Penal Code was registered,” said the officer.While scanning the CCTV footage of the society, police discovered that three persons had entered the building and after the heist, they left on a bike. Police were able to use the bike registration number to nab two of the accused and are on the lookout for the third accomplice. The accused are career criminals and have more than 22 cases registered against them in western suburbs, said the officer.Thieves target sleeping security guardsIn another incident, Bandra police on Friday arrested two members of a gang that targeted security guards of upscale societies and stole their mobile phones. The accused are known to operate between 3am and 5am, when most security guards are sleeping. The arrested accused have been identified as Mohan Singh, 35, and Dinesh Sawariya, 25.After police received back-to-back complaints on June 15 and June 16 from security guards alleging that their phones were stolen while they were on the night shift, an investigation was initiated. Police scanned CCTV footage of the societies and were able to arrest the accused from Santacruz. Six mobile handsets were recovered from the accused.“During the interrogation, the accused revealed that between 3am and 5am, most security guards took short naps; that is when they targeted the guards,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/senior-citizen-loses-valuables-worth-5-lakh-in-house-break-in/story-Cy0tDwNe0ZAXyAlRLIlSoK.html
28-06-2020||City||Couple booked for harassing 80-year-old mother||A 45-year-old man and his wife have been booked by Kashimira police for allegedly mentally and physically harassing his 80-year-old mother since the past six months.Inspector Sanjay Hazare from Kashimira police station said the octogenarian approached the police, following which her son and his wife have been under section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and section 24 of Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007. However, no arrest has been made yet.The complainant lost her husband, a retired government employee, in 2000 and has been living with her son and daughter-in-law. However, since the past few months, the accused would force her to do all household chores including cooking, sweeping floor, washing dishes. The accused also allegedly ordered the woman to cook her food separately and not eat with the family at the dining table. “There were also plans to kick her out of the flat during the Covid-19 pandemic when she complained to us,” said Hazare.As per the Senior Citizens Act, a person who disrespects or does not take care of his or her parents aged above 60 can get a three-month jail term or ₹5,000 penalty or both. The police are probing the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/couple-booked-for-harassing-80-year-old-mother/story-95jtZZXvbzUGLd1yVe0OiJ.html
28-06-2020||City||Man who lost roof in cyclone gets help now||Weeks after Cyclone Nisarga that hit Humgaon, a village in Karjat taluka, around 56 kilometres away from Kalyan, and swept away the roof and door of the house of a 40-year-old physically challenged man, the man received help to repair his house. After a video went viral on social media, Kalyan rural team of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) reached out and helped the man with repairs.Cyclone Nisarga had made its landfall around 100 km south of Alibaug, a resort town in the coastal district of Raigad, on June 3. The cyclone had also impacted Margaon, Khopoli and Karjat where trees were uprooted and electric lines were damaged.“The wind destroyed my house. It blew off the roof and damaged the door. I had approached the gram panchayat several times, but did not get any help. People visited my house and assured me of help, but nothing was done all these weeks,” said Ananta (Anna) Katkari, the sole resident of the house.Maruti Badge, 65, a retired teacher who lives nearby, shot a video of the house seeking help and posted it on social media. Badge, in the video, also claimed that the man is the son of late Ramu Maniya Katkari, a soldier.“I have known the family for a long time and was saddened to see the state of a soldier’s son. He lives alone in the house. His brother who lives nearby and other residents give him food regularly. I felt bad as he was living in the house without any roof and door even amid rain,” said Bagde.The video showed the house without a roof and door while the floor was flooded with rain water. All of Katkati’s belongings were also drenched in water.“He is physically challenged and has no work to do. He had been seeking help from the authorities but nobody paid any heed. So, I decided to shoot a video and post it on social media so that someone comes forward to help him,” added Bagde.As the video went viral on social media, members of MNS’s Kalyan rural unit came across it and contacted the teacher. “I saw the video and thought of visiting the place to see the condition. The house was completely damaged with no roof and the man was staying inside even during rain. We decided to help him out with the roof and the door. We have also asked the workers to clean the house so that we can places tiles and some basic appliances like bulb and fan,” said Ashwin Bhoir, president of MNS’s Kalyan rural unit.“The village is in a remote place and falls under gram panchayat rule. When we asked the sarpanch about why the house was not repaired, they cited lack of funds,” added Bhoir.A representative of the gram panchayat on condition of anonymity said, “We had visited the house and were looking for social groups to come forward to help as we could not take up the work due to lack of funds.”Vikram Deshmukhm, tehsildar of Karjat taluka, said, “Followed by Cyclone Nisarga, a survey was carried out about losses in the taluka. Those who suffered losses were provided with money in their accounts. We have distributed around ₹3.5 crore. We will check the list and look into this particular case of the Katkari family. If they need help, we will do the needful at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-who-lost-roof-in-cyclone-gets-help-now/story-dZbjQz11sbDcLLl9Wd1FGL.html
28-06-2020||Delhi||Bars that brought Connaught Place back to nightlife face closure||It was a dream come true for Ashish Ahuja, when in 2014, he opened Pebble Street, a restro-bar, in Connaught Place. But last month, he shut down the outlet, famed for its European ambience, roasted lamb leg, and Long Island Iced Tea.“With high rents and the current restrictions on operations due to the Covid pandemic, it became unsustainable to run the establishment; besides, I did not see things improving in the next few months. We were left with no choice,” says Ahuja who owns another outlet with a similar name in New Friends Colony. About a dozen restaurant, bars and cafes, have exited Connaught Place and industry sources say 50 others are on the verge of shut down because of high rents, new guidelines of reduced operating hours and ban on serving alcohol. Kuldeep Singh Chauhan, a real estate agent in Connaught Place, who works with restaurant owners, say negotiations between the landlord and the businessmen, who want to rent to be waived off and shift to revenue-sharing model, have reached a dead end. “As many as 20 restro-bar owners have already conveyed to their landlords that they are shutting. They have approached me to help them in finding buyers for their set-up such as kitchen and furniture,” says Chauhan.“A majority of landlords have served legal notices for failing to pay rent for the past three months. Restaurants are paying anything between ₹6 lakh to ₹20 lakh a month in CP depending on the size of the property,” says Dinesh Arora, president, Delhi Restaurants & Clubs Association, who also owns Unplugged Courtyard, a popular restro-bar in Connaught Place. “Half of the restro-bars in CP will shut in the next couple of months.”Raising the Bar Many believe so many restro-bars going bust is bad news for Connaught Place, which has undergone a great revival in the past few years. Inaugurated in the 1930s, CP had fallen out of favour with Delhiites by the late 1990s, what with the chaos caused by Metro construction. By 2004, Connaught Place had become a decrepit place, its walls pan-stained, its shops deserted and beggars roaming in its worn- out corridors.Things began to look up after the Metro started operations in 2005, and by 2016, Connaught Place was once again the city’s centre of gravity. Many believe that its brand new chic cafes, restaurants, and bars played a key role in reviving CP and transforming Delhi’s image from a staid capital city to one with a happening nightlife.While CP’s iconic legacy restaurants such as United Coffee House and Embassy were going strong as ever, the arrival of QBA in 2003, marked a major milestone in CP’s journey to become a major food and beverage hub, a decade later.“Those were the days when people were beginning to eat out, and we felt there was a space in CP for a new contemporary, multi-cuisine restro-bar that appealed to the young. We hired an architect from Thailand and a chef from Australia,” says Aditya Jain, who started QBA. “It was an instant hit, attracting a lot of young upwardly customers, a lot of them from east and west Delhi,” adds Jain, whose extended family owns Jainson and Greenways, two of the oldest establishments in CP. Jain is luckier than others as he owns the property and says he will reopen QBA as soon on as it is safe to do so.New cafes, restaurants and bars kept coming up after QBA, mostly in the outer circle , but the real restaurant boom in CP began in 2014, after its renovation was completed. Over 100 new restaurants, bars and cafes came up by 2017—mostly on the first and second floors that had been lying empty for many years. “One of the reasons why CP became such a hot destination for food and beverage ventures was that it provided a lot of scope for outdoor dining, with its terraces providing beautiful views. Authorities should allow outdoor dining, which is now key to enhancing capacity while ensuring social distancing,” says Priyank Sukhija, who owns seven restro-bars in Connaught Place, including Lord of the Drinks, Warehouse Café, Open House Café, all of which have remained shut since March. He opened five restro-bars between 2013 and 2017 in CP.Al fresco dining in Connaught Place was banned in 2017 , with the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) cracking down on restaurants, bars and cafés for using terraces in the wake of a building collapse in 2017. Sukhija says he employed 500 people in CP outlets. “Closure of the restro-bars in CP will not only rob the city of its nightlife, but also thousands of jobs.The crowd- pullersRestaurants in CP, Arora says, provides jobs to over 8,000 people and contribute to the footfall, giving a boost to retail. “On an average, 250 people visited my restaurant on weekdays and around 350 on weekends. So, my restaurant alone brought 10,000 people to CP every month. You can imagine the number of footfall all the 150 restaurants were contributing, ” he adds.Retailers agree. “ A lot of my customers before Covid-19 were indeed those who came to the restaurants here, which have played an important role in re-energising CP,” says Satish Sundra, who runs the city’s oldest toyshop in CP. He says CP’s story has once again taken a sad turn. “Covid-19 has killed business here like never before. In the 1960s, there was a slump in business in CP because many neighbourhood markets such as Khan Market and GK came up; and then in the early 2000s, but things were never as bad as they are now.”Atul Bhargav, president of NDTA ( New Delhi Traders Association), which represents traders of Connaught Place echoes his views, “Restaurant owners and shopkeepers have had a symbiotic relationship in CP,” says Bhargav. Currently, he is busy facilitating the shoot of a short promotional movie that will showcase what CP traders are doing to make shopping a safe experience in the colonial shopping arcade.Experts feel that the cororonavirus pandemic is going to bring about a ‘churn’ in CP. “ Many of the fashion stores will move out; and CP would see food & beverage ventures in a new format such as high-end liquor stores. Besides, there could be many electronic stores, a segment which is currently doing very well. A high-street like CP will recover soon as it is possible to control the store environment there,” says Anuj Puri, chairman, Anarock, a retail and real estate services company.The third spaceMany feel restaurants, bars and cafes in CP play an important role in the city’s business, social, intellectual and artistic life. “Besides, many people are emotionally attached to restaurants and cafes , where they make business deals and celebrate events of life such as birthdays and marriage anniversaries,” says Archana Singh, who runs TravelSeeWrite, a popular travel blog.“I mostly write my blogs in Khan Market and CP restaurants. These places are not just about food and drink, they also fulfill a human need for connection in a big city like Delhi. Their closure will diminish the experience of both CP and the city.”But Prof Vivek Kumar, who teaches sociology at JNU, has a different take. “ If anything, these new restro-bars in CP are merely an important marker of Delhi’s economic progress and its embrace of western modernity, nothing more, nothing less,” he says.Ashish Ahuja of Pebble Street sounds a warning. “Everyone, the landlords and the authorities, need to understand that it is restro-bars, and not retail that revived CP, and without them CP will once again lose its mojo.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bars-that-brought-connaught-place-back-to-nightlife-face-closure/story-qCKJ5n5pbVitR6wtrI4pRJ.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||11-year-old girl booked for sacrilege in Sangrur||An 11-year-old girl was booked for sacrilege at Bhawanigarh police station after some pages of Guru Granth Sahib were allegedly found torn at Rampura village of the district on Sunday. As the incident came to light, locals and members of Sikh outfits reached the village gurdwara and demanded action against the accused.Bhawanigarh station house officer Ramandeep Singh said the incident took place on Saturday when the girl was cleaning the gurdwara. The case was registered under Section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage reli¬gious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or reli-gious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code.“Police have started investigation but no arrest has been made so far,” added the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/11-year-old-girl-booked-for-sacrilege-in-sangrur/story-uWnnx8WmA5ojAJ05VEccKK.html
28-06-2020||Mumbai||3 of family booked over dowry death, abetting suicide of 31-year-old woman||The police on Saturday booked a man and his parents from Chembur on charges of dowry death and abetment of suicide after his 31-year-old wife died last Monday. The woman in her suicide note held her husband and in-laws responsible. Her family has also alleged foul play. The preliminary post-mortem report showed she was Covid-19 positive.According to Chembur police, the woman allegedly killed herself on June 22 at their flat in a plush residential society in Chembur. The first information report (FIR), a copy of which is with HT, stated the woman from Kutch, Gujarat, had come in contact with the accused man in 2014 through a matrimonial site. Both of them were divorcees and got married in February 2015 in Mumbai.The woman’s mother, who is the complainant, alleged the accused family had first demanded ₹50 lakh dowry, but settled on ₹25 lakh after negotiation. However, later the accused family asked the woman to get ₹50 lakh from her family as her husband wanted to buy franchise of a popular fast food chain. She further alleged the woman was suffering from depression and was undergoing treatment . She had told her parents and elder sister about the torture and harassment she was undergoing at the hands of her husband and in-laws, the complaint states.The complainant alleged that her daughter’s husband would often assault her daughter. “He also assaulted her when she was pregnant, leading to her miscarriage,” she alleged.A day before she died by suicide, she had shared some messages on the family group indicating she was under stress. Shalini Sharma, senior inspector of Chembur police station, said, “Preliminary post-mortem report of the deceased woman revealed that she was Covid-19 positive. Initially an accidental death report (ADR) was registered, but after a suicide note was found and based on the complaint of the woman’s family, we have registered a case of dowry death and abetment of suicide against her husband and in-laws.” The investigation officer said it was not yet certain how the woman had contracted the virus. The final report, which is awaited, will reveal if there were any external or internal injury, Sharma said, adding no arrest has been made yet.Advocate Shoaib Memon, representing the complainant, said, “We have not performed last rites on the body as we want a thorough investigation.”The accused family was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-of-family-booked-over-dowry-death-abetting-suicide-of-31-year-old-woman/story-FBXsyOjvk8Xa38EZYlsieN.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Woman’s body found stuffed inside bed box in Sonepat||Body of a woman was found stuffed inside a bed box at her salon in Kundli’s TDI City, Sonepat police said on Sunday. The victim was in her mid 20s. A native of Uttar Pradesh, she had been running a salon along with her elder sister for the last six years. In his complaint to the police, the victim’s father said one of his elder daughter’s friends visited the salon on Sunday and found the body stuffed in a bed box.“My daughter had on Friday mentioned about her friend visiting her from Sonepat. After that, her phone had gone switched off. We assumed that she might have gone somewhere for work purposes,” the complainant added. Investigating officer Devender Kumar said they have registered a case of murder against the victim’s friend who had come from Sonepat and launched a manhunt to nab him. It appears that she was strangled to death, he said, adding that her body was handed over to her family members after autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-s-body-found-stuffed-inside-bed-box-in-sonepat/story-VFV4I6ZNVtOZ9JvLgmobiO.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||No let-up as Haryana sees 402 fresh cases, tally nears 14,000||Haryana on Sunday registered 402 fresh Covid-19 cases in 20 districts and five fatalities in three districts, said the health bulletin. With that, the state’s Covid count mounted to 13,829, while the death toll reached 223. Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Dhirender Khadgata said that BJP’s Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha had also tested positive and was admitted to a private hospital in Gurugram. On Sunday, one patient died in Gurugram and two each lost their lives in Faridabad and Sonepat districts. In Gurugram, as many as 84 Covid-19 patients have died, followed by 73 in Faridabad and 18 in Sonepat. No patient has so far died of coronavirus in Mahendergarh, Nuh, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad, Panchkula, Sirsa, Yamunanagar and Kaithal. On Sunday, while Faridabad district recorded maximum 131 fresh infections, Gurugram saw 88 cases, Sonepat 38, and Rewari 27. Among other districts with new cases were Mahendergarh (19), Palwal (11), Hisar (10), Jhajjar, Nuh and Charkhi Dadri (9 each), Bhiwani (8), Kaithal (7), Ambala and Panipat (5 each), Fatehabad (4), Panchkula ( 3), Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar (2 each), and Sirsa (1). As per the bulletin, Jind and Karnal districts didn’t record any fresh cases. Meanwhile, 445 patients also recovered from the disease with a maximum of 279 people walking out of hospitals in the worst-hit Gurugram district. Now, Gurugram has 1,326 active cases, while Faridabad has the highest 1,554 active cases in the state. On Sunday, the bulletin said, all 22 Haryana districts had active cases with Fatehabad district having the least 16 such cases. Sonepat district had 477 active cases, while Bhiwani’s tally of active cases was 287 and Rewari 175. Active cases ranged between 16 and 93 in other 17 districts. Also, there were 72 critically ill patients (27 in Faridabad and 18 in Rohtak) in Haryana. While 53 were on oxygen support, 19 were put on ventilator support. The bulletin stated the recovery rate in the state had reached 64.48% and the cases were doubling in 14 days. The number of tests conducted per million stood at 9,955 on Sunday. Though the bulletin mentioned limited cases, 16 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Panipat district on Sunday, said chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma. Similarly, 14 people, including five members of a family, were found infected in Karnal, while Kaithal administration confirmed nine new cases. Eight people, including three workers of GBTL mill, have tested positive in Bhiwani and 14 in Rohtak. Sonepat DC Shyam Lal Punia said that a 73-year-old man from Ganaur’s Ashok Nagar area died due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-let-up-as-haryana-sees-402-fresh-cases-tally-nears-14-000/story-BHzICutoq8zOtIYEaZp2DK.html
28-06-2020||Delhi||Five more inmates at Mandoli jail test positive for Covid-19||Five more inmates at Mandoli Jail have tested positive for Covid-19, prison officials said on Sunday. With this, the total number of inmates who have tested positive so far has reached 45.A senior officer from the jail said three of the five inmates had been kept in isolation with nine others after an inmate at Mandoli Jail died of the disease on June 15. Three of them were sharing the cell with the inmate who succumbed to the infection. Two others are from another cell and had been keeping unwell. They had also been isolated and when they were tested, the results were positive, the officer said. “All the five inmates have been kept separately in isolation and are under continuous medical supervision,” the officer said.Sandeep Goel, the director general of Delhi prisons, said that with the inclusion of the new cases, the total number of inmates who have tested positive so far is up to 45. “Of these, 17 have recovered and one has died. Among the prison staff, 75 have tested positive so far and 15 have successfully recovered,” Goel said.The inmate who had died was lodged in jail number 14. He was found dead on the morning of June 15 when other inmates tried to wake him up but found him unresponsive. When jail officials took him to hospital, he was declared dead on arrival. A medical examination later revealed he was infected with Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/five-more-inmates-at-mandoli-jail-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-8aw96nXa11Q34k19djPnxJ.html
28-06-2020||City||Man kills three kids, self in Nallasopara||A 35-year-old garlic trader, in Babulpada, Nallasopara (East), killed his three children and later died by suicide on Saturday. The man stayed with his children, eldest son aged 10, and daughters aged eight and three respectively. He sedated his three children and slit their necks and later died by suicide in his rented house. Dattatray Shinde, superintendent of police, Palghar, said, “The victim’s father informed us after he found the bodies. We rushed to the spot and sent the bodies for post-mortem. We seized the blood-stained knife which was used to kill children and have registered case of murder against the deceased victim. We are looking out for victim’s wife.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-kills-three-kids-self-in-nallasopara/story-C3dTDc6lJuPEyRfjVNYDQN.html
28-06-2020||Mumbai||Iskcon, a well-known trademark, apparel firm must not use it: HC||The Bombay high court on Friday declared ‘Iskcon’ to be the registered trademark of the religious organisation International Society for Krishna Consciousness and a ‘well-known mark in India’. The declaration implies that anyone found using the trademark, would be liable for prosecution and damages for infringement. The court issued the declaration while hearing a suit by the organisation, wherein, it had sought restraint on an apparel company from using the said trademark. The decree of ‘well known’ trademark is usually issued by the trademark registry.The bench of Justice BP Colabawalla, while hearing a commercial intellectual property suit filed by the religious organisation through advocates Hiren Kamod, Vaibhav Keni and Neha Iyer submitted that Iskcon Apparel Pvt. Ltd, sold its products online using the name Iskcon. This action of the company amounted to an infringement of the trademark registered in the name of the organisation.Kamod further submitted that the infringement by the apparel company came to light in February and as a repeated summons to the company went unanswered, the organisation approached the court seeking a permanent injunction restraining the company from using its trademark. Kamod referred to the plea which stated that after the summons was issued the company changed its name to Alcis Sports Pvt Ltd but continued to use the term Iskcon prominently in all their products.Referring to an organisation, Kamod submitted that Iskcon was established in 1966 in New York and had since created for itself a global presence that was not restricted to any particular goods, services or activities, but to a diverse range of categories. Kamod added that the organisation’s trademark had come to enjoy a personality that is beyond the scope of mere products, services rendered under the trademark.In light of these submissions Kamod said that as parameters for ‘well-known trademark’ as per the Trade Marks Act, 1999 were fulfilled in the present case, the court should declare it so.After perusing the material on record, the court opined that the plaintiff’s trademark satisfied requirements and tests as per sections 11(6) and 11 (7) of the Trade Marks Act and said “Since Iskcon is a coined mark which is exclusively associated with the plaintiff religious organisation, it undoubtedly deserves the highest degree of protection. The documents show that the trademark Iskcon has acquired immense and long-standing reputation and goodwill throughout India and it is associated with the plaintiff and none else.”Given the undertaking by apparel company, Justice Colabawalla perpetually restrained it from using the term Iskcon in any manner, passed a decree in favour of religious organisation and ruled, “In view thereof, I find no difficulty in holding that the plaintiff’s trademark Iskcon is a ‘well known’ trademark in India as per the Trade Marks Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iskcon-a-well-known-trademark-apparel-firm-must-not-use-it-hc/story-goSn4AmeFgRUnUxD5JOP6J.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh BJP shares Modi govt’s achievements through virtual rally||Celebrating the completion of Modi’s government one year in office, the local unit of BJP organised a Virtual Jan Samvad Rally on Sunday to apprise city residents of the government’s achievements. Party workers pledged to support Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Atam Nirbhar Bharat campaign by using Indian products. Several residents joined the rally through various social media platforms. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad addressed the virtual rally from Delhi BJP headquarters as the keynote speaker and Chandigarh BJP in-charge Prabhat Jha addressed the workers from Bhopal.Prasad said the central government under Modi’s leadership had done a lot of work for the public and transformed the nation through historic decisions. These included abrogation of Sections 370 and 35A in Jammu and Kashmir, ending triple talaq, amendment in the Citizenship Act and paving a way for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya.Chandigarh BJP president Arun Sood said due to these decisions, 2019 will be known as “Saal Ek Kaam Anek - Badhe Faisle Kam Huye Faasle”.Sood said during the lockdown, the local BJP distributed 75,000 food packets daily through 52 community kitchens. The party also distributed 11,652 ration kits, 5 lakh face masks and 60,000 sanitisers, donated 588 blood units and also assisted the people of Ladakh by airlifting them to their native place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-bjp-shares-modi-govt-s-achievements-through-virtual-rally/story-9vkYNJBbFCsqtqtM2SxD3I.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Intel warns of ISI, SFJ-sponsored pro-Khalistan activity in country||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic and recent military face-off on the India-China border in Ladakh, intelligence agencies have warned the government of pro-Khalistan activities in the country backed by Pakistan’s ISI spy agency and the banned Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) group. The warning, sources said, mentions that these anti-India activities are being guided by one ISI handler named Abdullah in close coordination with SFJ’s founder Avtar Singh Pannu, who is learnt to have been residing in the United Kingdom. Abdullah’s name was also revealed during questioning of three arrested suspected sympathisers of the Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF), who were planning to execute targeted killings in various northern states. The KLF supporters were arrested by the special cell of Delhi Police in a week-long operation across Delhi, Punjab and Haryana.The ISI and SFJ have been advocating secessionist and pro-Khalistan activities in India for long following which the ministry of home affairs in July last year banned the SFJ for advocating ‘Referendum 2020’, an online campaign for Khalistan, which seeks a separate homeland for Sikhs.Intelligence agencies have also shared inputs about another person named Pak-based Gopal Singh Chawla, a close aide of 26/11 Mumbai terror attack mastermind and Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorist Hafiz Saeed, for his role in pro-Khalistan activities in India.It has been suggested in the warning, which was shared earlier this month, to keep the national capital on high alert ahead of Independence Day. Inputs were shared that KLF group has been tasked by ISI and SFJ for terrorist activity in the national capital, said the source.As per the information, KLF group is in close proximity with Pakistani ISI handler Abdullah and Avtar Singh Pannu of the SFJ. The KLF group has been tasked to lure youths to the organisation and has been assigned to indoctrinate youths at the behest of their bosses based in Pakistan, the sources said.For funding, another source said, the ISI handlers asked the KLF to extort money from local businessmen to arrange locally made weapons and give momentum to the terror plan.The source further claimed that Abdullah asked them to recruit fresh youth for training in terror camps in Pakistan and promised to provide them weapons like AK-47 assault rifles and sophisticated pistols for their module.The KLF suspects arrested by the Delhi Police have also told police that they were asked by their handlers to get in touch with likeminded people for which they were asked to attend court hearings of arrested militants.The group was also tasked to take help of social media sites like Facebook to upload incriminating videos with posters, photos and songs supporting Khalistan leaders and the Khalistan movement.The information sends a clear message that ISI has opened two fronts -- militancy in Jammu & Kashmir and Khalistan group in Punjab-- to destabilise India. It all began in 2018 and 2019 when ISI allowed the Sikh separatist SFJ to open its office in Pakistan and also to display the ‘Referendum 2020’ posters during Baisakhi when a large number of Indian Sikh devotees had gathered in Pakistan to celebrate the festival.Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta last year had also coordinated with the central security agencies to tackle the threat triggered by ‘2020 Sikh Referendum’ clearly aimed at pushing the ISI agenda of dividing the Sikh community. The referendum is now learnt to have been postponed till 2022, however, the Khalistan movement is being backed on a regular basis, the source said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/intel-warns-of-isi-sfj-sponsored-pro-khalistan-activity-in-country/story-lPegM1GGfvFTsR8nUpi4JM.html
28-06-2020||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar’s statement unclear, he too was worried about Chinese intrusion: Congress||A day after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief and former defence minister Sharad Pawar asked the Congress leader Rahul Gandhi ‘to not politicise’ the India-China border clashes, state Congress leaders tried to downplay the entire issue by terming Pawar’s statement as ‘unclear’. State Congress chief and state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, on Sunday, said that it is not clear what Pawar has said. “By using just one of his comments, the media should not draw any conclusions and rush to give a clean chit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. We lost 20 soldiers in the Galwan valley face off. Yet, PM Modi said there was no intrusion by China. Taking advantage of this Chinese are calling our martyrs as intruders. I am sure that even Pawarsaheb is as saddened by this as we are this as are,” he said Pawar, on Saturday in Satara, had virtually chided Rahul Gandhi for attempting to politicise an issue concerning national security and reminded how China occupied 45,000 sq km of the Indian territory in 1962. “Let us not forget what happened in 1962 when China occupied 45,000 sq km of Indian territory. While levelling such allegations, one must also think what happened in the past,” he had said.Thorat said, “The Congress party is with the government on the China issue, but that doesn’t mean that questions shouldn’t be asked on the issues of national interest. The questions raised by Rahul Gandhiji on border security is not politics, but discharging of our responsibility given to us by the people. We cannot compare the 1962 situation with that with what is happening today.”Congress is a junior partner in Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi ruled state government with Shiv Sena and NCP.Throat said that PM Modi did not utter a single word regarding the Chinese aggression in his Man Ki Baat on Sunday even after the concerns raised by Gandhi over the country’s integrity. “It is not the time to keep quiet. The BJP should not consider the Congress suggestions as politics. If it is about the country’s integrity, Rahulji and the Congress will continue to ask questions,” he said.Meanwhile, Congress has raised questions over the funding to the PM Cares Fund by leading Chinese companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-s-statement-unclear-he-too-was-worried-about-chinese-intrusion-congress/story-gJagcImUDIBuQNXmM24u1K.html
28-06-2020||City||No community spread of Covid-19 in Delhi: Amit Shah||NEW DELHI: Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said there is no community transmission of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi, and added that he was confident the Capital would not see 550,000 cases of the disease by July 31, as predicted by the state’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia earlier this month.In an interview to ANI, the Union home minister, who has been monitoring the Covid-19 situation in the national capital, said Sisodia’s comments created “fear” among people, and gave the Centre the cue to step in and coordinate the city’s response to the virus which has infected 83,077 people and killed 2,623 here till Sunday.“Around the second week of June, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that by July 31, there will be 5.50 lakh persons infected with the virus. He that there will be no place left, no beds left and the situation will be difficult. This created a lot of fear in the minds of people in Delhi. His estimate was based on figures. I do not want to go into whether estimate was right or wrong. But a situation of fear arose and some people started mulling an exodus (out of Delhi),” Shah said.“The situation regarding bodies (of Covid-19 victims) in Delhi was grim. Over 350 bodies were pending for last rites. We decided that within two days last rites of bodies will be done as per religion. Today, no body is left for last rites. Now last rituals are conducted same day,” Shah said.The Centre stepped in to manage the virus situation in Delhi on June 14, with Shah holding at least four meetings with central and state agencies so far, and visiting hospitals to assess their preparedness. “…After Manish ji’s remarks, I felt that the central government should not stay idle. Modi ji has accountability towards the country. The PM also told me that the home ministry should take initiative to move forward and help the Delhi government,” he said.The home minister stressed that there is coordination between the Centre and state in tackling Covid-19 in Delhi. “There is coordination...(Delhi CM) Arvind Kejriwal is always kept in the loop. Decisions are taken by involving him also,” he said.Reacting to the home minister’s interview, Sisodia in a statement on Sunday said, “Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal sought help and support of every agency to battle (the) corona (virus disease) in Delhi. We got tremendous support from the central government, religious organisations like Radha Soami Satsang, Akshardham Temple Trust, Terapanthi, various hotels, banquets halls, private hospitals and NGOs like Doctors for U, and others.” He added: “ For increasing testing, we sought central government’s assistance, and they helped us with procuring rapid testing kits. Since then, testing has been increased by four times. The Centre also provided us with oxygen cylinders, ITBP [Indo-Tibetan Border Police] doctors and nurses for Radha Soami Covid centre and guidance from domain experts. “The deputy CM himself hoped that the estimate of 5.5 lakh cases by the end of July would prove wrong and pointed out that the recovery rate in Delhi is now 62%. “We are hopeful that situation will improve in the coming weeks and will certainly not be as bleak as it looked in first week of June when domain experts predicted 5.5 lakh cases in Delhi by July 31.” Shah said a series of steps have been taken to stem the spread of the virus and ramp up medical facilities.“…I can say now with confidence that situation of 5.5 lakh cases will not come on July 31,” Shah said. He added that the situation would be in control by July 31 because the government has focussed on taking preventive steps, including more tests and contact tracing.“The evidence for or against community transmission in Delhi will come from the sero survey that has started in the city, and will be completed in next two weeks or so. It will be too premature to say anything before the results of the survey are out,” says Dr Sanjay K Rai, professor, centre for community medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.Shah also referred to the Delhi government’s decision to reserve hospitals, except those run by the Centre, for residents of Delhi — which was overturned by Lieutenant Governor Baijal — and said it was untenable.“I am also from outside Delhi. Where will I go, if something happens to me? Delhi is the capital of the country. And people from different states stay here, come and go,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-community-spread-of-covid-19-in-delhi-amit-shah/story-WzefX0iDe0CYpzX8RyONiO.html
28-06-2020||Gurugram||Cops seize marijuana worth ₹50 lakh from man in Sector 10||The police on Saturday arrested a man and allegedly seized 112 kilograms of marijuana (ganja), estimated to be worth ₹50 lakh, from his possession. The man was nabbed from village Sadhrana in sector 10 area. The suspect claimed that he had purchased the narcotics from a city-based supplier and had been peddling marijuana for at least 18 months in Delhi-NCR.According to the police, the suspect, Kuldeep alias Sulli, was arrested from his house in Kataria colony by a crime branch team fof Sikanderpur after a tip-off.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police, (ACP), crime, said, “The suspect had purchased the marijuana from a city-based supplier. He claimed to have paid Rs 5,000 per kg for the consignment. His plan was to sell it in small packets at ten times its cost. We are checking his criminal record.”The suspect was on Saturday produced in a district court and sent to police custody for two days. Investigators said they are questioning the man about his supply chain network in the city. A case has been registered against him under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at sector 10 A police station.Saturday’s bust was the biggest drug haul by the police in the last three months. In April, the same crime branch unit had arrested three men and seized 107 kilograms of marijuana (ganja), estimated to be valued at at least Rs 15 lakh, from a housekeeping shop in Udyog Vihar. One of their suppliers, a Bangladeshi national, was later arrested from Delhi. Earlier this week, two men were arrested with nine kilograms of marijuana in two separate cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cops-seize-marijuana-worth-50-lakh-from-man-in-sector-10/story-kCIOR48bxOQJ7OE3swpYyN.html
28-06-2020||City||Woman’s body found in a parked jeep in Nallasopara||A decomposed body of a 35-year-old woman was found in the cargo hold of a jeep, parked at the Chandansar area, Nallasopara (East) on Sunday night.The body was wrapped in a plastic bag. Locals informed the Tulinj police station after a foul stench emanated from the jeep. “We have sent the body for the post-mortem and have registered a case of murder against unknown persons, said a police officer. “The accused may have dumped the body in the open cargo hold of the jeep. We are questioning the owner of the vehicle and are investigating further,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-s-body-found-in-a-parked-jeep-in-nallasopara/story-Y1YL80roNwYdavWlgALpeP.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||FIR against govt official for not furnishing information under RTI||An FIR was lodged on Saturday against an unidentified ‘public servant’ in Ambala who failed to furnish documents sought by a Right to Information (RTI) applicant from the sub-divisional magistrate’s (SDM) office, saying these “were missing” or were “very old.”Applicant Neeraj Sharma of Ambala had on May 3, 2018, moved an RTI application asking for a copy of records from the city SDM’s office but didn’t get a response from the SDM-cum-SPIO (state public information officer). Later Sharma moved to FAA (first appellate authority)-cum-DC on June 25, 2018, which was decided in a month on July 23, 2018, the FIR states.Aggrieved with the decision, however, Sharma filed a second appeal before the Haryana state information commission, Chandigarh, on August 28, 2020, after which notices were issued to the parties. The SPIO informed the commission that the record in question had been “missing” and the other one was “very old.” After perusal of the case files the commission observed that the first appeal of the appellant was decided by the FAA with directions to the SPIO to provide the information within a week. The commission was also of the view that records of the years 2009 to 2011 had been sought, which were “not old”, so either the SPIO was concealing information or did not want to hand over the records to the applicant, the FIR states.The FIR was registered at the Ambala city police station under section 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant) of the IPC on the complaint of city SDM Subhash Sihag on Saturday. Sihag is currently SDM of Ambala Cantonment. Commenting on the matter, station in-charge Ram Kumar said, “In 2019, the DC received intimation from the information commissioner that an FIR should be registered against the officer who had lost the record. After this, we asked the SDM concerned to fix responsibility, but in his reply he said it was difficult to check who was on duty in that year as his offices have changed and many have been transferred. So, we’ve registered an FIR and will check the old office records to find out who was in charge back then.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fir-against-govt-official-for-not-furnishing-information-under-rti/story-QanLAEn0Lcwkdqx4L599QO.html
28-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram testing more than 1,000 samples per day||The district’s total tally of reported Covid-19 cases touched 5,158 on Sunday, a day after Gurugram breached the 5,000 mark. The district tested 1,302 new samples on Sunday of which 88 tested positive, bringing the daily test positivity rate to a record low of 6.8%, down from 11% the previous day. Just two weeks ago, on June 14, the TPR was 100%.On Sunday, Gurugram also recorded 279 recoveries (up from 202 the previous day), taking the recovery rate 72.6% (up from 78% on Saturday). The number of active cases in the district now stands at 1,327 — down from Saturday’s tally at 1,519. Of these, 839 patients are currently following home isolation, while 61 are hospitalised. The remaining 427 patients are under observation at various Covid-19 care facilities across the district. The district recorded just a single death in the last 24 hours. Gurugram on Sunday also collected 957 new samples, of which 30% were collected by the health department through targeted surveillance, using both antigen and RT-PCRtests), while 70% were random samples collected by private labs in the district.The district health bulletin data going back to June 16 shows that test results of most samples are being reported within a 24 hour period, reducing Gurugram’s backlog of samples to a total of 221. On June 11, this backlog was of almost 450 samples. The district is also now testing upwards of 1,000 samples per day — the most it has averaged since March — with private labs accounting for a large share of daily tests conducted.With an increase in private testing lowering the district’s test-positivity rate, Gurugram’s daily growth rate has dipped 2.2% on Sunday (down from 6% two weeks ago), while the doubling rate has increased to 33 days. At the current rate, the district is estimated to have between 8,000 to 9,000 reported cases (and between 500 to 600 active cases) within the next 30 days.Meanwhile, Haryana recorded 402 new cases on Sunday, down from 543 new cases on Saturday, with Faridabad’s share of 131 new cases being the largest. The state tally now stands at 13,829 cases, of which 8,917 have recovered (resulting in a recovery rate of 64.41%). The state’s total deaths stand at 223, or 1.61% of all reported cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-testing-more-than-1-000-samples-per-day/story-gyZy9qhy9Krv313W5sWI2I.html
28-06-2020||City||Immigration fraud: 38 travel agents landed in Haryana Police net this month||The special investigation team (SIT) formed to probe the immigration frauds has arrested 38 travel agents and registered 201 first information reports (FIRs) since June 2. Inspector general of police (Karnal Range) Bharti Arora, who is heading the investigation team, said, “As of now, 211 travel agents have been booked under the Emigration Act and 38 have been arrested from different districts.”“The police have also recovered Rs 5 lakh from some of these agents and more arrests are likely in the days to come. The number of FIRs is going up day by day as more people are coming forward to file their complaints,” the IG added. According to Arora, youths from Karnal, Ambala, Kurukshetra and Kaithal districts were “soft targets” for these agents. Maximum FIRs were registered in these districts — 52 in Karnal, 40 in Kaithal and 35 in Kurukshetra. The IG said that SIT was also investigating 270 FIRs registered in the state in the past two years against travel agents. PRE-ARREST BAILS HAMPERING PROGRESSThe police are facing problems in arresting such agents as many of them have already secured anticipatory bails.As per police officials, action against such travel agents has helped many youths in mustering courage to file a complaint.Kurukshetra superintendent of police Astha Modi said, “Maximum complaints have poured in from the districts near the Punjab border. Many victims from these areas sold their assets to go abroad, even illegally.”“Now, they are left with nothing,” she added. The police have even decided against taking any action against the youths duped by travel agents even as they also violated the international immigration laws by choosing illegal ways to chase their dollar dreams. They ended up coughing up Rs 15 lakh to Rs 30 lakh to reach the US. It is worth mentioning here that on June 2, Haryana home minister Anil Vij had constituted a seven-member SIT to investigate cases of ‘kabootarbazi’ (human trafficking) and immigration frauds in the state days after the US deported 76 people of Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/immigration-fraud-38-travel-agents-landed-in-haryana-police-net-this-month/story-Xmz9R9f3lM7DaAX50SgbFJ.html
28-06-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand forest department develops India’s first lichen park in Kumaon||Indicator of pollution levels in the Himalayas, Uttarakhand forest department has claimed to have developed country’s first lichen park in Kumaon’s Munsiyari area, spread over 1.5 acres with over 80 species of lichens collected from across the Himalayan state. Considered most significant bio-indicator of ecosystem fluctuations as they are more sensitive towards habitat and climate changes, lichen species are facing many threats and continue to decline from some areas of Himalayan regions because of overexploitation of natural resources, mounting pressures of urbanization, habitat-destruction, deforestation and increasing pollution, according to forest officials.Sanjiv Chaturvedi, Conservator of Forests (Research Wing) Uttarakhand said, lichens found in the Himalayas up to 5000 metres, are important species as they are the best bioindicators of the pollution levels.“Lichen need pure air to grow. If pollution levels increase in a certain area, the lichen species decline there. So it serves as a natural indicator of pollution levels in an area. And they are important to study in the Himalayas, given various threats to Himalayan environment and ecology”In July last year, HT had reported that state forest department had approved research project for studying lichens in the Himalayan state. The project aims to study the distribution of different lichen species, their habitat, their morphological and physiological aspects, surveying and literature review, the establishment of species, current threats to their habitat including anthropological and climatic factors, and coming up with suitable conservation strategies and protection strategies.Chaturvedi said these Jurassic-era lichen species are used in food, perfumes, dyes and traditional medicines.“Our aim of developing this Lichen Park is to create awareness among people here about their importance in the overall Himalayan ecology and how to link livelihood of these locals with these species and check their incriminate exploitation. One of the lichen species called Jhula Ghas is used as a flavouring agent in Hyderabadi biryani and some non-vegetarian dishes in North Indian cuisine. Their potential for antibiotics and sunscreen chemicals is also being explored by researchers. Some species can also withstand high levels of radiation and can be used as biological sensors that give us information about the environment”, said Chaturvedi.“We chose Munsiyari area for the park as it has a rich diversity of lichen species. Over 120 lichen species are found in this area. So it was easy for us to develop the park here”, he saidAccording to experts, Uttarakhand has more than 600 species of lichens followed by Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir with 503 and 386 species respectively. In Uttarakhand lichens are found in Chamoli, Champawat, Pithoragarh, Nainital, Dehradun region. Some lichen species found in the state include Parmotrema pertatum, Usnea lognissima, Lecanora subfuseescens, Sarcogyne privigna, Arthonia impolitella, Acarospora fusca, Acarospora oxytona, Polysporina dubia and so on.What is a lichen? A lichen is a composite organism that arises from algae or cyanobacteria living among filaments of multiple fungi species in a mutualistic relationship. They come in many colours, sizes and forms. The properties are sometimes plant-like but lichens are not plants. Lichens may have tiny, leafless branches, flat leaf-like structures.They are one of the oldest living things, grow in a wide range of habitat including some of the most extreme conditions like the arctic, tundra, hot dry desert rocky coasts, toxic heaps, roofs bare rocks, walls, exposed soil surfaces are some of the places where it can be easily found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-forest-department-develops-india-s-first-lichen-park-in-kumaon/story-tBJYbxiexPVTlxhjU6y1hO.html
28-06-2020||Gurugram||Online classes for kids, a task for parents||Every Monday to Friday, Aaryav Shukla, a four-year-old nursery student, logs in to a digital classroom sharp at noon. The classes are 60 minutes long and divided into two sessions with a 15-minute break in between. Around two teachers and six students appear in different grids of the laptop screen with parents making guest appearances and running in and out of the screen, often to catch hold and bring back one or more of their kids who decide to wander off.Aaryav’s mother, Sonu Singh, sits by his side throughout the class, coaxing the four-year-old to focus on the lessons and activities. “He often refuses to sit patiently and is constantly moving around in the house during the class. Half my time goes in ensuring that he sits and focuses on the class. It’s bedlam with teachers calling out the names of students and parents shouting ‘come back, sit here’ all at the same time. It’s the parents who are actually sitting and attending the classes,” said Singh.Aaryav is one of the scores of children who are adjusting to the new trend of online classes that have become a panacea of sorts in recent times. With the raging Covid-19 pandemic throwing up unprecedented challenges and leading to the physical closure of schools, online classes for children — starting from pre-school to senior school — have become the new vehicles for imparting lessons. As uncertainty prevails over the resumption of physical classes, these classes have invited both revulsion and reverence, with parents remaining a divided lot.Online live classes, for children in younger grades especially, have become a bone of contention throughout the country. So far two states—Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh— have banned live classes for students up till class 5. Maharashtra has discontinued online classes for children up till class 2. In other states,such as Telangana, parents and rights groups have also sought a ban on classes for younger children. Educationists say that online classes for toddlers were akin to children interacting with strangers, since most children were not familiar with teachers and peers. In such a scenario, pushing children into online classes could be an uneasy experience for them, say experts. While parents said that it was not easy sitting around with younger children for these classes and there was very little value addition, they agreed still that online classes brought some semblance of routine for the child.“I feel it is a bit too much for his age, but at the same time, he stays engaged at least for some part of the day. Learning takes place, albeit slowly,” said Singh. With wavering attention spans, ensuring that children were looped in during the class was a key challenge, added other parents.Umang Singla, a parent of a nursery student who started school this year, said that while online classes were not a 100% substitute for the routine ones, learning had to continue in some way during the current circumstances. “Children who started school this year have never met their teachers or classmates in a physical classroom space. Their first meeting took place online. The experience has been challenging, but everyone is trying to adapt to the situation gradually,” said Singla.He said that one of the key challenges during these classes were for parents, who are required to be around children all throughout. “The sessions initially took place for a shorter duration between one to two hours and have gradually increased to two hours or more. For working parents, juggling classes can be difficult,” added Singla.Ashu Panwar, another parent, whose four-year-old daughter Zara is in kindergarten, agreed that getting children to sit for online classes was a task in itself. For parents, the maximum effort went into ensuring that the child was focusing on the classes. “My daughter’s attention span is very low. After every ten minutes, she wants to stand up and tries to run away. I keep changing her place to ensure that she doesn’t doze off and stays alert. Even the extent to which children grasp what’s being taught has reduced since their attention span is wavering,” said Panwar, who is often compelled to use hacks to ensure that her daughter pays attention to the class. “Sometimes, I have to bribe Zara to sit through the class. I tell her that I’ll do something for her in return if she sits quietly,” she added.A digital marketing professional, Panwar has been working from home along with her husband. Managing professional work, household chores along with online classes was not easy, said Panwar. Classes take place from 9am to 11am and sometimes, for longer. During these hours, Panwar is unable to take any calls or focus on any other work. “Virtual classes don’t feel like classes but as they say, something is better than nothing. The pandemic is not going away soon and some semblance of learning has to take place since parents are not always equipped to teach,” she said.Most parents with younger kids said that online classes required a lot of effort and seemed to be directed more at parents than students. For most of them, the routine offered by these classes was more of a motivation than the nature of learning that took place during the classes. School administrators, however, said that online classes have ensured real-time interactivity for a student, which was crucial in the current circumstances. “It is important for students to be engaged in a constructive manner especially at a time when we are all being encouraged to not have any contact with the outside world. It helps their mental growth and happiness,” said Kunal Bhadoo, director of Kunskapsskolan Schools.Bhadoo said that the school had not received any complaints from parents pertaining to online classes, so far. He added that learning during online classes was parent-led, which was a crucial intervention, especially for younger children. “Parents are doing the hand-holding during online classes. Learning flows from the teacher to the parent and the parent to the child. It is needed since children need support at home,” said Bhadoo.Educationist Gowri Ishwaran said that schools could administer activity-based assignments and worksheets for children in nursery and younger classes over online classes. She said that most children starting school this year were unfamiliar with teachers and peers due to which cementing a relationship solely through online interaction will be difficult.“Children who started schooling this year and are attending online nursery classes are essentially interacting with strangers. They didn’t get the chance to know their teachers in person due to the unprecedented circumstances created by this Covid-19 pandemic. Relating to a complete stranger online doesn’t come naturally for a 3 or 4-year-old. I don’t think incoming nursery students this year need regular digital exposure,” said Ishwaran.She suggested that schools could share resources with parents for keeping children engaged, “Children know their parents and can learn comfortably from them. Parents don’t need to be paranoid about the content of classes or the syllabus in such times.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/online-classes-for-kids-a-task-for-parents/story-SHH862S7YLEjVJybg0BRpJ.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER to be validation centre for rapid Covid-19 diagnostic tests||The Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research is setting up a committee to validate a point of care (POC) rapid diagnostic test to detect the presence of viral proteins (antigens) expressed by the Covid-19 virus from samples from respiratory tracts, it has been learnt.These antigen detection tests will be quick, accurate, cover a large chunk of the population, and be done POC or where the patient is being cared for.The institute was chosen as a validation centre as part of an Indian Council of Medical and Research (ICMR) programme for clinical trials for such tests for Covid-19 cases. The need for the reliable and convenient test was felt as the popular reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) diagnostic test for Covid-19 is not widely available. It has the potential to be used in all possible public and private healthcare settings and made available for mass testing.Dr Jagat Ram, director PGIMER, said it had been decided after a round of meetings that samples of the same suspected persons will be conducted through RT-PCR as well as the antigen kits.“The results will be later collated for the authenticity of the kits which we will shortly receive. According to ICMR conditions a minimum of 300 rapid antigen tests will be required for each validation and the results will be communicated to ICMR,” he added.On execution plans, he said, “A committee will be constituted to work out the modalities and comprehensive plan along with timelines to meet the desired expectations of ICMR and contribute towards containing the pandemic.”“The availability of antigen-based detection tests is very limited all across the world. Most of such tests have relatively moderate sensitivity but high specificity. The test is a promising tool to keep a track of Covid-19 patients by rapid testing,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-to-be-validation-centre-for-rapid-covid-19-diagnostic-tests/story-mJnQfiPMge2i4WFSyCssKI.html
28-06-2020||Gurugram||Colleges asked to focus on students’ mental health, provide support||College teachers will collaborate with the health department, which has recently launched a mental health tele-counselling service number 1075 to help address mental health concerns during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. As part of the collaboration, college teachers will be trained to further expand the scope of the helpline and ensure that students avail the service. Colleges are also exploring the possibility of including conversations around mental health as part of lesson plans.To address the concerns of students and guide colleges in chalking out the modalities of mental health support, a team of doctors conducted a webinar for college principals on Saturday. They discussed various issues pertaining to rising mental stress and anxiety during the pandemic and coping mechanisms. Pooja Khullar, the principal of Dronacharya Government College, said that mental health concerns due to the spread of the pandemic were afflicting students as well.“Students are slipping into depression and anxiety due to various reasons. They are confined to their houses and struggling with uncertainties. Some of them are also facing parental pressure at home. Recent incidents of celebrity deaths have also generated a conversation around mental health concerns, which necessitates that students are made aware of the various options where they can avail support,” Khullar said.She said that doctors had advised teachers to play a proactive role and ensure that students can share their concerns in appropriate forums. “We are considering the possibility of approaching the university and introducing changes in the curriculum. We can design the curriculum in such a way that every week, we have one or two sessions dedicated to discussing mental health,” Khullar said.She said that the department was working on the modalities, but for now, the health department would be sharing necessary resources on dealing with mental health issues, which would be circulated among the student community.Satyamanyu Yadav, the principal of Government College in Sector 9, said that teachers had been asked to popularise the state mental health helpline number among students and motivate them to avail help from experts if needed. Based on requirements, the department was also willing to hold separate webinars for college students, Yadav said.“With no end to the pandemic in sight, students are worried about their future. Such concerns can be dealt with better communication and help from experts. Doctors from the health department said that they’d be training teachers so that they can communicate better and reach out to students,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/colleges-asked-to-focus-on-students-mental-health-provide-support/story-IOh2i0MC4fst3ZoaQYY9AP.html
28-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Work stopped at Sirhaul underpass after GMDA, pvt developers fail to pay their share||In a major setback to the Sirhaul underpass and flyover project, coming up on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has decided to stop work after they failed to get funds from the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and two private stakeholders. The NHAI said that almost 75% of the work has been completed on the Rs 162 crore project but the contractor has been compelled to stop work as they were unable to get funds from GMDA, DLF and Ambience Developers.Going by the memorandum of understanding (MoU), the GMDA has to bear 50% of the cost of the u-turn underpass at the Sirhaul toll plaza while Ambience Developers and DLF were to pay 25% of the cost each. Likewise, the GMDA was supposed to pay 25% of the cost of the Shankar Chowk flyover, while NHAI would bear the rest.Ashok Sharma, project director, NHAI said they have written to the stakeholders time and again since June 2019 asking them to make payments but nothing has happened. “We have spent more than our share of the funds but have not received funds from the other stakeholders. Work has been stopped as it violates the MoU. The NHAI can’t spend beyond what has been stipulated in the agreement or beyond its mandate,” he said.The u-turn underpass, opposite Ambience Mall, will help commuters turn towards Iffco Chowk on the expressway without going all the way to Rajokri in Delhi. The flyover at Shankar Chowk would allow traffic coming from Cyber Hub to take a seamless turn towards Delhi and Udyog Vihar with ease. Both are part of the same project.The halting of work at this stage could also delay the projects and it could miss its deadline of September 4. “If funds are paid up in the next week or so, we are confident of completing the underpass and the flyover in time, otherwise it will be delayed,” said a representative of the contractor, not authorised to speak to the media.According to details shared by the NHAI, the GMDA has to pay Rs 14.74 crore as its share of the total cost of the flyover. Ambience Developers and DLF, meanwhile, have to pay Rs 25.737 crore each, which is 25% each of the total cost of the project.Till date, the NHAI has spent Rs 70 crore on this project, said Sharma.When asked about the matter, a DLF spokesperson said it was committed to paying its share for the project. “We have always supported authorities in completing our commitments. We are committed to paying our share. We have always worked for improvement of the infrastructure in the city and the 16 lanes Raghvendra Marg expressway is a testament to it,” he added.A representative of Ambience Developers said that the matter had been delayed due to the pandemic in the last three-four months. “The matter is under consideration of the headquarters but due to closure of offices since March, the issue could not be finalised,” said Vijay Aima, vice president, Ambience Developers.KC Sharma, General Manager (technical)-cum-project coordinator, GMDA, did not respond despite repeated phone calls and messages.Gurgaon MLA Sudhir Singla, meanwhile, said that this infrastructure project was crucial for the city and he will take up the issue of funds with higher authorities. “This matter has come to my notice only now. I will take up this issue with GMDA officials and also the state government in Chandigarh. This project should not get delayed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-work-stopped-at-sirhaul-underpass-after-gmda-pvt-developers-fail-to-pay-their-share/story-AMENxQlIzOYpKTKDG2pxMJ.html
28-06-2020||Gurugram||Haryana Police brings down passport verification time from 21 days to five days||The passport verification process of the Haryana Police that earlier used to take 21 days has been brought down to five days across the state, said police officials. The state is trying hard to cut it down to three days. The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the Haryana Police has also taken an initiative to improve the system further by launching an m-passport police application for speedy submission of requests for verification. The application allows field-level verification officers to directly upload the verification report on the system digitally.Commenting on the matter, Anil Rao, the additional director general of police, CID, said that earlier, it used to take a total of 71 days to issue an Indian passport. This was nearly three times than the recommended period of 24 days fixed by the government. The police took twice as long as they should — 42 instead of 21 days — to verify applicants’ information. “The average time taken earlier was more than 21 days. The situation has now significantly improved,” Rao said.There are two regional passport offices in the region — one in Delhi and the other in Chandigarh — that cater to the residents of Haryana. While Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal, Nuh, Narnaul, Rewari, Jhajjar, Rohtak, Sonepat and Charkhi Dadri are covered by the Delhi office, the Chandigarh office covers areas such as Panchkula, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Hisar, Hansi, Kaithal, Bhiwani, Sirsa, Jind, Fatehabad, Karnal and Panipat, said the police. The passport applications received in Delhi and Chandigarh are sent online to their respective districts for verification. The security branch of the district concerned then downloads them and sends a hard copy to the police station concerned, along with a copy to CID headquarters.Rao said that a CID verification is mainly conducted to determine if the applicant’s name exists on any surveillance list, lists of hardcore terrorists, harbourers, history sheeters, etc. The Online Passport Sewa project was implemented in Haryana in May 2010. Since CID acts as a nodal agency in conducting verification of applications, strenuous efforts were made by officers of the Haryana Police and the CID to do away with the delay. The Government of India has fixed 21 days for police verification for which ₹150 per application is reimbursed to the respective state. “If verification is sent before 21 days, then ₹150 per application is reimbursed. “ We have brought down the average time taken in verification of passport application to five days. Despite a heavy rush of applications, we are trying our best to cut down on the verification time,” said Rao, adding that this would be brought down to three days. Due its impressive performance, the state was adjudged as one of the three best states in India by the ministry of external affairs on Passport Seva Dewas last year. The state has received nearly ₹20 crore last year and is expecting to receive ₹25 crore, said Rao. Last week, Haryana Police bagged the third rank in speedy passport verification across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-police-brings-down-passport-verification-time-from-21-days-to-five-days/story-6DjEWvebbCYeIaDbPdFvAK.html
28-06-2020||Gurugram||Brick kiln owner’s murder: Owner of car used in the crime arrested||Two days after a 42-year-old brick kiln owner was shot dead allegedly by two armed men in Sohna, the owner of the car used by the two suspects for the murder was arrested on Sunday, the police said. Both the murder suspects had been identified, the police said, adding that the motive behind the alleged murder was “revenge”.On Friday at 10.40 am, Virendra Dayma, a resident of Chungi number 1 in Sohna, was sitting on a chair outside when a white Alto car had stopped near the gate of his house. Two armed men had alighted from the car and fired several gunshots at him. He had suffered eight gunshot wounds and had succumbed to the injuries on the spot. His brother, Narendra, has said that he was in an adjacent room and had seen the suspects flee in the car.The police arrested one Amit Dagar, 30, from Alipur in Bhondsi on Sunday. Dagar is the owner of the Alto car, in which the two suspects had escaped after the murder.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said, “Our probe found that Dagar got a WhatsApp call from his friend Sonu Rathi, who asked him to give his car to Rathi’s brother-in-law, Dharmender—who is the prime suspect in the case. Dharmender along with an aide planned the murder and had shot Dayma.” The police said after the shooting, the two suspects had driven to Alipur to return the car to Dagar and asked him to hide it. The car is yet to be recovered, and Dharmender and his accomplice still remain at large.ACP said Dharmender’s father was allegedly murdered at least 15 years ago and the victim’s brother Narendra was arrested and later convicted in the case. “He had been serving time and was recently released on parole during the lockdown. So prima facie, it appears that Dharmender planned to murder Narendra’s brother to avenge his father’s death. Several crime teams are trying to trace the suspects,” the ACP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/brick-kiln-owner-s-murder-owner-of-car-used-in-the-crime-arrested/story-Kd8GzXtjFh7XqaFTfciUOK.html
28-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram, Faridabad malls to reopen from July 1; social distancing, sanitisation focal points||Malls in Gurugram and Faridabad districts are all set to reopen from July 1 onwards — after a three month hiatus —a set of Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), released by the Haryana government on Sunday, stated.On Friday, during a press conference at Civil Lines, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh had said that malls will reopen in Gurugram next week. However, the exact date of reopening had not been disclosed. The MCG commissioner had also said that an official order in this regard was expected to be issued by the Haryana government soon.“The SOP will serve as a guideline of lists and rules mall owners need to comply with when they reopen their respective establishments. The mandatory points mentioned in the SOP need to be strictly enforced and followed. Any violation of this may result in penalties or requisite actions being taken against mall owners or management as per law,” said Singh.As per the SOP issued by the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB), malls can open between 9am and 8pm, but cinema halls, gaming arcades and play areas for children will continue to remain closed. Social distancing and wearing of masks need to be strictly followed by visitors and all mall workers at all times. Visitors also need to install the Aarogya Setu app. Visitors above the age of 65 and below the age of 10 will not be permitted to visit shopping malls,” the SOP states.Mall authorities will have to ensure that every visitor is scanned for temperature via thermal scanners as well as to ensure that hand-sanitizers are placed at all entry points. The mall authorities have also been directed to prevent large gatherings or congregations and to ensure that all mall employees who are at high risk, such as senior citizens, pregnant women, and those who have underlying medical conditions, are “preferably” not placed in any front-line work requiring direct interaction with public.Temperature setting of all air-conditioners should be between 24-30 degrees Celsius, the rules further stated.The SOP also says that use of escalators can be permitted if visitors travel on alternate steps. Valet parking can be operational provided the staff is wearing masks, and gloves, and steering wheels, door handles, car keys are properly disinfected. The SOP also lays out guidelines to be followed if someone tests positive, directing that after placing the person in a “room or area” where they can remain isolated, they must be provided with a mask and the owners must immediately inform the closest hospital or clinic, or else “call the state or district helpline”.“A risk assessment will be undertaken by the designated public health authority...and accordingly further action be initiated regarding management of the case, his/her contacts and need for disinfection,” the new rules say. The premises must be immediately disinfected if a person tests positive.Regarding shopkeepers and vendors, the SOP states that, apart from ensuring social distancing norms and “preventive measures”, they must ensure “staggering of visitors...to ensure not more than 50% seating capacity at any particular time”. The latter is also applicable for food courts where staff and waiters also have to wear masks and hand gloves. In food courts, the SOP states, seating arrangements must be made while ensuring social distancing, and “contactless mode of ordering and digital modes of payment” encouraged.The municipalities have been directed to “monitor compliance” of the directions “by undertaking regular visits”, and to check that proper sanitization is done. They have also been given the power to issue challans of Rs 500 to visitors “not wearing/using face masks”, and handing five masks to them.“If any violation of the guidelines issued by ministry of health & family welfare, Government of India, is noticed, challans shall be issued against each violation... violations shall be punishable under the provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005 as well as under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860,” the order states.Shobha Sengupta, president of South Point Condominium Association, which overlooks all maintenance and day-to-day functions at South Point Mall on Golf Course Road, said that the SOP will be vital for the association to start preparations for reopening as it provides a checklist on all the requisite safety measures and precautions that need to be undertaken.“Following the issuance of the SOP, we have already started disinfecting and sanitising operations to ensure that the mall reopens in the safest possible manner. All the shops have been out of business for more than three months. Hence, we have also simultaneously started procuring all requisite protective gears for our staff and other necessary equipment to ensure shop owners do not lose out on any day of business, and operations can commence from July 1 itself,” said Sengupta.Barring Gurugram and Faridabad district, where cases of coronavirus are the highest in Haryana, the directorate of urban local bodies (ULB) had issued an SOP for malls in all other districts of the state on June 7.“Although we welcome the reopening of malls, we’ll not be opening our establishment right away. We’ll be monitoring the footfall at the mall for one week and then take a call accordingly. We don’t want to be in a situation where our running costs exceed the total earnings,” said Vikram Rana, owner of Vapour Bar Exchange, located at Global Foyer Mall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-faridabad-malls-to-reopen-from-july-1-social-distancing-sanitisation-focal-points/story-KzvWBr1ZSZPDKo7kjPxFHO.html
28-06-2020||City||Noida may see light rains today||Noida: The city may see light rain on Monday evening, the India Meteorological Department said on Sunday.Even as the monsoon has covered the entire region of western UP, Noida and neighbouring cities are yet to see proper rainfall. “Monday may see light rains towards the evening hours. The maximum temperature is likely to hover around 40 degrees Celsius,” said an IMD official.According to weather experts, though the monsoon has arrived, the region is expected to see rains only after July 3 due to certain unfavourable weather activities. The experts said that the current line of trough (low pressure line) which passes through Punjab to West Bengal via southern Haryana keeps oscillating from north to south.“There is a trough line on the north of Delhi leading to westerly winds. It may change and shift a little by tomorrow evening that will be favourable for the light rains towards the evening,” said Mahesh Palawat, director of Skymet, a private weather forecasting agency.He said that with current trough line towards norther region, a large part of Delhi-NCR and western Uttar Pradesh would remain largely dry and thus, despite the arrival of monsoon, will only see light and patchy rains like pre-monsoon showers.“Good rainfall is expected in the region between July 3 and 5. Till then, there will only be drizzling or patchy rains. The maximum temperatures will also hover around 40 degrees Celsius,” said Palawat.The IMD had earlier announced the early arrival of monsoon due to the favourable weather conditions.On Sunday, the maximum temperature in Noida was recorded at 40.2 degrees Celsius, three notches above the season’s average, and against 39 degrees a day earlier, the IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-may-see-light-rains-today/story-sFF2dv9ArUiP5EJwyGfGvL.html
28-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad: 200-metre ramp connecting Hindon elevated road with Delhi-Meerut e-way opened||Ghaziabad: Commute for thousands of vehicles will now become easier as the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has opened up a 200-metre ramp providing direct access to the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) from the Hindon elevated road in Ghaziabad.Till now, motorists coming from the Hindon elevated road had to descend near UP-Gate and travel about 150 metres on the wrong side to climb on to the UP-Gate flyover and reach Phase 1 of the DME. Last year, the vice chairperson of the Ghaziabad development authority (GDA) had held meetings with the NHAI following which a ramp was proposed to be constructed to ease commuting.“The ramp is about 200 metres and we have opened it. Now, commuters coming from the Hindon elevated road can descend at UP-Gate and go directly to the DME’s phase 1 without needing to take the wrong turn. But this facility is two-laned and is for the use of two-wheelers and cars only. We will not allow any heavy vehicles as it has a high ascend,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI.The six-lane Hindon elevated road connects Ghaziabad’s Raj Nagar Extension to UP-Gate via a stretch of 10.3km, intended to provide direct connectivity to the DME.The GDA has restricted speed limit over the Hindon elevated road to 80kmph, against the design speed of 100kmph, and has also disallowed entry of heavy traffic vehicles. It is largely used by commuters as a bypass road to east Delhi.The Phase 1 of the DME spans Akshardham in Delhi to UP-Gate border while phase 2 stretches from UP-Gate to Dasna over 19.2km. The phase 3, Dasna to Meerut over a stretch of 32km, is under construction. It was scheduled to open in May but got delayed due to the national lockdown.The phase 4 of the project, from Dasna to Hapur, is already operational.“The work progress for phase 2 is about 79% and for phase 4 it is about 72%. Although we have missed the deadline due to the lockdown and scarcity of labour, we are targeting to finish the two phases in December. We have about 47 underpasses proposed for phase 4 and four more have been proposed for the benefit of nearby villagers to connect to the Eastern Peripheral Expressway,” Garg added.Phase 2, overall, has 17 underpasses proposed for commuters.“At present, the physical work progress of phase 2 and 4 is slow due to scarcity of labour. Further, we have monsoon season approaching which will further slow down work. But we have planned to complete the project by the end of December,” Garg added.The operational phase 1 of the project caters to about 1.2 lakh passenger car units (PCU) while phase 2 is proposed to cater to 80,000 PCUs. The phases 3 and 4 have been planned to cater to 60,000 PCUs and 40,000 PCU, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-200-metre-ramp-connecting-hindon-elevated-road-with-delhi-meerut-e-way-opened/story-lNFcMvglLvVA1nHsuwzvJN.html
28-06-2020||Noida||Noida Covid-19 tally reaches 2,151; death toll rises to 22||The death toll due to Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar district rose to 22 on Sunday with one more fatality, while the total number of cases reached 2,151, official data showed.The district has recorded 82 new cases since Saturday and 83 patients were discharged during the 24-hour period, according to the UP Health Department data.The number of active Covid-19 cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar stood at 910, the highest in the state, the data showed.So far, 1,219 patients have been discharged after recovery from Covid-19, it added.The total number of positive cases reported in the district stands at 2,151 (910 active cases + 1,219 discharged cases + 22 deceased), the data showed.The recovery rate of patients improved slightly to 56.67 per cent on Sunday from 54.62 per cent on Saturday and 53.39 per cent on Friday. It was 56.76 per cent on Thursday, 59.67 per cent on Wednesday and 60.25 per cent on Tuesday, according to the data.Gautam Buddh Nagar has the highest number of active cases (910) in Uttar Pradesh, followed by Ghaziabad (715), Lucknow (411), Kanpur Nagar (329), Meerut (290), Hapur (250), Aligarh (191) and Bulandshahr (179), the data stated.From Saturday to Sunday, 606 new Covid-19 cases were reported in districts across the state, while 593 patients were discharged and 11 deaths recorded during the 24-hour period. As of Sunday, Uttar Pradesh has 6,679 active Covid-19 cases. So far, 14,808 patients have been discharged, while 660 deaths have been recorded, the data stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-covid-19-tally-reaches-2-151-death-toll-rises-to-22/story-n82bhxx2qTS4sp2gKLYnPN.html
28-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad to start week-long antigen test drive from July 1||Ghaziabad Amid the rising number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the district, the health department has decided to launch a week-long rapid antigen testing drive from July 1, wherein about 500 tests will be conducted daily, officials said.According to the officials, they have been able to conduct about 250 tests per day during the ongoing antigen testing which started on Friday. Till Sunday, a total of 716 tests through of regular antigen testing were done, of which 64 came out positive. The officials said that 37 of the 64 positive results came during testing on Sunday alone, in areas such as Indirpauram and Vaishali, among others. “At present, our average antigen testing is about 250 per day and we will scale it mandatorily to 500 tests per day during the week-long drive. During the drive, we will focus on areas of Indirpauram, Vaishali, Vasundhara and Kaushambi, among others, as they have a high number of cases. We are working on composition of teams that will include lab technicians. Such teams will be deployed at convenient locations near several containment zones. Currently, we have only about 25 lab technicians with us who are also involved in sampling for RT-PCR tests,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.Recently, 8,000 antigen test kits were provided by the state government to ramp up testing in containment zones.“Once the result of an antigen test comes out positive, it is counted as ‘true’ positive. But for the rest, we again take samples and send them for RT-PCR tests to confirm ‘true’ negative. The antigen testing will be separate from our regular RT-PCR sampling, which is about 450 per day at present,” Gupta said.Till June 28, Ghaziabad had a total of 1393 cases (60 fresh), cases, which included 50 deaths so far and 715 active cases. In past 24 hours, 25 patients were discharged.According to government records, the district could take only 149 samples for Covid-19 test in March, 2,729 in April, 7,106 in May and about 8,500 in June, so far. These figures bring the total number of samples collected so far to 18,500, which is not even 1% of the estimated 42 lakh population of the district.The UP government on Saturday had announced one-week-long special door-to-door surveillance activities in order to identify the suspected cases and people having comorbidities.According to state officials, the antigen testing drive will start from the Meerut division which includes six districts, which has been provided with a total of 30,000 antigen test kits. Health teams will be scanning for cases of influenza like illness (ILI) in containment zones while cases of and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) will be taken up in non-containment zones, they said.“In all areas, we will trace people having comorbid conditions, and will also be doing risk profiling of aged persons. Our teams will also be alerting them about safety and precautions to be taken up,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health).Residents seek nod for home isolation Meanwhile, several residents in the district have claimed that people are not coming forward for tests as Uttar Pradesh is yet to give nod for home isolation of Covid-19 positive patients.“There was a positive case in my office and it was essential for me to go for a Covid-19 test. But I decided against it as the state has no norm for home isolation of positive patients, and I didn’t want to land in a government hospital. In places like Delhi, home isolation is allowed,” said a resident of Ahimsa Khand in Indirapuram, who is an engineer with a company in Noida, asking not to be named.“Not everyone can afford the bills of private health care facilities. So, many people are not willing to take up Covid-19 tests in Ghaziabad,” he added.In a recent instance, a couple who tested positive for Covid-19 in Shakti Khand, Indirapuram, left for their other house in Delhi as they did not wish to go to a government hospital in Ghaziabad. “The couple has a six-month-old baby. So, they locked their Indirapuram home and stayed in home isolation at their other house in Delhi,” said Indirapuram resident Kuldeep Saxena, who knows about the couple.Alok Kumar, founder member of the federation of apartment owners’ associations in Ghaziabad, said he has written to the UP health department and Ghaziabad officials to allow home isolation.“We have given them a proposal. If they allow home isolation of asymptomatic positive patients, many societies in the city are willing to come up with in-house isolation facility. We will also arrange equipment like infrared thermometers, pulse oxymeters, etc. This will be beneficial for residents and will also lessen burden on health care facilities. Besides, home isolation is allowed as per guidelines of Ministry of Home Affairs,” Kumar added.Health officials said they also agree that the burden on health care infrastructure will lessen in case home isolation is allowed. “We have received a number of requests to allow home isolation facilities at high-rises. Since it is a policy decision, it cannot be taken up at the local level,” CMO Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-to-start-week-long-antigen-test-drive-from-july-1/story-2nsdvSn4SrFqg1QcmUQc9L.html
28-06-2020||City||Palkhis to be taken to Pandharpur in ST buses, CM to visit temple town||PUNE The two temple trusts of Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj and Sant Tukaram Maharaj have decided to take their respective Palkhis (palanquin) carrying ‘padukas’ of presiding saints to Pandharpur through state transport bus on the occasion of Ashadhi Ekadashi on July 1.The palkhis will leave on June 30 for Pandharpur.The Maharashtra government has cancelled the annual wari procession amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Pune division commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar in a letter to the two temple trusts’ conveyed that all the required security measures will be in place and only 20 persons will be allowed during the commute.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will also visit the temple town.In his address on Sunday, Thackeray said he will visit Pandharpur on July 1 during the Ekadashi – 11th day of Hindu month Ashad, considered to be auspicious – to pray to Lord Vitthal to make Maharashtra virus free. As part of a long-standing tradition of state on Ashadhi Ekadashi, the CM on behalf of the state offers prayers at the temple dedicated to Lord Vitthal.“I consider myself fortunate that I had joined Wari (annual pilgrimage) in a helicopter during 2010 to click aerial photos. I will go to Pandharpur this Ekadashi and pray for freedom from Covid-19,” said Thackeray.SPPU to organise virtual wariOn the occasion of Ekadashi, Savitribai Phule Pune University (SSPU) will be holding week-long ‘virtual wari’ programme from June 29 to July 4.SPPU’s Student Welfare Board (SWB) and National Service Scheme (NSS) department has planned this initiative. Under this initiative, around 40,000 students from SPPU and affiliated colleges will participate in various social activities at their village or city following all the social distancing rules and taking safety precautionary measures.Prof Nitin Karmalkar, SPPU vice-chancellor; NS Umrani, pro-vice-chancellor; SPPU’s management council members Rajesh Pande and Bageshree Manthalkar were present for the press conference on Sunday.Pande said, “It will be a week-long programme in which there will be various initiatives like on Monday, June 29, the online inaugural ceremony will be there through social media platforms. Then on June 30, Tuesday students will participate in local governing bodies cleanliness and sanitisation drives. Also, they will create awareness amongst people about Covid-19 disease and what all precautionary measures need to be taken.”“On July 1 there will be blood donation camps and health checkup drives and on July 2 students will again create awareness about open defecation and spitting. On July 3 we have appealed all the students and faculties to plant a tree wherever they are and then finally on July 4 the closing ceremony of this drive will be there,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palkhis-to-be-taken-to-pandharpur-in-st-buses-cm-to-visit-temple-town/story-KsTbrVboqxSd8M9xecKjmM.html
28-06-2020||City||20 metro labourers declared Covid-free, no active cases in labour camps||Twenty metro labourers who contracted the Covid-19 infection have now been declared virus-free, and currently, there are no active Covid positive cases in any of the labour camps, according to metro officials.Earlier, there were 880 labourers out of 2,300 dedicated to the Pune metro lines. Some of the labourers who left for home via the Shramik trains have now started returning to Pune. At present, there are over 1,000 Mahametro labourers living in the camps.Hemant Sonawane, Mahametro general manager said, “The 20 labourers who contracted the infection have now been declared as virus-free and have resumed working. All the 20 positive cases were detected from the metro’s Shastrinagar labour camp at Yerawada, which is in a containment zone, but fortunately, the labour camp is now Covid free and so are our remaining 15 labour camps. There are about 70 labourers at the Yerawada labour camp and all of them have tested negative.” The Mahametro labour camps are located across the city in areas including, Range Hills, Wagholi, Kasarwadi, and Kothrud.According to Sonawane, the labourers who are returning to work get a certificate and they are also screened at the entrance. The Pune metro has started work on the Shivajinagar and Swargate underground tunnel routes and the Civil Court to Ramwadi route at the Dhole Patil chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-metro-labourers-declared-covid-free-no-active-cases-in-labour-camps/story-RlK8b773eL7Da0vyJR0Z3I.html
28-06-2020||City||55-year-old man dies, cousin injured in Ludhiana hit-and-run||A man died while his cousin was injured after a speeding pick-up auto hit the motorcycle they were riding near the Bharat Nagar Chowk on Sunday morning.After the accident, the auto driver managed to escape from the spot in his vehicle.The victim has been identified as Gurjeet Singh, 55, of Guru Harsahai. He, along with his cousin, Gurmeet Singh, 54, was returning home after paying obeisance at a religious place.Gurmeet told the police, “Gurjeet was driving the bike. When we reached near the Bharat Nagar Chowk, a pickup auto hit the motorcycle from behind. My cousin died on the spot.”ASI Dharmvir Singh, investigating the case, said the police were trying to trace the auto driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/55-year-old-man-dies-cousin-injured-in-ludhiana-hit-and-run/story-5PJweqthYPR3xYNf1z2WWI.html
28-06-2020||City||Hotel staffer held for raping 1-yr-old girl in Punjab’s Mohali district||An employee of a hotel has been arrested for raping a one-year-old girl in Zirakpur, the Mohali district police said on Sunday. The victim has been admitted to the community health centre in Dhakoli, where her condition is stated to be serious.The accused has been identified as Om Prakash, who belongs to Uttar Pradesh and works in the housekeeping section of a hotel on Patiala Road in Zirakpur. The girl’s mother works as a construction labourer at a site near the hotel. She told police that as a daily routine, she had taken her daughter along for work on Saturday and had left her under the shade of a tree in a park near the work site. Upon returning, she found the accused sexually assaulting the infant in the bushes. As she raised the alarm, he fled. A case has been registered under Sections 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code besides the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hotel-staffer-held-for-raping-1-yr-old-girl-in-punjab-s-mohali-district/story-R1KotKOMugczQTcLZKmpWJ.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Integrated amenities’ hubs to come up for travellers on Y’nagar highways||To offer basic amenities to travellers crossing Yamunanagar, at least three integrated wayside amenities hubs are set to come up in the district.The hubs will come up at various entry points of the district and each one will offer a range of essential services such as food courts, healthcare, automotive services, restrooms, fuel stations and shopping centres. With these entities, highway commuters will be able to plan a designated halt and access all services in one place.Officials say that this will not only boost the local economy but also lessen the chances of any mishap owing to unauthorised constructions.District town planner Amit Madhoulia said that the plan, which is currently in the draft phase, will provide these services in a phased manner to the tourists coming to Yamunanagar or crossing the district on their way to Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand or Uttar Pradesh. “Pilgrims from across the country travel to Haridwar and most of them cross Yamunanagar on the way and we’ve some religious places in the district too. The district is a big industrial hub and connects Haryana with three neighbouring states. The hub will provide all services on 10 acres of land in an organised manner which will also reduce the risk of accidents caused due to many wayside entities currently functioning in an unorganised manner,” Amit said. “Kalanaur area, Chhachhrauli road and Fatehpuri village are the major entry points where we are planning to set up these centres. The plan has been approved by the state government and will soon be submitted to the competent authority who will decide the budget and other formalities,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/integrated-amenities-hubs-to-come-up-for-travellers-on-y-nagar-highways/story-hNuiLsnGIJnZ93nZMlZ0YN.html
28-06-2020||City||Man opens fire at rival’s house in Jagraon||A resident of Lamma village of Jagraon opened fire at the house of his rival in Jatpura village on the night of June 25.Later, he sent a video message on WhatsApp to his rival saying “either you kill me or I will kill you”. The Hathur police have lodged an FIR against the accused, identified as Sukhpreet Singh, alias Sukha, following a complaint by Davinder Singh of Jatpura village. The accused has an old rivalry with Mandeep Mann, nephew of Davinder. The uncle-nephew duo live together.Sukhpreet is already facing trial in an attempt to murder case.ASI Manohar Lal, investigating the case, said Mandeep and Sukhpreet had an old rivalry. Earlier also, they had engaged in a scuffle. Both have been nursing a grudge against each other.An FIR under Sections 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code, and the Arms Act has been registered against him at the Hathur police station. A hunt is on for his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-opens-fire-at-rival-s-house-in-jagraon/story-jGy8SU11bGvYYFb4Eq3vVM.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Woman hacked to death in Batala||A 40-year-old woman was hacked to death allegedly by her lover in Batala on Saturday night. As per the police, the woman was a widow and had three children. She had reportedly been in a relationship with the accused, identified as Sonu, 35, for the last few months but wanted to call it quits. On Saturday evening, when the victim and her friend were going to the market, Sonu waylaid them and allegedly slapped her when she refused to go with him. Following this, the woman and her friend went to complain to his mother. When they reached his house, the accused attacked them with a sharp-edged weapon, leaving them grievously injured.They were taken to a local hospital, from where the 40-year-old was referred to Amritsar. She succumbed to her injuries later in the night. The victim’s friend is also said to be in a critical state.A case has been registered against the accused under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code, on the statement of the victim’s daughter. The accused, however, is absconding and is yet to be arrested, said inspector Parmjit Singh, SHO of City police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-hacked-to-death-in-batala/story-Ap6QiEC59WcpgLvPOrSE6J.html
28-06-2020||City||Covid-19 cases cross 30,000-mark in Thane, deaths nearing 1,000||Thane district on Sunday crossed the 30,000-mark in Covid-19 cases, with an addition of 1,345 cases during the day taking the count to 30,289, an official said.The district witnessed 36 deaths which took the toll to 983, he added.“Among the district’s major civic areas, Thane city recorded 341 cases, Kalyan Dombivali 369, Navi Mumbai 197 and Mira Bhayander 101. TMC now has 8,168 cases, NMMC 6,200, KDMC 5,678 and MBMC 3,015,” he added.The district’s recovery rate was 47.84 per cent as on Sunday while the mortality rate stood at 3.25 per cent, the official informed.“The recovery rate of MBMC is the best in the district at 62.96 per cent while mortality rate of Bhiwandi Nizampur municipal corporation is the worst at 5.75 per cent,” he said.Neighbouring Palghar district has 4,244 cases, and 120 people have died of the infection so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-cases-cross-30-000-mark-in-thane-deaths-nearing-1-000/story-PihwhAiypPbTDcp9LTx57M.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Labour leader held on June 22 for extortion booked again for cheating||Ludhiana Labour leader and president of the Akhil Bhartiya Purvanchal Kalyan Sangathan AN Mishra was booked on Sunday for duping a woman of ₹1.58 lakh after promising her a job in the health department.This is the second case against him in the last past six days. Earlier, Mishra was arrested on June 22 by the Shimlapuri police for extorting ₹50,000 from a man Suresh after promising to arrange for police help to get the in-laws of his sister arrested for aborting her pregnancy. Paramjit Kaur, 39, of Kot Mangal Singh, in her complaint to the division number 6 police station, said she was an auxiliary nurse midwife who had been assured by Mishra of a job in the health department if she paid him ₹3lakh. When she said she didn’t have the money, Mishra asked for ₹1.58 lakh, which she had paid, Kaur alleged.However, when no job offer came her way, Mishra refused to return the money, saying he had contacts with police officers and they would not take action against him, she added.Kaur’s complaint had been lodged eight months ago on October 15, 2019, but the police acted on it after Mishra’s June 22 arrest.After investigating the matter the police lodged an FIR under sections 406 and 420 of IPC against Mishra, who is in judicial custody and lodged in Ludhiana Central Jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/labour-leader-held-on-june-22-for-extortion-booked-again-for-cheating/story-M0z4nK84oT5NjzvFyYytcI.html
28-06-2020||City||Arrest of militant’s mom: Don’t target family members without evidence, says J&K Police||Over a week after the arrest of a woman, who is the mother of a slain militant and sister of an active militant, during a raid in Kulgam, the Jammu and Kashmir Police has said it does not target the family of a terrorist without reason.The police statement has come in the wake of heightened social media traction on the issue.“JKP does not target family of terrorists without evidence. Sister of active terrorist Abbas Sheikh and mother of deceased militant Tausif Ahmad Sheikh, Naseema Banoo was arrested on June 20 in a criminal case, besides her recent involvement in recruiting youth into terrorist ranks,” said Kashmir inspector general of police (IGP) Vijay Kumar.Bano’s militant son was killed along with four other Hizbul Mujahideen militants including a Kashmir University (KU) assistant professor, in an encounter with security forces in May 2018.The police sources said Bano’s brother is considered one of the longest serving militants of Kashmir.Police said Bano of Rampora Qaimoh was arrested under FIR no. 30 of 2018 registered under sections 13B, 17, 18, 18B, 19, 39 of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act.The FIR is of the year 2018, but it was not clear why she was arrested now. “The arrest was done in compliance of provisions of law and she has been under legally sanctioned custody at the women police station in Anantnag ever since her arrest,” a police statement said.The police alleged that Bano is involved in a serious criminal case besides toting an automatic weapon, posing next to her son in a photo. “She is involved in much more serious offences and her role has surfaced in recruiting at least two youths into militant ranks, arranging arms ammunition, communication and logistics for militants and terror organisations,” the statement said.The statement added that just because she happens to be a woman or the mother of a slain terrorist does not make her immune to arrest. “Anyone who wishes to challenge the decision is free to approach the court of law for redressal,” it said.The police also claimed that many social media posts have been generated and shared which have “twisted the facts to disturb peace and tranquility”.“Police have taken cognizance of the matter and anyone trying to instigate others through whatsoever means will be prosecuted against,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/arrest-of-militant-s-mom-don-t-target-family-members-without-evidence-says-j-k-police/story-3ciNiNv7at8ON2NfCf5tHK.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Jobless Jind youth ends life after father scolds him||A 20-year-old youth ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his house in Jind on Sunday morning, police said.He had appeared for Class 12 exams in March this year.His uncle told the police that financial crisis drove him to suicide. “My brother-in-law, who is physically disabled, had been scolding his son lately as he wanted him to get a job. My brother-in-law used to sell toys, but his income stopped after the imposition of lockdown,” the complainant added.The Jind City police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jobless-jind-youth-ends-life-after-father-scolds-him/story-BFaIou1XPxBJES3YA5MgKJ.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Bhiwani spinning mill sacked infected workers, alleges MP Dharambir Singh||BJP member of parliament (MP) from Bhiwani- Mahendergarh constituency Dharambir Singh on Sunday alleged that Bhiwani’s biggest spinning mill, Grasim Bhiwani Textiles Limited (GBTL) mill, has been forcing its employees to resign, including those who were tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Bhiwani administration had directed the mill authorities to shut its operations after over 40 employees and their contacts were found positive last week. In his letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, the BJP MP has urged them to resume work at the mill and ensure that the workers weren’t sacked. Dharambir Singh said the mill workers were facing a financial crunch. “Nearly 3,000 workers were working at this grand-old spinning mill before the lockdown was imposed. More than 300 of them have left for their native places as the mill authorities forced them to resign because some of them and their contacts tested positive for the virus,” he added. Amid a crisis, the MP said, the mill authorities were playing a ‘cruel game’ by sacking its employees. “Those tested positive and living in the BTM Line area and nearby four colonies are struggling to get drinking water, milk and basic supplies. The administration should arrange food for them,” he added. GBTL mill’s general manager (GM) Kaushal Tanwar had issued a notice on May 7, stating that the workers will be paid 50% of their basic salary and DA and the deducted amount will be reimbursed in instalments in future. However, workers claimed that the mill authorities gave each of them Rs 9,000 as a loan in April and since then, they have been waiting for their salaries. Congress’ Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry said both the mill authorities as well as the district administration have failed to provide basic amenities to GBTL workers. “Due to shortage of money, the workers are forced to starve and neither the administration nor the mill authorities are providing food to poor workers, including those infected with the virus. If their issues are not addressed within two days, I will observe a sit-in outside the deputy commissioner’s office,” she added. Meanwhile, mill’s GM Kaushal Tanwar termed the allegations baseless and said that they had been providing food to their workers residing in BTM Line areas and other adjacent colonies. “We are not sacking our employees. In fact, we are taking care of our infected workers’ family members,” Tanwar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bhiwani-spinning-mill-sacked-infected-workers-alleges-mp-dharambir-singh/story-jaWbFTIe5wgSbTyghaZAxJ.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Get building plan approvals in Chandigarh at the click of a mouse from July 15||Come July 15, building plan approvals can be sought online in Chandigarh. While the process currently takes several months, the new online facility is expected to cut the approval time to 25 days. It will also simplify the process, which is currently marred by repeated visits to the estate office in Sector 17.All building plans – new construction and modification in the old, will be submitted on the web portal – www.obps.chd.gov.in. Only architects empanelled with the UT administration will be able to submit the applications.Chandigarh Smart City Ltd (CSCL) is implementing the project, which was awarded to a private consultancy firm in November last year.“The testing of the online module has been completed, but user trials are underway. Along with the users, architects are being trained on how to use the website,” said a senior UT official, privy to the development.The project is part of the e-governance project under which 28 services will be taken online. These include 14 government-to-citizen services and 14 internal processes of the municipal corporation.UT’s previous attempt to start the online plan approval system in October 2018 failed within one year of its launch. Thereafter, it decided to hand over the work to CSCL, which floated the tender for providing online services to the estate office also.ONLINE ASSESSMENT AND NOC“After architects upload applications on the website, the online system will scrutinise the plans based on city’s building rules and zoning plans. It will either accept the application and forward it to the dealing branch or will reject it for re-submission. All decisions regarding an application will be communicated through SMS and can also be tracked online,” the official said.“Officials will have to provide reasons for rejection of an application or delay in its processing,” the official added.CSCL also plans to launch a mobile app after analysing the website’s performance.“Other approval services like permit for advertisement, road cut permit, completion and occupation certificates, and date and birth certificates will be put online in the coming months,” the official said.HOW IT WILL WORKArchitects will submit old and new building plans on www.obps.chd.gov.inOnline system will scrutinise the applications and issue a scrutiny report via SMS Scrutiny report will decide next step to resubmit or pay the fee onlineApplication will be sent to officer/branch concernedApplicant will be able to track the file online and get SMS at each stage.Any objections will be communicated through SMSNOC will be issued online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/get-building-plan-approvals-in-chandigarh-at-the-click-of-a-mouse-from-july-15/story-dH2v13h0qTJgYHZqVSUttK.html
28-06-2020||City||CTA govt-in-exile seeks special UNHRC session to examine Tibetans’ right breaches by China||Accusing China of committing “cultural genocide” in Tibet, the Central Tibetan Administration on Sunday urged the UNHRC to hold a special session on “human rights violations” by China in Tibet and other regions under it. Dharamshala-based Central Tibetan Administration, also known as Tibetan government-in-exile, Lobsang Sangay asked the international community to “unite and ensure that China fulfils its obligations under international laws including human rights obligations before it is too late”.In a statement issued on Sunday, Sangay said that on Saturday 50 UN independent experts from 30 UN Special Procedure mandate called on the UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC) to “act with a sense of urgency” and take appropriate decisive measures including a special session and establishment of a special rapporteur to protect fundamental freedoms in China occupied regions including Tibet, Hong Kong, and Xinjiang.“The Central Tibetan Administration and Tibetans from both inside and outside Tibet would like to thank the UN experts for their timely intervention and welcome their call for urgent decisive measures against the government of China,” he said.Sangay said that In the last six decades and more, Tibetans within Tibet were suffering under the authoritarian rule of China.The Chinese government has stripped off Tibetans of their basic human rights guaranteed under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, annihilating the distinct identity of Tibetans and denying them their inherent dignity of being human, he added.He said that tortures, enforced disappearances, and destructions of monasteries carried out by China against Tibetans were acts of crimes against humanity and do not fall short of being categorised as “cultural genocide.The persecution and suppression via high-tech surveillance by China, Sangay said, have forced 154 Tibetans from different walks of life in Tibet to self-immolate as a mark of peaceful protest against the Chinese authorities since 2009.The unchecked, systemic, and egregious violations by the Chinese regime with impunity in Tibet have emboldened it to carry out similar violations in Xinjiang and now Hong Kong.It is time to hold China accountable otherwise it will have an adverse global impact as evidenced by the Wuhan originated Covid-19 pandemic. As rightly noted by the UN experts, the violations by China are threatening world peace and security leading to human rights emergencies across the globe, he said.CTA and the Tibetans from both inside and outside Tibet strongly support the call of the UN experts on the UN Human Rights Council to take urgent measures against the Chinese human rights violations.We strongly urge the UNHRC and the member states to hold a special session to evaluate the human rights violations being carried out by China and to establish a country mandate of UN Special Rapporteur on China to monitor, analyse and report annually on the human rights situation in Tibet and other occupied regions, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cta-govt-in-exile-seeks-special-unhrc-session-to-examine-tibetans-right-breaches-by-china/story-VtRCBBtp8Cdqls6qQUHI0H.html
28-06-2020||City||Ex-airman held for Mohali shooting alleges victim held grudge, attacked him first||Rajesh Malik, 45, a former flight lieutenant with the Indian Air Force who was arrested on Saturday for shooting and injuring an ex-navy officer at Kharar’s Jal Vayu Vihar, has reportedly told police that he was attacked first due to an old grudge nursed by the victim and the gunshots were fired during the scuffle.Of the three gunshots fired by Malik from his licensed revolver, one had hit Narinder Verma, 46, who stays in the same housing society. Verma is presently admitted to a private hospital in Phase 6, Mohali.Verma, after leaving the Indian Navy has been working with the civil aviation department of the Haryana government. Malik alleged that he was a witness in an inquiry against Verma. Malik told police that on June 8, he had recorded his statement in the case. Malik, who is also a former president of the housing society’s resident welfare association, alleged that Verma was nursing a grudge against him and that had led to the scuffle on Saturday evening.Malik reportedly told police that he was cycling when Verma and his friend hurled abuses at him and even manhandled him. Malik then went to his house to get his revolver, and upon returning was allegedly attacked by the two along with two other men who had joined them. “I did not intent to fire and had told them to stay away from me. The gunshots were fired during the scuffle. Verma even took away my weapon,” said Malik in his statement to the police.  According to Malik’s medical examination, he had sustained half a dozen blunt injuries on his body, indicating that he was beaten up before police took him into custody.Malik was produced before court on Sunday and sent to three-day police custody. Police had recovered Malik’s revolver from the dashboard of injured Verma’s car.A case has been registered under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act at the Kharar police station on the statement of assistant sub-inspector Gurnam Singh, who said he had got information about gunshots being fired at Jal Vayu Vihar. Verma’s statement is yet to be recorded as he is still unfit.“Malik and Verma had been picking up fights with each other earlier too. Malik’s claims are yet to be verified. Things will get clear once Verma records his statement,” said Pal Singh, deputy superintendent of police, Kharar. Police have also taken digital video recorder of CCTV cameras in the society in their custody. Investigations have revealed that certain footage had been deleted, said sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ex-airman-held-for-mohali-shooting-alleges-victim-held-grudge-attacked-him-first/story-3inAP5MoMiSX9xiDUioVVI.html
28-06-2020||City||10 fresh Covid-19 cases surface in Punjab’s Mohali, count climbs to 256||Ten fresh cases of Covid-19 surfaced in Punjab’s Mohali district on Sunday, while two people tested positive for the disease in the neighbouring district of Panchkula in Haryana. Three men, aged 24, 40 and 80, and a 50-year-old woman, who reside in Kharar and are contacts of previous positive patients, are among the fresh cases in Mohali. A 25-year-old man, who recently returned from Delhi, and his 16-year-old female contact tested positive in Mundi Kharar, while a man and woman, both aged 23, were found infected in Lalru. Other patients include a 61-year-old man from Zirakpur and a 57-year-old woman from Sector 71, Mohali. Meanwhile, three people were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur, taking the number of those cured to 194. There are 256 confirmed cases in the district, of which 59 are still active.Doctor tests positive in PanchkulaIn Panchkula, a doctor working at the intensive care unit of a private hospital in Sector 21 has tested positive. The 34-year-old is a resident of Rail Vihar Group Housing Society in Mansa Devi Complex. According to the hospital management, co-workers who came in contact with him have been isolated. Samples of his family members have also been taken.The other case is of a 74-year-old woman from Sector 17, said civil surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur. There are 111 confirmed cases in the district, with 61 still active.Meanwhile, the district administration has declared the Government Polyclinic, Sector 26, as a non-Covid delivery care facility. The step has been taken to prevent spread of Covid-19 among pregnant women who visit the civil hospital in Sector 6, which houses isolation wards for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-fresh-covid-19-cases-surface-in-punjab-s-mohali-count-climbs-to-256/story-rSYXfGqoI77rrYLv1usUeI.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Gidderbaha health officials on tenterhooks, say Covid-19 patient concealing travel history||A 45-year-old Covid-19 positive patient has kept local health officials on tenterhooks as they believe he has infected a large number of people and is concealing his travel details in and outside Punjab.A mass infection trace campaign is currently continuing in Gidderbaha till Monday evening, when the three-day complete lockdown ends.Gidderbaha sub-divisional magistrate Om Prakash said on Sunday that the patient, who is believed to be the source of at least 10 Covid-19 positive cases, is not revealing details of his recent movements.The owner of a cosmetics shop and a used car dealer, he was the first person to test positive in the predominantly rural town.Later, six of his family members, including, wife, parents and brother’s family also tested positive followed by five other direct contacts of the primary patients.They are currently undergoing treatment.The district authorities have worked out a list of about 200 contacts in the town and are attempting to trace themAccording to the district administration, 11 active Covid-19 cases emerged between June 21 to 23.Om Prakash said a forensic report of the patient’s mobile phone details collected from “dumps” or data from signal towers is expected by Monday. It has been alleged that the patient had travelled to Delhi after which he was tested positive on June 21, the SDM added.“He is concealing information about his visits out of town and can be held liable for hiding his travel history during the pandemic outbreak,” he said.Dr Paramjit Sandhu, district nodal officer for Covid control, said the department was focusing on the Subhash Nagar locality to identify infected persons for further treatment.Sandhu said teams collected about 60 samples from Gidderbaha on Saturday and it was estimated that 500 persons would require testing.“He (the patient) maintains a wide clientele and was in constant touch with scores of persons through regular physical meetings, even at his shop. Community spread is suspected as his primary sources of infection, including, nephew, reportedly mingled with their peer groups,” Dr Sandhu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gidderbaha-health-officials-on-tenterhooks-say-covid-19-patient-concealing-travel-history/story-s6G24yskc4qLC6OL6tZR4J.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 4 Covid deaths, 229 fresh cases||Punjab on Sunday reported four deaths and 229 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s count to 5,285. The state death count due to the virus has climbed to 134.Of the 229 cases, Sangrur reported 69 cases, followed by Ludhiana 46, Patiala 30, Jalandhar 17, twelve each in Amritsar and SBS Nagar, Mohali 10, Gurdaspur 8, four each in Pathankot and Fatehgarh Sahib, three each in Ferozepur, Kapurthala, Rupnagar and Hoshiarpur, Faridkot two, one each in Tarn Taran, Muktsar and Fazilka, according to field reports received till 10pm. TWO DEAD, 30 POSITIVE IN PATIALATwo persons died while 30 tested positive for coronavirus in Patiala on Sunday. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said 50-year-old employee of district education office succumbed to virus at an isolation facility in the Government Rajindra Hospital. In another case, 60-year-old resident of Rajla village of Patiala district also died after his condition deteriorated on Sunday.The positive patients include 14 contacts of earlier positive patients, six pregnant women, three patients with influenza-like illness symptoms and four cops of the crime investigation agency (CIA), Nabha.ONE DEAD, 46 NEW CASES IN LUDHIANAA 65-year-old woman from Hoshiarpur succumbed to Covid-19 at Mohandai Oswal Hospital in Ludhiana. The district also reported 46 positive cases, including three policemen and a Punjab Home Guards jawan. The woman, a resident of Badial village in Hoshiarpur, wass suffering from last stage cancer and was admitted in the hospital on June 19. She tested positive on June 21. Sangrur reported 69 cases of which 20 are from Malerkotla, two from Dhuri, one each from Sangrur and Bhawanigarh.With 17 more positive cases of the novel coronavirus, Jalandhar district crossed the 700-mark on Sunday. Health department nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr TP Singh Sandhu said that with this, a total 708 positive cases reported so far in the district. The health officials said that Among 17 positive cases, 14 were contacts of the positive patients while three new cases detected in the district. A-75-year-old woman of Lamba pind in Jalandhar district died due to Covid-19 on Sunday. She was aunt of Akali MLA from Adampur, Pawan Kumar Tinu. She was referred to Amritsar hospital from Jalandhar civil hospital three days ago. She was suffering from chronic diseases, including hyper tension and diabetics. Twelve persons, including nine foreign-returnees, tested positive in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar on Sunday, said civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Prasad Bhatia, adding that there were presently total 19 active cases of Covid-19 in the district. Besides, three persons each tested positive in Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala. Three fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Rupnagar district on Sunday. Civil surgeon Dr HN Sharma said a 53-year-old man from Shivalik Avenue locality of Nangal, who returned from Odisha recently, and two youths aged 21 and 18 of Katta Sabor village in Nurpur Bedi area, also contracted the infection. They recently returned from Ambala. An 80-year-old woman tested positive in Muktsar on Sunday. She is a resident of Gidderbaha and had recently travelled to Haridwar.Ten persons tested positive in Mohali district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-reports-4-covid-deaths-229-fresh-cases/story-zCg8fbid3smp7Pgl6pZ00M.html
28-06-2020||Noida||7 held for illegal mining in Greater Noida||Seven people were arrested in Greater Noida on Sunday allegedly for illegal mining, Gautam Buddh Nagar police said.An earthmover (JCB) and a tractor-trolley were also impounded during the mining in a jungle near Khedi Bhanauta village, under the Surajpur police station limits, the police said.Those held have been identified as Jagvendra, Manoj Kumar, Mahendra Singh, Rajesh Pal, Rambabu Singh, Lalit Kumar and Hari Om, a police spokesperson said.Except for Hari Om, who is a native of nearby Baghat district, all accused are local residents, the spokesperson said.“One more of their accomplice, who has been identified as local resident Rakam Singh, fled the mining spot and search is underway to arrest him,” the official said.An FIR has been registered at the Surajpur police station under Indian Penal Code sections 379 (theft) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property), police said.Provisions under the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act have also been invoked in the case, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/7-held-for-illegal-mining-in-greater-noida/story-5Dhp9LXpDtvXWZNqR5R8GO.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab postpones university exit exams till July 15||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday announced postponement of exams for the final semester students in all universities of the state till July 15. The announcement was made in response to the concerns expressed by students and parents on the conduct of examinations in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemicThe final decision, according to a government spokesman, will be subject to the new directions and guidelines expected to be released by the University Grants Commission (UGC).Seeking to allay all confusion and uncertainty on this count, the CM said the postponement till July 15 will also give all the stakeholders, especially the universities, time to adapt and align to the new guidelines that will come from the UGC.The spokesperson said the CM felt there was need to remove confusion from the minds of students, teachers and parents regarding the safe conduct of examinations.It may be recalled that Punjab’s universities had taken a decision to conduct exams of exit classes in July, in accordance with the guidelines issued by the UGC on April 29. The UGC had then announced that it will review the situation again. However, the decision regarding academic activities, especially conduct of examinations, is awaited from UGC.The CM has been repeatedly pointing out that since all the universities and colleges in Punjab are accredited or affiliated to the UGC, any decision on the exams can only be taken by the statutory body that functions under Centre’s ministry of human resource development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-postpones-university-exit-exams-till-july-15/story-XS1hKWHsJf8MOTUT9dUW8H.html
28-06-2020||Bangalore||Siddaramaiah demands white paper from Karnataka govt on Covid-19 management||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Sunday urged the Karnataka government to bring out a “white paper” regarding its Covid-19 management.Alleging lack of transparency on part of the government in controlling the spread of virus, the former Chief Minister said, this has led to ‘mistrust’ among the people about the administration.Citing allegations of irregularity in the purchase of medical equipment by paying twice the market rate, he threatened the government of agitation, if it continues to remain indifferent to the demand for white paper and transparency. “As the Karnataka government has not maintained transparency in its measures to control the spread of coronavirus, it has given rise to suspicion, insecurity among people,” Siddaramaiah said.In a statement released by his office, he urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to bring out a white paper regarding measures taken and money spent so far, to place the truth before the people and instill trust in them.With the spike in the number of infections in the state, Opposition Congress has accused the government of ‘failing’ to manage the Covid-19 situation.The number of Covid-19 cases in the state which stood at 3,408 as of June 1, reported 11,923 on Saturday with the capital city topping the districts in the infection count.Siddaramaiah in his statement has demanded an account on the money spent by the government for Covid-19 treatment and related activities.“How much money has been spent from the state’s treasury to control coronavirus? it has been spent on what purpose? How much has been spent so far on quarantine, treatment, PPE kits, ventilators, oxygen cylinders, masks, sanitisers and other medical equipment?” he asked. Questioning as to how much money and equipment have come from the Centre, he wanted to know about the number of beds reserved at private hospitals for corona treatment, the basis on which rates have been fixed for private hospitals. “All this information has to be placed before the people.” Claiming that despite several letters by him seeking details, the departments were not sharing the information properly.The Congress legislature party leader alleged that such denial of information amounts to breach of his privilege. “It also gives rise to suspicion regarding the functioning of the government.So complete details have to be made known to the people through the white paper,” he added.The government has not made any preparations to control Covid-19 in the last three months, other than wasting its time in imposing and withdrawing lockdown measures, Siddaramaiah said, the people of the state will have to face the sufferings because of this “inactiveness”. “With the infection spreading, people are losing trust in the government”, he said adding that as the government hospitals are filled, the administration has to convince the private hospitals regarding the rates and ask them to provide treatment or else should take strict action against them. Noting that there were allegations of irregularity in the purchase of medical equipment and that they have been brought by paying the price double than the market rate, Siddaramaiah said, “it is alleged that- the amount is said to be about Rs 3300 crore.So the government should immediately come out with a white paper, provide facts and take the public into confidence.” It will be inevitable to protest on the streets if the government continues to remain indifferent to our demand, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/siddaramaiah-demands-white-paper-from-karnataka-govt-on-covid-19-management/story-cM3cKm61xdpOMrI1nunXCM.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Another Panjab University staffer found infected in Chandigarh, 14 co-workers quarantined||Fourteen employees of Panjab University were quarantined after another staffer tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. This is second case reported in the varsity in the past four days.The staffer has been identified as a 42-year-old woman, who is a resident of Maloya. She has three family and two community contacts, who have been sampled, said health officials.The woman is a family contact of the 37-year-old university employee from Sector 29 who was found infected on June 24. Around 30 employees were put under observation and two buildings were closed for sanitisation following that case.PU spokesperson Renuka Salwan said the woman was earlier posted in the girls’ hostel number 10, which has been turned into a Covid-19 quarantine centre by the Chandigarh administration.“Presently all employees of the hostel sit in the office of dean, students’ welfare. The office has been sanitised. As a precautionary measure, the university has asked the woman staffer’s 14 contacts to undergo self quarantine. The list has been sent to the health authorities as well,” said Salwan .The university on Sunday also released a fresh standard operating procedure (SOP) to be followed for resumption of work amid the pandemic.Two more casesTwo more cases were also reported in Chandigarh on Sunday. The first is that of a two-and-a-half-year-old boy. He is a family contact of a 76-year-old woman from Sector 30 who tested positive on June 26.The other case is of a Sector-40 resident who returned from Kazakhstan on June 21 and was quarantined at a local hotel.Meanwhile, a 56-year-old woman was discharged, taking the number of recoveries to 336. The city’s tally has now reached 431, of which 89 cases are still active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/another-panjab-university-staffer-found-infected-in-chandigarh-14-co-workers-quarantined/story-Xc0yEWDrkvEmFxxm1YzZEI.html
28-06-2020||City||Tenders for mega bridge in Bihar cancelled, 5/7 bidders had Chinese partners||PATNAThe construction of a four-lane bridge on Ganga, parallel to Mahatma Gandhi Setu which links north and south Bihar, is set to get delayed as the Union ministry of road transport and highway (MoRTH) has cancelled the tendering process, which was in final stages.Bihar’s road construction department (RCD) minister Nand Kishore Yadav on Sunday said the tender was cancelled on technical reasons by the MoRTH on June 25. “The project has been re-tendered,” he said, without elaborating.The MoRTH had sanctioned Rs 2,927-crore bridge project under the prime minister’s special package to Bihar. The mega project included building a 14.5-km-long approach road in Patna and Hajipur of Vaishali district.Senior officials in the RCD said five out of seven firms, which qualified for final bidding, had Chinese partners. “This is the first mega project in the state to get cancelled as the contractors had joint ventures with Chinese firms,” they said, adding that the selected firms could qualify for fresh bidding if they changed their partners.Officials said Ashok Buildcon, Dilip Buildcon and Tata Projects are among the five companies, which tied up with Chinese partners for technical and resource assistance. Afcons Infrastructure, Gammon India, L&T and SP Singla are the other construction firms in the race to win the contract.Bidding documents of all the seven contenders were to be evaluated this month’s end. “The MoRTH has invited fresh bids for the project. The bids are open till July 30,” said principal secretary of RCD, Amrit Lal Meena.Of the total length, a 5.63-km-long bridge is to be built on the river, while 8.87 km was to be covered with approach road from both sides. Meanwhile, Bihar Congress president Madan Mohan Jha on Sunday lashed out at the Central government for allegedly receiving money from Chinese companies in PM Cares fund even as People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had been encroaching Indian land.Talking to mediapersons in the wake of reports of Nepal deploying its army on the board across Bihar, Jha alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi kept on misleading the nation about Chinese aggression.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tenders-for-mega-bridge-in-bihar-cancelled-5-7-bidders-had-chinese-partners/story-7Ip496zFaxSJpPehu1ntqJ.html
28-06-2020||City||1 death, 127 new cases take J&K tally over 7,000-mark in 95 days||As 127 fresh cases were reported from Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, the total number of Covid-19 cases has crossed the 7,000-mark in the Union territory. Also, one person succumbed to the disease in Kulgam district.Now, J&K has 7,093 total cases among which 94 people succumbed to the deadly disease. However, most of these deaths took place in ten districts of Kashmir division.Srinagar recorded the most (31) cases on Sunday, followed by Budgam (22) and Kupwara (16). Srinagar has currently the highest number (591) of active cases, followed by Baramulla (416) and Kulgam (252). Doda has three, the lowest number of active cases. Srinagar district has witnessed maximum (22) deaths.“Last 10-day surge in Covid-19 cases, 83% of 260 being primary contacts and travellers, reiterates strict adherence to the mandatory precautions – masks, social distancing and personal hygiene. Please take it seriously. Also, caution everyone around,” Srinagar deputy commissioner Shahid Iqbal Choudhary tweeted on Sunday.Meanwhile, 91 patients recovered and were discharged from different hospitals across the UT, taking the total recoveries to 4,316. So far, 3,51,885 people have been tested in 20 districts of J&K and currently 2,76,057 people are enlisted for observation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-127-fresh-cases-j-k-s-tally-crosses-7-000-mark/story-T6IEGPp8813bo5QNXBxhSJ.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Five arrested for illegally occupying NRI’s house in Chandigarh’s Sector 40||Five people, including three women, were arrested for illegally living in an NRI’s house in Sector 40 on Sunday.Those arrested were identified as Amardeep Singh, 27, of Ludhiana and Vikas Joshi, 29, of Sector 39, Chandigarh, along with three women — Neeraj Malhotra, 45, of Sector 40, Chandigarh, Kunti, 34, of Sector 56, Chandigarh, and Dilpreet Grewal, 33, of Ludhiana.The complaint was lodged by Ludhiana resident Amanjot Singh, whose uncle, Harbhajan Singh, owns the Sector-40 house. Amanjot said his uncle, who along with his family, lived in the US, had rented out the house to one Jayesh Panchal for 11 months in September 2019. Panchal had paid Rs 58,000 as security, but later stopped paying the rent.Later, Harbhajan executed a general power of attorney (GPA) in Amanjot’s favour to get the house vacated. When Amanjot and his family visited the house, he found a woman, Neeraj Malhotra, was illegally living in the house. She started quarreling with him and his wife, and in the meantime, another woman came out from the house and joined the argument. Eventually, two more women and a man came forward in support of the women. Amanjot approached the police with a complaint alleging that the illegal occupants had also stolen valuable articles in the house and threatened him with dire consequences.A case under Sections 448 (house-trespass), 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 39 police station.All accused were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/five-arrested-for-illegally-occupying-nri-s-house-in-chandigarh-s-sector-40/story-ZRsbnxW2NhId1XGmasuCAL.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Come clean on donations to PM CARES Fund from Chinese companies: Jakhar to Modi||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Sunil Jakhar on Sunday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi needs to explain whether donations were received from the Chinese companies for the PM CARES Fund.In a statement issued on Sunday, Jakhar said that it was alarming that donations were reportedly received from the Chinese companies. “No one knows the constitution or the operational framework of the Fund. No one knows how it is controlled or money given to it utilised. The Fund is not even subjected to audit by any public authority, including CAG. The PMO has gone to the extent of saying that this Fund is not a public authority,” said the PPCC chief, adding that it is not even subjected to RTI. “All in all, the fund appears to be solely run by the Prime Minister in an opaque and secret fashion with zero transparency and zero accountability,” he said while quoting reports that suggest that as on May 20, 2020, PM Modi had received Rs 9,678 crore in the controversial Fund. The state party chief further said, “The Modi government continued to sidestep the brazen Chinese transgressions and occupation of our territory by the Chinese forces in Galwan Valley, Pangong Tso Lake area, Hot Springs and Depsang Plains up to the Y-Junction while misleading the nation by claiming that China has never intruded into the Indian Territory, nor is it in occupation of any territory.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/come-clear-on-donations-to-pm-cares-fund-from-chinese-companies-jakhar/story-IHpNQQyRe14TPec4nd67pL.html
28-06-2020||City||Five addicts held for robbing gas agency employee in Ludhiana||Two days after a cylinder delivery man fell victim to a snatcher, the Dugri police have claimed to solve the case with the arrest of five accused.The accused were identified as Himak, alias Sonu, 25, of Civil City in Chandar Nagar; Simranjit Singh, alias Bhullar, 27, of Ramesh Colony; Raju Rai, alias Patang, 26, of Mohalla Kehar Singh Nagar; Jagtar Singh, alias Ravi, 26, of Surinder Park; and Karan Arora, alias Laddu, 26, of Durgapuri in Haibowal.The police recovered ₹2,000 in cash, two bikes, 10 phones, sharp-edged weapons and a toy pistol.Inspector Surinder Chopra, station house officer at Dugri police station, said that one Rajesh Kumar of Sua road told the police that he works as a delivery man in an HP gas agency.On June 26, he was delivering cylinders in Bhagat Singh Nagar on Pakhowal road when five miscreants struck near the Ludhiana City Centre. He was assaulted, and robbed of ₹55,000 cash after being threatened at gunpoint.A case was registered under Sections 379B (snatching), 148 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code.On June 27, the accused were held during special checking. The inspector added that the accused have robbed 5 mobile phones from Mohalla Fatehpur near Christian Medical College and Hospital on June 24. During the investigation, the accused told the police that they were addicts and took to crime to fund their fix.In another case, the police arrested Suraj Kumar, alias Avi, of Aman Nagar for snatching while his accomplice managed to escape. Kumar had snatched a mobile phone from a woman of Green Avenue on June 27.A motorcycle and two mobile phones were recovered.3 HELD FOR ROBBING CATTLE FEED FACTORY OWNERThree days after a robbery at Sona Cattle Feed factory in Payal, the police arrested three men and recovered ₹50,000 cash, two revolvers, five cartridges and a Maruti Swift car from their possession.The accused were identified as Bhalinder Singh and Davinder Singh of Saloudi village, and Amrinder Singh, alias Noni, of Ghudani Khurd village. One of their accomplices is yet to be arrested.Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harpreet Singh said the accused were held near Gurdwara Rara Sahib and two revolvers were found on him. During investigation, the accused confessed that they had robbed ₹1.5 lakh cash and revolver from the owner of cattle factory on June 25. During investigation, ₹50,000 cash was recovered.The SSP said two of them had barged into the factory, while their accomplices remained outside to keep watch. Accused Davinder Singh is already facing trial in a case of kidnapping lodged against him in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-addicts-held-for-robbing-gas-agency-employee-in-ludhiana/story-2pbyKqCaOPIvvtvbbpnQ7O.html
28-06-2020||Delhi||Number of Covid-19 containment zones climbs to 421 in Delhi after re-mapping||The number of Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi has risen to 421 after a re-mapping of such areas -- an increase of 141 zones -- in the last two days, with the Southwest district topping the chart.According to an official, around 2.45 lakh people were screened in the national capital till Saturday night in a mammoth exercise to check the spread of Covid-19.Officials said the count of containment zones is expected to jump further as the authorities in some districts are yet to complete the task of redrawing such areas, following the Centre’s directions.Before the re-mapping exercise, the number of containment zones was 280 in the national capital on June 25, an official said. The exercise was launched on June 26.Another official said Southwest Delhi has reported a rise of 37 containment zones since the re-mapping exercise was launched, taking the number of such areas in the district to 80.According to a list of the Covid-19 containment zones issued by the government, there are 421 such areas in the national capital.North Delhi district has 59 containment zones, followed by South Delhi (56), Central Delhi (40), Shahdara (38), East Delhi (33) Southeast Delhi(32), Northwest Delhi (28), West Delhi (25), New Delhi (21) and Northeast Delhi (nine).“Till Saturday night, we have screened around two lakh people for Covid-19 in a house-to-house survey being conducted across the city. Also, 45,000 people have been screened in the containment zones,” an official told PTI.The process of screening every household in the national capital has to be completed by July 6.According to the 2011 Census, there were over 34.35 lakh households in Delhi, including 33.56 lakh in urban areas and 79,574 in rural areas.According to the Covid-19 response plan issued by the Delhi government, the re-mapping of the containment zones is to be completed by June 30.Under the new rules, the authorities have to delineate the containment zones on a micro level, instead of big ones.At least 1,100 teams comprising two members each have been formed to screen the national capital’s population for Covid-19.  The teams are armed with a mobile application -- SS Corona -- which will send real-time details to a dedicated web portal set up by the government.Apart from basic details like name, age, address and contact number, the teams are feeding the mobile application with information such as every individual’s travel history, whether or not they use the Centre’s Aarogya Setu app and if they have symptoms of influenza.The same mobile application was being used in carrying out the screening in the Covid-19 containment zones, officials had said earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/number-of-covid-19-containment-zones-climbs-to-421-in-delhi-after-re-mapping/story-7UBLANPAsqVbULWYZ0GlgI.html
28-06-2020||City||Sidhwan Canal waterfront project in Ludhiana will be eco-friendly: Ashu||The Rs 4.7-crore Sidhwan Canal waterfront project will be an eco-friendly one as all the lights will be solar-powered.This was stated by Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Sunday when he visited the site to inspect the ongoing work.He said a large number of medicinal and fruit plants have already been planted and arrangements made to provide various amenities.Ashu said the project envisaged development of the stretch along the canal, starting from the Pakhowal Road up to the Zone D office of the MC near Ferozepur Road, as an open space for citizens of the city.He said the total length of this stretch is approximately 1,100 metres and the width varies from 20–22 metres.The minister said the project included development of a green belt, a cycling track, a playing zone, a footpath along the canal, sitting areas, wall climbing activities etc.UPGRADING OF SARABHA NAGAR MARKET REVIEWEDAshu also reviewed the progress of the ongoing work of retrofitting and upgrading of the Sarabha Nagar market.He was accompanied by MC councillor Mamta Ashu, besides senior officials of the Ludhiana Smart City Limited and the municipal corporation.Ashu said the total estimated cost of this combined project was around Rs 38.6 crore. He said the market project included upgrade of the design, underground electrical cables, etc to give a modern look to the market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sidhwan-canal-waterfront-project-in-ludhiana-will-be-eco-friendly-ashu/story-beS3LaaGjTS8BO8Q8u0R8L.html
28-06-2020||Delhi||Mercury crosses 40 degree Celsius-mark in Delhi||The mercury breached the 40 degrees Celsius-mark in the national capital on Sunday as rains continued to elude the city.  The Meteorological Department, however, has predicted light rain and partly cloudy skies over the next four to five days.   On Sunday, the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a maximum of 40.2 degrees Celsius, three notches more than normal.Humidity levels oscillated between 46 per cent and 85 per cent.The weather stations at Palam, Najafgarh, Ayanagar, and Pusa recorded the maximum temperature between 40 degrees Celsius and 44 degrees Celsius.The India Meteorological Department on Thursday declared the onset of monsoon in the national capital, two days earlier than the usual date of June 27.However, Mahesh Palawat of Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting service, said the rains would remain subdued for now and dry weather would prevail for some days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mercury-crosses-40-degree-celsius-mark-in-delhi/story-VTOrtyP25l9g7CcU0DjdqK.html
28-06-2020||City||Mohali villager murdered after wife confronts men urinating in public||A group of unidentified men allegedly stabbed a 32-year-old man to death after his wife objected to them urinating near their house in Badhmajra village on Saturday night.The victim, Sanjay Yadav, a resident of Badhmajra village, was stabbed thrice in the head and legs, police said. He is survived by his wife, Urmila, and a five-year-old daughter. Urmila told the police that her husband was a painter and they were living in the village on rent for the past 10 years. On Saturday night, she confronted three men on spotting them urinating near their house. While they left initially, they returned around 11.30 pm with five more men.They called Yadav outside and started beating him up. When she tried to rescue him, the men assaulted her as well until she fainted, she said. When she regained consciousness, she saw her husband collapsing on the road with stab wounds, while the assailants fled the spot.Yadav was rushed to the civil hospital in Phase 6, Mohali, where he was declared brought dead. Hospital staff informed the police, who initiated an investigation after registering a case under Section (302) of the Indian Penal Code at the Balongi police station.Area residents alleged that the attackers may have been drug addicts, who frequented the area.Police are scanning CCTV footage for leads, but two cameras installed nearby were found non-functional.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-villager-murdered-after-wife-confronts-men-urinating-in-public/story-pZ4vEUeozGLWeEgf8uKRDI.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Light monsoon showers likely in Chandigarh for next three days: IMD||After a sunny Sunday in Chandigarh, monsoon is likely to pick up once again as Indian Meteorological Department has predicted light rain on Monday. “Light rain up to 20mm is very likely on Monday, and its chances will continue on Tuesday and Wednesday. It is unlikely to rain throughout the day, so maximum temperature is expected to stay on the higher side during these three days,” said the weatherman.Maximum temperature went up from 37.4°C on Saturday to 39.8°C on Sunday, three notches above normal. Minimum temperature stayed consistent at 28.2°C, also three notches above normal. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 38 and 39 degrees while minimum will hover around 27 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/light-monsoon-showers-likely-in-chandigarh-for-next-three-days-imd/story-fYSfGS4n87CCbuQtSiwbeO.html
28-06-2020||City||Ludhiana firm’s director booked for raping employee for seven years||The managing director of a city-based fastener manufacturing firm has been booked for sexually exploiting his 32-year-old female employee for seven years.The accused, a resident of Phase 2, Dugri, has been booked under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code, five years after the victim filed a police complaint in 2015.“The case has been registered following an inquiry. We are working to arrest the accused,” said ASI Balbir Singh of the Division Number 6 police station.The woman had told the police that the managing director of the firm, where her father worked, offered her a job in 2004, when she was 16 years old. She continued to study and also received promotion in the company through the years. Through her employment, the firm also bought them a house for which they are paying instalments.She alleged that in 2008, her employer started asking her to work till late in the evening, while assuring to drop her home from office, which was in Millerganj.One night, he drove her to an isolated place and raped her. After threatening her with dire consequences, he continued to rape her till 2014. He did not relent even after she got married, and also tried to defame her in front of her husband and in-laws, the woman told the police.She finally lodged a police complaint in 2015, following which the police started investigation. The director also filed a cross complaint then, accusing the woman of forgery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-firm-s-director-booked-for-raping-employee-for-seven-years/story-hTPtt6pPxkPGSBOEWHKdOM.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Work to bring down Covid mortality rate in Punjab, new chief secy tells DCs||Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan on Sunday asked the deputy commissioners to take all steps possible to arrest the mortality rate in the state and bring it down from the current 2.4%.The effort should be on saving every Punjabi’s life amid the pandemic, she said while directing the DCs to take special care of critical patients. She also told them to take help of the state expert group, chaired by Dr KK Talwar, and international and national experts.Reviewing the state’s preparedness to contain the further spread of the deadly disease at her maiden meeting with the DCs after taking over as the chief secretary, Mahajan expressed concern over the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state and said it was the duty of every DC to go the extra mile to ensure proper surveillance and arrest the mortality rate, while sending as many cured patients as possible to their homes.During the meeting held through videoconferencing, she instructed the DCs to allow Covid patients to go to private hospitals at their own expense if they so wished. She also said the state government was working to increase the corona testing capacity to 20,000 per day, with the four new testing labs approved recently by the state government expected to be operational soon.The Chief Secretary said that the Deputy Commissioners should ensure that every resident of Punjab should wear the mask and follow the instructions issued by the government. Mahajan said that it is critical to avoid large gatherings especially in closed spaces, and masks must invariably be worn in such situations. “Not wearing mask, not keeping social distance or spitting in public are anti-social acts,” she said, urging the DCs to continue to appeal to the people to be vigilant, take precautionary measures and follow the advice of health experts.Health department officials apprised during the meeting that there is no shortage of PPE kits and N-95 masks in the state. Dr KK Talwar, Dr Raj Bahadur and Dr Rajesh Kumar also shared crucial information on steps needed to contain the spread of disease. The meeting was attended by additional chief secretary, health, Anurag Aggarwal, principal secretary, finance, KAP Sinha, principal secretary, medical education and research DK Tewari, principal secretary to the chief minister, Tejveer Singh, principal secretary water supply and sanitation, Jaspreet Talwar and secretary, health, Kumar Rahul||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/work-to-bring-down-covid-mortality-rate-in-punjab-new-chief-secy-tells-dcs/story-kZ9aOUL7SlFF9eKByr31oN.html
28-06-2020||Patna||Amit Shah dials Nitish Kumar after water level rises in Mahananda river||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday spoke to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on phone in the wake of rising water level in the Mahananda river due to continued heavy rains over the last one week in different parts of the state, especially in the Seemanchal region.Shah assured all possible help to the state. “Talked to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on rising water level in the Mahananda river. Assured him all possible held from the Centre for Bihar people’s safety,” he tweeted from his Twitter handle.Mahananda is one of the prime tributaries of the Ganga river in the eastern part of India. It originates from the hills of Darjeeling flows through Kishanganj, Purnia and Katihar districts in Bihar.Due to unrelenting rain, there has been consistent rise in the water level of Mahananda river. This could pose flood threat to districts falling under its domain if a similar trend continues. Due to timely monsoon and heavy rain in the catchment areas, the water level in some rivers has already been on rise. Mahananda crossed the danger mark on Saturday, inundating low lying areas. The meteorological department has forecast more heavy rain the coming days.While other rivers in the state have shown receding trend after reaching danger level, Mahananda has crossed the danger mark at a few places and maintains its rising trend. On the left embankment slightly ahead of Jhaua bridge in Katihar, a spur had also been damaged due to water pressure. In Purnia, the river has maintained its rising trend.According to projection of the water resource department (WRD), of the 36 stations, rivers have reached above the danger mark at 13 of them. All rivers, except the Ganga, have maintained rising trend. “We are keeping a close watch on the water level in the Mahananda. At present, the situation is under control. The affected part of the spur has been repaired. In Kishanganj, the level has fallen, but it is not so in Purnea and Katihar,” said Katihar district magistrate Kanwal Tanuj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shah-dials-nitish-as-mahananda-swells-after-heavy-rain/story-aELtc3T7NyJFNj6wKfmT4N.html
28-06-2020||Kolkata||Over 14% in Kolkata have Covid-19 antibodies: ICMR seroprevalence survey||Over 14 per cent of Kolkata residents have developed Covid-19 antibodies, a seroprevalence survey by Indian Council of Medical Research has said.A seroprevalence survey conducted via random and rapid tests -- the IgM and the IGg -- indicate the rate of transmission in a community and whether it has started developing herd immunity to a virus.The survey was conducted on the basis of random samples but the sample size was not mentioned.According to senior doctors, the survey indicated that the transmission is high in the metropolis, which is far from developing herd immunity or antibodies to combat Covid-19.In neighbouring South 24-Parganas district, it is 2.5 per cent while it is 1 per cent in Alipurduar district, the survey said.There has been less than 1 per cent of antibody positivity rates in districts of Purba Medinipore, Bankura and Jhargram, the survey stated.Antibody is a protective protein produced by the immune system in response to the presence of a foreign substance, an antigen. In this case it is the new coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/over-14-in-kolkata-have-covid-19-antibodies-icmr-seroprevalence-survey/story-Rf5DYeRnUmYNP97XjPzjnO.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sale of Chinese products drops in Chandigarh after boycott calls||The sale of Chinese products has been hit in the city after calls to boycott Chinese goods were given post the Galwan Valley face-off between the Indian troops and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China.Traders say that there are no takers for electronics, 90% of which are Chinese.President of Radha Mobile Market in Sector 22B, Maninder Ahuja, said, “The anti-China wave has hit both the sale and repair of mobile phones. Earlier, Chinese phones would sell the most, and from over 10 phones a day, we can manage to sell 4 or 5 phones now. People are going for alternatives even though they may be a little more expensive.”Due to tensions between the two countries, spare parts for Chinese phones were also becoming hard to procure. “For repairing a damaged screen, the cost has almost doubled. Rather than repairing the screen of a Chinese phone for ₹5,000, people are preferring to put in more money to get a new phone,” Ahuja added.Sale of other electronic items such as lights has also been affected, but more from the shopkeepers’ end. RP Gupta, chairman of the Sector 18 Electronics Market Dealers Association, said, “Earlier the market was predominantly filled with Chinese lights, but now people are buying branded LED lights. Shopkeepers, too, aren’t stocking Chinese lights anymore.”‘INDIAN PRODUCTS NO MATCH’As per Anil Dhingra, the proprietor of Ad’s Mobile Arcade in Sector 22B, people are trying to look for alternatives, but they still end up purchasing Chinese gadgets. “Chinese phones are loaded with features for lower prices, so there really is no other option,” he said.Most toys in Chandigarh are also made in China, however, as per Shrey Budhiraja, proprietor of Budhiraja Toys Center in Sector 22, it is impractical to totally boycott Chinese made goods. “There is no infrastructure for bulk producing battery-powered toys in India. Customers also opt for Chinese made toys, so it would take some effort to switch to Indian toys,” he said. The Chandigarh Beopar Mandal hasn’t officially told traders to boycott Chinese products, president Anil Vohra confirmed, adding that some members had taken the initiative on their own. “We are definitely against Chinese products, but it is important that traders not suffer. We will gradually shift to Indian-produced goods once they become available in the markets,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sale-of-chinese-products-drops-in-chandigarh-after-boycott-calls/story-x6PD4tHByteOF0fxw6YvQP.html
28-06-2020||City||Two arrested for drug peddling in Ludhiana||The Ludhiana police arrested two drug peddlers and conducted a search for the arrest of habitual offenders in the city on Saturday under the Operation Rat Hunt.In the first case, the Shimlapuri police arrested Princepal Singh alias Prince of New Janta Nagar and seized 51gm narcotic powder from him.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 2) Jarkiranjit Singh Teja said the accused was arrested from near the Matharoo Chowk in Shimlapuri following a tip-off. The police recovered the contraband from his pocket, he added. A case under sections 21, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has been registered against the accused at the Shimlapuri police station.He said important information is expected from the accused during investigation.In another case, the Focal Point police arrested Tejvir Singh alias Ajay Kumar of Prem Colony of Nandpur and seized 850gm hashish from his possession.He was arrested from near the Dhandhri Bridge, when he was coming towards Sanjay Gandhi Colony to deliver the consignment.A case under sections 20, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused at the Focal point police station.“The police also conducted a special checking at Giaspura flats, Shimlapuri, Division number 6 and Daba areas and took 20 habitual offenders into preventive custody,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-arrested-for-drug-peddling-in-ludhiana/story-FnYjuSgr43sKgZ9SnXtbSP.html
28-06-2020||City||Govt school teachers in Punjab can apply for national awards by July 6||Interested principals of government schools and their regular staff have been asked to apply for national awards. The last date to register online for the awards at the website, mhrd.gov.in, is July 6. Disclosing this in a letter, director, public instructions (DPI) secondary, Sukhjeetpal Singh, Punjab, said the ministry of human resources and development has launched the web portal for self-nomination by teachers to acknowledge the unique contribution of teachers for improving the quality of education and enriching lives of students.It has been stated in the letter that education administrators, inspectors of education and staff, training institutes, contractual teachers and shiksha mitras, retired teachers are not eligible to apply for the awards.District education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur, said, “We have sent the letter to principals so that teachers can apply for the awards. As per directions, members of the district selection committee will verify the facts and information provided by the applicants.”She said after a detailed evaluation of applications, the district selection committee will shortlist three names and forward these to the state selection committee through the online portal between July 12 to July 21.The committee will get 9 days to shortlist the names of teachers/principals and forward them to an independent national jury by July 31, she added.The selection process by the jury will start on August 6 and names will be finalised till August 14 through a video conference.Last year, from Punjab, Amarjeet Singh, lone science teacher of Government Senior Secondary School, Ranghrial village of Mansa district, received the national award on Teacher’s Day. He transformed four remote schools in Mansa and got funds from the Zila Parishad and others for the facelift of schools.In 2018, Kirandeep Singh, a mathematics teacher of the Government Senior Secondary School, Sihora, Ludhiana, received the national award for his contribution in the field of education.He has set up a maths hub, a maths park, created interesting modules, to make students enjoy the subject and excel in it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-school-teachers-in-punjab-can-apply-for-national-awards-by-july-6/story-3urDpFE0gIUeHdDxhHmUGN.html
28-06-2020||Jaipur||Over 1 lakh travelled on Rajasthan Roadways buses on June 27: Official||Over one lakh people travelled on Rajasthan Roadways buses on Saturday, the maximum in the coronavirus period in a single day, an official said. Confirming it, state roadways chairman Naveen Jain in a statement said around 11.70 lakh people have rode their buses in 24 days since June 3, the day their service restarted. He said the passenger load was 60 per cent of the bus capacity and 35 per cent of them booked tickets online. He appealed to people to give priority to Rajasthan Roadways buses for infection-free travel and said five per cent cashback will be provided for online booking of tickets. The cashback can be used later at the time of the ticket booking. Based on the demand of people from Monday, over 430 trips will be made on over 200 routes by Rajasthan Roadways throughout the state, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/over-1-lakh-travelled-on-rajasthan-roadways-buses-on-june-27-official/story-YuTJ6wSJOygTBaQaqQ68FP.html
28-06-2020||City||Srijan scamCBI files chargesheet against ex-IAS officer and JD(U) leader After serving on key posts, K P Ramaiah took VRS and fought 2014 LS polls from Sasaram||PATNA The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing the multi-crore Srijan scam, filed three separate charge-sheets on Saturday before the special court in Patna against 60 accused, including former Bhagalpur district magistrate and JD (U) leader K P Ramaiah. Ramaiah, a 1986-batch IAS officer of Bihar cadre, has also served as principal secretary of scheduled castes/tribe welfare department and secretary of Mahadalit Commission, before joining the JD (U) in 2014, when he unsuccessfully contested Lok Sabha election from Sasaram constituency. He is the second formed DM of Bhagalpur to be charge-sheeted in the case. Earlier, 2004-batch IAS officer Birendra Prasad Yadav, currently posted as special secretary (backward class and extremely backward classes) at the state’s social welfare department, was charge-sheeted. The Srijan scam involves fraudulent transfer of more than Rs 2,000 crore from government’s bank accounts in Bhagalpur to Srijan Mahila Vikash Sahyog Samiti (SMVSS), an NGO which claimed to be working for the uplift of women in different districts. The cases first came to light in August 2017 and the CBI took over the case the same month.Others already charge-sheeted in the case include Manorma Devi (late), founder secretary of the SMVSS, manager Sarita Jha, director Subha Laxmi Jha, secretary Rajni Priya and her husband Amit Kumar, besides the then chief managers, then branch managers and other officials of Bank of Baroda and Indian Bank.Manorama Devi, who reportedly flaunted her connections with politicians and bureaucrats and helped Srijan spread its tentacles. About Ramaiah, the CBI has found that he, as DM of Bhagalpur in 2011, allowed opening of bank accounts in SMVSS with the help of then deputy collector (nazarat) Vijay Kumar and depositing Rs 3.5 crore in two separate accounts. During investigation, the premier agency found that there were illegal transfers and misuse of funds from government accounts in Bhagalpur district to accounts of the SMVSS through a conspiracy hatched between government officials, including DMs and office bearers of the NGO, between 2003 and 2014.In another case, Ramaiah has also been accused of embezzlement of funds meant for the uplift of scheduled caste/tribe students through imparting training in computer courses. Bihar’s vigilance department had found he was wrongly disbursing Rs 2.24 crore only two days before his voluntary retirement.Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Sunday accused CM Nitish Kumar of having patronised the tainted former bureaucrat. “The chief minister should explain why an accused in the Srijan scam is being patronised by the JD(U). After all, what is so special about Ramaiah that the JD(U) had given him ticket during parliamentary polls and later appointed him as member of the land tribunal when he lost the election,” said Tejashwi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/srijan-scamcbi-files-chargesheet-against-ex-ias-officer-and-jd-u-leader-after-serving-on-key-posts-k-p-ramaiah-took-vrs-and-fought-2014-ls-polls-from-sasaram/story-EfAqCDKR9uPXpEQD5yqUVM.html
28-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police reaches out to personnel to address stress||Delhi Police personnel have been among the frontline workers during the Covid-19 outbreak, which has not only put them at a greater physical health risk but also amplified their stress levels due to personal reasons, officials said.There is a 30-year-old constable who now sanitises his hands at a gap of every two or three minutes and remains isolated from family members even at home. He also has sleep disorders now that developed around March 15, when the pandemic threat had started to peak, they said.In another case, a 42-year-old sub-inspector, who lost his mother due to Covid-19, is overly stressed thinking he or his family might contract the infection now.A woman personnel, who is spending more time at home during the pandemic, is tensed because her family wants her to get married but she feels that as a sole bread earner of the family she needs to take care of her younger brother, who has health issues, and her elderly mother.There are also personnel who are stressed due to domestic issues like some property dispute in their native districts outside Delhi, or physical health issues such as blood pressure or diabetes too.Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi Police has initiated a campaign to reach out to its personnel who are distressed due to personal or health issues and provide them with expert professional help, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Sanjay Bhatia said.The campaign, ‘Healthy Police, Happy Police,’ has been initiated by the central district, which has a staff of 2,705 personnel, several of whom have informed their seniors about stress due to personal reasons and have sought counselling, he said.The whole process is confidential to respect the privacy of police personnel seeking help, the DCP said.“In the time of the spread of coronavirus pandemic, police personnel are performing duties under challenging circumstances. This not only results in physical but also psychological stress,” Bhatia said. “Under the campaign, all police personnel posted in the district were sent a health problem questionnaire and their health status was taken in a sealed envelope. “These health-related problems were classified under three categories-physical problems, psychological stress and domestic problems. Based on the information received a counselling session will be held periodically, whereby the problems of police personnel will be heard by expert physicians, psychologists and domestic problem counsellors and expert guidance will be provided,” he said.A total of 2,705 such forms were distributed to the personnel in the central district and so far 1,500 filled forms have returned, they said.Around 150 personnel, which include both male and female, have sought help for stress issues, while another 100 have sought administrative assistance for other problems, like leave or work hours, the officials told PTI.The first such session with a batch of 30 personnel in attendance took counselling from professionals on June 26, they said.“The police approach is to identify such cases among its personnel and provide them help so that problems do not escalate. It is to ensure the overall wellbeing of our personnel,” Additional DCP Sikandar Singh said.“We will provide them with counselling and also follow up their cases by seeking their feedback on counselling sessions to know if it is really helping them. Any changes required will be made accordingly,” Singh said.Clinical Psychologist Kaartik Gupta, who was one of the expert counsellors who interacted with policemen as part of the ‘Healthy Police, Happy Police’ campaign, said he observed cases of anxiety, sleep disorder and stress during the first session on June 26.“Such health issues need more sessions of psychotherapy over a period of time. It is obvious that not many people open up with experts initially. In some cases, medication or long terms of psychotherapy could be required, which will be handled accordingly,” Gupta said.During the first session, the counsellors got an average 20 to 25 minutes each with a personnel with the experts saying this duration could ideally be around 45-50 minutes.Police officials said they are considering re-organising batch sizes for counselling sessions as it is only for the first time that some initiative like this has taken place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-government-allows-restro-bars-clubs-to-sell-beer-stock-expiring-by-july-15-to-liquor-shops/story-EtzWXAQ1KYIB5G900dpbNP.html
28-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi government allows restro-bars, clubs to sell beer stock expiring by July 15 to liquor shops||The Delhi government has allowed the city’s restro-bars, hotels, and clubs to sell their stock of beer expiring by July 15 to liquor shops in a bid to minimise their financial losses, an official said on Sunday.There are around 950 hotels, clubs and restro-bars in the national capital which have an excise license but have not been allowed to open since March 25, when the nationwide lockdown was announced.Earlier this month, the government had allowed the owners of such establishments to sell to liquor shops their stock of beer expiring in June.“The department has now allowed restro-bars, hotels and clubs to sell their stock of beer expiring by July 15 to liquor shops in the city,” the official said.The shelf life of beer in Delhi is around six months, the official said.“Hotel, clubs and restaurants licensee shall prepare an inventory of all beer stock, with barcode, which is to be transferred at licensed vend,” the excise department said in an order.“The licensee from hotels, clubs and restaurants shall then submit the barcode list of beer stock and consent letter obtained from licensed vend to excise department with the request for allowing transfer of beer stock,” it said.According to the process, the owners of restro-bars, clubs, and hotels will have to reach an agreement with the liquor vend owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-government-allows-restro-bars-clubs-to-sell-beer-stock-expiring-by-july-15-to-liquor-shops/story-RD5G8DsMoq7GAf1PFPXo1K.html
28-06-2020||City||Speed up development works: Cong leader tells Shimla admn||Shimla (rural) legislator and Congress leader Vikramaditya Singh on Sunday demanded the administration to complete development works in his Legislative Assembly Constituency at the earliest for which he has given money from his MLA fund. He warned of breach of privilege if any official tried to stop development works by citing Covid-19 outbreak as an excuse. He has demanded the state government to issue strict orders to officials to only spend funds on projects for which it has been allotted.In a statement issued, Singh accused the state government of completely failing in solving problems of the people and said that Himachal is lagging behind in development and chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has not been able to introduce an effective scheme in his tenure of two and a half years.Singh said that the state government has not provided any relief to people amid coronavirus pandemic rather farmers and orchardists are being completely ignored. The government is not worried about increasing unemployment and has hiked rates of diesel and petrol, he added.He said that false sedition cases are being filed against anyone who is raising their voices against state and central government.He also lashed out at state’s Members of Parliament (MPs) and said that they kept promising about railway expansion in the state but nothing has been done till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/speed-up-development-works-cong-leader-tells-shimla-admn/story-TkbL8QjfjZduditDDd4QdP.html
28-06-2020||City||Rival faction opens front against Himachal Congress chief Kuldeep Rathore||The infighting among Himachal Congress is out in the open as a rival faction has shot a letter to the central leadership against the state president Kuldeep Singh Rathore.Over half a dozen disgruntled Congress leaders, who owe allegiance to former minister Kaul Singh Thakur and former Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) chief Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu, held a meeting in Mandi expressing dissatisfaction over Rathore’s “unilateral” functioning.They also wrote a letter to the All India Congress Committee (AICC) chief Sonia Gandhi seeking her intervention in the matter. The signatory of the letter included Lal Singh Kaushal, Jiwan Thakur, Pawan Thakur, Champa Thakur, who contested the 2017 assembly elections unsuccessfully and former minister Mansa Ram, among others.In the letter, the rebel leaders alleged that Rathore did not consult the senior party leaders while reshuffling or dissolving and reconstitution of Pradesh Congress Committee, district or block units.“Such people who are not even the primary members of the party have been appointed on key organisational posts. Some of them even worked against the party’s official candidates during the 2017 assembly election, resulting in an embarrassing defeat for the party,” they alleged.The mishandling of affairs by the current president was also reflected in party’s dismal performance in 2019 general elections and assembly by-election wherein the Congress candidates forfeited their deposit and the party’s vote share dropped from 48% to just 17%, they added.They said the day-to-day working of the present party setup in the state was not satisfactory, particularly when it comes to opposing the anti-people policies of the BJP government“The Congress missed a great opportunity to corner the government when a scam surfaced in the health department. This happened due to wrong ₹20 crore expenditure shown by the HPCC chief in the fight against Covid-19. There was no evidence to corroborate the claims and Congress party came on a back foot,” said the anti-Rathore group.The rival faction further wrote that the senior Congress leaders in the state were also unhappy with the way things were going and held a brainstorming session at the state capital to rejuvenate the party.“It’s high time that the AICC intervened in the state leadership to boost the morale of the ground-level workers,” they said, requesting the high command to set up a high-level coordination committee of senior leaders for better handling of party affairs in the state.Meanwhile, Rathore has termed the letter a conspiracy of the ruling BJP against him.“Some BJP leaders have orchestrated the whole episode. However, I will not fight my own people, but the battle against fascist BJP regime will continue,” said Rathore adding that his objective was to further the agenda of the high command.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rival-faction-opens-front-against-himachal-congress-chief-kuldeep-rathore/story-PUiYrcMmL3GrN1BoTPGWLO.html
28-06-2020||City||Bihar minister, wife test positive for Covid-19||Bihar’s Backward and Extremely Backward Classes Welfare Minister Vinod Kumar Singh and his wife tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday and were sent to an isolation ward at a city hotel in Katihar district, officials said. Katihar District Magistrate Kanwal Tanuj confirmed that both the minister and his wife have tested positive for the pathogen. The couple has been kept at an isolation ward created at a city hotel here, the DM said. Singh, who is a BJP legislator from Pranpur, said his samples were tested in Patna and he returned to Katihar from the state capital on Sunday. The minister said when he came to know about his test report, he first went to Katihar Medical College and Hospital and thereafter to the isolation ward of a hotel in the town. People who came in contact with the minister will be traced to collect their samples for testing, the DM said. This is the first incident when a minister of the Nitish Kumar government has tested positive for Covid-19. Earlier on June 22, a sitting BJP MLA Jibesh Kumar Mishra tested positive for the virus. He was admitted to AIIMS, Patna for treatment and supervision. The MLA was the first sitting member of the bicameral legislature in the state to have been tested positive for Covid-19. Earlier, veteran RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, a former Union minister, was admitted to the hospital after testing positive for coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-minister-wife-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-6NaTdnTmWQ6Gh6wFewOoDP.html
28-06-2020||City||Team inspects damaged bungalows of MLCs, assures repair||PATNAA team of officials of the building construction department (BCD) led by its executive engineer carried out inspection of official residence of MLC Prem Chandra Mishra and others on Sunday to assess the scale of repair the premises required.Failing to draw the government’s attention towards faulty and poor construction of the MLCs’ bungalows, which developed cracks and seepages within months of construction, Mishra had written to BCD principal secretary Chanchal Kumar to ensure immediate repair and sought a high-level inquiry into the construction.“The BCD team visited my bungalow and gave with an assurance to get it repaired soon,” said Mishra.“Not only the MLC ’ bungalows, all recent constructions done by the BCD like Bihar Museum, Police Building and annexe building of the state legislature have been facing cracks and seepages,” claimed Mishra.Alleging compromise in quality of construction, Mishra had raised a question in the state Legislative Council during the monsoon session last year (in July 2019). “The entrances are secured with thin fibre sheets, which could be broke open easily,” Mishra had alleged.BCD minister Ashok Choudhary, along with Mishra and officials, had inspected the premises in August last year and assured to fix iron grills at the entry points by September-October. “That could, however, not be complied with as yet,” claimed the Congress legislator.In November last year, Mishra had returned the key to BCD principal secretary Chanchal Kumar saying the cracks were not repaired and taps in bathrooms and kitchen ran dry due to faulty supply network. In January this year, Mishra received the key and entered the bungalows after the BCD officials assured that water supply has been restored and cracks were maintained.According to Mishra, he urged BCD minister Choudhary again for repair work as he was facing umpteen problems due to sub-standard quality of construction in January this year. However, the minister told him that the BCD had transferred the possession of the premises to the Legislative Council and the Council secretariat should look into it.Mishra again raised the issue in the Council during the last Budget session, which was curtailed abruptly due to Covid outbreak, but his question was not taken up, nor had the government supplied any written answer to it. “Problems of construction were not limited to my house only. All the bungalows of MLCs are facing similar issues, which should be attended to by the government,” said Mishra.Minister Choudhary and principal secretary Chanchal Kumar could not be reached out for their comments despite repeated tries could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/team-inspects-damaged-bungalows-of-mlcs-assures-repair/story-obDjNSTQwQKUjuWOx0ysUM.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Exit exams postponed in Punjab varsities, colleges till July 15||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday announced postponement of exams for Exit classes in all universities of the state till July 15.The move followed concerns by authorities in the institutions, students and their families over social distancing norms as the Covid-19 pandemic has yet to peak in India.A final decision will depend on new directions/guidelines expected to be released anytime by the University Grants Commission (UGC) .Postponement till July 15 will also give all stakeholders, especially the universities, time to adapt and align to the new guidelines to come from UGC, the CM has said. The CM felt that the move will address concerns of all stakeholders regarding the safe conduct of the examinations, an official spokesperson said.It may be recalled that Punjab’s universities had taken a decision to conduct exams of exit classes in the month of July 2020, in accordance with the guidelines issued by UGC on April 29. The UGC had then announced that it will review the situation again and take a decision, which is awaited.Since all the universities and colleges in Punjab are accredited/affiliated to UGC, any decision on the exams can only be taken by the statutory body under the Central government’s human resource development (HRD) ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/exit-exams-postponed-in-punjab-varsities-colleges-till-july-15/story-lZ5xjbOq20wioUL7Z3GEsO.html
28-06-2020||Pune||Safety on the mind as CSW look to resume work in Pune’s red-light area||We asks our customers to wear masks and use sanitisers while visiting us. We are also using masks and gloves as protection, but there is still this fear lurking in our minds about hygiene and protection from the virus, says ‘Kamla’, who has been working at Budhwar peth as a commercial sex worker (CSW) since a long time. She is one of the 2,000 CSWs working in the Pune’s oldest and largest red-light area, in existence since the Peshwa era. Most of those working here are from West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh. For the past three months, Kamla and most like her, were sitting at home without work. However, now business has resumed as Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has excluded the area from the containment zones’ list.The three months of lockdown was tough for many of the CSWs, and as they look to resume work, there is apprehension among them about the spread of Covid-19. With masks, gloves and video chat on their mind as preventive measures, these women with the help of the NGO Saheli have laid out certain Standard Operating Procedure (SOPs).‘Kajal’ has been part of Budhwar peth for past 12 years as a CSW and it was for the first time that she used ‘phone sex’ for her regular customer. “Phone sex is a new thing for me and I feel shy during the process. I am yet to get use to it,” said Kajal, who acquired her this name after coming here.After PMC opened the area, Kamla stepped out to “find a customer” and also to collect ration that was being distributed by the local NGO working in the area. “We are changing the sheets frequently. It has been tough to meet my day-to-day needs during the past three months of lockdown. We get ration from NGOs, but it is not enough,” said Kamla, who acquired her name after coming here. Among the many NGOs working in Budhwar peth, Saheli HIV AIDS Karyakarta Sangh is once holding special advisory sessions on safety for CSWs during Covid-19 pandemic and is also encouraging them to use the phone for their regular customers.“When we were called for a meeting with the police to announce that Budhwar peth was no longer a containment zone and that they could resume their work, four days ago, we are constantly thinking of how best to offer protection to these women,” said Tejasvi Sevekari, executive director, Saheli.“Their job has physical involvement and despite masks and gloves, there is still a risk of the infection. Hence, we began an advocacy programme and have been sharing videos about phone sex,” she said.With the rising number of Covid-19 cases earlier in the area, police had shut the red light area on March 19, thus leaving no means of earning for the 3,000 CSWs. Almost 1,000 of them went back home, while 2,000 of them are still in the area.Most of them are looking forward to earning their money. “I used to make around Rs18,000 to Rs 20,000 a month, I am hoping to get at least few customers in the day if possible,” said Kamla.“Some of the CSWs have also pulled in money to buy sets of gloves, sanitisers and masks, although we are providing them with basic masks, as they want to resume activities with as much safety as possible,” said Sevekari.Sevekari is apprehensive too about CSWs resuming their work. “Until now there were no cases of Covid-19, but with customers visiting, there are chances of spreading of the virus.”“We are appealing to the government, if any funding could be worked out for the protection of CSWs. This will at least help them financially until the fear of this virus is gone,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/safety-on-the-mind-as-csw-look-to-resume-work-in-pune-s-red-light-area/story-kqU8Ck47Y9CVAT4U5FasWO.html
28-06-2020||Pune||Corruption worth ₹8.2 lakh in tree-plantation drive at Seven Loves chowk, reveals RTI||Members of the Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) party have alleged corruption worth Rs 8.2 lakh in a tree-plantation project at Seven Loves Chowk in Pune.The case came to light when the party representatives asked for details of the work done around the flyover.“We had filed an RTI application on the name of the flyover bridge which was changed around a year ago from Lahuji Vasdat to Atal Bihari Vajpayee. In a fight to get it back, we filed an RTI application asking for details of the official work that was done by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) while building the flyover,” said Atul Nade, member of VBA and a resident of Seven Loves Chowk area who filed the RTI applciation.The garden department chief superintendent, who had initially refused to accept that the information was provided by his department through RTI, late shrugged responsibility of the knowledge of the bills.“It has the stamp of the garden superintendent and not the chief garden superintendent. Therefore, since he is the appellant authority, he is answerable for it,” said Ashok Ghorpade, chief superintendent of PMC garden department.An amount of Rs 9.64 lakh was locked-in from the budget meant for the garden department. The title of the tender dated December 16, 2017 was to award the work to a private company to develop a garden around the open grounds in the vicinity of the flyover at Seven Loves Chowk, as per the documents received in response to the RTI application.The description of the work is planting of Ashoka trees on the divider on the road-stretch between Seven Loves chowk and AD Camp and installation of a net around it. However, no trees can be found on the divider of the road.“When the proposal was floated, it was sent to the road development department. To get a locking amount sanctioned, they sent the proposal to us as the issue is related to tree plantation which is our area of expertise. It was duly audited internally and then sanctioned. However, on the ground, the reality must have changed and the trees must have been planted around the area - which in this case was under and along the bridge. The confusion is caused by the words used for description at the beginning of the tender process and in the end. After all, the bills submitted by the company were of the work they finally did and not what was proposed on paper,” said a senior official of the garden department who was closely involved in the process and did not wish to be named.On December 10, 2019, a refund stamp of Rs 8,20,592 to the private company is seen on the tender document.“We asked for the specifics of the bills that amount to Rs 8.2 lakh which were refunded and they are not ready to show them,” said Nade.However, the RTI response provides bills for other kinds of trees which the PMC officials claim were planted under and near the flyover bridge.“The cost of a 3-4 feet tall tree is anywhere between Rs 20-30. A bigger tree, around 5-10 feet tall, will cost anywhere around Rs 1,000-Rs 1,500. The ideal distance at which an Ashoka tree should be planted is 8 feet but it is generally seen planted at a distance of 5-6 feet. Sometimes it is purposely planted at a shortened distance in order for the foliage of consecutive trees to form a wall. Therefore, without the details of how they intended to plant the trees, it is difficult to estimate the cost,” said Suresh Pingale, secretary of agri-horticulture society of western India that manages the Empress Botanical garden. There are two species of Ashoka. The true Ashoka (Sita Ashok) is named as Saraca asoka which is a medicinal plant, and the so-called Ashoka (which is commonly grown as avenue trees) is named as Polyalthia longifolia. The Polyalthia longifolia has a dimension of About 3 Meters (Diameter of the tree canopy) so the minimum distance between two successive Ashoka trees can be 5-10 Meters for their proper growth and to provide sufficient space for the canopy formation. The cost of tree guard is Rs. 200 per number for plastic or Rs. 800 per number for steel (As per Indiamart Prices),” said Professor Avinash B Ade of the Botany department of Savitribai Phule Pune University.Given that the tender description mentions tall trees, the budget of Rs 9.9 lakh can accommodate around 660 trees, excluding the cost of safety and labour. However, upon inspection of the site, only a metal divider can be seen on the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/corruption-worth-8-2-lakh-in-tree-plantation-drive-at-seven-loves-chowk-reveals-rti/story-WxhFfBLsuUe0CtIwf7ioBK.html
28-06-2020||Gurugram||Lockdown in 8 zones in Gurugram for 2 weeks||In view of fast rising Covid-19 cases, the Gurugram administration has identified 8 containment zones in the district and will enforce a complete lockdown for two weeks, an official said.Gurugram District Magistrate Amit Khatri said that these wards are identified as large outbreak zones.“Under the provision of Disaster Management Act, human movement will be completely banned here from two weeks from June 30 to July 14. The violators will be liable to face action under Disaster Management Act 2005 and relevant sections of IPC,” Khatri said.The large outbreak areas are identified as ward number 4 Dundehera, ward number 16 Arjun Nagar, Jyoti Park, Madanpuri, Ward number 17 Ratan garden and Shiv Puri, Ward number 20 Shivaji Nagar and Shanti nagar, Ward number 21 Baldev Nagar, Feroz Gandhi Colony, Ravi Nagar, Ward number 22 Hira Nagar, Gandhi Nagar Shvaji Park, Ward number 23 Hari Nagar Shakti Park and Ward number 35 DLF phase 3 Nathupur.These areas will be completely barricaded from all exit points followed by adequate police deployment to prevent violation. The movement of residents will be allowed only for emergency situations.“Health department will also start door to door screening in these areas through rapid antigen test to identify suspects. It will be mandatory for residents to install Aarogya Setu app and they have to undergo thermal as well as symptomatic screening every time they step out of their houses for buying daily needs domestic items,” Khatri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/lockdown-in-8-zones-in-gurugram-for-2-weeks/story-U6qhm4tLnEpppnEm7HDX9O.html
28-06-2020||Pune||50% ventilators at dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in Pune occupied; shortage of medical staff likely: experts||Even as the city’s recovery rate is over 58 per cent as of June 26 and the mortality rate remains below four per cent at 3.8 per cent, the number of critical patients is on the rise, according to Pune Municipal Corporation data. Out of the 5,575 active cases as of Friday, 330 are in critical condition which is about 5.9 per cent of the active cases, according to PMC data. Also, out of the 580 beds without ventilators, 230 are occupied and 60 ICU beds with ventilator are occupied out of 288 beds.Increase in critical cases means that there is added pressure on the health infrastructure and medical experts. Shekhar Gaikwad, PMC commissioner, said, “Only private hospitals have the required number of ventilators and ICU beds and so we will regulate more private hospitals.”“The critical patients are those who have comorbidity or have reported late to the hospital. Those who seek regular treatment for a few days at the right time do not usually need critical care service,” he added.Out of the total 18,556 available beds, 580 are ICU beds and 288 are ICU beds with ventilators. These also included regulated beds from private hospitals. The 16 private hospitals have 189 beds are ICU beds with oxygen and 85 ICU beds with ventilators which are regulated as per the state government’s GR on May 21. Out of these 50% are reserved for Covid-19 patients.The civic body’s projection states that by July 31, the city will see over 40,000 cases and will fall short of 340 ICU beds and 172 ventilator beds. However, even if the civic body fulfils the required shortage, the city is likely to face a shortage of medical experts like intensivists required to look after patients who are in a critical condition. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president, Indian Medical Association (Maharashtra chapter), said, “The government is now resorting to asking general physicians to work as intensivists in Covid-19 wards. One of our members has been asked to work in the Covid-19 ward of Sassoon hospital who is a general practitioner.”“The government is filling the pinch of shortage of expert doctors who would take care of critical patients which is why it is resorting to such methods. How can a general practitioner attend to an ICU ward?” said Dr Bhondwe.According to Gaikwad, it is not possible for the PMC to fill in the vacant posts overnight which were left unattended for the past 50 years. “Regulating more and more private hospitals is the only way for which we will start the process once again from Monday. It takes at least 2-3 days to ensure that the private hospitals follow the regulation and update their data on the dashboard,” he said.To fill in the requirement of medical experts, the civic body is hiring five MBBS doctors, 73 BAMS doctors, 111 junior nurses, 125 ANM (Auxiliary Nurse Midwife), 34 lab technicians and 50 assistant lab technicians and six doctors and 22 nurses under the National Urban Health Mission (NUHM) programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/50-ventilators-at-dedicated-covid-19-hospitals-in-pune-occupied-shortage-of-medical-staff-likely-experts/story-c8l5l3Ia7wyrQi1QccbhkJ.html
28-06-2020||Pune||Pune-Mumbai expressway now ‘safer’ after bridge demolition||For thousands of commuters driving on the Pune-Mumbai expressway, it has been a different experience in the ghat section after 190-year-old British-era Amrutanjan bridge was demolished during the first week of April.For those regularly passing through the stretch, removal of the bridge has added another lane and negotiating a curve has been “easier” and “safer”, maintained drivers. Expressway police say there have been no accidents at the spot since April 5, when the bridge was demolished and traffic movement was slow due to the lockdown.“Earlier, there were only two lanes where bridge had been standing and vehicles had to slow down there. Now with three lanes on one side of the carriageway, traffic movement has been smooth,” said Parshuram Bohir, a traffic constable of the highway police. “Generally accidents of dimensional cargo (ODC) trucks used to take place at the spot as the slope is steep here. Pune-bound heavy vehicles used to get stuck there, but now with more space there is no delay,” added Bohir.Built in 1830, the bridge was used for transit of goods trains between Pune and Mumbai in the initial years which was stopped later. Traffic jams were the norms at the location of the bridge because of its massive piers and mishaps also used to occur due to breakdown of heavy vehicles.With movement of goods being allowed completely after the lockdown, the expressway has regained life, however, traffic is only at 50 per cent capacity.“My car passed through the stretch easily. Earlier, I had to slow my vehicle down, but now I can continue with the same speed on the expressway,” said Amar Shitole, a regular commuter between Pune and Mumbai. Sumit Sawant, another commuter, said, “There used to be a lot of confusion due to the bridge. It is a completely different experience now and I passed the same spot without changing my lane, which was not possible earlier.”To discipline vehicles, highway police have marked lanes with white markers, which is only being partially followed, according to officials. The heavy vehicles, which are supposed to be using the left lane often use the right lane. “We have been penalising those who do not follow the lane norms. Overall, pulling down of the Amrutanjan bridge has helped in reducing traffic congestion at the spot. Vehicles pass through with ease and there are now very low chances of accidents,” said Jagdish Pardeshi, assistant police inspector (Sahayak police nirakshak), highway police, Dasturi.Anup Nadole, a truck driver, says, “I do not face any issue now while turning the turn due to the wide lanes.” “There is less traffic congestion as earlier the left side lanes were smaller and hence, heavy trucks were not able to pass through, but now it has been broadened,” explained Bhaskar Khade, police naik, highway police, Dasturi.Mobility experts, however, question the demolition of the bridge, saying that it may not be the solution to the traffic problem. Pranjali Deshpande, transport planner and an independent consultant with the World Bank and French development bank, said, “Razing the bridge was strange. Why did the existing condition not considered when the expressway was being made? The demolition could be required for safety reasons, but the authorities should improve the safety of the entire expressway. In the long run, if we want safer modes of commutation, then, we need to shift our focus to intercity buses and railways rather than building more highways.”Sujit Patwardhan, founder and trustee of NGO Parisar, said, “If they have demolished the Amrutanjan bridge with a view that it will reduce accidents, then it does not make sense. How one can expect reduced number of accidents if you allow vehicles to move at a high speed. The move will not help and the public and administration should understand the value of heritage sites.”Brief history of the British-era bridgeAmrutanjan bridge was built 190 years ago and the railway bridge was opened on November 10, 1830, as a key connector between Pune and Mumbai.It got the name Amrutanjan because of the large advertisement hoarding of its namesake at the location.It later served as the third line for the railways on the Bhor ghat section to reverse engines, but it was stopped after more powerful engines were introduced.The wide pillars of the bridge caused steep turns int he ghat section causing many accidents on the expressway.MSRDC received permission to demolish the bridge in 2017. Due to heavy traffic flow on the expressway, MSRDC had not been able to complete the task. With the lockdown underway and almost negligible traffic, MSRDC sought permission to pull it down, again.The bridge was demolished with the help of a controlled blast by MSRDC on April 5. Holes were drilled at 15 to 20 locations on each of its six piers.On April 5, at 6:20pm, the bridge was demolished by simultaneous detonations.Accident comparisonsJan-May 2019Total fatal accidents: 34- No of dead: 40Total serious accidents: 22- No of injured: 53Total minor accidents: 7 - No of injured: 7Total accidents without injuries: 54Jan-May 2020Total fatal accidents: 16 - No of dead: 17Total serious accidents: 10 - No of injured: 20Total minor accidents: 8- No of injured: 8Total accidents without injuries: 12Total overall accidents:January-MayTotal accidents in 2019: 117Total accidents in 2020: 46||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-mumbai-expressway-now-safer-after-bridge-demolition/story-4TJN5pU5RHI8Inc0xp8PQI.html
28-06-2020||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray says Maharashtra lockdown to continue, hints at more eases after June 30||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday the ongoing lockdown will not be lifted after its fifth phase ends on June 30 but indicated there will be more relaxations under the state government’s Mission Begin Again. Thackeray, who completed seven months in his office on Sunday, said the risk of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the battle against the pandemic are not over yet, but the government is relaxing the curbs in a phased manner. The Shiv Sena chief said that the continuation of the lockdown curbs and their stricter implementations depends on citizens. CM Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray’s address to the State today; pic.twitter.com/jtickPoo7R“I have been getting requests from a few civic authorities for the permission for imposing stricter lockdown owing to the rising numbers. There are cases of violations of the curbs in some cities like Mumbai, Pune and even in rural areas,” Thackeray said while addressing the state through Facebook.“I am sure the citizens will continue to abide by the stricter norms of the lockdown but in case of violations of the curbs, we will have no options but to go for the stricter imposition of the lockdown again in the areas with a rise in the cases,” he added.Maharashtra is the worst-hit state by the coronavirus pandemic with a tally of to 159,133 out of which more than 74,000 cases are in Mumbai. Ten major cities, including Mumbai, continue to be classified as red zones with strict restrictions including no public transport. More than 7,200 people, including 4,284 in Mumbai, have succumbed to the respiratory disease in the state so far.Thackeray said that there will be a spike in infections in the next few weeks.“As we have been opening up the activities to ensure the revival of the economy, we have been witnessing the rise in the cases. Even in the near future, there will be a rise in the cases as we open up more activities,” he said. “But the state government is ready to take on the surge. We have increased the testing facilities. Instead of waiting for the virus to attack us, we have been chasing it. After it has proven to be successful in Mumbai, the ‘chase the virus’ drive is being implemented elsewhere in the state. It will help us in containing the spread,” he added.Thackeray said the state government is at par with the health infrastructure at the national and international level. He said his government has received permission from the Centre for the use of remdesivir and favipiravin, the antiviral drugs, and they will be made available to people free of cost once the adequate stock has been procured.“We are inaugurating plasma therapy testing centres in Maharashtra on Monday and it will, perhaps, help us in becoming the top state to provide the facility with the highest number of tests for the therapy,” he said.“We appeal to the people who recovered from the infection to come forward for the test of therapy so that other positive patients can be benefited from them,” he said.The chief minister also appealed to doctors from the private sector to come forward and guide their colleagues from the healthcare sector to treat Covid-19 patients effectively.Thackeray reiterated his appeal to the people to keep religious celebrations a low key affair in the wake of the pandemic. He also announced the resumption of the ongoing loan waiver scheme, which was stalled due to the economic crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-says-maharashtra-lockdown-to-continue-hints-at-more-eases-after-june-30/story-IzZSWbbueFS6MKXXuFWS0K.html
28-06-2020||Pune||PMC prepared for the worst: Shekhar Gaikwad, municipal commissioner||According to a projection by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) Smart City Covid-19 war room, Pune will record at least 40,906 progressive Covid-19 cases and 18,408 active cases by July 31. The projection also highlights that PMC will likely witness a shortage of 282 intensive care unit (ICU) beds and 172 ventilators by July 31 for critically-ill Covid-19 patients. Shekhar Gaikwad, Pune municipal commissioner, talks to HT about the preparedness to deal with the situation.A projection by Pune Smart city war room says there will be shortage ICU and ventilators in July. How will PMC handle the situation?PMC is well-prepared to handle the worst. Following in the footsteps of Delhi and Mumbai, we are planning in advance. Right now, we have 580 ICU beds out of which 283 are occupied. Total beds with a ventilator are 288 and 63 are occupied. So, considering the growth rate, we are adding the facility step by step. Right now PMC had reserved the 80 per cent beds only in 12 hospitals in the city. If needed, we will reserve more seats in other hospitals. At least 1,000 beds are also ready at the Balewadi sports complex where we have made provision for portable oxygen facility. The price of portable oxygen is very normal and we can provide it in enough numbers as per requirement.Considering the growth rate of Covid-19 positive cases, do we have enough infrastructure?The city’s discharge rate has also increased. As of June 26, 8,633 people have been cured of the virus and discharged from various city hospitals. Even the death rate which was around 9 per cent earlier it has come down to four per cent. According to data as of June 25, PMC had 18,556 beds out of which 5,325 are occupied. Even at the back end, we have identified the infrastructure. For example, at Balewadi sports complex we can increase more beds with oxygen support. Pune’s plus point is that we have a large number of educational institutes which have hostel facilities. Each educational premise has more than 1,000-bed capacity which can be turned into hospitals. What about the medial and paramedical staff?I have already recruited the nurses and doctors on a temporary basis and given them a 45-day appointment. The administration will take approval from the elected members for this recruitment. Pune also has enough private and government hospitals. Recently NCP leader Sharad Pawar and other elected members raised concern over private hospitals charging high fees. Is the administration in talks with the hospitals?There were incidents where citizens were charged extra by private hospitals. PMC, district collector and divisional commissioner are working to resolve the issue and a committee has been formed at district collector level. Even our health department is looking into such complaints. Now the private hospital bills are sent to PMC for reimbursement as under various schemes, the government will bear this cost. There are some complaints that despite negative reports, hospitals are not discharging patients. But it is found that some people due to panic are rushing to private hospitals. Once the patient is admitted, the hospitals are following the Covid-19 protocol and not discharging the patients.How is PMC dealing with the financial burden?We had demanded Rs32 crore from the state, but we have got only Rs2 crore till now. We have spent Rs135 crore till now. We are providing food to at least 5,000 patients admitted at various Covid-19 care centres two times a day. There are additional charges of washing bedsheets and clothes which the civic body is paying for. We have requested the state to give us our Goods and Service Tax component on an urgent basis and some financial help.How is the municipal corporation going to manage its budget given the expenditure on Covid-19 management?We have already formed the finance committee, which I head and other members include the account officer and city engineer. We are calling each department head with the proposed works. We have given instruction to them to undertake only urgent work and postpone the rest. It will help us get control over spending and manage the budget.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-prepared-for-the-worst-shekhar-gaikwad-municipal-commissioner/story-0IZnTx4DUrLHfyPvrGtSiN.html
28-06-2020||Patna||In 15 years, there have been 55 scams in Bihar: Tejashwi Yadav slams Nitish govt||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Sunday slammed the Nitish Kumar-led Bihar government and alleged that in the past 15 years there have been 55 scams in the state.“There have been 55 scams that took place in the Bihar government in the past 15 years. No action or inquiry has been undertaken against any official or a political leader by the government. A minimum Rs 3,300 crore of money has been misappropriated in Srijan scam. Who will return the thousands of crores that have been looted from the state,” Yadav asked.“The ‘Chara Ghotala’ (fodder scam) was exaggerated. It was only a Rs 46 lakh scam. But I do not want to say more as the court is doing its work in that,” he added. “Last year when Patna was flooded crores of money was misappropriated by officials of Patna civic body. None of them has been booked. There is a loot of people’s money. Nitish Kumar should inform us what is the action taken to recover the money,” the RJD leader said. With the rains beginning in the state the senior leader also stated that there was a danger of floods affecting the north Bihar areas. “The work of dams has been stopped and the whole of north Bihar is in danger. Due to waterlogging not only Patna, but several other districts in the state are in trouble,” he added. “The roads have been converted into drains. The government should have done pre-monsoon work on drainage. The govt knows that this situation happens in monsoon, but Nitish Kumar’s government did nothing,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/in-15-years-there-have-been-55-scams-in-bihar-tejashwi-yadav-slams-nitish-govt/story-A7JRnJ74nS1qqS7Uv0BJiI.html
28-06-2020||Noida||Fire breaks out at stationery shop, printing press in Noida||A fire broke out at a stationery shop and a printing press in different areas of Noida on Sunday, police officials said. No loss of life was reported in either of the incidents, the officials said. Around 8 am, a fire broke out at a stationery shop in Sector 12 and soon spread to an adjoining bakery, following which fire tenders were rushed to the spot, an official from the Sector 24 police station said. “The fire was soon controlled and no injury or loss to life was reported,” he said. In another incident, the fire was reported from a printing press in Sector 20 of the city during the day. “Fire tenders were rushed to the spot which brought the blaze under control. The fire was caused due to a short circuit,” an official from the Sector 20 police station said. Loss of property was being ascertained in both the cases, according to the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/fire-breaks-out-at-stationery-shop-printing-press-in-noida/story-OOxME9igPEFFOHtaCXowfN.html
28-06-2020||Business||Govt to auction five mineral blocks in Gujarat, Karnataka||The government will beginning Monday auction five mineral blocks in Gujarat and Karnataka having reserves of 667.2 million tonnes.The development assumes significance in the wake of the Centre asking each state having mineral resources to identify at least five new mining projects for auction with pre-embedded clearance on a pilot basis, with a view to expediting the sale process as well as operationalisation of the blocks. While the auction of one mineral block in Karnataka will begin on Monday, the sale of other four mines will commence on Thursday and last till July 8, according to government documents. The notice inviting tender for Kannur (Wadi Area) limestone block in Karnataka was floated in November, while that for four limestone mines in Gujarat was out on March 19. The mines ministry had recently released guidelines for the auction of mineral blocks with pre-embedded clearances as it explored ways to address the key issue of delay in mining production due to lack of various approvals such as forest and environment permissions. The identified blocks would be auctioned along with other blocks without pre-embedded clearances. Under the guidelines, the Centre has asked states to set up a project monitoring unit (PMU) to complete the preparatory work for obtaining requisite clearances, approvals and related work. The unit would obtain all the clearances for starting a mining project. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had earlier announced various structural reforms in the mining sector as part of the over Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package to boost growth and job creation. She had announced auction of 500 blocks and introduction of a seamless composite exploration-cum-mining-cum-production regime. So far, 97 mining leases have been allocated through auctions since 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/govt-to-auction-five-mineral-blocks-in-gujarat-karnataka/story-wRELbeGN5yICsIcmgqFmoJ.html
28-06-2020||Gurugram||Malls to reopen in Gurugram and Faridabad from July 1 after more than 3 months||After more than three months, malls will reopen in Gurugram and Faridabad on July 1, according to the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by the Haryana government.On Friday, during a press conference at Civil Lines, Gurugram municipal commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh had said that malls will reopen in the district next week. However, an exact date on reopening was not disclosed. Singh had also said that an official order in this regard was expected to be issued by the Haryana government soon.As per the SOP, the malls can open between 9 am and 8 pm, but cinema halls, gaming arcades, children play areas will continue to remain closed. It also said that all the precautions like social distancing and wearing of masks need to followed by the visitors and mall workers at all times. The SOPs also said that the visitors need to install the Aarogya Setu app. People above the age of 65 and below the age of 10 will not be permitted to visit shopping malls, the SOP stated.Mall authorities will have to ensure that each visitor undergoes thermal scanning and hand-sanitisers are placed at all entry points. They have also been directed to prevent large gatherings or congregations and to ensure that all mall employees who are at high risk, such as senior citizens, pregnant women, and those who have underlying medical conditions, are “preferably” not placed in any front-line work requiring direct interaction with public.Temperature setting of all air-conditioners should be between 24-30 degrees Celsius.The SOP also states that use of escalator with one person on alternate steps should be followed while valet parking can be operational provided the staff is wearing masks and gloves, and steering wheels, door handles, car keys are properly disinfected. The SOPs also lay out guidenlines to be followed is someone tests positive, directing that after placing the person in a “room or area” where they can remain isolated, they must be provided a mask and the owners must immediately inform the closes hospital or clinic, or else “call the state or district helpline”.“A risk assessment will be undertaken by the designated public health authority...and accordingly further action be initiated regarding management of case, his/her contacts and need for disinfection,” the SOP stated, adding that the premises must be disinfected if the person tests positive.Regarding shopkeepers and vendors, the SOP said that apart from ensuring social distancing norms and “preventive measures” are followed, they must ensure “staggering of visitors...to ensure not more than 50% seating capacity at any particular time”. The latter is also applicable for food courts where staff and waiters also have to wear masks and hand gloves. In food courts, the SOP said, seating arrangements must be made so as to ensure social distancing, and “contactless mode of ordering and digital mode of payment” encouraged.The municipalities have been directed to monitor compliance “by undertaking regular visits”, and to check that proper sanitisation is done. They have also been given the power to issue challans of Rs 500 to visitors “not wearing/using face masks”, and of handing over five masks to them.“If any violation of the guidelines issued by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare and Government of India are noticed, challans shall be issued against each violation,” the state government order stated.“These directions shall be enforced by the Deputy Commissioners in their respective districts and any violations shall be punishable under the provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005 as well as under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/malls-to-reopen-in-gurugram-and-faridabad-from-july-1/story-k1JXbhOTVte468EekZaR7H.html
28-06-2020||Education||IIT Delhi, National Chemical Laboratory working on home-based testing kits for COVID-19||Home-based COVID-19 testing kits could soon be a reality with the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi and the National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) Pune working on an alternative testing method which can not only be performed by individuals at home but will also deliver quick results. The collaborative project with the NCL, which comes under the aegis of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), has also received financial support from Microsoft India and is expected to be ready in a month’s time. According to the team, the project aims to develop an ELISA (Enzyme Linked Immunoassay) based diagnostic serological assay against COVID-19. If successful, it will create an economical, commercial process for manufacturing the antigens used in ELISA and home-based diagnostic kits to offer an effective, quick, robust and affordable diagnostic solution to manage the COVID-19 outbreak. “Testing continues to be a challenge in managing COVID-19 and is likely to remain so for the years to come. Currently, Real-time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests detect genetic material to perform coronavirus testing. However, such tests can be performed in laboratories only, require several hours, have low rates of specificity and sensitivity and pose risks related to specimen collection and sample handling,” Anurag S Rathore, Professor, IIT’s Department of Chemical Engineering, told PTI.“Additionally, these tests cannot be performed by individuals at home. These risks can be minimized by developing IgG and IgM based ELISA assays and home-based testing kits,” he added.IgG is the most abundant immunoglobulin to be produced in response to an antigen and is maintained in the body after initial exposure for long term response. IgM is the first immunoglobulin to be produced in response to an antigen and is primarily detected during the early onset of disease.“Coronaviruses are composed of several proteins including the spike (S), envelope (E), membrane (M), and nucleocapsid (N). This assay we propose will utilizes the microplate-based enzyme immunoassay technique,” said Rathore, who is also the institute’s Dean, Corporate Relations. “The technology for purposed ELISA assay for detection of coronavirus and robust and economical expression systems for production of N and S protein antigens can be transferred to national diagnostic centres and private companies specializing in developing home based kits or point-of-care devices, respectively,” he added. While Rathore did not comment on what will be the approximate cost of the test kit, he said, “it will be considerably cheaper than tests being performed now. However, we will have some concrete results in a month’s time and we will be able to analyse only then”.IIT Delhi is the first academic institute in the country to get a nod from the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for its COVID-19 test kit. The institute has given non-exclusive open licence to Bengaluru-based biotechnology firm Genie Laboratories for commercialising the test, but with a price rider of Rs 500 per kit.The kits are being manufactured at a facility at the Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone (AMTZ) in Vishakhapatnam, and are expected to be available in the market next month.According to the team, the current testing methods available are “probe-based” while the one developed by the IIT team is a “probe-free” method, which reduces the testing cost without compromising on accuracy.Using comparative sequence analyses, the IITD team identified unique regions (short stretches of RNA sequences) in the COVID-19 and SARS COV-2 genome.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/iit-delhi-national-chemical-laboratory-working-on-home-based-testing-kits-for-covid-19/story-MGsEnXNmdYKV2faz08KwvJ.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Nepalese man dies in Shimla apple orchard fire||A Nepalese man was killed when his makeshift house in an apple orchard in Shimla’s Kumarsain caught fire on Friday night.Raju (55) from Nepal worked for orchard owner Girish Gautam and had moved into the house two weeks ago.Though house located in Ghreawati village was reportedly gutted in the fire on Friday, villages came to know about it on Saturday. Police were called and collected the body, which had 70% burns.Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Rampur Bushahr Abhimaniyou Verma said police were investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nepalese-man-dies-in-shimla-apple-orchard-fire/story-xNcJ8bS5iPzDphkNiHvWKM.html
28-06-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka waives institutional quarantine for Delhi, Tamil Nadu returnees||Karnataka has tweaked quarantine rules for inter-state returnees yet again, waiving off the 3-day institutional quarantine requirement for returnees from Delhi and Tamil Nadu, an official said on Sunday.“Persons coming from states other than Maharashtra shall be placed in 14-day home quarantine,” said N. Manjunatha Prasad, Principal Secretary, Revenue Department.On June 15, Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar ordered 3-day institutional quarantine, followed by 11-day home quarantine for people returning from Delhi and Tamil Nadu which now stands waived.However, quarantine requirements for Maharashtra returnees remains the same.“Persons coming from Maharashtra shall be placed in 7-day institutional quarantine, followed by 7-day home quarantine,” said Prasad.Returnees from all other states will not have institutional quarantine but a fortnight’s home quarantine.The senior officer said quarantine surveillance has been augmented through the application of technology and increase in the number of surveillance teams.Similarly, most of the conditions mandated in the June 15 order will continue to remain in force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-waives-institutional-quarantine-for-delhi-tamil-nadu-returnees/story-OcoKhOOm7JsdMQfmU3oHAI.html
28-06-2020||Lucknow||Monsoon session of UP Assembly may be held through video conferencing: Speaker||The monsoon session of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly could be held in August through video conferencing, its Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit said on Sunday, but ruled out holding a ‘hybrid session’ on the lines of the British Parliament.He also said the final decision on the issue will be taken by the state government and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. “At present, we are mulling all the possibilities (to hold the monsoon session of the UP Legislature). One possibility is holding the session through video conferencing,” Dixit told PTI on Sunday.“Another option available with us is to hold the session at the Lok Bhavan. There is also the possibility that a section of seats in the upper area of the Vidhan Sabha can be vacated, as it can accommodate 100-125 people (MLAs),” he said.He added that the Lok Bhavan has sufficient space for seating all MLAs.However, the final decision is yet to be arrived at and will be taken by the state government and the chief minister.To a specific question on whether the UP Legislative Assembly may witness a ‘hybrid’ session on the lines of the UK’s Parliament, whereby some MLAs will be physically present in the House and the others will attend the proceedings via video conferencing to ensure social distancing, the 74-year-old Speaker said, “There is no such thought of doing so (aisaa vichaar nahi hai).” In April, the UK Parliament achieved a historic first as the House of Commons held the weekly Prime Minister’s Questions (PMQs) in a ‘hybrid’ form, with around a dozen lawmakers physically present within the chamber and others tuning in online through giant screens set up to adhere to the social distancing norms in place to curb the spread of coronavirus.A number of MPs logged in through the Zoom application to address their questions in relation to their specific constituencies.Commons Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle had granted an extra 15 minutes to the usual half-hour PMQs session to allow for technical challenges but the hybrid form of the session went ahead without major hurdles.In an earlier interview to PTI (in May), Dixit had said, “At present, the House is not in session. The monsoon session of the UP Legislative Assembly should be held some time in August and I am optimistic that by then the situation would have changed.” He had further said, “If we adhere to social distancing and leave one seat vacant, we will not have enough seats. There are 403 MLAs. Already there are not enough seats for everyone. There is a shortage of 10-12 seats. The work goes on as (generally) 10-12 (members) are absent. In these circumstances, if one seat is left vacant then not more than 200 MLAs will be able to sit”.At present, there are 307 BJP MLAs in the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly followed by the Samajwadi Party which has 48 MLAs. The Bahujan Samaj Party has 18 MLAs, while there are seven Congress MLAs. BJP ally Apna Dal (Sonelal) has nine MLAs and the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party has four MLAs. There are three Independent MLAs, while there is one MLA each from the Rashtriya Lok Dal and the Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Apna Dal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/monsoon-session-of-up-assembly-may-be-held-through-video-conferencing-speaker/story-6c5mOvDvPWnkYfHQoiv85K.html
28-06-2020||Education||Delhi University to conduct second webinar for UG admissions on June 29, check details||The Delhi University (DU) admission branch will conduct the second webinar for the undergraduate admissions 2020-21 on June 29, 2020 from 11 am to 12 noon. A notice regarding this has been uploaded on the varsity’s official website. This time the webinar will deal with the issue of reservation under various categories. As per the notification, the registration for the second DU live webinar is free of cost. Students aspiring to take admissions in DU can register at the varsity’s official website or Facebook page.Earlier on June 20, the DU began the online registration process for admission to its various undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil, and PhD courses. The university’s Dean (Admissions) Shobha Bagai said that the admission process this time will be “contact-less” and completely online. The decision had been made because of the current Covid-19 situation. This year, more than 57,312 applicants have registered for admissions to undergraduate courses at Delhi University. While 18,837 had registered online for postgraduate courses and 2,071 registered for PhD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/delhi-university-to-conduct-second-webinar-for-ug-admissions-on-june-29-check-details/story-hJEa3XZtNHCvuCd8y95mXM.html
28-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra man murders children, later kills himself: Police||A man in Maharashtra killed his three minor children in Palghar’s Nala Sopara area on Saturday, the police said. The man later killed himself, they added.Palghar Superintendent of Police (SP) Dattatray Shinde said the man’s wife left him 45 days ago. He saw the woman’s photo with another man on Facebook and realised that she had eloped with him, Shinde said.The man’s father later confirmed the development and lodged a complaint, the police said.The police said that the man’s father, who lives nearby, first knocked at his son’s door at around 9 pm but thought he and the grandchildren might have gone to sleep without having dinner after he received no response. Two hours later, he again knocked at the door, but there was no response. This time, he broke open the door to find his son and grandchildren dead, the police added.The cops say that the man’s father had called him for tea at around 4.30 pm, but he refused saying his children are asleep which makes them believe that the crime must have taken place around that time.“The complainant informed us and we rushed to the spot, sent the bodies for post-mortem and seized the blood stained knife which was used for the murder. We have registered a case of murder against the deceased and are in search of the victim’s wife who is yet to reach the spot. We are contacting her from the numbers stored on the man’s phone,” said Shinde.He further said that the man must have sedated the children before killing them since neighbours did not hear any screams. The SP also said that the viscera of the four is being sent for chemical analysis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-man-murders-children-later-kills-himself-police/story-ATJf9jJNkoNcjyBudVl1eP.html
28-06-2020||Patna||Bihar’s Covid-19 tally crosses 9,000; 138 new cases reported||Bihar on Sunday reported 138 new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the state’s tally of people infected with the virus to 9,117, according to the Bihar Health Department.With 19,906 new cases, the highest single-day spike so far, India’s Covid-19 count touched 5,28,859 including 2,03,051 active cases, 3,09,713 cured/discharged/migrated, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Sunday.410 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours and the cumulative toll reached 16,095 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-s-covid-19-tally-nearing-9-000-mark-death-toll-at-58/story-ACTrTa6IfrBiNDJybBaUmL.html
28-06-2020||Education||IIT Kharagpur joins hands with Canada varsity for doctoral programme||As part of its mission to “reach out globally and engage actively”, IIT-Kharagpur has collaborated with University of Alberta, Canada, to launch a Joint Doctoral Degree Program (JDP) -- aimed at facilitating academic exchanges between the faculty members and students of the two countries.The programme will give students an opportunity to undertake research at the partner institute for a period of six months to one year, a statement by IIT-Kharagpur said.Virendra Kumar Tewari, the director of IIT Kharagpur, said, “We have to engage actively in a more strategic manner, in the post-COVID 19 world.” “The partnership programme will include identification of research projects for students, joint supervision, fellowships with financial support in the form of a monthly stipend to cover the cost of accommodation and meals for students during their visit,” Tewari said.The participating students will receive recognition upon completion of the programme, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/iit-kharagpur-joins-hands-with-canada-varsity-for-doctoral-programme/story-NllB9EsKy0L23fjIKS7mOK.html
28-06-2020||Ranchi||JMM justifies Jharkhand govt’s decision to impose Covid lockdown till July 31||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) General Secretary, Suprio Bhattacharya on Saturday justified State government’s decision to impose lockdown in the state till July 31 saying that it is an essential step amid rising Covid-19 cases in the state. Addressing a press conference in party office here, Bhattacharya said, “Covid-19 cases are rising in the state. At such time, the extension of lockdown is essential.”He attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party and Centre over the coal block auction issue saying, “Auction is not in the interest of the state but this is being done for vested interests. There is a need to protect the interests of the displaced people. When there is sufficient stock of coal in the country what is the need of such an auction?”As a measure to control the number of Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, the state government on Friday announced that the lockdown would be extended till July 31.As per the state directives, all activities shall continue to remain prohibited until specifically permitted by the state. All social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions/fairs, and congregations are prohibited.Schools/colleges/educational/training/coaching institutions, cinemas, gymnastics, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars and auditoriums will remain closed as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jmm-justifies-jharkhand-govt-s-decision-to-impose-covid-lockdown-till-july-31/story-8SshugbsYO9fy5U0euBYWL.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Five international sportspersons from Punjab promoted as superintendents of police||Arjuna awardee and Commonwealth Games gold medallist shooter Avneet Sidhu, former Indian hockey skipper Rajpal Singh, Olympian discus thrower Harwant Kaur, Asian Games medallists shooter and hockey player Harveen Sarao and Gurbaj Singh, respectively, have been promoted to the rank of superintendent of police in Punjab Police.They are among the 20 police personnel who have been promoted to the rank of SP, according to an office order dated June 27.Avneet is among the batch of the five sportspersons who were recruited directly as DSPs in July 2011 under the sports category. Out of that batch, three international sportspersons, quarter-miler Manjit Kaur, wrestler Palwinder Singh Cheema and hockey player Amandeep Kaur were promoted as SPs last year.Due to Avneet’s sporting commitments, she was not able to complete the mandatory 75-day commando training and phase 2 training by then, so she wasn’t considered for promotion last year. Rajpal, Harwant, Gurbaj and Harveen were recruited under the sports quota in December 2011.“Initially, I had completed the one-year basic and six-month field training, so I was hoping for an exemption in the remaining two trainings because I was doing active shooting. But I was told that relaxation wouldn’t be possible because of police rules. So, I decided to go for the commando and phase 2 trainings. I’m happy that I’ve been promoted. In the coming days, I’ll be getting the posting, but will continue to participate in shooting competitions,” says Avneet, who was with the police sports team till April and was sent to her home unit, 3rd Commando, on Covid duty.International shooters and Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratan awardees Manavjeet Singh Sandhu and Ronjon Sodhi, whose promotions are also due, have not been considered for the next rank as they have yet to complete the mandatory training to become DSPs.SPORTING COUPLES IN PUNJAB POLICEAfter their promotion, Rajpal Singh and Avneet Sidhu are the only sporting couple in the Punjab Police at the rank of SP or above.Rajpal, who led the Indian men’s hockey team to a silver medal finish in the 2010 Commonwealth Games, is posted in Mohali district. Avneet and Rajpal tied the knot in 2013. The other sporting couple in Punjab Police is Arjuna awardee and multi-Asian Games medallist Manjit Kaur and hockey Olympian Gurwinder Singh Chandi. Manjit was recruited in 2011 and was promoted to SP last year, while Chandi, who was a part of the 2014 Asian Games gold medal winning team, was appointed under the sports quota in 2016. They got married in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-international-sportspersons-from-punjab-promoted-as-superintendents-of-police/story-QE4dCEpkHyQDzAbGcwk0jM.html
28-06-2020||Pune||Probe against hospital’s chief matron over assistant’s death||The Maharashtra government has suspended the chief matron of Pune’s Sassoon General Hospital and launched an inquiry against her in connection with the death of an assistant matron there, a senior health official said.Anita Rathod, the assistant matron, died in April this year following which the Maharashtra Government Nurses Federation alleged that the state-run hospital’s chief matron Rajashri Korke caused mental, physical, financial and social harassment to the federation’s members.They also alleged that Korke was responsible for the death of Rathod.A senior health official on Saturday said Rathod also had some underlying health condition.However, following a complaint by the nurses federation, the state government suspended Korke on Friday and launched a departmental inquiry against her in connection with Rathod’s death, the official said.The Maharashtra Government Nurses Federation in a statement welcomed the decision of the Uddhav Thackeray-led dispensation to launch an inquiry into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/probe-against-hospital-s-chief-matron-over-assistant-s-death/story-6vRkW0tS2jcggDhVgbNGrK.html
28-06-2020||Noida||3 drug traffickers injured in police firing, 300-kg cannabis seized in Greater Noida||Three men allegedly transporting 300 kg of cannabis were injured in an encounter with police in Greater Noida on Saturday night, officials said.The men were intercepted near the Eastern Peripheral Expressway under the Jarcha police station area of Gautam Buddh Nagar while they were in a canter truck loaded with the consignment, the officials said.“An encounter broke out between the traffickers and the local police in the Jarcha area. All three, who were transporting the cannabis, were injured in retaliatory firing by the police,” Deputy Commissioner of Police, Greater Noida, Rajesh Kumar Singh said.“We have recovered 300 kg of cannabis worth Rs 36 lakh from the truck. They had procured it from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh and were taking it to Ghaziabad when they were intercepted,” he added.Singh said three country-made pistols were also seized from accused Ummed, Monu and Pramod. Ummed lives in Delhi, while Monu is from Aligarh and Pramod from Hathras, the officer said.On June 24, three suspected drug traffickers were arrested in Greater Noida after 30 kg of cannabis were allegedly seized from their possession.They were held during a police checking in the Dadri area while they were transporting the banned substance worth Rs three lakh in a car, a senior officer had said.Prior to that, the district police had on June 19 seized 200 kg of cannabis and arrested two persons who were transporting the illegal substance, officials had said.The cannabis in both these cases was also procured from Andhra Pradesh and meant to be supplied in Delhi-NCR, but got intercepted by the police in Greater Noida.Singh said a concerted effort is underway on instructions of Police Commissioner Alok Singh to check drug trafficking in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/3-drug-traffickers-injured-in-police-firing-300-kg-cannabis-seized-in-greater-noida/story-wKLPvdJSsxGtM1nOXcMmfI.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||2 army, BSF jawans among 22 new Covid-19 cases in Himachal; tally reaches 916||Dharamshala: Twenty-two more people, including two army personnel and two BSF jawans, tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday, taking the tally in the state to 916.Eleven cases were reported in Kangra, three each in Una and Solan, and one each in Shimla, Bilaspur, Sirmaur and Mandi and Kinnaur.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said that the 54-year-old BSF personnel had travelled from Jammu on June 18.The family of the Covid-19 positive child travelled from Ranga Reddy district of Telangana up to Delhi by train and then in a car to Kangra. The child was asymptomatic.A 36-year-old bank employee from the Fatehpur subdivision tested positive. He is posted at Talwara in Punjab.A 39-year-old army jawan, who came from Arunachal Pradesh on June 23, has been tested positive. He has been shifted to Military Hospital, Yol.Six more people, including a woman and her son, were tested positive in the district late evening.One army jawan has tested positive in Paonta Sahib of the Sirmaur district. The 48-year-old soldier returned from Delhi Cantonment on June 24 and was under institutional quarantine. One BSF jawan is among three tested positive in Una.900 CASES IN 101 DAYSHimachal breached the 900-mark on the 101st day of reporting its first case, which was detected on March 20. It took four days for the tally to reach 800 to 900. The 800-mark was reached on June 24. A total of 578 cases have been reported in June month alone.378 ACTIVE CASESSince the outbreak began, Himachal Pradesh has recorded 916 coronavirus cases. At present, there are 378 active cases, while 518 people have recovered. Eleven people have migrated to other states and seven have succumbed to the infection.Kangra is the worst-hit district in the state with 262 cases, followed by Hamirpur with 238 cases, Una with 104 cases, Solan with 98 cases, Chamba with 51 cases, Bilaspur with 44 cases, Shimla with 40 cases, Sirmaur with 38 cases, Mandi with 28 cases, Kinnaur with eight cases; and Kullu with 5 cases.Eleven of the 12 districts in Himachal are affected by Covid-19. Lahaul-Spiti is the only corona-free district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bsf-jawan-among-four-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-state-s-corona-count-climbs-to-898/story-mHaUqZLiSW5mmLK8w2L3pJ.html
28-06-2020||Kolkata||Durga Puja committees of Kolkata, London to conduct webinar on Covid-19 impact||Representatives of some Durga Puja Committees from Kolkata and London Sharad Utsav will take part in a webinar in mid-July to discuss the impact of Covid-19 on the five-day festival.Subir Das of Bengal Heritage Foundation said, “The webinar will be conducted in mid-July.”Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “The discussion will be on how to help people like priests, ‘dhakis’, idol-makers and pandal designers who are economically dependent on Durga Puja,” he added.Durga Puja is a major festival celebrated in West Bengal and other parts of the country and is held in the last five days of Navaratri.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage This year, Durga Puja will be held between October 22-26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/durga-puja-committees-of-kolkata-london-to-conduct-webinar-on-covid-19-impact/story-hRCX73WmHD9W7nOsXavlYO.html
28-06-2020||Business||Business e-mail compromise most common online fraud: Delhi Police||Business e-mail compromise is one of the most common online frauds, a senior Delhi Police officer dealing with cyber-crimes said on Saturday. In a webinar, organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, deputy commissioner of police (Cyber) Anyesh Roy said business e-mail compromise affects more small and medium level enterprises. “The fraudsters do compromise with the email account of the person who is dealing with the company accounts and financial transactions. They create an email account which is similar to either company’s or client’s account. They come in the middle and start interacting with both the parties. They change the destination of financial transactions on some pretext, following which the money goes to the fraudsters’ account,” Roy said. He said a person needs to protect his email account through which financial transaction and invoice are being sent to the clients. “Whenever an instruction has been received from the client about changing the destination of banking account, it needs to be confirmed through alternate means, including phone call, e-mail and other,” the officer said. Roy also said instead of using free e-mail services, the organisations having a large turnover should shift to their own domain and have a properly hosted e-mail service. Another way of cybercrime is ransomware, which is a type of malicious software designed to block access to a computer system until an amount is paid, he said. The backup clouds, locking systems, such as multiple levels of security, can save a person from this kind of fraud, Roy said. “Cyber-crime is like any other crime and one can report it anywhere at any police station or DCP office. The complaint can be registered through e-mail also. Cyber-crimes are happening through digital medium and the evidences can easily be destroyed so the victim needs to capture it as screenshot and give it to police with their complaint,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/business-e-mail-compromise-most-common-online-fraud-delhi-police/story-TodRtTJljQyGJaIccEOiaI.html
28-06-2020||Delhi||After locust swarms seen in Delhi, neem leaves and firecrackers to chase pests||Parts of Delhi have been placed on alert after a swarm of locusts invaded several suburbs and entered the national capital’s border areas on Saturday.Residents in the National Capital Region (NCR), including rural west Delhi (Dwarka), Gurugram and Faridabad, saw thousands of the crop-destroying pests flying over the skies. A high alert was issued by Delhi’s environment minister Gopal Rai in south and southwest districts of the city because of a potential locust attack threat .All district magistrates, sub-divisional magistrates, the forest department and municipal corporations were issued advisories by the Delhi agriculture department.Here’s what the advisory says:* District magistrates have been advised to deploy adequate staff to make all possible arrangements like announcements in villages for guiding residents to distract the locusts by the beating of drum or utensils, playing high volume music, bursting firecrackers and burning neem leaves* They have asked to remain in touch with the fire department to make arrangements for chemical spraying to save vegetation from the pests* Resident have been asked to keep doors and windows closedAlso read: India’s locust control wing is oldest in world* People can cover outdoor plants with a plastic sheet, the advisory said* Locusts usually fly during the day and rest at night and should not be allowed to rest after sundown* Those spraying insecticides such as malathion or chlorpyrifos must use PPE kit for safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/after-locust-swarms-seen-in-delhi-neem-leaves-and-firecrackers-to-chase-pests/story-Rz9CzRaWscDWXbFWUC0EBM.html
28-06-2020||Kolkata||Zomato employees in Kolkata burn company T-shirts to protest Ladakh standoff||A group of Zomato food delivery platform employees in Kolkata tore and burnt their official T-shirts on Saturday in protest against the killing of 20 Indian soldiers by the Chinese Army in Ladakh last week. During the protest at Behala, some of them claimed that they had quit their job as Zomato has a sizeable Chinese investment and urged people to stop ordering food via the company. In 2018, Ant Financial, part of Chinese major Alibaba, had invested USD 210 million in Zomato for a 14.7-per-cent stake. The food delivery major recently raised an additional $150 million from Ant Financial. “Chinese companies are making profit from here and attacking the Army of our country. They are trying to grab our land. This cannot be allowed,” one of the protesters said.Also read: India deploys air defence systems in eastern Ladakh Another protester said they were ready to starve but would not work in companies having investment from China. In May, Zomato laid off 520 employees or 13 per cent of its workforce in a huge retrenchment exercise due to the novel coronavirus pandemic.There was no immediate reaction from Zomato and whether the protesters were among those who were retrenched was not known.Also read: China’s Xi Jinping is a successor to dictator Joseph Stalin, says US NSA O’BrienTwenty Indian Army personnel, including a colonel, were killed in a fierce clash with the Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/zomato-employees-in-kolkata-burn-company-t-shirts-to-protest-ladakh-standoff/story-dve5dvDEJMGmO60jeU7Y6J.html
28-06-2020||Mumbai||Students in Maharashtra’s Solapur switch on television to learn daily lessons amid lockdown||Even as several schools in the state are struggling to conduct online learning sessions, students of a school in Solapur only have to switch on their televisions (TV) to get their everyday lessons.Nagesh Karajagi Orchid School, which is affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), has begun airing pre-recorded syllabus content on a TV channel to ensure smooth and simple learning process for around 1,500 of its students across all grades.The school closed its operations in March after the state went into lockdown, and began conducting classes for its students online. In a few days however, the school’s teachers realised that face-to-face learning was turning stressful for students and their parents owing to many reasons.“First, they had to get used to the whole online set up. Then, it was a struggle to share devices between siblings and parents, with everyone needing them at the same time. We thus thought of using TV a medium because it has a wider reach and is more accessible,” said Kumar Karajagi, the school’s chairman. The school then hired a team of technicians and trained teachers during May vacations to record videos and this month onwards, teachers started recording classes in a makeshift studio created in the school.“We started calling teachers on a rotational basis a few times a week to record the videos. In the beginning, there were some hiccups in getting used to the system, but the teachers got accustomed to it within a few days,” said Rupali Hajare, principal of the school.As the new academic year of the school commenced on June 9, students saw their teachers on their TV sets for the first time. The school approached a local cable network, which operates across Solapur, to air the recorded content.“They gave us ‘Channel Number 999’ and we gave it our school’s name. The channel airs content from 7am to 7pm. The morning slots are reserved for secondary classes, while the afternoon ones for primary students” said Karajagi.Balasaheb Patil, one of the parents whose two children are enrolled in the school, said the initiative is helping his kids adapt with ease to a new routine.“With dedicated slots for each class, students can learn at the comfort of their homes which is a good thing. They are really happy and look forward to their classes,” said Patil.Over the past few days, students across Solapur, even the ones studying in other schools are using the facility.“Our intention is to make the content available to as many students as possible in these tough times. We are more than happy that so many students are benefiting out of it,” added Karajagi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/students-in-maharashtra-s-solapur-switch-on-television-to-learn-daily-lessons-amid-lockdown/story-0lNZ4ZMCmADUb1XsdCvSTN.html
28-06-2020||Mumbai||FIR against 6 personnel from Mumbai’s Borivli police station for failing to report to duty||A criminal case has been registered against six police personnel for allegedly not reporting to duty despite several warnings. The personnel, all attached to Borivli police station, were suspended earlier and were asked to be present for an inquiry. However, they continued to remain elusive.The accused have been identified as police naiks Pradeep Agawane and Prashant Bhosale, constables Harishchandra Bhosale, Vishwanath Namdar, Pradeep Kumar Babar and Priyanka Chavan. The first information report (FIR) was registered on the complaint of Gyaneshwar Patil, police naik, Borivli police station, who oversees duty assigning and other administrative work.The complaint pointed out that, to prevent the spread of Covid-19 among vulnerable members of the force, the commissioner of police has exempted personnel above the age of 55 years from reporting for duty. Also, those policemen who have comorbidities have been assigned indoor duties. Leaves of all policemen were cancelled, and those on leave or absent from work were asked to report to duty immediately. The six accused personnel remained absent for a long duration. They were served with several notices by the Borivli police station and the zonal deputy commissioner of police, but none of them responded. Of the six, woman constable Chavan has been absent since 2018. “Police had also made calls to the accused but did not receive any response,” said an officer from Borivli police station. The police personnel were asked to be present for an enquiry but continued to remain absent following which the senior police officer of the region decided to lodge a criminal case against them. They have been charged under section 145 (misconduct by police officers) of the Maharashtra Police Act, 1951, and section 56 (failure of officer in duty) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fir-against-6-personnel-from-mumbai-s-borivli-police-station-for-failing-to-report-to-duty/story-IFiILiez3PL5hfC1mGMACO.html
28-06-2020||City||Masked intruders rob elderly man of jewellery, licensed revolver in Raikot||Two masked men robbed an 80-year-old man and his wife of gold jewellery and his licensed revolver at gunpoint in Barundi village of Raikot on Friday. The accused also took away the keys of the victim’s Toyota Fortuner SUV.Narinder Singh, of Barundi village, told the police that he was present at home when two masked men came to his home for some enquiry. The accused asked him for his phone number. When he went inside the house to get a pen and paper, the duo followed him.They flashed a gun and threatened to kill him. The victim said the robbers took away 30gm gold jewellery, his licensed revolver, a mobile phone and keys of his SUV.ASI Jagroop Singh from Sadar police station, Raikot, who is investigating the case, said they had registered a case under Sections 382, 455, 506 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. The police are working to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/masked-intruders-rob-elderly-man-of-jewellery-licensed-revolver-in-raikot/story-5xAZZ2dxZha6g4YKqHzY3L.html
28-06-2020||City||Auto gang member who stole Hoshiarpur trader’s ₹2 lakh arrested||A member of a three-wheeler gang, who had thrown out a Hoshiarpur trader from a running auto, landed in police net on Saturday.Police have recovered Rs 1.7 lakh in cash and a three-wheeler that was used in the crime from him.The accused has been identified as Sanjay Kumar of Dr Ambedkar Nagar, Model Town, while his accomplice, who is at large, is Sabi.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 1) Deepak Pareek said the police arrested the accused from Salem Tabri following a tip-off.He said on June 25, Tarsem Lal Jain, 52, a trader from Jain Colony, Hoshiarpur, had hailed an auto at Jalandhar Bypass to reach Clock Tower. There was already a passenger in the vehicle. Jain soon realised that the passenger slashed his pocket and nicked Rs 2 lakh in cash from it. When he realised the theft, he was thrown out of the moving auto, before the accused fled.On his complaint, an FIR under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the unidentified accused at the Salem Tabri police station.The ADCP said Sanjay was drug addict and confessed to his involvement in three such incidents. They were working to nab his accomplice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/auto-gang-member-who-stole-hoshiarpur-trader-s-2-lakh-arrested/story-R9QZfvgvv3xkOLrrmJvMHL.html
28-06-2020||Mumbai||From stadium to isolation centre to hospital: A jumbo fight against Covid-19 at Mumbai’s NSCI dome||Once a popular venue for sports and entertainment in the city, the National Sports Club of India’s (NSCI) stadium dome in Worli is now a full-fledged hospital for Covid-19. Since April, it has admitted more than 1,500 patients — including cancer patients, pregnant women, patients with comorbidity — and discharged 1,150 people, boasting of a recovery rate of 76%.In April, NSCI became Mumbai’s first jumbo facility for the treatment of Covid-19. When the outbreak was in its early stages, the Covid centre at NSCI had a 518-bed quarantine centre for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. Back then, Worli was a Covid-19 hot spot, with infection spreading through the congested locality of the close-knit Worli Koliwada. Later, NSCI was converted into a dedicated Covid health centre (DCHC), with 200 beds equipped with oxygen. A week ago, NSCI was converted into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital (DCH) with 10 modular intensive care units (ICUs) in movable containers as a first phase of an expansion plan, in preparation of a surge in numbers following relaxation of restrictions. It can now treat up to 528 patients.With over 80 staffers — including 25 doctors, 50 nurses, an in-house senior gynaecologist and technicians — living on campus, NSCI is at present treating approximately 300 active Covid-19 patients. Among them are 50 cancer patients, 10 pregnant women and four who are critically-ill. Six intensivists and anaesthetists are being roped in to look after the patients in ICU beds. A surge in cases may pose a challenge to the medical staff.Over the coming week, ICU beds will be scaled up to 37 in two phases. The second phase will add 15 ICU beds in portable containers, and in the third, another 22 ICU beds will be added inside the extension of NSCI’s dome. As a DCH, NSCI also has specialised zones for patients who require oxygen and those with cancer. It has units for families (depending upon availability) and pre-natal and post-natal care zones for pregnant women afflicted with Covid-19. (Pregnant women are shifted to hospitals for deliveries.) Gastro surgeon and dean of the DCH at NSCI, Dr Rajeev Joshi said that since April, the facility has successfully treated 125 cancer patients.ICU units in shipping containers“It was not possible to set up ICUs in a stadium. Every time we had a critical patient, we had to move them to a hospital for an ICU bed. That is when we came up with the idea of ICUs in portable containers. We used shipping containers and converted them to ICUs,” said Dr Muffazal Lakdawala, Mumbai-based surgeon who conceptualised the facility at NSCI alongside Maharashtra’s environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray, who represents the Worli constituency.A garden area within the NSCI compound now houses the ICU facilities. Each shipping container is accommodating two ICU beds, a toilet, and three entry points — one of which is reserved for doctors to maintain the negative pressure inside the container, as doctors are likely to frequent the room. Each ICU is equipped with ventilators, oxygen points, and variable monitoring devices. Before the ICU beds were inaugurated at NSCI last week, about 60 critical patients had to be moved to hospitals because they urgently needed treatment in ICUs.Dr Joshi said, “All four patients on ICU beds at present were being treated at our quarantine facility. Over the past three days, since ICUs became functional, we were able to simply shift patients who required critical care to a unit within our premises. Our focus is to match these ICUs to ICUs in hospitals. “Minimum contact facilityAaditya Thackeray pointed out one of the remarkable achievements of the facility: “Not a single health care professional who started working at NSCI has been infected with Covid-19 over the past four months since the facility became operational [due to minimum exposure].”Dr Joshi explained that NSCI is “a minimum contact facility”. “We are able to optimise the staff we have. Exposure time of doctors to the infection is limited so infection rate in healthcare staff is zero,” he said.There is a no-contact swab collection cubical for doctors to take swab samples from patients for testing. While the doctor stands inside the glass cubicle, which has a separate exit, the patient approaches the cubicle from the other side accessing the cubicle from the quarantine facility. A resident doctor at NSCI who demonstrated the process to Hindustan Times said, “There are two small compartments with glove like extensions that the doctor can put their hands into, and collect the swab.” Similarly, there are diagnostic cubicles with intercom systems for consulting physicians and patients to interact with each other, from either side of a glass partition.Dr Lakdawala said, “This takes away the laborious task of treating Covid-19 patients. When we started the facility in April, we hardly had any doctors. We started with seven doctors and 24 nurses and I didn’t want to infect any of our healthcare professionals. So we conceptualised contact-less treatment. Hazmat suits are very laborious: You sweat, the lenses fog up, and sometimes you cannot talk to the patients at length, so doctors could not properly answer questions asked by these patients. So we came up with the idea of diagnosis cubicles.”There are also two war rooms in NSCI to remotely monitor patients in ICUs and those in the quarantine facility inside the dome. Dr Joshi said, “We can zoom into a patient at the quarantine facility and if we see signs of restlessness or discomfort, the doctors can attend to the patient. The war room for monitoring ICU patients also shows their vital parameters at all times. The healthcare staff is watching the monitors in both war rooms.”With authorities expecting a surge in cases following the next round of relaxations, the facility at NSCI is expected to play an important role in Mumbai’s fight against Covid-19.Delhi government had sought help from BMCThe Delhi government had reached out to the BMC for insight into how they converted stadiums in Mumbai into isolation centres, Covid care facilitiesIqbal Singh Chahal, BMC chief, had said, “Top officers from Delhi have approached me to help them with construction of Mumbai-like jumbo facilities in Delhi.”Maharashtra cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray, who has monitored Mumbai’s Covid-19 bed augmentation plan, had said the city increased its municipal hospital beds from 400 to 5,000 in about a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/from-stadium-to-isolation-centre-to-hospital-a-jumbo-fight-against-covid-19-at-mumbai-s-nsci-dome/story-agZHvipGjZRyXWx5uoNMAI.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||How masks have become a money-spinner for Haryana government||With the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, wearing masks has become the new normal, besides an unconventional money-spinner for Haryana government agencies in times of economic slowdown.Since the state government on May 27 ordered imposition of ₹500 penalty for anyone violating the orders to wear masks in public and workplace, it has made good earnings both by way of imposition of penalty on violators and production of masks. The state police, for instance, issued about 37,000 challans between June 5 and June 22 for mask violations, earning a revenue of ₹1.86 crore in the process.The urban local bodies department earned over ₹32 lakh in the past 21 days by penalising over 10,000 violators. “The municipal bodies are also ensuring that every violator penalised is given five masks, preferably made up of cotton cloth, at the time of challaning. This is done to imbibe the habit of wearing masks among citizens since it’s the new normal now,” said a department official.EARNING THROUGH MASK PRODUCTIONWith the state government also encouraging its several institutions to get into cloth mask production to provide source of income to self-help groups (SHGs) and industrial training institutes (ITIs), the mask production business is on a high.About 4,800 SHGs working under the Haryana State Rural Livelihood Mission (HSRLM) are into big-time mask production and have earned a profit of ₹1.37 crore by making about 45 lakh cloth masks. “Our SHGs having about 17,000 members get ₹3 per mask produced as profit,” said a rural development department official. Even the SHGs of with Urban Livelihood Mission have been involved in the mask making activity.The skill development and industrial training department, which runs the industrial training institutes (ITIs) in the state, too has gone into production of cloth face masks.“Our ITIs have produced over 3.45 lakh cloth face masks – both single and double layer. The single layer masks costs ₹10 while the double layer is priced at ₹16. We have already sold masks worth ₹21 lakh and earned a profit of over ₹2 lakh,” said a skill development department official.“Since ITIs run relevant trades like sewing technology, dress making, fashion design technology and computer aided embroidery, the state government decided to start production of face masks in all government ITIs offering the above trades. An honorarium of ₹3 per mask was paid to the trainees and ITI passouts engaged in mask production,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/how-masks-have-become-a-money-spinner-for-haryana-government/story-3q3kmZINLFQC1NPpE3au0L.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sonali Phogat slams khap leaders, accuses them of discrimination||Out on bail for thrashing a government official on duty, TikTok star-turned-BJP leader Sonali Phogat on Saturday lashed out at khap leaders, accusing them of discrimination. “They (khap leaders) delivered a biased judgement in favour of the official, who used derogatory words to insult a woman,” she said while interacting with mediapersons after her meeting with party general secretary and Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia here. “We used to hear that Haryana was infamous for discrimination against women, female foeticide and gender bias and that was why Beti Bachao Beti Padhao campaign was launched. Still, there is nobody to raise the voice of a woman who is insulted at a panchayat meet,” she added. She said the khap leaders, rather than supporting her, acted as mute spectators when she faced character assassination. A video of her had gone viral on social media wherein she could be seen slapping and thrashing Hisar market committee secretary Sultan Singh at a procurement centre earlier this month. On the complaint of Sultan, she was booked and subsequently arrested. Phogat was released on bail the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sonali-phogat-slams-khap-leaders-accuses-them-of-discrimination/story-Jj1DisWvDWIAQgv1EfoN9N.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chitkara University organises online session with sculptor Adwaita Gadanayak||Chandigarh Department of fine arts, Chitkara University, organised ‘Kala Samwad’- an interactive online session with sculptor, academician and administrator Adwaita Gadanayak. Gadanayak is the first director general of National Gallery of Modern Art, New Delhi.He shared his journey as an artist during the online session and spoke about the importance of nature as a teacher, guide and healer in the life of an artist. He shared various instances where he has taken inspiration from nature to develop his own artistic vision. During the question-answer session, students and faculty members asked about the importance of material in sculpture and how teaching pedagogies should adopt new technology during the lockdown. Gadanayak appreciated the initiative taken by Chitkara University to promote art and culture. The session concluded with a vote of thanks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chitkara-university-organises-online-session-with-sculptor-adwaita-gadanayak/story-sS64z4MqPeToYE2yahoDAK.html
28-06-2020||Delhi||Three Khalistani sympathisers planning targeted killings arrested by Delhi Police||The Delhi Police on Saturday busted a module of Sikh separatist group Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) and arrested its three sympathisers who were allegedly planning to execute target killings and extortions in various north Indian states on the directions of Pakistan’s ISI-sponsored Khalistani leaders.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said at least four persons were on the target list of the arrested men but they could not execute the killings because of the lockdown announced in the country to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“The three had already procured arms and ammunition to execute the killings on the directions of their handlers who are Khalistani militants living abroad and sponsored by the Pak spy agency ISI. The lockdown had also foiled their plan to cross over to Pakistan for terrorist training,” said DCP Yadav.The three men, identified as Mohinder Pal Singh, 29, Gurtej Singh, 41, and Lovepreet Singh, 21, were arrested from Delhi, Punjab and Haryana in separate operations by the city police’s anti-terror squad, special cell, in the last 10 days. Police said three pistols and seven cartridges were seized from them. Three smartphones, including an iPhone, containing many incriminating videos and photographs related to Khalistani movement and their propagators were also seized, the police said.Yadav said that Gurtej, the son of a subedar in the Indian Army, was in touch with an ISI handler, Abdullah, apart from having contacts with Avtar Singh Pannu of Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), a pro-Khalistan group banned by the Indian government, and Gopal Singh Chawla, who is based in Pakistan and is a close aide of Hafiz Saeed, co-founder of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT).“Abdullah had asked Gurtej to recruits like-minded people and send them to Pakistan for terrorist training. Gurtej recruited five men, including Lovepreet, who has been arrested along with him. He was also planning to extort Rs 10 lakh from two businessmen for arranging more weapons and logistics,” the DCP said.The DCP said that Mohinder originally belongs to Baramulla in Jammu and Kashmir but had moved to Delhi in 2007 for studies. In 2013, he began developing orientation towards Khalistan movement and started attending Delhi court hearings of Jagrat Singh Hawara, a Babbar Khalsa militant convicted for assassinating former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh. He came in touch with other sympathisers of the KLF and started working for the outfit, said Yadav.During interrogation, DCP Yadav said, Lovepreet, who worked at a computer repair shop, revealed that he developed an inclination towards Khalistan movement three-four years ago and was recruited by Gurtej, who promised to send him to Pakistan for weapon training.“Lovepreet is active on social media and using the platforms to remain in touch with Khalistani militants settled abroad. He also used to upload incriminating posts, videos, images and songs supporting Khalistan movement and its leaders,” the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-khalistani-sympathisers-planning-targeted-killings-arrested-by-delhi-police/story-ut5RXU2WunVIsWeIuGBUqM.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Smart City Limited receives responses from 14 firms keen on upgrading city’s 5 STPs||Chandigarh Smart City Ltd (CSCL) has finally received a positive response from firms willing to upgrade the five sewage treatment plants (STP) in the city and the work is all set to start in two months’ time.CSCL had failed to elicit any response in its previous attempts at floating tenders for the project. This time, however, a total of 14 companies have applied for three different tenders and the department is hopeful that within the next two months, work will be allotted.The Chandigarh municipal corporation has already been warned by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that if the plants are not upgraded, they will face a penalty.The CSCL will bear the principal cost of the upgrading of the five STPs that comes to around ₹300 crore. The MC will operate and maintain these units for 15 years at an estimated maintenance cost of around ₹527 crore, which includes ₹289.36 crore electricity charges.PROJECT DIVIDED INTO THREE WORKSThe upgrading of five STPs was divided into three different tenders instead of just one tender for all to encourage more firms to apply. For the STP in Diggian, Mohali, which is the biggest among all five, a separate tender was floated and four firms have responded to it. Seven firms have applied for the upgrading of STPs at Raipur Kalan and Raipur Khurd; and three have applied for the Dhanas and 3BRD plants.“We are in the process of vetting these tenders. The work will be allotted within two months, and by the end of the August work can be expected to start,” said an MC official, adding that it is likely to take another 24 months for the upgrading work to be completed.WHY UPGRADE STPsThe effluent discharge from four of the five STPs into Ghaggar river’s tributaries has lately shown much higher biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) levels than the latest permissible levels of 10mg/litre.BOD is the amount of dissolved oxygen needed by aerobic biological organisms to break down organic material present in a given water sample at a certain temperature over a specific time period. A low BOD is an indicator of good quality water, while a high BOD indicates pollution.Apart from polluting the Ghaggar, higher BOD level is affecting the quality of treated water that the MC is releasing towards irrigation of public and private parks. Due to this, treated water stinks and is used less by private households.None of the STPs in Chandigarh have the requisite machinery to deal with faecal coliform, a type of disease causing pathogen and major water pollutant, the most probable number (MPN) value for which needs to be contained below 230 MPN/100. Water pollution caused by faecal contamination is a serious problem due to the potential for contracting diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-smart-city-limited-receives-responses-from-14-firms-keen-on-upgrading-city-s-5-stps/story-jegduKj3sVaC80C2YhqqnK.html
28-06-2020||City||16 new Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana, tally climbs to 744||The district confirmed 16 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 744.Of the total confirmed cases, as many as 523 patients have been discharged and 19 have succumbed to the virus. Ludhiana now has 202 active cases.Among the patients are two elderly men, aged 83 and 73, from Maya Nagar, Civil Lines, and Indraprasth Nagar, Haibowal, respectively.A 54-year-old man and a 46-year-old woman were found positive in Sector 38, Chandigarh Road, while a 40-year-old woman and her 15-year-old son are from Kakrala Khurd village in Samrala.A man, aged 43, was found infected at Guru Gyan Vihar, Dugri; a 45-year-old man at Model Town, another man, aged 49, at Ajit Nagar, Haibowal Kalan; a 44-year-old at Ajit Singh Nagar and a 27-year-old at Moti Nagar, Chandigarh Road.There were five more female patients – a 60-year-old from Jaswant Nagar; 55-year-old from Satjot Nagar, Dhandra Road, Dugri; a 29-year-old from Tajpur Road; a 28-year-old from JP Colony, Bhamian Khurd; and a 28-year-old working at a private hospital in Ludhiana.Six new micro-containment zonesWith Covid-19 cases soaring through June, six new micro-containment zones have been created in the district. These include Samrat Colony and Guru Harkrishan Nagar in Giaspura; New Ashok Nagar and New Kartar Nagar in Salem Tabri; Basant Avenue, Phase Two, Dugri; and Ram Nagar near Sangeet Cinema, Vishwakarma Colony. Only a few parts of an area are sealed in a micro-containment zone.The district also has three containment zones at Chhawani Mohalla, Habibganj, Sensi Mohalla and Islamganj, Prem Nagar, where the complete area is sealed.Five from other districts deadFive patients from Pathankot, Jalandhar, Sangrur and Bathinda died in different health facilities of Ludhiana. Amarjit Singh, 51, a resident Pukhraj Colony, Bathinda, died at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital on Friday night. He was rushed to the hospital in a critical condition on June 25 and kept on ventilator support, said hospital medical superintendent Dr Ashwani Chaudhary.Ashwani Kumar, 65, of Jalandhar, died at SPS Hospital near Sherpur Chowk on Saturday. He was referred to the hospital from a private health facility in Jalandhar on June 23. “He was suffering from renal cancer and kept on ventilator support, but did not respond to treatment and died on Saturday,” said Dr Rajiv Kundra, medical superintendent of the hospital.The other deceased are a 43-year-old woman, Neeru, from Pathankot and two persons from Malerkotla, Sangrur, Dilshad and Mohd Akbar, aged 40 and 63, respectively.With this the total number of Covid-19 deaths from other districts has reached 22, while 19 Ludhiana residents have died due to the illness.Covid care centres to get 700 more bedsA day after the district crossed the 700 mark in Covid-19 cases, the health authorities have decided to add 700 more beds to accommodate the rising number of patients.As present there are 202 actives cases in the district, while 57 patients from other districts are also undergoing treatment in Ludhiana. In all, various Covid care centres in the district, including the civil hospital, have 500 beds, which will be increased to 1,200 by June 30. Vikas Garg, registrar, Co-operative Societies, who is a member of the Covid-19 task force, visited Ludhiana on Saturday to review the arrangements at health facilities and space available to accommodate more beds. Later, he conducted a meeting with deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal and health department officials at the Circuit House.Sharma said, “We have identified a few hostels at Punjab Agricultural University, besides a health facility at Doraha, which will be converted into Covid care centres.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/16-new-covid-19-cases-in-ludhiana-tally-climbs-to-744/story-JjRlGt83J3pLrWdSgCsN6O.html
28-06-2020||City||Mumbai civic body to ramp up antibody and antigen testing from next week||After facing severe criticism over inadequate testing for almost four months, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is set to expand the screening for Covid-19 through antibody and rapid antigen testing.Starting Monday, the civic body will commence large-scale sero-surveillance to diagnose individuals for antibodies of Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19, and monitor the spread of the virus. The survey will be conducted in three wards — M West (Tilak Nagar and Chembur), F North (Matunga, Sion and Wadala) and R North (Dahisar and Mandapeshwar). During sero-surveillance, residents will undergo blood tests that can detect the presence of IgG antibodies, which develop against Sars-CoV-2. Sero-surveillance mostly helps in identifying asymptomatic patients. A total of 10,000 blood samples of patients above 12 years of age will be randomly collected from areas in the three civic wards. “Through this, we will be able to understand the geographical spread of the infection among the population. Our health workers and NGOs will carry house-to-house surveys to collect blood,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer, BMC. “With a better understanding on the spread of the virus, we will be able to formulate further policies.”Meanwhile, BMC also decided to increase daily rapid antigen tests by 2,000 from the current 4,000-5,000 tests, which has shown a case positivity rate of 22%. For the purpose, BMC is in the process of procuring around 1 lakh rapid testing kits from South Korean firm SD Biosensors – the only company approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Rapid antigen tests detect the presence of molecular pathogens of Sars-Cov-2. The test results are out within 30 minutes, as against eight hours through reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test that is being used currently. Thus, the procedure will help in early detection of symptomatic patients. According to protocol, every positive report from the rapid antigen testing will be treated as ‘true positive’, while negative samples will have to be mandatorily re-tested by RT-PCR process.“We have over 20,000 suspected patients in government quarantine facilities. With rapid testing, we will be able to identify them faster, which will help in early treatment, faster contact tracing and vacating of beds,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a part of the state Covid-19 task force.When asked if testing samples twice will increase the burden on RT-PCR labs, Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC, said, “Since we will mostly test high-risk contacts after five days of getting exposed to the virus, the possibility of finding more positive cases are higher than negative samples and therefore the burden on labs will be less.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-civic-body-to-ramp-up-antibody-and-antigen-testing-from-next-week/story-4VA9h8anNx1iOKoTrIOxMP.html
28-06-2020||Mumbai||Why were facts on allowing students with 60% attendance to take exams not disclosed: Bombay HC to Mithibai College||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed Mithibai College to explain why the facts pertaining to allowing students with 60% attendance to appear for the semester 4 exams were not disclosed to the court in its affidavit filed on June 18. The institute had filed the affidavit in response to a petition of a student with 58.9% attendance.The student had sought directions to the college to declare her eligible for the exams, as the institute had allowed students with 60%, through a March 6 decision, to appear for exams and also promoted them. As the college had failed to disclose the fact in its affidavit, the court said it was granting time to the institute to take adequate steps.A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice NR Borkar, while hearing a petition filed by the student through video conferencing on Friday, was informed by advocate Harshad Bhadbhade, that though the rules had stipulated 75% overall attendance, the college had permitted students with 60% attendance to appear for the exams. Bhadbhade submitted that his client had an attendance of 58.9% and hence she should also be treated on the same lines as students with 60%.When the court asked the college why the fact that studnets with 60% attendance could appear for exams had not been disclosed in the June 18 affidavit, institute principal Rajpal Hande was unable to justify the reason.The June 18 affidavit had stated, “Student/s who secure less than 75% of attendance had to take re-admission in the same semester in the subsequent academic year”. The affidavit signed by Hande had also denied that the college had permitted, “….. students having attendance of 59% to appear in the examination as allegedly stated …… or at all”.However, in the written submissions filed by the college on June 25, it admitted that students with 60% attendance had been allowed to appear for the exams and promoted too. On being questioned when the decision was taken, Hande said that it was taken on March 6.In light of these submissions, Kathawalla questioned as to why the March 6 decision was not mentioned in the June 18 affidavit, to which the college submitted that it had been missed out as instructions while preparing the affidavit were given on telephone. Kathawalla observed, “There is no question of any fact being left out because of the alleged telephonic instructions, because statements are made in the said affidavit which are completely contrary to the facts now disclosed, and in any event the principal has signed every page of the said affidavit.”The bench further observed, “Keeping in view that the matter involves serious issues pertaining to attendance discipline, which the college wants to assert, and also as the same involves the future of several students, we are granting time to the college to take adequate steps in the matter.” The petition has been posted for hearing on June Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/why-were-facts-on-allowing-students-with-60-attendance-to-take-exams-not-disclosed-bombay-hc-to-mithibai-college/story-uEOFibMwXqNqfNJf7gM6JP.html
28-06-2020||City||Suicides jump by 11% during Covid-19 lockdown in Ludhiana||Even as Ludhiana district has found itself facing soaring Covid-19 infections since March, the number of deaths by suicide also registered an 11% rise. Investigation by the Ludhiana Police found a combination of depression, domestic violence, financial worries and reduced access to healthcare as the primary causes to the spike.Of the total 137 suicides this year, while 61, including 15 by women, were reported between January 1 and March 31; following the Covid-19 lockdown, another 76 such deaths came to the fore through April to June. The latter comprised 54 males and 22 females, most of them victims of domestic violence.Among the lockdown suicides were 44 by people suffering from depression, including a girl as young as nine years old and a man as old as 80 years old. A majority of these persons were those who had lost their jobs during the pandemic. The nine-year-old girl had killed herself in Dhandhran Enclave on May 16. According to her parents, she was disturbed after a spat with her brother over playing games on a mobile phone.Domestic violence was the second major reason behind suicides during the lockdown. In 16 cases out of the total 76, police found domestic violence behind women taking the extreme step. They were aged between 19 and 40 years. The number of suicides before March 31 due to domestic violence was seven.Financial problems drove five people to suicide, all aged between 32 and 40 years. Among them, a private school employee ended his life while talking to his wife over a video call on May 14. The man, who was a resident of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, worked as a computer operator with a private school. He was depressed due to Rs 2 lakh that he owed someone.Prior to the lockdown, seven people, aged between 20 and 36 years, had ended their lives due to poor finances. Police also found out that a 40-year-old debt-ridden man killed himself on April 1, while no such cases were reported before the lockdown.Buried under the stress of studies, five persons, aged between 17 and 25 years, also died by suicide, while four persons killed themselves following failing health. They were between 42 to 45 years old. Poor health had driven eight people to suicide before the lockdown.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary said work-life imbalance and the paradox between expectation and reality led to suicidal tendencies. “The police try to investigate all suicide cases reported in the city to establish the reason behind the victims taking the extreme step,” he said.“The pandemic-induced lockdown was difficult for people from all walks of life, but especially for those who lost their sources of income. The lockdown affected people from all age groups, whether psychologically, emotionally, physically or financially,” said Dr Nidhi Aggarwal, assistant professor, Christian Medical College and Hospital.HELPLINESIf you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suicides-jump-by-11-during-covid-19-lockdown-in-ludhiana/story-A2jcme8heBlIZgDknO9vRN.html
28-06-2020||Mumbai||40-year-old man hacked to death by 18 in Mumbai’s Dharavi area; 3 held||A group of 18 people hacked a 40-year-old man to death with swords and knives near his home at Dharavi around 1am on Saturday .The police said the attack took place owing to an enmity between the victim, Afzal Ibrahim Shaikh, and the main accused in the case, Furkan Abdul Razzak Qureshi.“Both have many cases of assault filed against them at Dharavi police station. We arrested three of the 18 attackers, and are on the lookout for others,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 5, Niyati Thaker.Dharavi police registered a case and charged the accused with murder, rioting and under the Arms Act. “We launched a manhunt for the other accused, including Qureshi,” said senior inspector Ramesh Nangare of Dharavi police station.According to the police, the attack took place when Shaikh and his family were sitting outside their home after dinner. Qureshi, along with his 17 aides, reached the spot with swords, knives and bamboos. They dragged Shaikh to the nearby Ambedkar Maidan and attacked him. They stabbed him around 50 times on his abdomen, chest and back, the police said.“His family tried to save him but the accused threatened them with swords and also assaulted Shaikh’s 20-year-old son. The accused then fled the spot. His son suffered injuries to his hand,” said Shaikh’s relative, Ishaq Shaikh. The victim was rushed to a nearby hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival.Shaikh used to work as a supervisor at a construction site in Dharavi, and would take labour contracts for private developers while the accused Qureshi runs a butcher shop, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/40-year-old-man-hacked-to-death-by-18-in-mumbai-s-dharavi-area-3-held/story-yYfjzp8BNPMLBhqB3S5DTO.html
28-06-2020||City||414 cops test positive for Covid-19 in Thane||Around 414 police personnel from the Thane Police as well as the State Reserve Police Force and Rapid Actions Force deployed in Thane district have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. Of the infected personnel, 313 have recovered and 101 are undergoing treatment according to data from Thane police. Three personnel have also succumbed to the disease. The police department has formed a team to help the infected cops get admitted to hospitals as well as take care of their families while they are away.Deputy commissioner of police (special branch) Balasaheb Patil said, “Around 414 police personnel tested positive for the virus so far, of whom three have succumbed. Of the infected cops, 313 have recovered while 101 are undergoing treatment. We have started screening all the 9,000 police personnel and their families for symptoms. Those found with any symptoms will be tested for Covid.”He said safety equipment are being distributed to the cops along with safety guidelines. “We have started distributing Vitamin C, in the form of juice or one fruit, to every official. It was distributed at the zone level. Our police commissioner also keeps in touch with the personnel who have contracted the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/414-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-thane/story-rkBD9UF96KVtKql5M2UnJN.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt to honour 148 ITI girls who armed Covid warriors with 2.3 lakh masks||Pawan Kaur, a student at Government Industrial Training Institute, Women, Rayya, Amritsar, has sewed 3,800 masks in a span of 59 days for the frontline warriors battling the Covid-19 pandemic and those living in slum areas. She is among the 148 girl students of ITIs across the state, who have each made more than 1,000 four-layered washable masks from their homes, readying over 2.3 lakh masks during this period. In all, more than 15 lakh masks have been stitched by 4,600 students with the support of their teachers and principals.To honour the efforts of the students and 13 principals of ITIs, the state government will acknowledge them with appreciation letters on Monday. “It is important to recognise the efforts put in by these students and principals. The students have contributed to this cause by stitching masks and principals went out of their way to collect raw material through donations and deliver it at students’ home. They also collect the masks and distribute them among frontline Covid warriors,” said Anurag Verma, principal secretary, technical education and industrial training, Punjab. “The appreciation certificates will be given to the ITI principals at our Chandigarh office. The principals will further hand these over to the 148 students. We will also hold a meeting with the students through video conference to appreciate them and share their experience,” he added. Additional secretary (directorate of technical education and industrial training) Daljit Kaur Sidhu, said, “Students who stitched more than 1,000 masks will be acknowledged with appreciation letters. Besides, we selected principals from ITIs where students stitched 25,000 or more masks with their efforts.”TOP 3 STUDENTS WITH MOST MASKSTwenty nine-year-old Pawan Kaur, who stays in a joint family, said she prefers stitching masks early morning and late night.“I learnt the technique though YouTube, and with practice, I am able to stitch one mask in five minutes. While the ITI teachers deliver the cloth at home, my mother-in-law motivates me to contribute to the noble cause,” she said.“Since childhood, I was fond of sewing and decided to pursue a course in tailoring. It will be an honour to receive the appreciation letter from the Punjab government,” said Kaur, who hails from Baba Bagla Sahib village in Amritsar.Kanwaljeet Kaur, a student of ITI Women, Rajpura, Patiala, who stitched 3,748 masks also figures in the Top 3 students with maximum masks. The 21-year-old, who hails from Babipur village, Patiala, said, “I am pursuing a dress-making course from ITI. When I was asked to stitch masks to fight the coronavirus pandemic, I devoted five hours daily to it. I am excited to receive the appreciation letter. My mother helped me greatly in making the masks.”A student of Government Institute of Textile Industry and Knitting Technology, Ludhiana, Parminderjeet Kaur, stitched 3,706 masks.“While my parents encouraged me to stitch masks, receiving an appreciation letter will motivate me and several other students,” she said.“I am studying surface ornamentation technology course from ITI and doing this course to earn a job,” added Parminderjeet, a resident of Vishkarma Colony in Ludhiana.The 13 principals to receive the letters are Darshan Singh of Government Institute of Textile Chemistry and Knitting Technology, Ludhiana; Darshan Singh of Government ITI (W), Ahmedgarh, Ludhiana; Maninder Kaur of ITI (W), Rajpura; Jagtar Singh of ITI (W), Moga; Ranjit Kaur of ITI (W), Rayya Amritsar; Shamsher Singh of ITI (W), Mohali; Meenakshi Garg of ITI (W), Patiala; Jatinder Singh of Government Institute of Garment Technology, Amritsar; Harvinder Bhardwaj of ITI (SC), Mansa; Manjeet Kaur of ITI, Dera Bassi; Ram Singh of ITI (W), Nangal, Rupnagar; Jagtar Singh of ITI (W), Kheowali, Muktsar Sahib; and Mohan Singh of ITI, Maloud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-govt-to-honour-148-iti-girls-who-armed-covid-warriors-with-2-3-lakh-masks/story-6FoUZRGj62XBs3yg6oxN6H.html
28-06-2020||City||Missing 23-year-old woman found dead in Ludhiana canal||Missing for the past four days, a 23-year-old woman was found dead in a canal near Issewal village on Saturday. Suspecting suicide, police have booked her former classmate, Rohit Kumar, under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested him. Police said the woman, who worked at a salon in Gurdev Nagar, had not returned home since June 23. Her family had lodged a missing person’s report at Division Number 5 police station on June 25.On Saturday, police informed the family about the recovery of the woman’s body from the canal near Issewal village. Her kin claimed that when they reached there, they found injury marks on the body. They alleged that she was sexually assaulted and murdered, before being dumped in the canal. Sub-inspector Richa Rani said prima facie, the woman appeared to have committed suicide. “We have arrested her former classmate with whom she was in regular contact. The body has been sent to the civil hospital. Things will clear up further after postmortem, and we may add more sections in the FIR,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-23-year-old-woman-found-dead-in-ludhiana-canal/story-ltdyNNVPpdRssfFODxYkrJ.html
28-06-2020||City||Three minor girls found dead in car in Chamkaur Sahib||Three minor girls were found dead in a car in Chamkaur Sahib town of Rupnagar district on Saturday.The deceased have identified as Gudia and Asha, both aged five, and Sweety, 3.As per information, their parents, who are migrant labourers, were away at work on Friday when the children reportedly went missing. On not finding them after returning home, the parents initially started searching on their own but later informed the police.The cops scanned the closed-circuit television cameras in the area but were unable to locate the girls. Later, on Saturday morning, the girls’ bodies were spotted in a car parked in the locality.Superintendent of police (investigation) Ajinder Singh said it appears that the girls found the door of the car open and got inside to play but later got locked in and died of suffocation due to the extreme heat.He, however, maintained that the exact cause of death can be ascertained only after post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-minor-girls-found-dead-in-car-in-chamkaur-sahib/story-Rx2N6BMM9uvUcgwdWsicZO.html
28-06-2020||Mumbai||Trump’s visa order: Indian families separated, suffer, seek to be reunited||A father separated from his wife and child. A mother whose children keep begging her to come home. A young man’s life altered, perhaps forever. All the result of an announcement that has slammed the gates shut on people who had legally been working, paying taxes and building their lives, for years, in the United States (US).On June 22, US President Donald Trump’s administration announced that it was suspending a range of visas — including the L-1A, L-1B, J-1, the popular H1-B issued to skilled workers and the H-4 issues to dependents. Any individuals that didn’t already have a valid visa stamp by June 24 would not be allowed back into that country — except perhaps as tourists — until at least December 31.Some of the people you’ll read about here have H-4 petitions approved till 2022. But every time you leave the US, you still have to refresh the stamp at a consulate. Without a fresh stamp, you cannot re-enter the United States. And as things currently stand, no fresh stamps will be issued this year.What’s made this crisis even worse: US consulates in India have been shut since mid-March, because of coronavirus restrictions. So, people who had rushed here to be with a dying mother, to spend time with family, or precisely to refresh the stamp — have all got locked in to a norm that didn’t even exist when they left their lives in America. Here are some of their stories.A TICKING CLOCKChanakya R is 13 weeks late to work, and it’s looking more and more like he may not make it there at all.The sales consultant flew to Mumbai from San Francisco on February 29, to refresh his visa stamp because he was changing jobs in the US. “I thought I’d meet family and friends, get the visa stamp done by end-March and head back,” says the 30-year-old. His timing couldn’t have been worse. “By mid-March, the embassies shut because of the coronavirus restrictions. With Indian borders also sealed, international flights suspended, and no H1-B stamp in my passport, I got in touch with my employer and asked for an extension on my joining date.” As soon as the embassies opened and flights were operational, he promised them, he would return. Now that seems impossible too.June 24 has come and gone, and he still has no fresh H1-B stamp. Chanakya’s only hope of returning to what has been his life for seven years, is if the decision is reversed. “I am hopeful that the ban will be lifted soon,” he says, speaking from Bengaluru, where he is living with family. He is trying to stay calm and positive. He says he spends his time reading and connecting with family and friends. But it’s hard not to dwell on it, he admits, hard not to think of how the course of his life may be permanently altered.‘SHE MISSES HER DAD’“It breaks my heart to see her crying on video calls with her father, as he tries to explain to her why he didn’t take us with him,” says Sraboni Bose, 32.Bose and her five-year-old daughter came to India from Plano, Texas, in mid-February, to visit family. Her husband, a software engineer and H1-B visa holder, joined them on March 10.Soon after he arrived, on March 16, consulates shut due to coronavirus restrictions. While Bose and her husband had their renewed H1-B and H-4 stamps by then, their daughter’s passport was still with the consulate, pending an interview.On May 12, Bose’s husband had to return to work or risk losing his job in the US, so he took a seat on a Vande Bharat flight headed to the US to bring Indians home. The consulates were still closed. As soon as things reopened, they figured, they would get the fresh H-4 stamp for their daughter, and be together again.Then came the Trump order. For this family, it means that Bose’s daughter can’t return to her home of three years, can’t return to school. And she and her mother will be separated from her dad until at least the end of the year. “My family suffers due to this unfair proclamation,” says Bose, currently living with her parents in Kolkata. “I don’t have a work permit; my child is doing nothing to affect the US economy. So why this separation? It is taking a toll on our mental health. I quit a well-paid job as an IT engineer so that I could follow my husband to the US, and my child could grow up with both parents. All we want is to be reunited.”LOSS AFTER LOSSOn March 12, Jyoti Patil rushed to Karnataka from the US to be with her mother, who was critically ill. She came alone from San Jose, California, her home of six years, leaving her 11-year-old son and six-year old daughter with her husband, Anand Patil, a software engineer. On March 20, Patil’s mother died. Amid the emotional upheaval of dealing with this loss, with neither husband nor children around to comfort her, Patil now had to worry about not being allowed back to the US to be with them. “I completely froze upon hearing the order on March 22,” says Patil, 40, now living with her in-laws. “Even if I had wanted to get the renewed stamp while my mother was critically ill, I couldn’t have. The consulates were already closed. We are legal, law-abiding aliens. I have an approved H-4 petition valid till 2022. We have set up lives there with a lot of effort and investment. I do not understand how a non-working H-4 dependent visa holder can impact the jobs of the American people.”Anand, meanwhile, is struggling to juggle a full-time job and kids who are home all day because schools are shut. “He’s working long hours at night to make up for the time lost during the day. I fear for his health. My daughter keeps asking me to come home, I look at them on my phone screen and I can see them suffering. This kind of forced separation from their mother… I hope the US government hears our pleas; our lives are at their mercy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trump-s-visa-order-indian-families-separated-suffer-seek-to-be-reunited/story-OUQ6kD5TBx9VUBqBDJ6TDM.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Bars in Chandigarh turn into restaurants, cafes to stay afloat||While waiting for the UT administration to decide on June 30 whether alcohol should be served in hospitality establishments, a few bars still open in the city have started rebuilding their image as cafes and restaurants in order to make up for the losses incurred during the lockdown.Director of Social, a bar and restaurant in Sector 7, Manish Goel, said, “During the day, Social used to be more like a cafe than a bar, and we are trying to reinstate that image. We have started receiving regular [customers] who come for the food.”Though there was barely anyone present in Social on Saturday afternoon, Goel’s other outlet, Swagath, in Sector 26 hasn’t been as affected because of food being its “USP”, he said.Meanwhile in Elante Mall, bars have remained closed so far owing to some disagreement over rent. But Pyramid will be open from Monday onwards for both dine-in and delivery of food. Proprietor Sunveer Sondhi said, “It will be different operating Pyramid as a restaurant, but we are hopeful that the administration will allow us to serve alcohol after June 30. That’s why we have restarted the business.”“However, if the same movement restrictions as in Mohali are applied to the city, it will affect us adversely,” added Sondhi, who has developed an app for ordering food at his bar to abolish interaction between customers and staff. MAKE YOUR OWN BARSome outlets are providing the vibe of a bar at the customers’ homes. Gaah, a city-based entertainment company, which runs Upstairs Club in Sector 5, Panchkula, has started a home delivery of cocktail premixes.Co-founder of Gaah, Karan Bajaj, said, “It has been a week since we started the service and so far, we’ve sold over 250 drink mixes. Even after bars are allowed to open, we will continue to provide the product as people will be reluctant to step out. We are also collating playlists on Spotify for our customers to recreate the bar experience at their homes.”Even if the administration gives the green signal on June 30, it could take microbreweries several weeks to restart operations and reopen. Manager of the Great Bear Kitchen and Microbrewery in Sector 26, Debdip Chaterjee, said, “We have been closed for around three months now and all our staff is out of the city. It will take us some time to bring them back. Brewing beer takes around three weeks and we will have to start from scratch.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bars-in-chandigarh-turn-into-restaurants-cafes-to-stay-afloat/story-1fyOHFCLuDq5YUhrAynslJ.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||543 fresh infections take Haryana tally to 13,427||Seven coronavirus patients in Haryana died on Saturday, taking the state’s death toll to 218. Among those who succumbed to the virus were two Gurugram residents and one each from Faridabad, Rewari, Jhajjar, Sonepat and Karnal. As per a medical bulletin, 543 fresh cases were reported on Saturday from 15 districts, pushing the cumulative number of positive cases past 13,000. The number of active cases stood at 4,737. Seven districts — Ambala, Palwal, Hisar, Kurukshetra, Jind, Kaithal and Charkhi Dadri — did not report any fresh cases, the bulletin mentioned. On Saturday, 456 patients recovered from the respiratory illness, taking the total number of those cured to 8,472. There were 71 critically ill patients in the state, including 15 on ventilator support, while 4,666 patients had mild Covid-19 symptoms.Faridabad district with 191 cases was the biggest contributor to the tally of fresh infections, followed by Gurugram and Sonepat districts which reported 126 and 63 cases, respectively. These three districts abutting the national capital collectively have 3,384 active cases, about 71% of the total such cases in the state. Though Gurugram has the highest number of active cases at 1,518, the gap between Gurugram and Faridabad in terms of active cases seems to be closing fast. Faridabad was just 93 active cases short of Gurugram’s tally of active cases.Among the other districts, Bhiwani reported 52 fresh cases followed by Mahendergarh (26), Rohtak (24), Rewari and Panipat (14 each), Nuh (10), Jhajjar (9), Karnal (4), Panchkula, Yamunanagar and Sirsa (3 each) and Fatehabad (1). Although the bulletin mentioned no new case from Kurukshetra, the local administration said a 14-year-old boy had tested positive in the Tatki village of district, which has so far logged 114 Covid-19 cases. Panipat chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma said there were 63 active cases in the district, while 101 patients have so far recovered and been discharged. In Karnal, three people tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, Chief Medical Officer Ashwini Ahuja said, adding that the total number of cases stood at 273 in the district, 92 of which were active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/543-fresh-infections-take-haryana-tally-to-13-427/story-VrQceJ3DQEkLAzOnq231uI.html
28-06-2020||City||Lockdown effect: Ludhiana district courts witness spike in cheque bounce cases||Within a span of just 10 days since the high court directed the lower courts to allow filing of urgent and non-urgent cases in a phased manner, as many as 800 cheque bounce cases were filed in Ludhiana between June 12 and 24. Financial constraints and economic distress during the lockdown period coupled with a huge backlog has led to a higher than usual number of these cases, which fall under the Negotiable Instruments Act.According to information available with the courts, around 100 cheque bounce cases are being filed every day since June 12 when the courts opened after almost three months since they were shut due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The cases are filed under the non-urgent category. Before the lockdown, the monthly average of cheque bounce cases was 1,500. At the current rate, this average has doubled.Already, 21% of all the pending cases in district courts pertain to cheque bounce cases. Prior to the lockdown, as many as five judicial magistrates were handling as many as 28,000 such cases. Each of the five judicial magistrate first class (JM1C) has a pendency of cases ranging from 4,100 to 6,500.Advocate Gagan Anand, who has filed a number of cheque bounce cases on behalf of his clients, said the legal notices, which are a mandatory requirement before a case is filed in court, warrants a reply to be filed in 15 days under the Act. “As soon as post offices opened during the lockdown, a lot many legal notices were sent to those whose cheques that were dishonoured by banks for ‘insufficient funds’. As soon as the 15-day notice period expired, the litigants were waiting for courts to open to file the cases thus the huge number,” he said.Anand further said that with people suffering losses during lockdown, these cases have risen.A majority of these cases are that of default in repayments in loans given to acquaintances, a sizeable number have been filed by banks and other financial firms. In a large number of commercial transactions, cheques are issued as a device to defraud the creditors.In one such case filed yesterday, an auto parts trader accused a buyer of dishonouring two cheques amounting to Rs 1.2 lakh towards release of his payment. According to Upkar Singh Ahuja, chairman, Chamber of Commercial and Industrial Undertaking, the industry is currently facing a lot of financial troubles which is why such disputes are on the rise. “Financial disputes are rising ever since the lockdown. People are not able to honour payments and there is lot of upheaval in the industry currently,” says Ahuja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-effect-ludhiana-district-courts-witness-spike-in-cheque-bounce-cases/story-HUwAOxslusr8QOsBa9RX9I.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt to charge interest from arhityas for delaying wheat payment||The Haryana government has decided to charge interest from commission agents for not depositing the wheat payment in the account of farmers on time.According to the information obtained from the Haryana agriculture marketing board, the department had identified 13,610 commission agents in the state, who did not make payments of farmers within 72 hours. They will now be asked to pay Rs 28 crore as interest to about 1.87 lakh farmers. As per officials, the government has prepared a district-wise list of such arhtiyas. “We have provided the data of commission agents who did not deposit payment in the accounts of farmers as per the schedule,” said Sumedha Kataria, chief administrator, state agriculture marketing board.Additional chief secretary (ACS) food, civil supplies and consumer affairs, PK Das, said, “Notices will be issued to the commission agents if they fail to pay the interest amount to the farmers. Then, the money will be recovered from their commission amount.” Officials in the state food and supplies department said the government has made this decision to fulfil its commitment to farmers wherein it had promised that they would get their payments within 72 hours.“If the commission agents do not deposit the interest amount in the accounts of farmers, they may face action, which includes blacklisting or cancellation of their licence,” one of the officials said. However, commission agents have claimed that the payments were not delayed by them, but the government. It was the government which delayed the payments of farmers by 15 to 20 days due to online transactions, they alleged. “We will approach the government and ask it to also pay interest to the commission agents as well as farmers as the payments were delayed by 10 to 20 days due to the new online payment system initiated by the government,” said Vikash Singhal, secretary of Haryana State Anaj Mandi Arhtiya Association. As per the figures provided by the food and supplies department, the state government had procured 78 lakh MT wheat at the minimum support price of Rs 1,925. Following the directions of the Centre, the Haryana government had taken an initiative to make online payments to commission agents and they were told to further pay the farmers within 72 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-govt-to-charge-interest-from-arhityas-for-delaying-wheat-payment/story-ZZyq8yhrtKxVW5xemvzJ0I.html
28-06-2020||City||Finish enquiry against suspended DIG by July 9, tribunal tells state||The Maharashtra administrative tribunal (MAT) has ordered the state home department to complete the departmental enquiry against suspended deputy inspector general (DIG) Nishikant More, who was booked for allegedly molesting a minor girl in Navi Mumbai. More had approached the MAT challenging his suspension as the enquiry was not completed within the stipulated 90 days’ time.In December 2019, Taloja police had booked More under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act following the complaint of a 17-year-old girl’s father. The father had alleged that More touched the girl inappropriately while feeding her birthday cake at a party.More was posted as a DIG at the motor transport department in Pune when, on January 9, he was suspended as per the state government’s order. The Bombay high court (HC) had granted More anticipatory bail in January.On March 10, More wrote to the government seeking “revocation of suspension and reinstatement in service on the ground of protracted and prolonged suspension without initiating the department enquiry”.More’s counsel KR Jagdale applied to the tribunal, stating that he is eligible for reinstatement as the enquiry has not been completed within 90 days.Advocate Kranti Gaikwad, representing the state home department, told the tribunal, “The process to place the matter before the review committee is underway.”The tribunal coram, taking note of a previous judgment by the Supreme Court, held that “…if the memorandum of charges/charge-sheet is served, in that event, the disciplinary authority is under obligation to pass reasoned order about the extension or revocation of suspension.”The tribunal also asked the department to review the suspension and pass an order by July 9.Case filed against girl’s familyMore and the girl’s families were acquainted until they got into a property dispute. Weeks after the molestation case was registered against More, the girl on January 8, went ‘missing’, leaving behind a ‘suicide note’ naming the DIG for her death.She was traced to Dehradun a week later with her 20-year-old boyfriend, and they were brought back to the city. On their return, Taloja police arrested her boyfriend under sections of the Pocso Act, for sexual assault.Later in February, Kharghar police booked the girl, her parents, brother, and her boyfriend under charges of criminal conspiracy, unlawful assembly, rioting, defamation, and assaulting a public servant under sections of the IPC and rarely-used Police (Incitement to Disaffection) Act, 1922.The Kharghar case was registered based on a December 21, 2019, incident wherein the girl’s family and her boyfriend surrounded More’s driver Rakesh Gaikwad, claiming that she had been kidnapped by More. It was found during the investigation that the girl was in touch with her father and was also present nearby, a police source said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/finish-enquiry-against-suspended-dig-by-july-9-tribunal-tells-state/story-6eMZFGmepJo9b4VpIp0O5K.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Admn prioritises institutional quarantine rather than sealing off areas in Chandigarh||As the coronavirus spreads to congested areas in the city, the UT administration has decided to shift its approach from sealing those areas to banking upon institutional quarantine for contacts of positive patients.Recently in Mauli Jagran, 14 members of a family and their two community contacts were found infected after which 80-odd contacts living in the vicinity were institutionally quarantined rather than sealing off the area.Explaining the reason, UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said, “In sectors, the policy for perimeter control of large areas has been restricted to the houses from where a positive case is reported. While in congested areas where social distancing is difficult to ensure, the idea is to implement institutional quarantine. In some cases both perimeter control and quarantine maybe executed.”“Earlier, even a single case would create hue and cry and we would seal the entire area. The basic purpose was to stop the spread,” Gupta added.PROTESTS IN CONTAINMENT ZONESThe move comes in the aftermath of protests by residents of many containment zones of the city. The locals had complained of stigmatisation in social and professional spheres owing to the tag of ‘containment zone’. UT adviser Manoj Parida said that the new strategy was more effective and balanced containment of spread as well as residents’ convenience. “This strategy is less hard on people living near positive cases, while we focus on checking on each contact. The people are being provided better services in institutional quarantine and chances of infection spread decreases here,” he said.Deputy commissioner of Chandigarh Mandip Singh Brar said the city had the facility for institutional quarantine of around 1,300 people in schools, PU hostels and other government buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/admn-prioritises-institutional-quarantine-rather-than-sealing-off-areas-in-chandigarh/story-zQrGZiMKmHUQoaFHg22O6I.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man beaten to death in Jind||A 40-year-old man was found dead in a car outside the grain market in Jind’s Safidon, police said on Saturday. The man died after he was attacked with a liquor bottle, bricks and lathis by two unidentified men, the cops said. The victim was identified as Surender Singh of Hisar, who had been living in Rohtak.Safidon police in-charge Devi Lal said an unknown caller informed them that two men left a man dead in a car and fled the spot. “He was attacked with a liquor bottle, bricks and sticks. We have gathered CCTV footage from the area and started an investigation,” he added.Victim’s wife Dimpal said she, along with her husband, had come to her parental home in Jind four days ago.“Someone my husband had known called him near a religious place on Saturday morning. He went there and later, his body was found in a car,” she added.The police have registered a case of murder against two persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-beaten-to-death-in-jind/story-fMg1GxJLDEeWyKiUemTKdK.html
28-06-2020||Mumbai||Sahyadri Tiger Reserve used by 8 tigers: Forest department||The Maharashtra forest department said the Sahyadri Tiger Reserve (STR) was being frequently used by eight tigers. Nestled in the rugged terrains (350m-1,250m altitude gradient) of northern Western Ghats, STR spread over 1,166 square kilometre (sqkm) area is western Maharashtra’s only tiger reserve, comprising Chandoli National Park and Koyna Wildlife Sanctuary. It was declared a tiger reserve in 2008. V Clement Ben, chief conservator of forest, Kolhapur and former field director of STR said, “Based on secondary data collection including scat analysis and model-based predictions for prey base per square km, we have identified the presence of eight tigers in STR. While the number is more than what the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) had assessed in 2014 (five-seven tigers), this is not a resident tiger population. These are dispersing tigers but the data indicates habitat improvement and increase in prey base, thus allowing more tigers to move through this landscape.”The details were shared by Ben after a research paper was published on Saturday in CATnews, a newsletter which is a component of the Species Survival Commission of International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). While camera trap images of the tiger were captured in May 2018, the research paper jointly conceived by the state forest department and Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun was published after 25 months.“STR is suitable to carry the capacity of resident wild tigers akin to tiger reserves in Vidarbha,” said Ben, a contributing author of the paper. He added, “This ecosystem can now sustain wild tiger population if translocation is experimented.”WII scientists said there was a fear that tigers had become functionally extinct in this region since there were no photographic records since 2011. “Even though there are no resident tigers in STR currently, the one documented four times in camera trap images (May 22-24, 2018) had also dispersed through this region,” said Ramesh Krishnamoorthy, corresponding author of the paper and principal investigator, WII. He added, “Conservation efforts have led to an improvement in prey population, reduced human disturbances, and enhanced protection of fragmented forests.”Currently, the data indicates the nine animals (wild boar, deer etc.) per sqkm. “It needs to be at least 15 or 16 to have a healthy resident population,” said Ben.The findings of the research paper were part of the 10-year-monitoring and habitat development exercise of STR which started in 2016. A review of experimental tiger translocation would be taken later this year. “It can commence by releasing one male and one female,” added Krishnamoorthy.The narrow boundaries of the reserve have fragmented forest cover owing to human habitation in the buffer as well as core areas. The reserve has dense and open forests, scrublands, barren areas, water bodies, and agricultural lands making it a unique ecosystem. “Now, our attempt is to have social acceptance from villagers to be relocated from the core STR areas, and concentrate on habitat development to increase tiger presence,” said Krishnamoorthy who welcomed the forest department’s latest decision to declare the 29.53 sqkm area in Dodamarg, Sindhudurg as Tillari Conservation Reserve. “The protected area will act as a stepping stone for tiger source population from sanctuaries in Goa and Karnataka. We must also realise that while developing a conducive environment for more tigers at STR, protecting the entire Sahyadri range is crucial for the water security and recharge capacity for western Maharashtra,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sahyadri-tiger-reserve-used-by-8-tigers-forest-department/story-1tb5ee0QqYOpm1jjjj6rhM.html
28-06-2020||Mumbai||‘Beach shacks may cause harm to turtle nesting sites’||Two days after the state cabinet cleared a proposal to enhance tourism by setting up shacks at eight beaches across four coastal districts in Maharashtra, the move has drawn criticism from environmentalists and marine biologists.Mumbai-based environment research agency TerraNero Environment Solutions wrote to environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray on Saturday, saying enhanced tourism would come with increased risk of harmful plastic and glass (in the form of alcohol bottles) being dumped at Olive Ridley turtle nesting sites. Marine biologists and turtle conservationists said the decision may destroy nesting sites completely.“We must ask the state whether enhanced tourism is worth the risk to which our precious and already-threatened biodiversity will be exposed to. Eco-tourism is a middle path between nature and recreation, but it is also a tightrope walk which can lead to irreversible damages,” said Deepti Sharma, founder and director, TerraNero. On Thursday, the cabinet approved setting up a maximum of 10 shacks of the permitted size (15ftx15ft with a 20ftx15ft shade in front) across Kelwa and Bordi in Palghar; Varsoli and Diveagar in Raigad; Guhagar and Aareware in Ratnagiri; and Kunakeshwar and Tarkarli in Sindhudurg. An official government resolution for the policy is yet to be published.“Guhagar has been witnessing some of the highest Olive Ridley turtle nests along Maharashtra with 40 nests in 2019 and 28 this year while Diveagar has been witnessing seven to eight nests every year. A spurt in sporadic turtle nesting across various sandy beaches along Konkan is being observed but the present proposal will change this,” said turtle conservationist Mohan Upadhyay.A 2012 study by the College of Fisheries, Ratnagiri, had highlighted how Kunkeshwar and Tarkarli in Sindhudurg used to be turtle nesting sites until tourism increased. “Once the combined effect of noise pollution due to water sports and high tourist footfall happened, turtles stopped nesting on these sandy beaches completely,” said one of the authors requesting anonymity.Sanjai Jalla, from the Society of Integrated Coastal Management (SICOM) under the Union environment ministry and mission leader for the Blue Flag certification (international standards for beaches), said, “If turtle nesting sites have been declared as ecologically sensitive areas (ESAs), then introducing beach shacks could be dangerous. But if there is no such tag, then the state would have taken due cognisance of such issues.”Marine biologist Deepak Apte said, “Some of these beaches, especially from Raigad to Sindhudurg, are ESAs but they have not been notified on paper. Any such tourism, allowing inclusion of alcohol, will not only destroy the habitat but also the culture of these beaches.”A senior official from the tourism department said, “During the proposal stage itself, we had consulted various stakeholders, including the forest department, for suggestions to ensure local ecology would not be affected. Those suggestions have been made part of the policy. Additionally, all activities would be undertaken only after receiving consent from the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority.”HT had reported TerraNero’s study in January this year that alcohol and expired medicine bottles account for almost three-fourth of the total waste littered across Velas, Anjarle and Kelshi beaches (recognised specially for turtle nesting). “We fear a much worse scenario for these selected beaches,” said Sharma. “We must underscore the importance of keeping our beaches cleaner and safer for species who are dependent on them for their feeding and reproduction.”RATNAGIRI LOCALS HAD REJECTED BEACH SHACK PROPOSAL IN 2009A similar proposal by Maharashtra Tourism and Development Corporation (MTDC) was rejected by Ratnagiri locals in 2009, said Upadhyay. “We had highlighted the threat to turtles and had rejected the plan. On one hand, only sandy beaches have been selected where sporadic incidents of turtle nests are observed while some of these beaches already have homestays. These homestays should be given licenses and taxed by the state rather than bringing in shacks, which will lead to economic losses for locals since conflict with investors (who are not natives) is bound to happen,” he said. Tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray had tweeted on Thursday that 80% employment from the shacks must be for locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/beach-shacks-may-cause-harm-to-turtle-nesting-sites/story-VNpudNjlZwqh6PI3WGbuDJ.html
28-06-2020||City||Two elderly women among 11 fresh Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh and around||Eleven fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in the tricity on Saturday.While three, including a 76-year-old woman, were found infected in Chandigarh, a non-resident Indian is among four people who tested positive in Mohali. Meanwhile, four cases, including that of a 80-year-old woman, surfaced in Panchkula district.The number of confirmed cases have climbed to 428, 246 and 109 in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula, respectively. Chandigarh health officials said the elderly woman who tested positive is staying with her four family members in Sector 30. She has four more family contacts in Sector 25 as well. All eight people have been sampled. A 31-year-old woman from Sector 46 has also tested positive. Her two family members were sampled. Another woman, aged 45, who resides in Sector 41, tested positive at the Mohali civil hospital. Her two family contacts are asymptomatic.Meanwhile, officials said four contacts of the 37-year-old Panjab University staffer who was found infected earlier this week have tested negative. There are 87 active cases in the city.Among the fresh cases in Mohali, there are two women — 24-year-old from Naba village and 26-year-old from Dharamgarh in Dera Bassi — who tested positive after delivering babies at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh. A 22-year-old youth from Mubarakpur in Dera Bassi was also found infected after reporting to hospital with flu-like symptoms. The fourth case is of a 51-year-old merchant navy officer who had recently returned home from Nigeria. Meanwhile, six people were discharged after recovering from Covid-19, bringing the number of active cases to 52.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh along with a team of senior health officials visited a meat factory at Behra village in Dera Bassi, where five women workers have been reported to be affected so far. He ordered random sampling of all the factory workers to check the spread of the disease. The village has been turned into a micro containment zone. The team also visited three other micro containment zones: Harmilap Nagar, Baltana and Sector 91 in Mohali. Dr Manjit Singh said no outsider was being allowed to enter these zones. In Panchkula, 53-year-old mother and 80-year-old grandmother of an already infected man tested positive at Kot village in Barwala. The man had returned from Lucknow on June 19.A 36-year-old man from Beer Ghaggar village was also found infected, days after his wife and daughter tested positive. The fourth case is of a 25-year-old woman from Mahadev Colony in Panchkula. There are 59 active cases in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-elderly-women-among-11-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-and-around/story-uQuGE32BijExCXaIccJvFJ.html
28-06-2020||Mumbai||Maha sees record 5,318 new cases, count inches near 1.6L||Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 5,318 fresh Covid-19 cases — the fourth day in a row the state saw a record single-day jump in infections and the second consecutive day of over 5,000 cases. Additionally, the state has reconciled 1,050 cases from all districts and municipal corporations between March 9 and June 7, taking the total to 159,133. Mumbai on Saturday reported 1,402 new cases and 675 old cases have been reconciled, taking the day’s total to 2,077 — the highest number of cases reported in a day in Mumbai. The total number of cases reported in India’s worst-hit city has reached 74,252.The state recorded 167 fatalities on Saturday, taking the toll to 7,273. The case fatality rate (CFR) in the state stands at 4.57%. Of the deaths reported in the state on Saturday, 86 occurred in the past 48 hours and 81 deaths were before that. These include five in Jalgaon, four in Dhule, two each in Ahmednagar and Nashik, one each in Vasai-Virar, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Jalna and Latur, data from the state health department revealed. Mumbai recorded 41 new fatalities in the past 48 hours,while 64 fatalities from earlier weeks have been reconciled, taking the city’s toll to 4,284. The situation in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) continues to remain grave with a further rise in the satellite cities around Mumbai. Thane city and Kalyan-Dombivli continues to record a surge in cases. Thane city and Kalyan-Dombivli recorded its highest single-day spikes of 410 and 514 new cases, respectively. Navi Mumbai recorded 164 new cases, Thane district recorded 235 new cases. Bhiwandi and Vasai-Virar recorded 110 and 170 new cases, respectively.The Central government team is in Maharashtra to review the Covid-19 situation and planning in the state. A team headed by joint secretary of the Union ministry of health and family welfare, Lav Agarwal, visited Thane city to take a review of the situation on Saturday. The team asked the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) not to be scared of the increasing number of cases, instead, concentrate on decreasing the mortality rate, create awareness among residents, ensure norms of containment zones are followed, provide enough staff to Covid centres and hospitals, procure an adequate supply of necessary medicines and increase the number of screenings done every day.The team visited the new 1,000-bed hospital set up in the Global Impact hub in Saket and another hospital being set up in Kausa stadium in Mumbra. “Even though the number of positive cases is increasing, instead of being scared, the corporation will have to focus on improving the efficiency of the system. Ensure that the old and critically ill patients are provided hospital beds, so that the death rate would come down. The screening of people should also increase so that infected patients can be identified early. There is a need for awareness among people, so that all measures taken are for their own benefit, while norms should be strictly followed in containment zones,” Agarwal said.He added that movement in the containment zone should be strictly monitored and that the residents there should not go out of the zone, while outsiders should not be able to enter these zones. Agarwal added, “Co-ordination between testing labs, hospitals, and the health department is also important so that the patient will get beds easily.”State health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas, instructed the corporation to vigorously carry out contact tracing, increase quarantine facilities and testing capacity and improve sanitation of public toilets to keep the count in check.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had a meeting with the health ministry team at the Bal Thackeray memorial plot in Shivaji Park after the team visited Covid hospitals in Thane. Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde and minister Aaditya Thackeray were also present in the meeting, along with state officials. Thackeray, in the meeting, discussed measures to control the spread of the virus in the state.State health minister Rajesh Tope said the state government “expects more support” from the Centre in its fight against Covid-19. The minister said that the Centre has not provided adequate ventilators and is delaying decisions that can make nearly 3,000 doctors available for the state. “We have sought 5,000 ventilators from the Centre, but have only got 277 so far. We expect a lot from the Centre. We have also requested the prime minister to postpone final-year exams of postgraduate students pursuing medical courses or give marks based on internal exams. We have requested the Centre to make available trained doctors to work in ICUs. The Centre can do so, but they are not doing it. Around 3,000 trained doctors will be available in the state if the prime minister can convene a meeting in this regard as these laws are governed by the Centre,” he said, adding that the decision would be in the interest of the nation and not one state.According to Tope, the contagious nature of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has led to so many cases, however, the fatality rate of the virus is lower than H1N1 or swine flu which is at 10%. He added that the state government is attempting to keep the CFR lower in Covid-19 by getting drugs, including remdesivir, life-saving medical equipment such as ventilators, etc.“We have already decided to procure drugs including remdesivir and favipiravir, etc. for common people in each district in the state. It will not remain a drug for the rich and influential. This virus is contagious but the death rate through it is not as high as swine flu, which is over 10%. I think the mortality rate in Covid-19 will remain around 3%. But because the virus is contagious, the cases seem more. Even if there is a spike, we are working towards it not leading to death in cases. Our planning and goal is to further reduce the mortality rate,” Tope said.Tope also refuted the allegations made by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on the state not reporting around 1,000 out-of-hospital Covid-19 deaths in the state. The minister said that there have been delays in reconciliation, but there is no intention to hide. Tope called Fadnavis a “studious” leader and said valid suggestions are welcome from him, but he should not politicise the fight against Covid-19.“We are following ICMR guidelines. In some cases, a suspected Covid-19 patient dies, swab is collected for the test and the results come after two-three days. Doctors inform the local authorities, they in turn inform the department that brings out the daily figures. As reconciliation happens, all figures are reported. No death has ever been unreported and it will not happen in the future. There is a delay, but I told municipal commissioner and district collectors that it will not be tolerated. The Maharasthra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is working in a transparent manner and it has the trust of the people,” he said.Meanwhile, 4,430 patients were discharged on Saturday across the state, taking the total number of discharged people to 84,245. With a recovery rate of 52.94%, the state’s active case tally stands at 67,600. Maharashtra has so far tested 8,96,874 samples and has a positivity rate of 17.74%. Currently, 5,65,161 people are in home quarantine and 36,925 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-sees-record-5-318-new-cases-count-inches-near-1-6l/story-k9L8qFpHmfHvKnaQt0BzyI.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Six Jhajjar villages come under locust attack, crops destroyed||Huge swarms of locusts entered around half a dozen villages in Jhajjar on Saturday and damaged up to 100% crops in some areas. Sachin Kumar, a young farmer from Khudan village, said locusts entered their fields from Rewari’s Jatusana block on Saturday morning and damaged their crops and fodder. “Though we were prepared to tackle the menace, the insects took just 20 minutes to destroy my entire bajra , cotton and jawar crops. We had never witnessed such an attack in our lives. The government should compensate us,” he added.The insects had settled in Jatusana block on Friday night where the local administration supervised the operation of spraying chemicals in order to kill the short-horned grasshoppers, which tend to cause widespread crop damage with their voracious feeding behaviour.Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal also visited Jatusana block on Saturday morning and inspected the affected areas.“Our officials, with the help of local farmers, had managed to kill one-third of locusts on Friday night in Jatusana block. As many as 18 fire tenders were also pressed into service to spray chemicals on these insects. We can eliminate these insects only when they settle in the night. We were expecting that the locust will move from Rewari to Jhajjar and then leave for Uttar Pradesh via Panipat. But due to change in wind direction, these insects moved to Gurugram, Faridabad and then towards Uttar Pradesh,” the minister added.A day earlier, swarms of locusts had entered as many as 36 villages in Mahendergarh district and some areas of Rewari, leaving the farmers worried.Jhajjar deputy commissioner Jitender Singh said the locusts had moved towards Gurugram from Jhajjar. Crops were not damaged on a large scale, he added.Govt failed to stop locust attack: HoodaCriticising the government’s role in managing the situation, leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said they (government) failed to stop the locust attack despite being alerted about the same six months ago.“The government has not taken enough measures to stop the insect attack. It should conduct special drives to assess the crop losses and compensate the farmers,” the former chief minister added. Alert sounded in PanipatAfter locust swarms entered the southern districts of Mahendergarh, Jhajjar and Sonepat, an alert was sounded in Panipat on Saturday. Farmers of the district have been advised to remain vigilant as locusts are expected to enter the district, especially the Samalkha and Israna blocks, by Saturday evening through Sonepat.Panipat DC Dharmendra Singh has advised farmers to use utensils and drums to drive away the locusts.He has directed officials of district agriculture department to ensure the availability of the insecticide ‘chlorpyrifos’: “Farmers should be ready with their tractors mounted with chemical sprayers as locusts may settle on trees at night,” the DC said. Swarms of locusts can travel up to 150km per day and eat every bit of greenery on their way. (with inputs from Neeraj Mohan)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/six-jhajjar-villages-come-under-locust-attack-crops-destroyed/story-lfMjOkNfTqhJpU0x9EyQGK.html
28-06-2020||City||Large outbreak areas are in containment zones since April||Gurugram The eight large outbreak regions (LORs) in the district, which were identified by the district administration on Friday for implementing stringent curbs to control the spread of Covid-19, have not come out of containment zone tags since the initial phase of the lockdown. Despite announcing a number of measures to curb the movement of people and enforce social distancing, the results have not been satisfactory, officials said on Saturday. The number of cases has spiralled in these areas, most of which have high density of population. The officials said that due to delay in contact tracing in April and May, these areas have developed into Covid clusters. For instance, there were about 25-30 coronavirus cases in many of these regions until May. However, as per district administration’s Covid-19 data, localities such as Hari Nagar, Shakti Park, Dundahera and Jyoti Park have more than 250 cases now. Now, the district administration plans to ramp up policing and intensive health campaign from June 30 when the order on LORs becomes effective. According to the district administration, an LOR is the area where there are 15 or more positive cases. As many as eight wards have been declared as the LORs.The district administration officials said that they are working out a plan to identify the boundaries of these containment zones now designated as LORs. “Entry and exits will be controlled in these areas after identifying their boundaries by the respective sub-divisional magistrates. The movement of people will be curbed and intensive health campaign will be launched with screening of individuals and testing through rapid antigen tests. Commercial activities will also be curbed,” said Amit Khatri, Gurugram deputy commissioner, in a statement issued on Saturday. Local residents, meanwhile, have complained of poor surveillance by health workers and thin presence of police. “Shakti Park and Hari Nagar are both adjacent to Khandsa vegetable market, and a large number of migrant labourers who work in the market contracted the virus from there. Though the administration has changed the timing of wholesale market, the retail business has spread out to roads and streets in both these colonies. Social distancing and other safeguards are not enforced strictly,” said Satbir Tanwar, a resident of Shakti Park.Both the colonies are located in ward 23 and have remained designated as containment zones for the past two months. Till May 30, Hari Nagar had 12 positive cases while Shakti Park only eight cases. The total cases in both the areas are now more than 150.A visit by HT to both the localities on Saturday revealed that barricading was non-existent and entry and exits were not controlled with people moving freely in public places. “The police presence has remained thin and we have barricaded the street number one on our own in Shakti Park. The municipal authorities have sanitized the area only once, and residents have been forced to sanitize the area themselves,” said Tanwar.The population of Shakti Park is around 20,000 and almost 40% of people from UP and Bihar have returned to their native states. “We are dependent upon a single Asha worker who visits regularly. Very few people have been tested and administration must start rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests at the earliest,” said Dinesh Kumar, who owns a shop in Shakti Park.Ruab Ali, a resident of Hari Nagar, said that there was an immediate need to increase testing, boost police presence and barricade the colony to prevent the spread of pandemic. “These areas have very high density of population. It is difficult to sanitize the streets and maintain social distancing as people live in small rooms, share washrooms and common areas, “ said Yatender Hari, who owns a shop opposite the Khandsa market. HSVP officials engaged in contact tracing said that high density and large population made social distancing and contact tracing difficult, but they were working to find out a solution. Bharat Bhushan Gogia, estate officer, HSVP, said that they have taken several measures to boost contact tracing while working with the health department. “Our teams are working with local public health centres and compiling data on a real time basis and efforts are showing results,” he said. While in Dundahera, locals complained that none of the health workers visited their houses despite the surge in cases. Jitender, an employee with a private company, said, “There has been no door-to-door surveillance, though cases have been reported in the nearby lanes. Nobody has ever visited our family.”Some said that most of the families have already left after cases began to erupt in the area. on Saturday, the area wore a deserted look with most of the houses locked. Dundahera is one of the areas where a large number of workers employed in Delhi stay.Urmila, who runs a grocery store in the lane which has been sealed, said, “After the first Covid-19 case, the building where the patient lived was totally vacated. In the last two months, so many families have left the area fearing Covid-19.”The local police deployed in Dundahera said that four lanes have been sealed. “Our task is to prevent gathering of more than four people outside a shop or home. Also, to challan people who are not wearing mask,” said Ishwar Singh, a local police officer. The Gurugram police said that they would boost measures for strict enforcement of social distancing and other safeguards in large outbreak regions. The movement of people will be curbed, factories and commercial establishments will have to arrange for accommodation of workers at their premises and only emergency movement will be allowed from June 30, they said.Muhammed Akil, commissioner of police, said, “More than 2,000 police personnel are on Covid-19 duty. In the large outbreak areas, our focus is to strictly enforce wearing of mask and maintaining social distancing. Teams have been directed to prevent gathering of more than four people outside a shop or home. Also, to challan people who are not wearing mask. The teams will be strict now in issuing the challans if locals are found violating the norms by not wearing masks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/large-outbreak-areas-are-in-containment-zones-since-april/story-sdX15Yys6YoBOjBo06sYkN.html
28-06-2020||Mumbai||HC: No need to submit income certificate to avail free Covid treatment||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday ruled that Covid-19 patients will not be required to produce income certificates to avail of free treatment at charitable hospitals. The ruling also included directions to a charitable hospital in Mumbai to deposit the amount charged to seven slum-dwellers from Bandra for Covid-19 treatment, with the court.The bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice Madhav Jamdar refused to accept the argument advanced on behalf of KJ Somaiya Hospital and Research Centre, that to avail free treatment the patient is required to produce a threshold income certificate issued either by the tehsildar or social welfare officer.“We are not inclined to accept the submission made on behalf of respondent No 1 [Somaiya Hospital] that unless such certificate is produced by the petitioners at the threshold, the respondent No 1 is not liable to admit any such patient under those categories in the precarious situation prevailing at the date of admission of the petitioners,” said the bench.The court was hearing a petition filed by seven slum-dwellers from Bharat Nagar in Bandra (West), alleging that the hospital, run by a charitable trust, had charged exorbitant amounts for treating them for Covid-19.In the petition filed through advocate Vivek Shukla, the patients said they had been admitted to the charitable hospital between April 11 and 28 for Covid-19 treatment, but instead of getting free treatment, they were collectively charged ₹10.06 lakh.Acting on the petition, the court had earlier called for a report from the charity commissioner, Maharashtra. On Friday, the bench noticed that the report submitted was based only on the documents called for and submitted by the hospital, and was filed without visiting the premises and inspecting the records. Against this backdrop, the court on Friday directed the charitable hospital to deposit the sum of ₹10.06 lakh with the court in two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-no-need-to-submit-income-certificate-to-avail-free-covid-treatment/story-oRYcXAfCHEQUbY83pfgU3O.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana tops state in COVA mobile app registrations||Ludhiana is on the top in the state with a maximum number of people registering themselves as Mission Fateh Warriors on COVA (Corona Virus Alert) Punjab mobile app launched by the state government. Patiala and Amritsar stand second and third respectively.So far, more than 33 lakh people in the state have downloaded this app.As per the data, a total of 15,673 people have downloaded the app in the district and have got themselves registered as Mission Fateh Warriors. They are further educating the masses about the ways to keep themselves safe from Covid-19.A total of 10,848 people in Patiala and 7,897 people in Amritsar have connected themselves with the app.In Ludhiana, as many as 5,712 people have uploaded pictures of their activities.The Punjab government has urged residents to download the app and educate the masses in large numbers after which they would be honoured with gold, silver and bronze certificates.In Ludhiana, residents have already won 12 silver and 75 bronze certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-top-in-state-in-cova-mobile-app-registrations/story-TsP3oVPs03ktqEQ4JeuheO.html
28-06-2020||Noida||Noida begins helpline for civic issues||The Noida authority has started a WhatsApp helpline to address people’s civic issues during the time of the pandemic when they are reluctant to venture out of their homes. People can send their complaints to the WhatsApp number (+91) 9717080605 that would be serviced by the Noida authority.“People can register their complaint over WhatsApp or text messages on this number. Instant action will be taken on such complaints. But, residents are requested not to call on this number,” said Ritu Maheshwari chief executive officer of the Noida authority.Complaints related to fogging, sanitisation, open defecation, burning of garbage, handling of construction or demolition waste, sewer choking or seepage issue, water supply issue or maintenance of public toilets, cleaning of drains or sewer, pruning of trees, garbage dumping at undesignated area, late arrival or no arrival of garbage collector, dustbin cleanliness, dead animal lying, stray animal issue and issues related with pet dog, etc. will be addressed.Residents feel that the WhatsApp number helpline may be able to solve the long standing issues prevailing in almost all sectors.“The Noida authority has unable to solve many issues despite repeated complaints in the past. We hope that the new helpline number will assist in finding solutions to these issues. We have brought to the notice that the issue of stray dogs and stray animals has been of immense trouble to residents. And the complaints of residents remain unattended most of the time. Apart from the stray animal menace the issues related with water supply and drain cleaning is also required much-needed attention of the authority,” said NP Singh president of Gautam Budh Nagar district development residents’ welfare association (DDRWA), a residents’ body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-begins-helpline-for-civic-issues/story-h3FjJfbeOevVjFdOiiLg6M.html
28-06-2020||Noida||Noida’s Covid-19 tally crosses 2000||The total Covid-19 case tally in Gautam Budh Nagar crossed the 2000 mark on Saturday with the addition of 127 new cases. The district now has a total of 2,072 cases.Meanwhile, 97 patients were discharged in last 24-hour period, taking the total recovered patients to 1,136. On Saturday, the recovery rate of the patients is 54.62 percent against 53.39 percent a day earlier.According to the district administration, special Covid-19 testing drives were conducted on Saturday for early detection, which included 312 latest antigen test.“Special drive for sampling was conducted today, of which total of 1,115 samples were collected in the district. This includes 793 RT-PCR test, 312 antigen test of which 17 were positive and 10 TruNat test, all negative. The result of RT-PCR are awaited. We shall continue the strategy of early tracking and intensive containment. We thank the resident of their continued support,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.Officials said that apart from the symptomatic patients, and elderly in the containment zones, the health workers and police personnel among other high rise groups are being periodically tested.“In GB Nagar, places where cluster of cases are found, health camps are set up as a strategy. In these health camps patients with Influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) are selected for sampling,” said the district surveillance officer in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-covid-19-tally-crosses-2000/story-2PuuU4UJR2fJg6Z4VWt7qI.html
28-06-2020||Delhi||Amit Shah, Kejriwal visit 10,000-bed Chhatarpur Covid facility||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday visited the newly built 10,000-bed Covid care facility in Chhatarpur to take stock of the arrangements at the centre. Shah was accompanied by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. HT had reported on June 12 that the Delhi government had taken over the campus of Radha Soami Satsang Beas, a spiritual organisation, that would accommodate at least 10,000 beds. Named after Sardar Patel, the facility is roughly the size of 22 football fields. It has been turned into a temporary hospital to treat patients of the coronavirus disease with mild to moderate symptoms. The Delhi government is also seeking to increase the number of beds available for patients by setting up makeshift hospitals in 40 hotels and 77 banquet halls. The idea is to add 15,800 beds for sick patients. Five hundred converted railway coaches will add another 8,000 beds for the city’s Covid-19 patients.“The facility has 2,000 beds ready now. Though it has fans, the centre will be cooled by 18,000 tonnes of air-conditioners. The facility will have two segments - Covid Care Centre (CCC), where asymptomatic positive cases will be treated, and Dedicated Covid Health Care (DCHC). The CCC will have 90% beds while the remaining would be in DCHC,” said a senior official in the south district administration.After the visit, the home minister tweeted: “Visited the ‘Sardar Patel COVID Care Centre’ in Delhi to review its preparedness. I thank Radha Soami Satsang Beas and all others who helped to create this huge Covid care facility. This 10,000 bed centre would provide huge relief to the people of Delhi.”“I applaud our courageous @ITBP_official personnel, who would be operating this Covid Care facility during these trying times. Their commitment to serve nation and people of Delhi is unparalleled. Modi govt at the centre is committed to provide all possible help to its citizens,” he said in another tweet.Kejriwal also applauded the support extended by the Beas. “In this hour of difficulty, I sought help to save Delhi and everyone has come forward to contribute enthusiastically. With the support of the Central government and Radha Soami Satsang Beas, such a large Covid centre has come up for Delhiites,” the CM tweeted.Of the total 10,208 beds at the centre, 10% are equipped with oxygen support devices. BSES Rajdhani Power Limited (BRPL) has deployed 100 workers to provided the power infrastructure at the site. As per Delhi government’s estimates, 23 Megawatt electricity would be needed to run the facility. “The BRPL is laying four dedicated 11KV feeders, which totals to around 22 Kms, using trenchless technology (which involves minimal road-cutting). All the cables are being laid-underground,” a BRPL spokesperson said.“Working against gruelling deadlines, BSES’ team has managed to commission a load of 4,000 KW (4 MW) by June 25. Rest of the load (19,000 kW or 19 MW) will be commissioned by July 5,” BRPL said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amit-shah-kejriwal-visit-10-000-bed-chhatarpur-covid-facility/story-wcEvF61yT8vapuuz973ljJ.html
28-06-2020||Delhi||Six who attended congregation at Markaz died in Delhi and Haryana: Police charge sheet||Six people, including a foreigner, had died due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) during treatment at hospitals in Delhi, Haryana and at a quarantine facility after being rescued from the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters, known as the Markaz, in Nizamuddin during the lockdown in March-end, the Delhi Police have told a Delhi court, in a charge sheet filed in May.Various agencies had mounted a rescue operation to remove over 2,300 people from the Markaz after several who had allegedly attended a religious congregation there returned to their respective home states and were tested positive for the virus. Seven deaths, six of which were in Telangana alone, were also reported. The deaths prompted the authorities to take measures to prevent the spread of the virus and file a criminal case against the Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad and six other office bearers, for defying a series of government directives, which curbed religious and large gatherings, issued to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the national capital. Charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and criminal conspiracy were added to the case after the deaths of some of the attendees. No arrests have been made in the case, so far.Advocate Fuzail Ayubi, counsel for the Markaz, said that the assumption of the investigating agency to charge his clients for 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) is completely “Misplaced” “The section 304 could not have been applied here in these circumstances and the assumption of the investigating agency is completely misplaced,” he said. According to the charge sheet filed in the case in the Saket court, the city police have said that during investigation it was found that six persons who were part of the religious congregation at the Markaz had lost their lives at the Lok Nayak hospital, a quarantine centre in Sultanpuri and AIIMS, Jhajjar.“As per the certificates issued by the concerned doctors, their deaths had occurred due to corona virus infection,” the charge sheet read.While Yousuf Sahibu (36) from Tamil Nadu died on March 31 at AIIMS, Jhajjar, and Modokulov Maksat (38), from Kyrgyzstan died at the same hospital on April 13. Two persons from Tamil Nadu—Majeeth Mustafa (68) and Thathkir Pichaikani (64) died at the Lok Nayak Hospital in Central Delhi, on April 9 and March 29 respectively.Another Tamil Nadu resident Mohammad Mustafa,60, had also died during treatment at the quarantine centre in Sultanpuri on April 22, the charge sheet says. The casualties also include a Delhi resident, Mohammad Aslam Abbasi (74) who died at the Lok Nayak hospital on March 31.The police have filed charge sheets against more than 900 foreigners and charged them for allegedly attending the religious congregation organised in March by the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters, in violation of their visa conditions and the Indian government’s guidelines on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.In the charge sheet filed, the police said that the foreigners accepted that they had attended the religious congregation for the purpose of professing and propagating the principles and doctrines of the Tablighi Jamaat and had remained at its headquarters (Markaz) for some period.“In order to ascertain their visit to Banglewali Masjid, Hazrat Nizamuddin, Delhi the register maintained at the Banglewali Masjid was taken into police possession, which further confirms their visit, including their name, country, passport number, period of stay and date of expiry of visa,” the police said.The police also added that in order to substantiate the legitimacy of their visit to India, passports of 723 foreigners and Identity Cards of 23 Nepal nationals have been taken into possession through seizure/handing over memos.“Some of the accused foreign nationals were unable to provide / produce their passports. Despite efforts their passports could not be taken over till now. Hence, passport numbers of these foreign nationals have not been mentioned against their respective names and country of origin in the list of accused persons,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-who-attended-congregation-at-markaz-died-in-delhi-and-haryana-police-charge-sheet/story-uxr99KAHn3tivPjH1TgO2L.html
28-06-2020||Delhi||Assess if patients who died were brought to hospitals on time: Health min to Delhi govt||The union health ministry has advised the Delhi government to carry out an assessment of every person to die of Covid-19 in the city to check many days before their death they had been brought to the hospital and from where. This assessment has to focus on whether the person was in home isolation and whether (s)he was admitted to a hospital at the right time, according to the health ministry.This comes days after a flip-flop by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on allowing home isolation in Delhi. The authority had initially mandated a five-day institutional isolation, then said all Covid-19 patients – including asymptomatic and those with mild symptoms – would have to visit the Covid Care Centre for an assessment.The decision to discontinue home isolation was taken to prevent deaths that took place when people reached late to hospitals.With Delhi reporting over 3,000 cases of the viral infection every day, the centre has stepped in to provide support for infrastructure, testing and consumables.A 1,000-bed field hospital has been created in Dhaula Kuan, which will start working from next week. The hospital has been constructed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation and manned by Army doctors and paramedics. The hospital will have oxygen, ICU and ventilator beds as well as a referral relationship with AIIMS, New Delhi.Around 2,000 of the 10,000 beds in the Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre set up at Radha Soami Satsang Beas, Chattarpur, have been operationalised with the support of medical teams from the Central Armed Police Forces and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police.The central government has also provided 425 ventilators for Delhi government-run hospitals. Over 11 lakh N-95 masks, almost 7 lakh PPE kits, and 44.8 lakh HCQ tablets (used by healthcare and frontline workers, and the caregivers of patients to prevent the infection).To ramp up testing in the city, the union health ministry, through ICMR, also approved a rapid antigen test and provided 50,000 kits to the Delhi government. The Delhi government has placed orders for another 6 lakh kits.The central government has also provided 4.7 lakh RT-PCR tests to 12 laboratories in Delhi, along with viral transport medium and extraction kits needed to do the test, according to a release by the union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/assess-if-patients-who-died-were-brought-to-hospitals-on-time-health-min-to-delhi-govt/story-IMOxUirfcQOtTmgZBvihLM.html
28-06-2020||Delhi||Asha workers fight on 2 fronts: Against Covid-19, for better pay||At the forefront of the war against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) workers in Delhi are fighting another battle on their own -- their right to seek better remuneration. They put in long hours while conducting door-to-door surveys, screening patients in home isolation or at testing centres but are paid just Rs 4,000 per month as basic salary.The Delhi Asha Workers’ Association (DAWA) has given several representations to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and health minister Satyendar Jain, requesting that the workers be paid Rs 10,000 per month during the pandemic.Teams of Asha workers and Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANMs) have been deployed in various parts of the city to screen the entire population to map the spread of Covid-19, as part of the survey ordered by the Centre last week. The survey will be completed by July 6.Also read | Sero survey in Delhi begins to map exposure to coronavirus“We are at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19, but our pay is not proportional to the work we do. The government had given Rs 5,000 to construction workers and auto drivers during the lockdown. And we are paid just Rs 4,000, including Rs 1,000 for Covid duty. The government should think about us too,” said Usha Thakur, the general secretary of DAWA, who is working in Najafgarh as part of the team that screens Covid-19 patients to check if they can isolate themselves at home.According to an order issued on April 13 by the Delhi State Health Mission, the workers are to receive get Rs 3,000 as core incentive along with Rs 1,000 for Covid-19 duty from April to June as announced by the Centre. “I’m the only earning member in my family, as my husband lost his job in February. As part of Covid-19 duty, we have to cover 50 or more houses daily for the survey. We are on duty all the time. Sometimes I get a call at night to locate a Covid-19 positive patient. After putting in long hours, all we get is Rs 4,000, including Rs 1,000 for Covid-19 duty,” said Rajan Bidhuri, who is deployed in Tughlaqabad village. To make ends meet, Bidhuri works extra hours taking pregnant women for check-ups and children before five for immunisation to the dispensary to earn the extra incentive. “I earned Rs 5,000 as an incentive, besides the Rs 4,000, in April. I’m yet to get my salary for May,” Bidhuri said.But not everyone can do other work to earn the incentive, as they are posted at testing centres or are given other Covid-19 duties.Also read | Govt using five weapons against Covid-19, says Delhi CM Arvind KejriwalPriti (36), who goes by her first name, said that she got just Rs 2,320 for April. “I have been on Covid-19 duty since April. But I didn’t even get Rs 4,000 (the amount assured by the government). It is difficult for us to do our other routine jobs along with Covid-19 duty. Moreover, a lot of migrant workers have gone back to their villages due to which there aren’t enough people, especially pregnant women and children, whom we can take to the dispensary for routine check-ups,” said Priti, who is currently posted at a testing centre in Vasant Vihar.Kavita Yadav, the state coordinator for Asha workers, All India United Traders Union Centre, said they have a list of 100-plus Asha workers who tested positive for Covid-19. The first Asha worker tested positive for Covid-19 in April. “They are risking their lives like all other essential service providers. Then why this disparity? Due to Covid-19, a majority of them are unable to do their regular work and are losing out on incentives. The order passed by the Delhi government regarding payment of core incentive is not being implemented at all the dispensaries. We request the government to look into our demand and ensure timely payment of salaries,” said Yadav. The Delhi government didn’t respond for comment despite repeated requests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/asha-workers-continue-to-fight-for-better-salaries/story-tF1HakHmfxfJeBZpEtMTiO.html
28-06-2020||Delhi||One banquet hall in each district to be turned into a 100-bed Covid facility||The Delhi government will convert one banquet hall in every district into a temporary Covid health centre (CHC) to treat patients with moderate symptoms, senior officials in the health department said on Saturday. These facilities will have at least 100 beds each and will be attached to a Covid dedicated hospital, stated the orders that were issued later in the day.The decision comes after the first such Covid care facility was readied in the Central district on June 24. “On Wednesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the 100-bed covid facility in Shehnai banquet hall which has been attached to Lok Nayak hospital. The hospital is located just across the road from the banquet hall. The chief minister liked the concept and the arrangements, and has now directed that each of the 11 districts in Delhi should have one such facility,” a health department official said.Accordingly, principal secretary (health and family welfare) Vikram Dev Dutt issued an order on Saturday evening, notifying one banquet hall each in eight of the 11 districts. Apart from Shehnai banquet hall, the others include JJV Marketing and Hotels Pvt Limited in New Delhi district which will have 100 beds and has been attached to Lok Nayak hospital, Pearl Grand Galaxy in Shahdara district with 135 beds (GTB hospital), Kanak Banquet hall with 100 beds in southeast district’s Sarita Vihar area (GTB hospital), Kundan banquet hall (160 beds) in southwest (Lok Nayak hospital), RK Banquet (160 beds) in West Delhi (Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty hospital), Heritage Grand (200 beds) in northwest Delhi (Deep Chand Bandhu hospital) and Zehan banquet hall (100 beds) in north Delhi (Satyawati Raja Harish Chandra hospital).Also read | Covid-19: As India records highest daily spike, Govt underlines recovery rate at 58%, mortality rate at 3%Three districts have been kept out of this for different reasons. The northeast district will have no such facility since the area is “densely populated”, the order stated. The South district is also not included in the plan because it has the 10,000-bed Covid facility, touted to the largest in the world, in Chhatarpur. Similarly, in the the east district a 500-bed Covid care facility is coming up at the Commonwealth Games Village.Since these facilities will be for Covid-19 patients with moderate symptoms, each bed will have oxygen concentrators as well as an IV fluid stand. If the patient’s condition worsens, he will be taken to the attached hospital immediately, the official said.“Identifying the banquet halls was not tough for the DMs because they already had the list of around 77 banquet halls across the city, requisition orders of which were issued weeks ago. So, they just had to scan through that list, do a final recce and pick the most suitable one to start the facility. The criteria for finalising these halls included a proper approach road for an ambulance and other parameters such as space for at least 100 beds and washrooms,” said an official in the revenue department.On June 13, HT reported that the Delhi government had identified 40 hotels and 77 banquet halls to be turned into Covid facilities, which once fully utilised can add over 15,800 beds to the city-state’s health care infrastructure.As per Saturday’s order, the DMs will have to provide beds, pillows and mattresses, while the banquet hall owners will arrange caretaking and housekeeping staff. “The linked hospitals will provide all doctors and medical staff, infrastructure, consumables, services, etc.”Addressing a digital press conference on Saturday, Kejriwal said the Delhi government is augmenting Covid beds at a “massive scale”. He said Delhi now has around 13,500 beds available out of which nearly 7,500 were vacant as on Saturday afternoon.“In the past one month, we scaled up the availability of Covid-19 beds in the city’s hospitals. Our first decision was to reserve at least 40% of beds in all major hospitals of Delhi for Covid patients. Second decision was to convert some government and private hospitals into dedicate Covid facilities. Thirdly, we attached several hotels were attached to hospitals. The hotels were against the move and went to court. We won the legal battle and now 3,500 beds are ready in various hotels across Delhi,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-banquet-hall-in-each-district-to-be-turned-into-a-100-bed-covid-facility/story-6lgyCXGUYWk7nhHM8hmwIL.html
28-06-2020||Delhi||Ten days after being designated Covid-only facility, Hindu Rao starts admitting patients||Ten days after it was designated a dedicated Covid-19 facility, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Hindu Rao Hospital on Saturday finally started admitting patients suffering from the disease.According to officials in the north civic body, initially, the facility has started with 50 beds, and another 150 are to be added soon. “We did not want to delay the process, and since we had the logistics ready for 50 beds, we have started the facility. More beds will be added in phases soon,” said a senior corporation official who asked not to be named.However, some doctors raised concerns that donning and doffing areas for PPE kits had still not been created in the ward.An official from the hospital administration said, “So far we have got one Covid patient in the intensive care unit (ICU). We are expecting more patients by tonight.” The hospital had started a flu clinic where around 70-80 Covid-19 samples have been collected every day since June 16, when the hospital was supposed to operate as a Covid facility.Earlier this week, around 200 non-Covid patients were discharged or referred to other hospitals in order to vacate the hospital to prepare it for Covid patients. “There are still around 15-20 non-Covid patients admitted in the hospital, who too will be shifted to other facilities. We have not been admitting any non-Covid patients from last week itself,” the official said. The hospital authorities on Saturday morning issued directions to doctors, nursing staff and paramedics to shift out to the designated accommodations that have been provided in hotels and other such facilities for their stay during Covid duty, as per norms.“As per the norms, doctors will be accommodated in five-star hotels around Connaught Place, nursing staff in three-star hotels in Karol Bagh, while paramedics will be housed in budget hotels in Paharganj,” the above quoted corporation official said. The hospital’s resident doctors association had on Saturday morning staged a demonstration outside the main building for a slew of demands, including payment of pending salaries, providing separate accommodation during Covid duty and installation and repair of air-conditioning in the wards. Doctors had said wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for 12-hour shifts without proper air-conditioning was not possible.“Our protest was fruitful, and the demands have been agreed upon. We will be shifting to the accommodations now as per duty. A batch of 80 doctors including senior residents, junior residents and interns have been assigned on Covid duty. A roster has been prepared. Also, the air conditioners were being repaired and we have been assured of getting the due salaries soon,” said Dr Sagar Deep Singh, a senior resident and vice-president, RDA.A senior North corporation official said, “The protests by doctors and paramedic staff have been called off. The salaries for June will be disbursed. We are waiting for the rest of the funds for pending dues.”On Friday, the paramedics and nursing staff association had protested non-payment of salaries for the last two months. A nursing officer, however, said, “We have been given assurance that the salaries will come for this month by next week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ten-days-after-being-designated-covid-only-facility-hindu-rao-starts-admitting-patients/story-ipM827U3Lvfr6gSXkDT9yH.html
28-06-2020||Delhi||150 Covid beds to be ready in a week at Delhi’s Burari hospital||At least 150 beds of the 450 total earmarked for the treatment of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in Delhi government’s newly constructed hospital in Burari will be ready within a week, according to a city administration plan.As per the plan, prepared by Delhi’s health department, 38 doctors newly appointed to posts of chief district medical officers will join the hospital along with some specialists, and experienced doctors will be diverted from other hospitals. The hospital has also been directed to hire resident doctors.The construction of two other Delhi government hospitals in Ambedkar Nagar and Dwarka are also nearly complete.For nursing staff, the hospital has been asked to hire employees on posts that have already been created. Some nursing staff from other hospitals will also be provided to start the hospital.Nursing orderlies, house keeping staff, kitchen or canteen, sanitation workers will be outsourced by expanding the existing contracts that the government has with various agencies for its other hospitals.For labs and tests, the hospital has been asked to tie-up with private laboratories on rates applicable under the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) or Delhi Arogya Kosh scheme, which covers the cost of tests and over 1,000 procedures at private hospitals and labs for patients going to Delhi government hospitals.Oxygen cylinders will be given to the hospital from the Centre’s supply, while refilling will be done by the hospital. Other medicines and consumables will be procured by the central procurement agency from open market or nominating existing suppliers, according to the order, signed by the principal health secretary Vikram Dev Dutt.Linen, pillow cover, patient gowns, and staff uniform will be on rental from laundry services. Ambulances will be provided by the government’s Centralised Accident and Trauma Services (CATS), the order states.All purchases for the hospital will be made under the disaster management act accounting, which was allowed for all its hospitals by the Delhi government last week. The payments will be made from the Delhi State Health Mission Covid-19 funds and Delhi health budget.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/150-covid-beds-to-be-ready-in-a-week-at-burari-hospital/story-EqyVHDcPgYC6He5igGg5jM.html
28-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi crosses 80,000 mark with 2,948 new Covid cases||The number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital crossed the 80,000-mark on Saturday, as the city recorded 2,948 new cases of the infectious disease. With this, the city’s tally stood at 80,188, of whom 2,558 have died. Of these deaths, 66 were recorded in the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin issued on Saturday.However, even as the number of daily new cases continue to hover around the 3,000-mark, the number of recoveries in the city neared 50,000 on Saturday, with 2,210 more patients being cleared of the disease as per the day’s bulletin, taking the total to 49,301. The number of recoveries in Delhi are likely to cross 50,000 on Sunday. As of Saturday, the national capital had a recovery rate of 61%.According to the Delhi Corona app, the city had a total of 13,385 Covid-19 beds, of which a majority — 7,377, were vacant.Delhi has also kept up its brisk testing rate, which has remained near the 20,000-mark, with 19,180 tests conducted on Saturday. As per the government bulletin, Delhi has a testing rate of 25,175 per million population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cases-cross-80-000-mark/story-QzJHmQdq8QKAn8ZZS2tdpJ.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Villagers, police pitch in to build shanties for labourers left homeless after fire in Ludhiana village||Almost a month after a fire ravaged around 50 shanties of migrant labourers in Rawat village on the Rahon road, the labourers now have a roof over their heads with villagers and police pitching in to erect shanties for them. However, around 300 labourers, who were left homeless after the incident, are struggling to make both ends meet in the absence of work.Left with nothing, but clothes they were wearing when the fire broke out in the morning of May 29, the labourers, who had been living in the village for over 25 years, could not even move back to home states due to lockdown.A labourer, Shanti Devi, said, “Most of us work as farm labourers and, this year, we have also got less work of paddy sowing due to the pandemic. All things, including furniture, electronic devices, the amount saved for emergencies, etc perished in the fire and we were in a dilemma what to do when the police and villagers came to their help.”“The police and villagers arranged food for us and gathered all the material required to rebuild shanties. However, in the absence of fans in this scorching heat, our children are facing a tough time. However, we are thankful to the villagers and police for providing us shelter,” said Raj Kumari, hoping that the life would slowly come back on the track.Commissioner of police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal, who had visited the village, had assured all help to the labourers.Meharban station house officer (SHO) Kulwant Singh Malhi said, “Police had arranged ‘langar’ for labourers after they were shifted to the local gurdwara. Agrawal also visited the gurdwara and appealed to residents to help the labourers. Ajaib Singh Goldy, a constable, also supported labourers through his NGO.” Sarpanch of Rawat village, Gurmail Singh, said, villagers came together to help the labour and over Rs 5 lakh were spent in arranging food, clearing the area and setting up shanties. “We are still working to provide other necessary things to labourers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/villagers-police-pitch-in-to-build-shanties-for-labourers-after-fire-in-ludhiana-village/story-RLP9zNZwCeJobiAKwbYcyI.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||Payments stop, construction of Govt College building in Ludhiana comes to a halt||Work on the construction of the new building of the Government College, Ludhiana (east), the third government college in the city, situated opposite the Vardhman Mills on the Chandigarh Road here, has come to a halt due to the paucity of funds.The funds for the building were released in November last year, and after that, no payment has been made to the contractor due to which the contractor has stopped the construction.The construction of the building on the five-acre land started on November 3, 2018, and so far, only one block is ready. Two blocks are still under construction and require at least four months for completion.Adesh Gupta, executive engineer, public works department (PWD), said, “We have received a sum of around Rs 5.5 crore from the state higher education department during the last two years and last payment was received eight months ago. The contractor has stopped work as no payment was released to him after November. I have written to the higher authorities to release the funds, so that the construction of remaining two blocks of the building can be completed. The project is worth Rs 12 crore.”As per the building design, it has three blocks -- science, arts and administrative. The science and arts blocks will comprise two floors and eight rooms for a chemistry laboratory, a zoology laboratory, a computer room, a staff room, a girls common room, toilets for boys and girls. The administrative block will comprise a library, principal’s office, a committee room, toilets, etc. The initiative for the government college in Ludhiana (east) was taken by Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar.Secretary, higher education and languages Rahul Bhandari said, “The matter is pending with the finance department for release of funds for this government college.”The foundation stone of the building was laid at the site on January 28, 2018. On April 11, 2018, a team comprising the director, public instructions (colleges), former deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal and other officers inspected a community centre at Jamalpur to start BA part 1 and part 2 classes temporarily from there. Students of these classes were supposed to be later shifted to the new college The higher education department permitted SCD Government College authorities to conduct an online admission process in 2018. The college admitted 80 students each of first and second years of Bachelor of Arts (BA) and classes have been conducted in the SCD Government College for the past two years and not at the community centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/construction-of-new-building-of-govt-college-in-ludhiana-east-comes-to-a-halt/story-7mKNPOw5cNUnKDgCXUPsbN.html
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||NHAI told to complete service lane along Ludhiana’s elevated road on priority||With city residents at the receiving end due to road projects initiated by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) hanging fire, a meeting between senior officials of the district administration, municipal corporation, road safety experts and NHAI officials was held at the Circuit House on Saturday.The NHAI officials were directed to ensure that the service lane along the upcoming elevated road is completed at the earliest on priority, as due to the construction of the project residents were suffering a lot.The 12.9-km elevated road, being constructed from the erstwhile octroi post on the Ferozepur Road (NH-95) to the Samrala Chowk at a cost of Rs 756.2 crore, is taking a toll on the smooth flow of traffic.Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who also attended the meeting, took up several issues related to the ongoing projects in the district.The projects discussed at the meeting included work on NH 44, the elevated road project (Samrala Chowk to Ferozepur Road), Chandigarh Road, besides others.Ashu took stock of the current status of the ongoing projects and directed the NHAI officials to speed up the work.He said service lanes are part of every project, and if these roads remain in bad shape, responsibility of officials will be fixed and strict action will be taken against them.Besides, issues related to the entry and exit points on the NH-44 (GT Road) were also discussed and the NHAI officials assured that all issues will be dealt with on priority.He said to ease congestion for traffic coming from the Ferozepur side and headed towards the bus stand, the department is planning to construct a loop near Hotel Gulmohar on Ferozepur Road in place of an underpass.NHAI officials were also told to expedite work on Ladhowal bypass and fixing of streetlights on NH-44, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nhai-told-to-complete-service-lane-along-elevated-road-on-priority-in-ludhiana/story-t3oCjlt6nmQMLcxuVzvIiP.html
28-06-2020||City||Ludhiana woman ends life after blackmail by paramour, 5 booked||Depressed over blackmail and harassment by her paramour, a 36-year-old woman ended her life by strangulating herself at Bhaini Colony of Jamalpur.On her father’s complaint, the Jamalpur police have booked Harpreet Singh and his accomplices, Ghona, Sunny, Sheebu and Ravi, all residents of Noor Mahal, Jalandhar district.The woman’s father told the police that his daughter’s husband was living in the UK for the past eight years, while she and her two sons lived with her in-laws in Jalandhar.Recently, his daughter came in contact with Harpreet through her acquaintance, Ravi. During their meetings, they developed physical relations, following which Harpreet started blackmailing her for money.ASI Harbhajan Singh, in-charge, Mundian police post, said Harpreet, in connivance with his aides, sent the woman’s objectionable pictures to her husband.She eventually shared the matter with her father, who brought her to Ludhiana. But, Harpreet kept harassing her. When her father confronted Harpreet and his aides, they threatened him as well, the ASI said.On June 24, the woman strangulated herself with a dupatta. Her parents rushed to a local hospital, where she died on June 25. After her father lodged a complaint on Saturday, the five accused were booked under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Police have launched a manhunt to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/married-woman-ends-life-after-blackmail-by-paramour-5-booked/story-9N760FDuNMpUW6lrpsvYlO.html
