30-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records cleanest air since monitoring began||Overnight rain and high-speed winds helped Mumbai on Tuesday record its lowest pollution levels since air-quality monitoring began in 2015. The air quality index (AQI) equalled the all-time record of the past five years, which was on September 4, 2019.The pollutant-measuring indicator for PM2.5 pollutant — breathable particulate matter which is 2.5 microns in size or smaller that can cause ailments — was 12, falling under the ‘good’ category, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research. It was 13 (good) during the day and improved further by the evening. The AQI has been predicted at 10 for Wednesday.Mumbai’s air on Tuesday was cleaner than major international cities such as London (21), Tokyo (52), Sydney (25), Singapore (25), but New York’s AQI was better at 10. All 10 locations where AQI is monitored in the city recorded ‘good’ air quality, and AQI levels did not cross 30. Colaba had the cleanest air with an AQI of 2, followed by Mazagaon at 5, Bhandup and Chembur at 8, Borivli 10, BKC 15, Andheri 16, Malad 17, Worli 18, and the highest of 26 at Navi Mumbai.Researchers from SAFAR said a combination of factors had led to the drop in air quality. “The lockdown period due to the Covid-19 pandemic had already brought down PM concentration to its background levels (concentration without being influenced by human-induced emissions). It takes time for PM levels to rise again even after emissions resurface. Intense rain over Mumbai between Monday night and early Tuesday morning, high moisture content in the city’s air, combined with wind speed up to a maximum of 30kmph, allow swift dispersion of pollutants close to the surface,” said Gufran Beig, director, SAFAR. “This is a characteristic of the monsoon, but it is getting further enhanced due to restrictions in place over the past few months. AQI and PM concentration is likely to remain in the ‘good’ category as rainfall has been predicted in the coming days.” The concentration of PM2.5 was as low as 7 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3), against the prescribed limit of 60µg/m3 for 24 hours as national safe standard, and 25 µg/m3 as the World Health Organization (WHO) safe standard. PM2.5 levels are likely to fall further to 6µg/m3 on Wednesday and 10 µg/m3 on Thursday, said SAFAR. PM10 was 14 µg/m3, against the safe limit of 60 µg/m3. It is expected to be 11µg/m3 on Wednesday and 16µg/m3 on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-cleanest-air-since-monitoring-began/story-fbaHW93206D3BWM1Wz7QpM.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Gurugram school murder: HC denies bail to juvenile||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday refused to grant bail to a Gurugram juvenile accused in the murder case of a student of the same private school where he studied in September 2017. The boy is accused of slitting the throat of a Class-2 student in a bid to postpone exams. Initially, the probe was conducted by Haryana Police and a bus conductor was accused of murdering the child. Later, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) claimed that it was committed by the juvenile in question. He is in an observation home since November 2017. His bail plea is pending in the HC since November 2018. The high court bench of Justice Arvind Sangwan observed that the petitioner child is to be treated as an “adult” while deciding bail. Hence, there is ‘little scope’ for the court to invoke provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, which empowers the court to release a juvenile in conflict with law on bail.The petitioner had sought quashing of October 2018 order of principal magistrate, Juvenile Justice Board, Gurugram, and November 2018 order of additional sessions judge, Gurugram, vide which bail was denied. It was argued that trial has still not commenced. There are 127 prosecution witnesses cited in the list of witnesses and it will take long time in conclusion of the trial. The boy was not keeping well in observation home, the court was told. The CBI, meanwhile, had argued that petitioner is not suffering from any serious illness as opined by a medical board. Further, it was submitted that he belongs to a “very influential” family and the manner in which the state police had conducted the investigation, prior to its transfer to CBI, demonstrates that the family of the petitioner tried to transpose a conductor of the bus as an accused in place of the boy.The court, while dismissing bail plea, said the boy was not facing health problems as opined by medical board. The court also took note of the prosecution argument that certain witnesses are minors (including the sister of the deceased) and therefore, possibility of tampering the evidence cannot be ruled out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gurugram-school-murder-hc-denies-bail-to-juvenile/story-V1o1l5JKkUIGXiX9ZC1GgO.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||State reports 4,878 new Covid-19 cases||After clocking over 5,000 Covid-19 cases on each of the past four days, the number came down marginally on Tuesday as Maharashtra reported 4,878 fresh infections. The state also recorded 245 fatalities, including 150 deaths from the previous weeks, taking the toll to 7,855.The state’s case count now stands at 174,761. Of the total cases, the state reported a whopping 107,106 cases in June alone, which is 61.29% of the tally in Maharashtra. In June, 61,582 patients have also been discharged. Maharashtra saw its first case on March 9 and recorded 302 cases till March 31. In April, the state recorded 10,498, while it recorded 67,655 cases in May.With the current trend in the daily increase of Covid-19 cases, the state is expected to cross the grim landmark of 2 lakh cases in the first week of July, state officials said.Mumbai, meanwhile, reco-rded 893 new cases on Tuesday. The city recorded less than 1,000 cases after five days. It also reported 95 fatalities, including 57 deaths of the previous weeks, taking the toll to 4,556.Out of the 245 deaths reported in the state on Tuesday, 95 occurred in the past 48 hours and 150 deaths are from the previous period, the state health department said. These include 57 deaths in Mumbai, 15 in Thane, 42 in Bhivandi, two in Kalyan-Dombivli, four in Mira-Bhayandar and Aurangabad, three in Thane district and Pune, five in Palghar, seven in Panvel, six in Solapur, one each in Nashik and Jalgaon.As new cases continued to increase in satellite cities around Mumbai, local authorities in Thane and Mira-Bhayander announced lockdown in the two cities. Thane municipal commissioner Vipin Sharma announced lockdown in Thane city from 7am on July 2 to July 12, restricting movement of people, except for essential work. Thane city has seen 2,533 cases in the past eight days alone.The Mira-Bhayander municipal corporation, too, announced a complete lockdown till July 10 after cases spiked in the past few days. In the past eight days alone, Mira-Bhayander has recorded 1,031 cases. While milk and bakery stores will be allowed to open between 5am and 10pm, all other shops, malls, supermarkets, vegetable/ fruits and grocery stores will remain shut during the lockdown period, local officials said. Home delivery of groceries, fruits, vegetables, fish, poultry and meat will be allowed between 9am and 11pm. Pharmacies will remain open between 9am and 9 pm.On Tuesday, Kalyan-Dombivli municipal commissioner announced lockdown from 7am on July 2 till 7pm on July 12. Public transportation, including autorickshaw, state transport buses, taxi, private buses, etc will not be allowed to ply. Movement of people have been restricted, unless due to emergency. Meanwhile, Navi Mumbai have already announced a complete lockdown in 10 containment zones from Monday till July 5. The local administrations took the step to contain the rise of cases in the satellite cities after it saw a significant rise in cases. Kalyan-Dombivli has recorded 3,130 cases, while Navi Mumbai has recorded 1,743 cases in the past eight days.“The figures in Mumbai seem to have plateaued, but there is a spike in cases in its surrounding areas and it needs containing as the population density is high in these areas. The chief minister has in no uncertain terms asked the local administrations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) to step up tracking, testing, and treatment,” a state bureaucrat said.Thane recorded 278 new cases, taking the tally close to 10,000 cases, while Kalyan-Dombivli reported 435 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, where the total cases now stand at 7,503. Navi Mumbai saw 195 new cases, while Ulhasnagar and Mira-Bhayander recorded 155 and 196 fresh cases respectively. Vasai-Virar recorded 236 new cases, taking the total to 4,729.Besides MMR, Covid-19 cases continued to rise in Nashik, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Aurangabad, and Jalgaon. Pune recorded 816 new cases, taking the tally over the 18,000-mark to 18,039 cases. Aurangabad district recorded 93 cases, taking total cases in the district to 1,011, while Aurangabad city registered 128 new cases, pushing the tally to 4,317.“Cases in rural Maharashtra or in tier-two cities of the state are increasing, but are in control. We have not seen any exponential growth. The public health infrastructure in these areas has also been ramped up,” said a senior official from the health department, requesting anonymity.State health minister Rajesh Tope has also cautioned that cases are expected to rise in July and through August. He said that the state is focusing on reducing the case fatality rate (CFR) in the state, which now stands at 4.49% — higher than the country’s mortality rate of 2.98%. “We have sought ventilators from the Centre. Besides that, we are also going to procure remdesivir and favipiravir drugs for every district in the state. It is expected to reduce fatalities. Even if there is a spike, we are working towards it not leading to fatalities. Our planning and goal is to further reduce the mortality rate,” the health department official added.Meanwhile, 1,951 patients were discharged on Tuesday. So far, 90,911 patients in the state have been discharged. With a recovery rate of 52.02%, the number of active cases in the state stands at 75,979. Maharashtra has tested 9,66,723 samples and has a positivity rate of 18.07% for Covid-19. Currently, 5,78,033 people are in home quarantine and 38,866 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-reports-4-878-new-covid-19-cases/story-nvQMFl35Ann4CdM1GkiqzO.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||Relief to Arnab Goswami as high court suspends FIRs against him||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday suspended the first information reports (FIRs) filed against the editor in chief of the news channel Republic TV Arnab Goswami. The court said no coercive action should be taken against Goswami till further orders.On April 22 and May 2, two FIRs were registered against Goswami at NM Joshi Marg and Pydhonie respectively, charging Goswami under various sections of the Indian Penal Code for making allegedly communal comments on his TV show.The division bench of justices Ujjal Bhuyan and Riyaz Chagla, responding to the writ petition filed by Goswami to quash the two FIRs, said, “Seventy years into our republic we cannot be seen to be skating on thin ice so much so that mere mention of a place of worship will lead to animosity or hatred amongst religious communities causing upheaval and conflagration on the streets. Subscribing to such a view would stifle all legitimate discussions and debates in the public domain.”Referring to observations made by the Supreme Court in Goswami’s case, the bench said, “India’s freedoms will rest safely as long as journalists can speak to power without being chilled by a threat of reprisal; free citizens cannot exist when the news media is chained to adhere to one position.”The bench noted there was no evidence to suggest Goswami had tried to cause public disharmony. “We cannot have the spectacle of a Damocles’ sword hanging over the head of a journalist while conducting a public debate,” said the court in its order.In its statement, Phoenix Legal, which represented Goswami, said, “Both FIRs now stand suspended until Arnab’s petition is disposed of finally. The police cannot take any action concerning them or any coercive steps against Arnab and his colleagues at Republic TV.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/relief-to-arnab-goswami-as-high-court-suspends-firs-against-him/story-KJi2sMts0WL6go24uAFpMK.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||Focus on China, not Opposition parties: Shiv Sena to Centre||The Shiv Sena took on the Centre and said that instead of giving a befitting reply to China for infiltration the Indian border and martyring soldiers, the Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi-led government is focusing on responding to Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Tuesday said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress’s war of words is on at a time when China is building its army at the border. It added that “like the ‘coronavirus caller tune’, somebody should run a tune that ‘we have to fight China and not opposition parties’”.The Sena also took potshots at Union home minister Amit Shah and said that he should focus on combating Covid-19 and not pay attention to what the opposition parties are saying about China.“The Chinese troops infiltrated in Galwan valley and they are carrying out unauthorised construction. Instead of giving China a befitting reply, the government is giving a strong response to Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, and the Congress party. Rajiv Gandhi Foundation got funds from China. On this, the Congress shot back saying PM Cares got funds worth crores from Chinese companies. The Chinese are building bunkers and tents at the border and here BJP-Congress is on. It seems we have forgotten that we have to fight the Chinese,” the editorial said.The Shiv Sena backed Rahul for questioning the government on the violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops that martyred 20 Indian soldiers earlier this month. In a barb aimed at the BJP-led Central government, the Sena said, “Who is indulging in politics [over the Chinese infiltration]? Rahul Gandhi’s questions are not just bubbles in the water. Perhaps, Sharad Pawar also has the same queries. If China hasn’t intruded on our land, why were the 20 soldiers martyred?”Referring to Shah’s comments that the country will win battles against Covid-19 and against China under PM Modi’s leadership, the Sena said, “We wish Mr Shah the best. He should focus on the two battles. The government should not [focus] on the opposition party. There is no need to be rattled by questions raised by the opposition party.”The editorial added that there is no need to debate what happened in 1962, and said that we should “forget the past” and tackle the “fresh crisis”. “Whether it was Nehru or Modi, China will never change,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/focus-on-china-not-opposition-parties-shiv-sena-to-centre/story-mdDROwIAAYcfcIXfjiTwiL.html
30-06-2020||Gurugram||For doctors, distanced reality with family is the new norm||The last time Dr Sushila Kataria had a proper sit-down meal with her family was in February this year.Kataria, a frontline Covid-19 doctor and head of internal medicine, Medanta Hospital, has been staying in a separate room in her house and isolating herself ever since cases of coronavirus started emerging in the city. “I live in a separate room with a different entry and exit. My children have their own rooms. I don’t go to their rooms and even avoid touch common surfaces, such as door knobs. My children and husband eat together, while I eat by myself. While we are living under the same roof, it’s almost like to living in different houses,” said Kataria, who worked closely with the 14 Italian tourists who were treated for Covid-19 in March. She continues to work in a Covid isolation ward and follows a strict sanitisation process before she enters her house.Even as professional responsibilities take precedence over all other tasks for Kataria, she struggles to keep a tab on her teenage children, who have been cooped up at home since the country went into a lockdown in March this year. “My children are not going to school or stepping out. Most of their time is spent alone at home, fiddling with one or more gadgets that they own. I’m unable to keep a close watch on their studies or digital consumption. It worries me since I don’t get the chance to talk to them or have a heart-to-heart conversations as before,” said Kataria.Even after four months of living with the virus, doctors like Kataria — who have been at the frontline of tackling the spread of Covid-19 — continue to miss their lives before the pandemic took over. They live with an overwhelming sense of fear about contracting the virus and spreading it further among their family members. Juggling medical responsibilities and their chores at home was no mean task, most said. On National Doctor’s day, Hindustan Times spoke to doctors on the frontlines of the coronavirus health crisis who shared how they were treading a fine line while juggling professional duties with family responsibilities.“I miss hugging my children as a social distance needs to be maintained. My daughter often wonders why I need to be out all the time and if someone else could perform the duty on my behalf. Every now and then, she asks when the pandemic would get over and I tell her that it will take a while,” said Kataria.In the past four months, Kataria has been tested for Covid on four occasions. Doctors are advised to get tested every time they suspect of having contracted the virus. “Sometimes, body aches and headaches start happening. When such symptoms start appearing, we get tested since there is a fear of contracting the virus. So far, I have been tested four times and have been very lucky,” she said.Dr Manoj Goel, director, pulmonology, at Fortis Memorial Research Institute, said that both work and life for the past four months have revolved around coronavirus. With an extension of working hours and off duty hours being dedicated to monitoring patients, the virus had upended life like never before. In the initial months of the pandemic, Goel stayed at the hospital for two weeks straight, without seeing his family . During this period, he only managed to call them up occasionally to check on their well being. “I used to call them whenever I got time.Now, my family understands that this situation demands my presence much more,” Goel.He said that while the family was complying with physical distancing norms without any compromises, the real challenge was getting used to living with the virus at all times. “Work continues even after I return from the hospital. There is no time for entertainment or recreational activities with the family. Patient’s safety and other concerns keep us engaged all the time. My son who studies in the USA is currently at home but we don’t get the chance to spend time together,” said Goel.Dr Naveen Kumar, nodal officer and in-charge of the Covid-isolation ward at the civil hospital, said that staying away from family in the initial months of the pandemic was tough. For one and half months, Kumar stayed away from family in a government-provided accommodation. During this duration, he relied on video calls to stay in touch with his wife and 14-year-old son. “Video calls helped a lot during that time. Occasionally, I would stand below my house and speak to my son through the balcony,” said Kumar, who is back home and is adopting strict physical distancing measures. While he gets to see his family members more, free-flowing conversations are a thing of the past for now.“I am among those doctors who have the maximum exposure with patients. There is always a fear that one might end up infecting someone else. I sanitise myself before entering the house. The shoes, clothes, everything is changed before I enter. I make sure that no one else uses the car that I travel in,” said Kumar, adding that personal safety was absolutely important to avoid the virus. “We need to take care of the patients, ourselves, and by extension our families. One can never know when we might contract the virus,” said Kumar. “The virus has changed everything. I talk to my son, but avoid playing hanging out or doing activities with him that involve physical contact. This new distanced-reality is here to stay for now and we are gradually getting used to it,” said Kumar.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said that the administration was providing accommodation to healthcare workers, who could opt for the facility if they had any concerns with respect to spreading the virus among family members. Yadav said that all possible steps were being taken for the frequent sanitization of hospital premises and doctors had been provided with protective gear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/for-doctors-distanced-reality-with-family-is-the-new-norm/story-JZJxuSCtEhoid1zVVIwBOL.html
30-06-2020||City||5 held for extorting Palghar tribals over land compensation deal for gas pipeline project||Five persons have been arrested by the Manor police for allegedly cheating and extorting large amounts of money from tribals, with the promise of a good deal in compensation for their land to be acquired for the ₹1,500-crore gas pipeline project in Palghar. The economic offences wing (EOW), Palghar, has now taken over the case.Pradeep Pardeshi, deputy superintendent of police (DySP), EOW, Palghar, said the five accused – Madhukar Sakharam Kakra, Narayan Dable, Rupesh Patil, Doshiram Ghatal, and Janu Rama Mor – have been arrested for allegedly extorting 35% commission from the tribals, with the promise of getting them a better deal during the acquisition of land for the gas pipeline project. “So far, around 14 farmers have complained to us and we are expecting more complaints in this case,” said Pardeshi.“At a meeting held at a roadside dhaba on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway, the accused assured the tribals that they would get them a better deal from the said company in return for a 35% commission and to cover ‘expenses’ incurred for the land deal compensation,” said Pardeshi. The farmers who agreed to sell their land for the gas project started to get their compensation in January 2020 by the gas authorities.However, some of the victims did not pay the accused, so the latter went to their houses and allegedly threatened them till they paid the commission. “We have arrested the five under section 420 (cheating), 384 (extortion), and 385 (putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). All the accused are in police custody till July 3. More arrests, including those of some government officials, are also likely,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-held-for-extorting-palghar-tribals-over-land-compensation-deal-for-gas-pipeline-project/story-enEAx3Jbv3MYLnNLjUaZ6M.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||PK Agrawal is Haryana DG, vigilance||The Haryana government on Tuesday posted PK Agrawal, director general of police (DGP), crime, as the director general of state, vigilance bureau. Agrawal replaced KP Singh, who retired on the same day.KK Rao, commissioner of police, Faridabad, was posted as commissioner of police, Gurugram, replacing Muhammad Akil, who is now DGP, crime. OP Singh, special officer (community policing and outreach), in the chief minister’s office, was posted as commissioner of police, Faridabad. Vikas Kumar Arora was posted as inspector general of police (IGP), South Range, Rewari, while Y Puran Kumar, IGP, prisons was posted as IGP, Ambala Range.RC Mishra, additional director general of police (ADGP), South Range, Rewari, is now managing director, Haryana Police Housing Corporation.Alok Kumar Roy, ADGP, Ambala Range, was posted as ADGP, modernisation and welfare, replacing Shrikant Jadhav who was posted as ADGP, Haryana Narcotics Control Bureau, Panchkula.Krishan Murari, superintendent of police (SP), Haryana Police Academy (HPA), Madhuban, will hold additional charge of SP, police training college, Sunaria. HPS officer Sanjay Ahlawat was posted as commandant, Indian Reserve Battalion, Bhondsi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pk-agrawal-is-haryana-dg-vigilance/story-NpoZAyHOy0wonOaV1nOVuJ.html
30-06-2020||City||HSVP proposes to double income limit of EWS patients for treatment in pvt hospitals||Gurugram To provide relief to patients belonging to economically weaker section (EWS), the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has proposed to double their income limit from ₹5,000 to ₹10,000 per month for getting treatment in private hospitals. Officials said that the objective is to ensure that more people from EWS category become eligible for treatment in private hospitals, which have been allotted land at concessional rates by the authority. The proposal was made during a recent meeting of HSVP and health department with top private hospitals in the city. During the meeting, HSVP officials also suggested that the cost of medicines should be capped for such patients and preferably generic medicines should be prescribed so that they can bear the expenses of medical treatment, especially in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.At present, any person having a BPL card, class IV employee of Haryana government or undertaking, or any other person having monthly income not more than ₹5,000 is considered as belonging to EWS category and entitled to concessional treatment in private hospitals.The meeting on Friday was chaired by Jitender Yadav, administrator, HSVP, Gururgam, in which representatives from private hospitals, which have taken land from HSVP, were present. “We will take up the proposal of increasing the EWS criteria from ₹5,000 to ₹10,000. It will help the weaker section,” said Yadav, adding that the reason for these measures is that even the discounted bill for treatment is beyond the payment ability of such patients.As per the HSVP policy of allotment of land at concessional rates to hospitals, outdoor patients of EWS category shall be provided free treatment, and for indoor patients 10% beds shall be reserved free of cost for such patients. Also there shall be subsidized rates for in-patient treatment of EWS people, said the officials.Vivek Kalia, estate officer II, HSVP, also directed the hospitals in the meeting to share composite data of EWS/BPL patients attended from January 2020 till June 2020. The data shared by the health department revealed that three large hospitals in Gurugram treated 2,368 patients belonging to the EWS category during the said period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hsvp-proposes-to-double-income-limit-of-ews-patients-for-treatment-in-pvt-hospitals/story-NBeqMLKkYyrvMIWFJmi3YJ.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||MSEDCL offers 2% discount on lump sum bill payment||Consumers who pay their June bill in a lump sum will get a discount of 2%, state energy minister Nitin Raut announced in a press conference on Tuesday. Additionally, he said that if Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) consumers pay even 1/3rd of their bill, supply will not be disconnected and they will have the facility to pay their bills in three instalments.“Those who have already paid their bills in total will also get a 2% discount,” Raut said. The state announced these incentives following thousands of complaints registered by consumers regarding inflated bills.Raut said that consumers can also register their complaints by writing to energyminister@mahadiscom.in or call, WhatsApp or SMS on 9833567777 and 9833717777. “The complaints will be resolved immediately. We are reaching out to consumers by arranging meetings in societies, via local radio, webinars, sending messages, and even on Facebook Live,” the minister said. Consumer grievance cells have also been set-up at all divisions to address queries.On Tuesday, Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray tweeted that the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has directed power companies to show transparency in their billing procedures and redress consumer complaints immediately.Following a rising number of complaints, the power regulatory authority issued directives to the utility firms on Monday. In a statement released on Monday, MERC said that if one’s bill is more than double the average for the amount charged from March to May, consumers should be given the option of dividing the payment into three monthly instalments. It has also asked utility firms to “set-up a robust monitoring mechanism” like a dedicated help-desk or a grievance officer at all sub-divisional and divisional offices to address queries from consumers within a day of their receipt. The power supply cannot be disconnected until consumers have been given the option of EMIs, and their grievances are redressed, MERC stated.Owing to the lockdown, actual meter reading was disconnected in March-end, following which consumers were billed on average consumption based on three months prior to March 2020, which were winter months. Utilities started actual meter reading in June, following which consumers were sent bills based on actual consumption in March, April, and May, which were summer months, and also when people stayed home owing to the lockdown, the companies stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/msedcl-offers-2-discount-on-lump-sum-bill-payment/story-AKrjVUjcSUKvCGRi3DrWSK.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Cabinet divided over civic body polls, Capt says it can’t be delayed||The Punjab cabinet is divided over the schedule for the ensuing civic body polls in the state even as chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh said that the elections cannot be delayed beyond a point.A section of the cabinet is in favour of early polls in August, while the rest feel that it should be delayed for as long as possible.The terms of nine municipal corporations and 117 municipal councils and notified area committees in Punjab came to an end between March 8 and April 26 this year, and as per the provisions of the Municipal Act, 1911, the polls should take place within six months, so all these civic bodies should go to the polls between September 7 and October 25, depending on the end of their terms. Currently, the civic bodies are being run by government- appointed administrators.The state government had, in February, announced that the polls will held in June and July, but the entire schedule went haywire due to Covid-19 outbreak.MINISTERS’ TAKE Cabinet ministerTript Rajinder Singh Bajwa was of the opinion that the polls should be held early and if not that, it should be conducted in time. “But we should also keep in mind that we are passing through a pandemic and safety comes foremost,” he said.Cabinet minister Vijayinder Singla suggested that the polls should be conducted in November, as, according to him, the development works would be complete by then and the government’s candidates would be in a commanding position.To this, Bharat Bhushan Ashu said development works can’t be undertaken in monsoon so it’s best to complete the tendering process, make a public perception and go for polls in September.Cabinet minister Sukhjidner Singh Randhawa, said, “Don’t delay the polls as once the deadline lapses, it would be a lengthy process of bringing an ordinance and the Vidhan Sabha will have to approve it. We should face the polls as soon as possible.”Stating that the polls should be conducted within the legal framework, the CM asked a committee, comprising Mohindra and Bajwa, to bring a consensus within the party and take a decision. “I will discuss the matter with the chief minister again and after nod of the cabinet, decision will be taken,” said local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra. The decision is expected later this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cabinet-divided-over-civic-body-polls-capt-says-it-can-t-be-delayed/story-vncvMcSSsA4NzK7DiH5qrI.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana ready to follow Unlock 2.0 guidelines: CM||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday urged the people of the state to follow instructions issued by the Centre for ‘Unlock 2.0’ beginning from July 1. “On the request of the Prime Minister, people should not come out of their houses without a mask and maintain social distance in order to control the infection spread,” Khattar said while interacting with mediapersons on the sidelines of a private event in Karnal. The CM claimed that the situation was better in Haryana than several other states and most of the people had returned to their workplaces. He said the state government was committed to follow the directions issued by the Union government during the ‘Unlock 2.0’ and schools would remain closed till July 31. About the movement of roadways buses, he said the decision will be taken after a review meeting as of 4,500 buses, only 850 were on the roads now. On the ban imposed on certain Chinese apps, Khattar said the government took the decision following public sentiment as there was resentment against China over the killing of Indian soldiers. “The discussion for peace should continue, but the integrity of our country is the top priority,” he added. ‘CONG-RULED STATES SHOULD CUT FUEL PRICES FIRST’Reacting over the Congress’ nationwide protests over the hike in fuel prices, Khattar said, “Congress governments in Rajasthan and Punjab should reduce the prices of fuel first as petrol and diesel are cheaper in Haryana than the neighboring states with the Congress in power.”He justified the hike by saying, “We are taking money from wherever we can for the welfare of people.” He said the state government was spending Rs 4,500 crore as committed expenses every month to provide relief to people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-ready-to-follow-unlock-2-0-guidelines-cm/story-RlfGuPO9hCIXVkveUcoZdL.html
30-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram University to start online admission process from July 14||Gurugram University will be starting its registration process for admission to undergraduate and postgraduate courses from July 14. The admission process will take place entirely online, just like last year. However, this time around the university will not be organising any counselling sessions on campus in view of the coronavirus pandemic.The admission notice has already been released by the university on its website, with other course-related information likely to be made available through the prospectus, which is slated to be released by July 7. The university is all set to introduce six new courses this year — M Pharma (Pharmaceutical Chemistry), Master in Physio Therapy (Cardio Pulmonary), LLB, MSc (Physics), MSc (Chemistry), and MSc (Math). With the addition of these six courses, the total number of courses being offered by the university comes to 28.In accordance with government directives, the university will be conducting admissions on the basis of a merit list. Online counselling sessions will be organised for students applying to B Pharma course. The online counselling will be conducted by the Haryana State Technical Education BoardDr Markanday Ahuja, vice-chancellor of the university, said that the admission process will be conducted completely online this year in view of the coronavirus pandemic. “All admission-related activities will take place online this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The administration is already working on strengthening the online infrastructure to ensure that admissions take place without glitches. We will also have online counselling for some courses,” said Ahuja.He added that a help desk had been created for resolving the queries of students .“Students can email on the helpdesk — helpdeskgurugramuniversity@gmail.com — and seek answers to their admission-related queries. They should keep a track of the college website,” said Ahuja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-university-to-start-online-admission-process-from-july-14/story-hTcZjWCYkqlrQDiBZCEnEO.html
30-06-2020||Gurugram||Court rejects the bail plea of teenager suspected of murdering his schoolmate||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday dismissed the bail petition of a teenager accused of slitting the throat of a Class 2 student of a private school in Gurugram in September 2017. The court upheld the orders passed earlier by children sessions court and Juvenile Justice Board(JJB) that rejected the regular bail applications of the suspect. A bench comprising Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan has observed in a 31-page judgment that several witnesses in the case are minor, including the sister of the deceased, and therefore the possibility of tampering with evidence cannot be ruled out. The bench also observed that the suspect must be treated as an adult as per the order of the Supreme Court passed on February 22, 2019, and there is a little scope for the court to grant the concession of bail. “The heinous crime has been committed and therefore the court is declining the bail(sic),” stated the order.This was the 16th time that bail was denied to the teenaged suspect within the last 28 months. Earlier in May 2019, he was shifted from an observation home in Faridabad to a ‘place of safety’ in Madhuban, Karnal.The court also stated that the delay in the trial is attributable to the suspect and that it cannot be a ground on which bail can be granted.The father of the 18-year-old, who was a juvenile at the time of the incident, had filed an application on November 20, 2018, seeking a regular bail for his son and on June 8, 2020, filed another application, stating that his son has already suffered incarceration for over two years and six months. “If he, after preliminary assessment is treated as a juvenile for the purpose of the Act and offence, the maximum sentence that can be imposed upon him is three years. In such a situation, considering that he has already undergone two years and six months, no useful purpose would be served by his continued incarceration and the same would be a violation of his fundamental rights under Article 21 of the Constitution of India (sic),” stated the application filed by the father.The counsel for the suspect argued that the trial has not started due to the status quo order passed by the Supreme Court. Accordingly, a further delay in the conclusion of the trial is inevitable, since the prosecution has sought to examine 127 witnesses on its behalf. Further investigation is still underway and the courts are functioning only to a limited extent due to outbreak of Covid-19. This is a ground for the grant of bail to ensure that the suspect does not “unjustly languish” in custody any more, argued the counsel of the teenage suspect.After hearing the arguments of both sides, judge Arvind Singh Sangwan dismissed the bail application. “The arguments raised by learned senior counsel for the petitioner that the petitioner is not kept in a congenial atmosphere at Children’s Home and is facing medical problem, are not proved from the two reports of the Medical Board stating that the petitioner is not facing any serious problem/illness and rather it is noticed that the petitioner is gaining weight (sic),” stated the order.Sushil Tekriwal, counsel for the father of the victim, said that the rejection of bail in the case will make it stronger and ensure justice. “Granting bail can hamper the case and can turn witnesses hostile. The witnesses who are minor, including sister of the deceased, are also at risk if the suspect is granted bail. This is our major concern as trial is yet to begin,” he said.The father of the victim said they have been demanding speedy trial but despite the passage of over two years, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has not been able to file the supplementary charge sheet necessary for the trail to begin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/court-rejects-the-bail-plea-of-teenager-suspected-of-murdering-his-schoolmate/story-joqHFUHPMXGhnikye5kaAM.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||Curbing spread of virus, economic growth priority for new chief secretary||The senior bureaucrat and additional chief secretary (home), Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday took over as the new chief secretary of Maharashtra as the incumbent chief secretary Ajoy Mehta retired from the post, after serving for 14 months. Kumar, 1984 batch IAS officer, is likely to get eight months tenure as he is retiring in February 2021.Kumar said that along with initiatives and efforts to curb the spread of the Covid-19, initiatives will be taken to open up economic activities. On being asked about leading the state in the middle of an unprecedented crisis, Kumar said, “I’m not the only officer, who is dealing with the disaster. There is a team working towards it. We have already done good work, and will consolidate whatever gains have been achieved in the last phase.’’ The senior-most IAS officer said that he cannot predict when Maharashtra will be able to come out of the financial crisis, but they are all working to ensure the state recovers as early as possible. “The entire bureaucracy and political leadership can together bring a change. We will continue to work to combat the virus and introduce new policies and initiatives.,” Kumar said.In his career span of over 35 years, Kumar has worked as a collector of Beed, Osmanabad and Aurangabad district. He joined the services as assistant district collector in Amravati in 1985 and has worked as an officer on special duty at deputy chief minister’s office in 1997. He has also headed women and child development department and housing department as an additional chief secretary.Meanwhile, the state government has appointed Ajoy Mehta as a principal advisor to the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/curbing-spread-of-virus-economic-growth-priority-for-new-chief-secretary/story-gSv795strbLhu7OnNARnIP.html
30-06-2020||City||68 found positive in antigen testing drive||Gurugram The health department on Tuesday started its large-scale antigen testing drive in the district, with 991 tests conducted across various containment zones in Dundahera, Sukharali, Ram Nagar, New Colony in Sector 7, Shivaji Nagar, Hiranagar and Sadmata Mandir. While 68 individuals tested positive for Covid-19 via antigen tests, 93 samples from symptomatic people are being retested using the RT-PCR method before a diagnosis can be made, health officials said.The special drive will last till July 14, during which at least 8,000 antigen tests will be conducted in Gurugram. The health department has deployed at least 20 lab technicians across 11 antigen test camps where people (from the area) can get themselves tested for free, said Dr Jai Prakash, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme’s district surveillance officer (DSO) in Gururgam.“We had introduced antigen tests a week ago when 50 tests were done in Sadar Bazar area and 100 in Gandhinagar. This week, we are scaling up the effort. We have also hired additional lab technicians for this exercise. Other than in hotspot areas, antigen testing camps are also being set up in Wazirabad, Chama, Khandsa and Rajiv Nagar,” Prakash said.Approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), antigen tests detect a specific protein associated with the Sars-Cov-2 virus, the pathogen that causes Covid-19. ICMR guidelines advise that negative samples, particularly those of patients showing symptoms, be retested via the RT-PCR method for a diagnosis. “Accordingly, 93 negative samples are being retested because the patients were showing Covid symptoms. We will get their results from the lab tomorrow,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram.Explaining the antigen testing methodology, Dr Prabhakaran Dorairaj, vice-president (research and policy) at the Public Health Foundation of India, said, “It is a confirmatory test which looks for presence of the virus itself, unlike rapid antibody tests which detect only antibodies produced by the immune system. So, the antigen test is a better diagnostic tool, but it can also produce more false negatives than the RT-PCR method. It is high on specificity, but low on sensitivity.” According to the experts, the ICMR validated kits -- which are being manufactured in Manesar -- are up to 99% specific, indicating that most positives will be ‘true positives’. However, they have a lower sensitivity, between 50.6% to 84% (depending on the patient’s viral load), meaning those who test negative might still carry the virus. This is known as a ‘false negative’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/68-found-positive-in-antigen-testing-drive/story-7ssGnUOxn6P6dweMtBi1yH.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||City’s rain in June was lowest for the month in 5 years: IMD||Though parts of Mumbai witnessed intense showers on Monday night, overall rainfall in June has been lowest in five years as the city fell 110mm short of its average. On Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a yellow alert (be updated for heavy rain at isolated places) for Mumbai and Thane, from Wednesday to Saturday.Heavy overnight rain (between Monday 9.30pm and Tuesday 8.30am) helped south Mumbai reduce its monthly rain deficit. Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 524.5mm between June 1 and June 30 (8.30pm), which is 16.4mm short of the station’s average rainfall for the month.However, Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 395 mm rain between June 1 and June 30 (8.30pm), which was 110 mm short of the average rainfall for June (505 mm). The suburbs ended the month with a rain deficit of 22%.According to IMD, June rainfall was 515.1mm in 2019; 792.5mm in 2018; 523.2mm in 2017; 695.2mm in 2016; and 1,106.7mm in 2015. Director general of IMD Mrutunjay Mohapatra said, “Weather systems along the west coast are strengthening monsoon currents and above normal rain is expected in July and August.”In June 2014, Mumbai witnessed its lowest rainfall reading in 10 years (87.3mm) while the second lowest was in June 2012 (298.5mm). The all-time lowest June rainfall was in 1972 (0.2 mm).On Monday, an intense spell of rain for almost two hours led to several areas in south and central Mumbai recording three-digit rain figures. However, there was less rain in the suburbs. Between 8.30am Monday and 8.30 am Tuesday, Colaba recorded 101mm rain while 11.2mm rain was recorded in Santacruz. IMD classifies 2.5-7.5 mm as light rain; 7.6-35.5mm as moderate rain; 35.6-64.4mm as rather heavy rain; and 64.5-124.4 mm as heavy rain.“Monsoon systems do have embedded mesoscale systems (microclimate characteristics), which give intense rainfall at highly localised places. This happened on Monday night and continued with intermittent light to moderate showers in south central Mumbai but since cloud bands were over this region, there was less rain over the suburbs,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-s-rain-in-june-was-lowest-for-the-month-in-5-years-imd/story-wIIekK1KHOBnDIMIlSH1JL.html
30-06-2020||Gurugram||Enforcement wing officials of MCG to check violations as malls in Gurugram reopen||To ensure that safety measures are being followed in the city malls that are slated to open on Wednesday after a gap of over three months, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has assigned 80 of its enforcement wing officials across its four zones to keep a lookout for possible violations, said officials of the civic body. The Haryana government on Sunday issued an order, detailing a set of standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the reopening of malls in Gurugram and Faridabad. As per the order, municipalities have been directed to “monitor compliance by undertaking regular visits” to malls and to ensure that proper sanitisation of the premises are being carried out. The MCG officials have also been given the power to issue challans of ₹500 to visitors for failing to wearing to wear masks. As per the guidelines, the officials are also supposed hand out five masks to violators. As per MCG joint commissioner Hariom Attri, the enforcement wing officials in each of MCG’s four zones will be randomly conducting checks at all the malls in their respective jurisdictions and will accordingly issue penalties if any violation of the guidelines listed in the SOPs is found. This is not the first time that the enforcement wing of the MCG has carried out such an exercise. As per Attri, since April, eight teams comprising officials of the MCG’s enforcement and sanitation wings have been keeping a lookout for violations of lockdown norms and the guidelines listed in the SOPs for markets and stand-alone shops. Attri, however, added that the responsibility for malls has been exclusively assigned to the enforcement wing as its officials have better “technical knowledge” in the matter.“Monitoring in malls is not limited to violations relating to wearing of masks and social distancing norms. There are numerous other factors that need to be monitored. As officials in the enforcement wing are more familiar with such matters, we have therefore assigned them with this responsibility,” said Attri.Attri further said that the MCG at present has not put together any specific teams for keeping a check on the malls. Instead, the officials of the enforcement wing engaged in checking violations of SOPs in markets have been directed to keep an eye on the malls in their respective jurisdictions. “Based on the initial public response to the news of reopening of malls in Delhi, we are expecting a low footfall in the initial few weeks in Gurugram as well. As such, no separate teams have been constituted for this task. However, if the footfall is higher or sees a gradual increase over the next few weeks, we will allocate more officials for this task,” said Attri.The MCG held separate meetings with mall associations over the last three days and cautioned them that repeated violations of the SOPs might attract strict penalties. The SOPs lay down a list of rules that must be followed by the mall authorities. As per the rules, malls can only be open between 9am and 8pm daily, while cinema halls, gaming arcades and play areas for children will continue to remain close. All visitors and malls workers need to wear masks and maintain social distancing. Visitors above the age of 65 and below the age of 10 cannot be permitted entry. Mall authorities will also have to ensure that every visitor is scanned for temperature via thermal scanners and that hand sanitisers are placed at all entry points. They need to also ensure that large gatherings or congregations do not take place, while the temperature setting of all air-conditioners within the mall premises should be set between 24-30 degrees Celsius.In shops and food courts, less than 50% of the seats need to be occupied, while staff and waiters in food courts will have to mandatorily wear masks and hand gloves.“On both Monday and Tuesday, we have undertaken extensive disinfecting and sanitising operations. Our staff members have been directed to follow the requisite safety measures and also ensure that visitors do the same,” said Aman Bajaj, a member of MGF Metropolitan Mall association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/enforcement-wing-officials-of-mcg-to-check-violations-as-malls-in-gurugram-reopen/story-Hy25K2xEpv5d9N96z3UJYL.html
30-06-2020||City||Gharial, female ostrich die in 72 hours at Chhatbir Zoo||A gharial and an ostrich housed in Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park, popularly known as Chhatbir Zoo, died in the past 72 hours, officials said on Tuesday. The 30-year-old gharial died due to natural causes on Sunday, while the ostrich died due to infighting on Monday.Zoo field director M Sudhagar said that the female gharial was suffering from kidney and liver infections and was under treatment. Gharials generally have a life span of 40 years to 60 years. The two-year-old female ostrich was attacked by a male ostrich late in the night in a suspected mating resistance. According to the postmortem report, the bird suffered grievous injuries in the lower neck. Zookeepers found her dead in the morning, he said. Gharial being schedule-I animal has been cremated in an incinerator as per the protocol and ostrich falling under the exotic birds’ category was buried.With the deaths, the zoo is now left with three grown gharials apart from 18 others which were hatched at the zoo four years ago. The gharial who died was brought under the animal exchange programme from Madhya Pradesh Zoo in 1992. Now, the zoo has three ostriches left.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gharial-female-ostrich-die-in-72-hours-at-chhatbir-zoo/story-NdEikw273mFWadowwWsbiL.html
30-06-2020||City||Societies reporting fresh cases after govt permits movement||A 65-year-old retired government doctor from Padmawati area died due to the Covid-19 infection, triggering fear among other residents of the housing society on whether they should have allowed outsiders.The society that the 65-year old was a resident of had recently allowed entry to outsiders including those coming for domestic work.Residents from society said they are reviewing the decision whether to allow outsiders after some of the members tested positive.According to the Pune municipal Corporation (PMC) officials, as many as 20 residential societies have reported fresh faces in the past one week. “We have not reviewed the situation today and by Wednesday, when we release our containment areas list, these societies will figure in it,” said PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad.The PMC, as per fresh policy, has decided to review the containment zone map.Gaikwad said, since the infection is spreading to areas which were Covid-free so far, the PMC has decided to keep asymptomatic patients at home.“Once we confirm that a particular person is positive from these societies, where people can afford to stay home in isolation, we speak with them on web camera and ask them to stay home,” said Gaikwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/societies-reporting-fresh-cases-after-govt-permits-movement/story-2ptRomUFfa6kAmSpEK5PKJ.html
30-06-2020||City||Defunct streetlights repaired, Ludhiana MC to release ₹2.5crore to Tata company||The civic body has decided to release the pending payment of over ₹2.5 crore to the Tata company, citing improvement in its functioning and after it repaired defunct LED streetlights in the city. The decision to release the payment was taken during an all-party meeting conducted by mayor Balkar Sandhu at his camp office on Tuesday. It was also decided that the municipal corporation (MC) would depute patrolling parties for inspecting the working of the company.Senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra, leader of opposition and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillor Harbhajan Singh Dang, leader of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillors Sunita Rani and councillors Jai Prakash, Gagandeep Singh (Sunny) Bhalla, Gurdeep Singh Neetu, Rakesh Prashar among others participated in the meeting. Sandhu said, “Councillors of different parties have admitted that there is an improvement in the working of the company, due to which we have decided to release the payment. Patrolling teams will be deputed to keep a check on the working of the company.”The mayor had, in May, stopped the officials from releasing the payment citing complaints against defunct streetlights. A warning was issued to the company officials during the all-party meeting held in the first week of June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/defunct-streetlights-repaired-ludhiana-mc-to-release-2-5crore-to-tata-company/story-FhW9mCbSU2BlWjEyj6K9JM.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||338 fresh cases, 4 deaths in Haryana||Haryana recorded four deaths and 338 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday as the health department sent 3,862 samples for testing in the past 24 hours.Among those who tested positive for the virus are four doctors and five staff members of a private hospital in Karnal.The fatalities came in from Faridabad, which lost two patients to the Covid-19 battle, and Gurugram and Palwal, from where one patient each succumbed to the virus. So far, the coronavirus disease has claimed 236 lives in Haryana, with Gurugram being the worst-hit, recording 91 fatalities followed by Faridabad, which saw 77 deaths. Both districts share a border with national capital, Delhi, which is one of the worst-hit in the country.9,972 RECOVERIES SO FAROn Tuesday, at least 470 patients undergoing treatment in different districts of Haryana were discharged after recovery. In Faridabad, 298 patients were discharged while in Gurugram, 79 patients won the battle against the invisible virus. Sonepat and Ambala saw 22 and 19 recoveries respectively.As the tally of total positive cases stood at 14,548, the total active cases in the state on Tuesday were 4,340 with a total of 9,972 Covid-19 positive patients having recovered.There were nine districts with less than 50 active cases and seven districts had active cases between 51 and 100 till Tuesday. Gurugram had 1,294 active cases followed by 1,255 in Faridabad.As per the medical bulletin, fresh cases were reported from across 17 districts with Faridabad reporting 143 cases, Gurugram 87, Rohtak 28, Karnal 20, Kaithal 11, Jhajjar and Kurukshetra having eight each, Palwal 7, Jind 6, Panipat 5, Hisar 4, Rewari and Sirsa contributing three each, Mahendergarh 2, and one new case each from Nuh, Panchkula and Yamunanagar.As many as 62 people, including 25 workers of a Rai-based private factory, tested positive for Covid-19 in Sonepat on Tuesday. The health bulletin, however, mentioned zero fresh cases in Sonepat district.The state has so far sent 2, 64, 203 samples after the outbreak of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/338-fresh-cases-4-deaths-in-haryana/story-NFmJiX6awqTTvgV17GU8HK.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Snatchers injure woman while fleeing with gold chain at Ludhiana||Two men on a motorcycle snatched a woman’s gold chain weighing 17.50 gram at Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Nagar near Veer Palace on Chandigarh Road here on Tuesday morning.Revti Devi (43) was also injured as the men pushed her while fleeing.The incident took place at around 6am when Devi was out for a walk with three other women.As they were walking towards Chandigarh Road the two men came close to them and while the pillion rider alighted the other took a U-turn, snatched Devi’s chain and pushed her.The women raised an alarm and tried to run after the duo who fled the scene.Later, Devi and her husband Gulzar Singh Gularia lodged a formal complaint.SHO Jamalpur Harjinder Singh said the matter was being investigated and footage being taken from CCTV cameras in the area to identify the miscreants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/snatchers-injure-woman-while-fleeing-with-gold-chain-at-ludhiana/story-TYkMurrOQ4A43PLG5CbvuL.html
30-06-2020||Gurugram||Factory owner robbed of car at gunpoint||Four unidentified armed men allegedly robbed a factory owner of his car at gunpoint in Sector 10 Sunday night. The police said one of the suspects fired a gunshot in the air to intimidate the victim before fleeing with his car.The stolen car was recovered on Monday, but the suspects are yet to be arrested, the police said.According to the police, the alleged incident took place around 8pm when the victim, Abhishek Yadav, a resident of Laxmi Garden, Rajendra Park, was returning from his factory in Kadipur Industrial Area. The police said he had reached near a school in Sector 10 when an SUV, in which the four suspects were seated, blocked his path, forcing him to stop his car.A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “One of the suspects alighted from the SUV and walked up to the victim’s car— a Hyundai i20. He pointed a gun at the victim and fired a gunshot in the air to intimidate him. The victim then stepped out of the car. The suspect then got behind the wheel of the car and drove towards Pataudi road. The other suspects in the SUV followed behind him.”The police said the Yadav told them that ₹ 40,000 cash was kept in the dashboard of his car.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said, “Probe has found that the suspects abandoned the victim’s car near Dhanwapur, from where it was recovered on Monday. We are checking the footage from CCTV cameras in the area to identify the suspects. One gunshot was fired in the air during the incident, but no persons were injured.”A case was registered under sections 379 A (punishment for snatching) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code and section 25/54/59 of The Arms Act at sector 10 A police station on Monday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/factory-owner-robbed-of-car-at-gunpoint/story-Jjc6dBysCaaaToBFNTUsLO.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||4 employees booked for embezzling ₹25lakh from Chandigarh firm||Four employees have been booked for embezzling Rs25lakh from a Sector 34 based private company’s sales revenues.The HR manager of Black Box GPS Technology OPC Limited had lodged a complaint at the Sector 34 police station against Sanjeet and Gavish of Ludhiana, Sandeep Tiwari of Baltana and Shanky of Kangra in Himachal Pradesh.The four were working in the firm’s recovery and accounts department and siphoned off money taken in cash or through Paytm from recoveries to their own accounts, cheating the company of more than ₹25 lakh.It took time for the police to take legal opinion before a case could be registered under sections 408 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code. No arrests have been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-employees-booked-for-embezzling-25lakh-from-chandigarh-firm/story-LwAZ1PWdhyBymloaywGohM.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||School leaving certificate: No immediate relief to pvt schools in Haryana||The private schools of Haryana failed to get any immediate relief from the high court as it did not stay the state government’s order on the school leaving certificate issue. The high court bench of Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan issued a notice to the state for October 14 seeking response from the state government and made it clear that the mere pendency of the matter will be no ground for the private schools for not issuing school leaving certificate to students.The order was passed on the plea of Haryana Private School and Children Welfare Trust, a Hisar-based schools’ body which had challenged June 15 notification that said the schools will have to issue school leaving certificates to outgoing students within 15 days of application and if not granted, the certificate would stand automatically granted after the period expires. The schools had argued that the order was in violation of the statutory provisions of Haryana Education Rules, 2003, and Right of Children to Free & Compulsory Education Act, 2009, and students were being allowed to change schools without clearing dues of previous institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/school-leaving-certificate-no-immediate-relief-to-pvt-schools-in-haryana/story-BXosmnOblzzvQ4RXM79mEI.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||Railways to expand Mumbai local services from July 1 only for essential services personnel||Railways Minister Piyush Goyal said on Tuesday that the national transporter will expand its suburban services in Mumbai from Wednesday and run 350 trains each in the Central and Western Railway Zones.But the trains will not be for general passengers and will only carry essential services personnel identified by the State government.“Railways to expand to 350 local trains in Mumbai from tomorrow. As identified by State govt., essential staff incl. employees of Centre, IT, GST, Customs, Postal, Nationalised Banks, MBPT, Judiciary, Defence & Raj Bhavan allowed. No services yet for general passengers,” Goyal tweeted.The Central and Western Railway Zones which service Mumbai had resumed their select suburban services (for essential staff only) from June 15.The Central Railways currently runs 200 trains in the Mumbai division and 150 will be added from Wednesday, taking the total to 350.The Western Railways will add 148 more trains on Wednesday to the 202 services that are currently running.Goyal’s announcement came a day after Maharashtra decided to extend the lockdown till July 31 to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 1,74,761.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/railways-to-expand-mumbai-local-services-from-july-1-only-for-essential-services-personnel/story-1aaWEpClP8fxj9TtbrxP3J.html
30-06-2020||City||Unlock 2: Extended curfew in Meerut division to continue, NCR districts authorised to decide about commuting||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday issued Unlock 2 guidelines and said that night curfew in the entire state, barring the Meerut division, will be in place from 10pm to 5am. Special directions issued for the six districts under the Meerut division stated that night curfew here will remain imposed from 8pm to 6am.The decision for the imposition of extended night curfew timings was taken in the wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases. The Meerut division comprises the six districts of Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Baghpat, Meerut, Bulandshahr and Hapur, and is considered one of the regions most affected by Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh.“The respective district officials will promulgate prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in their areas and ensure that there is strict compliance. Night curfew, barring in the Meerut division, will be in place from 10pm to 5am in the state. In the Meerut division, night curfew will be in place from 8pm to 6am,” the directions issued by UP chief secretary RK Tiwari stated.In a recent order on June 25, the divisional commissioner (Meerut) issued revised night curfew timings from 8pm to 6am. Earlier, the timings were from 9pm to 5am.The Centre, on Monday, had issued guidelines for the second of a three-phase plan aimed at lifting nationwide restrictions imposed to stop the spread of Covid-19. The Centre announced that educational institutions, Metro rail services and large gatherings would remain banned, even as night curfew timings were relaxed by an hour to aid economic activity.The Union home ministry released the plan, called Unlock 2, to encourage more activities in areas outside containment zones. The new guidelines issued by the Centre will come into effect from July 1. Schools, colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed till July 31.The UP government also followed suit with restrictions on the reopening of schools, colleges, educational/coaching/training institutions till July 31. However, the order said that the provision of online classes/distance education will continue as per previous orders.The order also said that there will be no intra- or inter-state restriction on movement of persons or goods/commodities. But it also clarified that activities outside the containment zones can be restricted on the basis of evaluation at the local level.The order also authorised the officials of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts to review the movement of commuters. The two districts, of late, have restricted movement to neighbouring Delhi, citing the rising number of cases.“The lockdown will remain in place in containment zones and steps will be taken for prevention of the spread of infection in containment zones as per the directions of the government on June 23. The district magistrates will be required to notify the containment zones via websites and also forward the list to Ministry of Health & Family Welfare,” the order stated.The government has so far allowed the functioning of public and private offices in a graded manner, resumed limited passenger train services and domestic air travel, and allowed the conditional reopening of shops and marketplaces. Restrictions on public transport too have been considerably eased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unlock-2-extended-curfew-in-meerut-division-to-continue-ncr-districts-authorised-to-decide-about-commuting/story-Hq2RJGCF6m4sUQdmWMswtM.html
30-06-2020||City||Work on 5.5km elevated stretch over DSC road resumes after gap of three months||NOIDA: The work on 5.5 km elevated stretch, which is to be built over Dadri-Surajpur-Chhalera (DSC) road to facilitate commuting between Noida and Greater Noida, has resumed after a gap of almost three months, officials of Noida authority said on Tuesday. The project will be delayed by four months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, they said.The proposed elevated road will start from Sector 39/43 crossing and end at Sector 82 T-point. Once developed, the ₹467-crore elevated road will decongest major traffic in Noida’s Barola, Bhangel, and sectors 49, 45, 47 and 46, among other areas. The authority has started piling work at Sector 49 site of the project. “We need to build 143 pillars for the project. We started piling for one pillar near Sector 49 on Monday. We have a target to build this road in 24 months. We will try to complete it at the earliest. The work could not picked up pace due to Covid-19 pandemic in March,” said Mukesh Vaish, project engineer of Noida authority.The authority chief executive officer has directed the staff to enforce the social distancing rules at the site for safety purposes. “For the piling work, a few labourers are at the site as the work is being done with machines. But we are taking all precautions and following health department guidelines to implement social distancing at the site,” said Vaish.On March 3, the authority had roped in state-owned agency -- Uttar Pradesh Bridge Corporation -- for constructing the elevated stretch that will provide seamless connectivity to thousands of motorists who travel from Delhi side to the special economic zone (SEZ) in Phase 2 area and Sector 82. The UP Bridge Corporation in March had started mobilizing the workforce to start work at the site and also done barricading of the site. But the work was disrupted due to the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25 to prevent the spread of Covid-19. In 2012, the authority had for the first time conceived the idea of constructing an elevated stretch over DSC road. In May 2016, it prepared a detailed project report of the project. But work could not start due to fund crunch. The DSC road, earlier known as the Dadri Link Road, passes from Noida’s Gole Chakkar to Greater Noida’s Dadri town. The proposed elevated road will have exit and entry at Sector 100 so that new group housing societies located in sectors 107, 47 and 104, among others, can benefit from the project, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/work-on-5-5km-elevated-stretch-over-dsc-road-resumes-after-gap-of-three-months/story-lJWv2qqDAC6dhRHbJdO07O.html
30-06-2020||City||Greater Noida waives off penalty on late property registration||The Greater Noida authority on Tuesday said it will not levy any penalties on property allottees who failed to register flat, group housing project, or plots between March 22 and May 31, 2020, due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the subsequent nationwide lockdown. The authority has also given additional time to allottees to clear their payments by July 15 to evade any penalty.“The Greater Noida authority charges a penalty if the property allottee has been unable to execute registry within the stipulated time. We have decided not to impose this penalty as due to the pandemic, execution of registry or any other work was not possible,” Deep Chand, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority, said. “If the property allottees fail to get done their work done by July 15, then the authority is free to impose a penalty,” he added.The authority has the power to impose penalties if the registry of a flat, plot, or group housing project is not executed within the stipulated time frame. The authority can impose a ₹100 penalty on a per-day basis for delaying the registry of a flat 100 square meter in area, ₹50 per day penalty for a 50 square meter flat, and the penalty for late registry of all kinds of plots is 1% of the total cost of the plot, officials said. Apart from the late penalty, the authority will also not recover ₹100 per day fine from builders, individuals or industrial allottees who could not obtain occupancy certificate for their complete buildings or those who failed to execute the transfer of memorandum (TM)—a process required before execution of registry, officials added.Property allottees, however, said that the authority should give more time to them to execute registries and other works.“Even now, most of the staff at many government offices are not reporting to work due to the pandemic. The normal work at all offices, including the authority, is yet to be resumed. Therefore, we request that the authority must extend this deadline till December,” Alok Singh, former vice president, Sector Alpha 1 RWA (resident welfare association), said. “The Greater Noida authority should extend the deadline beyond July 15 to carry out jobs that were not completed due to the pandemic as normalcy at government offices is yet to be achieved. Property allottees need to be provided more time so that they don’t need to rush to government offices during this tough time,” said RK Arora, president, Uttar Pradesh chapter, National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO), a builders’ group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-waives-off-penalty-on-late-property-registration/story-dbhDUoIUeBhgIyTn4KVGGJ.html
30-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad has highest number of active Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh; total count touches 1,615||According to the state health bulletin released on Tuesday, Ghaziabad district has the highest number of active cases of coronavirus diseases (Covid-19) in Uttar Pradesh. Ghaziabad currently has a total of 822 active Covid-19 cases, closely followed by neighbouring district of Gautam Budh Nagar which has 776 active cases, as per the data released by the state control room.According to health officials, this is for the first time Ghaziabad has reported the highest number of active cases among all the 75 districts in the state. During the last 24 hours,151 new cases—the highest single-day spike reported so far— were reported in the district and four people succumbed to the infection. According to the daily bulletin, the district has reported a total of 1,615 cases which includes 55 deaths, 822 active cases and 738 patients discharged so far.Health officials said the number of discharged patients will also increase soon with the revised state guidelines.“These days cases are growing, and for the past one week they are growing at an average of about 60-80 cases per day, hence we have more patients undergoing treatment. We will see more people getting discharged soon as the guidelines have been revised, and an asymptomatic patient can be discharged from a Covid facilities after 10 days. However, rising cases are still a cause of concern as the number of daily cases is increasing everyday after Unlock 1 kicked in,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO).As per the new discharge guidelines issued by the state government on June 19, if asymptomatic patients show no symptoms, they can be discharged without undergoing any test on the tenth day from the date of their admission. Such patients will, however, have to remain in home quarantine for seven days after being discharged.As per the earlier guidelines, asymptomatic patients were being discharged only after their first report after treatment came negative. Before this, a Covid-19 patient needed two successive negative reports in order to get discharged.According to official figures, the number of active patients have been on a sharp rise in the district.Till April 30, the number of active cases stood at 33.33% of the total 66 cases. By May-end, the active cases stood at 22.29% out of total cases of 305. However, till June 30, the active cases have gone up to 50.89% out of a total of 1,615 cases.Against the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the Ghaziabad district at present has only 326 L1 category beds, 100 L2 beds, and 400 L3 beds.“The L1 category beds are getting occupied fast with rising numbers and we are trying to set up more L1 facilities.We are admitting L1 category patients to L2 and L3 hospitals due to the limited availability of L1 category beds,” the CMO said.In a related development, the state government issued directions to not provide ambulances to recovered patients for dropping them home after they get discharged from Covid-19 hospitals.“The provision of 108 ambulances dropping recovered Covid-19 patients have been shut down for now. We have received directions from the state government not to allow recovered patients to be dropped home in ambulances as we have limited ambulances. So, now patients will have to arrange for their own transport to go back home,” the CMO said.“Till now we had been allowing recovered Covid patients to go home ambulances, but it takes a lot of time and patients who need to be admitted to Covid hospitals were being picked up late. Hence, the state government had to take this decision,” CMO added.At present, the district has 16 ambulances operating under the 108 facility and 14 of these, including two advanced life-support vehicles, were used for ferrying Covid patients. The other 17 ambulances running under 102 schemes are meant for ferrying pregnant women.The discontinuation of home drop service for recovered patients would mean that majority of patients will have to travel on their own from L1 category hospitals at Sahibabad and Niwari. Of the two, L1 hospital at Niwari, which is the biggest government facility with 250-beds, is about 35-40km from areas like Khoda, Kaushambi and Indirapuram etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-has-highest-number-of-active-covid-19-cases-in-uttar-pradesh-total-count-touches-1-615/story-zC1CQF2CyPBl5Z7GSlIm1N.html
30-06-2020||City||Staff crunch a worry as Gzb told to collect 4,000 samples daily||The six districts of Meerut division have been assigned a target of conducting 4,800 RT-PCR tests and another 11,000 antigen tests per day from July 2 as part of a special 10-day drive.The special drive has been ordered by the Uttar Pradesh government for enhanced surveillance and tracking of Covid-19 cases across the state, with initial focus on six districts of Meerut.Ghaziabad district, which is already facing a shortage of healthcare workers, has been given a target of 1,000 RT-PCR tests and 3000 antigen tests per day. Apart from carrying out surveillance activities, the district officials have also been given task of collecting and testing 4,000 samples per day, which is a mammoth task considering the district’s current sample collection capability is about 450 for RT-PCR and 250-300 for antigen tests per day.“Our primary concern at the moment is that of resource crunch. We have just 30 lab technicians at present in the health department. One lab technician at the most can collect about 40-50 samples per day as the job involves preservation of records, numbering of samples and needs time. In such a case the health department would need at least 80 more lab technicians in order to achieve the target of 4,000 tests per day,” said an officer from the district health department.During the drive the teams conducting sampling will be focussing on ILI and SARI patients in containment zones as well as non-containment zones. Officials estimate that they will find about 5-10% influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) cases as a result of enhanced testing. “In such a case we would need more Covid facilities. Our present L1 category facility at ESIC Hospital (76 beds) and Divyajyoti Hospital (250 beds) are almost nearing saturation. If we conduct 4,000 tests, we will have more patients coming in and would immediately need more Covid hospitals to admit at least some of them. Further, we will also have sample collection points at RKGIT College and Ideal College, where we would require more doctors and staff,” the officer said.According to official records, Ghaziabad has received about 8,000 antigen test kits recently and testing using the kits started on June 26. Till, June 29, the officials said, they had conducted 952 antigen tests, out of which 84 people had tested positive for Covid-19.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls over the issue. Chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta, however, said that the issue of shortage of lab technicians for enhanced testing is being looked into.“We will definitely need more lab technicians to cater to 4,000 samples per day, as directed by the state government. For this, we are trying to get more technicians of them from private hospitals. At present we have about 28-30 lab technicians. We are also trying to open up one more L1 category hospital in Modinagar or Dasna in order to cater to more patients who are expected to arrive after testing is ramped up,” Dr Gupta added.He added that the district so far has been able to collect and test 18,500 samples overall, since March. This includes the samples tested by private labs too. “Apart from sampling teams there will be teams that are deputed to carry out door to door surveys in the entire district,” he added.Under the special surveillance drive, the Ghaziabad district as per a government order by UP chief secretary, has been tasked to form at least 2,058 teams, consisting two members each. Officials from the district said that they have put in place 2,500 teams for the drive.The teams will be visiting 75 households in a day for a period of 10 days starting July 2 and will scan residents having symptoms of ILI and SARI and will also note down details of people having comorbid conditions.“The special surveillance drive will get started on July 2 from Meerut division and will be taken up across the state. The teams will record symptoms and comorbid conditions of residents and marking will also be done at houses that are covered. It is a massive surveillance drive and will considerably help in early detection of patients with symptoms,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/staff-crunch-a-worry-as-gzb-told-to-collect-4-000-samples-daily/story-gOdLxrpguZhdZPvTEWkaVL.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER to start DM course in interventional radiology||The Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research is starting a three-year doctorate of medicine (DM) course, the first of its kind in north India, in interventional radiology from July 1“This is the first such course being started in north India. The only other hospital offering an advanced three-year DM course is the Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai,” said prof MS Sandhu, head, department of radiodiagnosis.Interventional radiology, an important subspecialty of radiology, allows minimally invasive procedures to be done quickly under minimal anesthesia. It’s relatively painless and can be done on an out-patient basis, prof Sandhu added. The procedures are performed through medical imaging guidance, such as X-ray fluoroscopy, computed tomography (sectioning through use of penetrative wave), magnetic resonance imaging, or ultrasound.The department has run an interventional radiology outpatient clinic for the last two years, something not done by any government hospital in the country.Such procedures are used for treatment of cancer patients who do not have the option of surgery due to technical factors or for comorbidities such as heart disease or advanced liver disease. Other important procedures that can be done with interventional radiology are blocking leaking blood vessels, treating aneurysms of blood vessels, opening up narrowed blood vessels, obtaining abnormal tissue for cytological or histopathological examination, drainage of infected collections and abscesses, drainage and stenting of obstructed systems in the biliary tree and urinary tract.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-to-start-dm-course-in-interventional-radiology/story-J7UgtdOyUKPJUlRLzwOjXM.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Jagraon Bridge in Ludhiana to miss another deadline, may be completed by Sept-end||The Jagraon Bridge will miss another deadline and is now expected to be completed by September.The authorities had earlier announced that the bridge would be completed by July-end or the middle of August. The deadline has been extended due to rainy season.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and mayor Balkar Sandhu inspected the ongoing projects, including Jagraon Bridge, elevated road, Ladhowal Bypass and Jalandhar-Panipat highway (NH-44) on Tuesday.Sabharwal said, “The MC has directed the contractor to expedite the work, but it is difficult to complete the project by mid of August due to the ensuing rainy season. The bridge can be opened for traffic in the first week of September. However, the road would be developed with hot mix asphalt by end of September.” The project was first expected to complete by March, but it got delayed due to imposition of curfew. After the work restarted, the authorities claimed that it would be completed by July 30.In July 2016, the Railways had closed one leg of the bridge leading to traffic chaos in the city.Since then, residents have been pressurising the district administration to expedite the construction work of the bridge.‘EXPEDITE WORK ON PROJECTS’Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma has directed NHAI officials to submit a schedule of works to be taken up to expedite work on the projects, including elevated road, Ladhowal Bypass, etc.He also directed officials to resolve the issue of water accumulation at the Sherpur Chowk and Vardhman Chowk on the Chandigarh Road.Member, Punjab Road Safety Council, Rahul Verma, said, a storm sewer line has also been proposed to be built from the Vardhman Chowk to the Buddha Nullah to stop water accumulation at the chowk. Sharma also directed the officials to expedite the work of establishing foot overbridges at different sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jagraon-bridge-in-ludhiana-to-miss-another-deadline-may-be-completed-by-sept-end/story-tbXyx2Ga0RBFVPtpPW8sAM.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||NGO holds protest against imposition of dog/cat tax in Ludhiana||Barely five days after the municipal corporation (MC) levied the dogs and cats registration tax of Rs 400 per annum in the city, a number of protesters under the banner of Yuva, an NGO, staged a protest outside the Zone A office of the MC here on Tuesday. The protesters said the imposition of new taxes at a time when the common man is already reeling under economic crisis in times of coronavirus pandemic is unjustified.The protesters expressed their resentment through demonstrating a man on a stretcher depicting that the public is already on a ventilator (showcasing financial crisis). The MC had commenced the registration of pets in the city on June 25. Alleging that the MC has failed to provide any relief from the stray cattle and stray dog menace and water accumulation even when hefty taxes, including cow cess, water-sewer user charges, etc are being collected, the protesters rued that another burden has been put on the shoulders of residents by imposition of the pet registration tax. Kumar Gaurav, who heads the NGO, said, “Water accumulation is witnessed in old city areas every season and the authorities have also failed to provide relief from the stray cattle menace. The MC should not put a burden on the shoulders of residents at a time when many of the residents are struggling to make both ends meet.” MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “Registration of pets is for the benefit of the society as it will help the MC in differentiating between pet and stray dogs. Also, the MC will be able to identify its owner if any pet is found straying on roads. Meanwhile, all efforts are being made to deal with other issues, including rainwater accumulation, stray cattle and stray dog menace.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ngo-holds-protest-against-imposition-of-dog-cat-tax/story-zuBDXFn3HDfVESy2IaAPOO.html
30-06-2020||City||6 fatalities, 260 fresh Covid-19 infections in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday recorded six deaths and 260 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of positive cases in the Union territory to 7,497, officials said.The death toll in the UT has reached 101 in 114 days.Five people died due to the virus in Kashmir and one person succumbed in Jammu division. A 23-year-old youth from Shopian and a 65-year-old woman from Srinagar died at the Chest Diseases Hospital while a 53-year-old man from Baramulla succumbed at Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, Bemina. A 65-year-old Qamarwari man’s sample tested positive after his death at SMHS Hospital. “The young man from Shopian was an accident case with a serious head injury and was shifted from SMHS Hospital on Monday. The woman was having multiple ailments including hypertension and diabetes,” said medical superintendent Dr Saleem Tak.A relative of the Baramulla man said he had tested positive a few days ago and was very critical. “He had pneumonia and could not survive,” he said. In Jammu division, a 85-year-old woman died at Government Medical College (GMC) and hospital. “The woman, who hailed from Kathua district’s Basohli area, was hospitalised on June 25,” a senior doctor said. He said the patient was suffering from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) and was on a ventilator in the isolation ward. Of the total 101 deaths in J&K, 89 have been reported in Kashmir division while 12 people have died in Jammu division.Dr Nisar ul Hassan, a senior doctor representing a faction of Doctors Association Kashmir (DAK), on Tuesday said the coronavirus is killing more men than women in the Kashmir valley. “Nearly 72% of those who died from Covid-19 infection in the Valley were men while women accounted for 28% deaths,” he said. Dr Nisar said based on analysis from the data of all 88 deaths in Kashmir as of June 30, 63 (71.60%) were men and 25 (28.40%) were women. “70 percent of men who died were above 60 years of age and the average age was 62,” he added. Dr Nisar said 86% male deaths had pre-existing medical conditions with high blood pressure in 18 (28.57%) followed by diabetes in 10 (15. 87%), chronic lung disease in 8 (12.69%), cardiovascular disease in 6 (9.52%), cancer in 4 (6.34%) and chronic kidney disease in 4 (6.34%). Two had brain hemorrhage, one had chronic liver disease and one had hematological condition.“Nine patients (14.28%) had no underlying health issues and were apparently healthy,” he added.Dr Nisar said the gender disparity in death could be biological or behavioral. “Women have more robust immune system than men and are able to fend off infection. The female sex hormone appears to play a role in immunity, as does X chromosome which contains immune-related genes. Women carry 2 X chromosomes, men only one,” he said.He said men smoke at higher rates than women that damages the lung defense and increases the risk of severe infection. “Males are more likely to have medical conditions that can make Covid-19 more fatal for them,” he added.60 CRPF personnel test positiveAs many as 60 CRPF personnel are among the fresh cases reported in the UT on Tuesday.Of the total cases, 228 people tested positive in Kashmir and 32 in Jammu division. Among these, 22 patients have a travel history.Active cases in J&K stand at 2,674 after 137 more patients recovered on Tuesday. “22 people were discharged in Jammu division and 115 in Kashmir,” a government statement said.So far, 4,722 people have been cured in the UT, taking the recovery rate to 62.9 %. Of the total recovered, 3,564 are in Kashmir and 1,158 in Jammu division.The highest jump in positive cases was reported from Kulgam district where 64 more people tested positive followed by Srinagar at 46 and Baramulla at 44. In Jammu division, the highest jump was in Jammu district where 12 more people tested positive.Till date, 2.81 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 39,866 in home quarantine, 36 in hospital quarantine and 46,912 under home surveillance. Besides these, 1.91 lakh people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6-fatalities-260-fresh-covid-19-infections-in-j-k/story-P3Unau4aIuU3w6eKnNP5hI.html
30-06-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad surpasses Gautam Buddh Nagar with maximum active Covid-19 cases in UP||Ghaziabad on Tuesday surpassed Gautam Buddh Nagar to become the district in Uttar Pradesh with maximum number of active cases of Covid-19, official data showed.Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded 97 new cases on Tuesday, as its tally of positive cases reached 2,304 while the number of active cases stood at 776, according to a 24-hour data issued by the Uttar Pradesh Health department.Ghaziabad during the same period recorded 151 new cases and four deaths linked to Covid-19. The number of active cases in the district rose to 882, while the overall tally of positive cases reached 1,615, the data stated.Meanwhile, 76 more coronavirus patients got discharged after recovery in Gautam Buddh Nagar and 71 in Ghaziabad, according to the data. So far, 1,506 patients have got discharged in Gautam Buddh Nagar and 738 in Ghaziabad, it showed. The death toll in Ghaziabad stood at 55 and 22 in Gautam Buddh Nagar, the two districts adjoining Delhi in western Uttar Pradesh, according to the data.According to the statistics, the recovery rate of patients in Gautam Buddh Nagar on Tuesday stood at 65.36 per cent, while it was 45.69 per cent.In terms of active cases in Uttar Pradesh, Ghaziabad and Gautam Buddh Nagar are followed by Lucknow 430, Kanpur Nagar 286, Meerut 265, Hapur 237, Varanasi 188, Bulandshahr 179, Aligarh 176 and Etawah 150, the data stated.From Monday to Tuesday, 672 new Covid-19 cases were reported across districts in the state, while 579 patients got discharged and 25 deaths were recorded during the 24-hour period, it showed.As of Tuesday, there were 6,711 active Covid-19 cases in UP while 16,084 patients have got discharged and 697 deaths have been recorded so far, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-surpasses-gautam-buddh-nagar-with-maximum-active-covid-19-cases-in-up/story-sO2Z1Vvrca8dcZIXHdXptN.html
30-06-2020||Gurugram||KK Rao returns as Gurugram police commissioner||Faridabad police commissioner KK Rao will take charge as the new Gurugram police commissioner on Wednesday. Rao will replace Muhammad Akil who has been promoted as director general of police (crime) and has also been given the additional charge of director, state crime records bureau.The two police officers were among 11 others who were transferred by the Haryana government on Tuesday.Rao, an Indian Police Service(IPS) officer of 1996 batch, has served as the commissioner of Gurugram police earlier for eight months ( between June 2018 and February 2019)— the shortest tenure of a commissioner in Gurugram—before being appointed the Faridabad police commissioner. As Faridabad police chief, he was also part of the team that arrested one of the most-wanted gangsters, Kaushal in August, 2019.During Rao’s tenure in Gurugram, the police had launched a major crackdown against the alleged prostitution rackets operating out of malls on the Mehrauli-Gurugram Road. Also, reporting of vehicle theft cases had gone down by 48% in Gurugram. “I plan to crack down on vehicle thefts and street crime and will ensure prompt action against extortionists. Speedy and fair investigations will be carried out in all matters that will be reported to us,” said Rao. He said the city police will plan a comprehensive strategy to track organised criminal networks and take strict action against gangsters who are active in the city.OP Singh, who was serving as the special officer (Community Policing and Outreach) in Chief Minister’s Office till now, will replace Rao as the new Faridabad police commissioner.The outgoing Gurugram police commissioner, Akil was the eighth police chief in the city since it adopted the commissionerate system of policing in 2007. Before his posting in the city in February, the 1989-batch IPS officer also served as additional director-general of police(law and order) holding the additional charge of chief vigilance officer. During his tenure in Gurugram, Akil focused on preventing crime in the city besides ensuring better law and order situation. Akil said while working in Gurugram he got the opportunity to observe things from a micro-level. “The tenure has been very challenging and fruitful. I tried to handle all the situations, even the unprecedented ones during the lockdown, tactfully with my experience for the betterment of the city and our police force,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/kk-rao-returns-as-gurugram-police-commissioner/story-XyYeN9cPNyMLmp6jyL6kqO.html
30-06-2020||City||76-year-old falls into duct from sixth-floor, does||A 76-year-old man on Sunday fell into a duct from the sixth floor of the building in Koparkhairne and died. The duct was beside the lift in his building. “The victim, Shrichand Talreja lived on the sixth floor and was waiting for the elevator. There was a duct area near the lift and the floor. It appears he slipped and fell inside. But we are still probing other possibilities,” said an officer from Koparkhairane police station.The septuagenarian, Talreja lived on the sixth floor of a seven-storied building in Koparkhairane in Sector 11. On Sunday around 5.15 pm, Talreja told his wife he is going to the nearby grocery store. The residents rushed after they heard a loud noise. Police have filed a case of accidental death. Police said they are yet to record statements from Talreja’s family members. They will inquire into Talreja’s medical history and also record statements of building residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/76-year-old-falls-into-duct-from-sixth-floor-does/story-gSPp6S7Gd1vfTYICdvcAbP.html
30-06-2020||Delhi||Jama Masjid to reopen from July 4||The historic Jama Masjid, which had closed earlier this month due to fears regarding a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city, will reopen for congregational prayers (namaz) from July 4, Shahi Imam of the mosque Syed Ahmed Bukhari said on Tuesday. The Shahi Imam said they are ready to reopen the mosque with all the safety protocols in place. Devotees will be requested to do wazoo (ablution) at home before coming to the mosque as well as bring their own mats, as the carpets have been removed for safety purposes.The mosque was closed on June 11 because of the “critical conditions” in the city (the rising Covid-19 cases) till June 30. The Shahi Imam had sought public opinion before deciding to close down the mosque. The move was prompted after his personal assistant Amanullah succumbed to the infection on June 9. “Even though the number of cases is still on the rise, the fear among people has kind of faded. People have now become familiar with the practices to keep the virus at bay. Also, they have now come to understand procedures to follow in case of infection,” Bukhari said.Except for the early morning namaz (Fajr), the remaining four namaz will be offered at the mosque. The early morning namaz cannot be conducted because of curfew timings between 9pm and 6am in the city, he added.Other mosques in the city, including the Fatehpuri Masjid, which had also followed the Shahi Imam’s decision to keep mosques shut till June-end, are yet to take a decision on the matter.“We had decided to keep the mosque shut till July 4 and so was the case with other local mosques. Since, unlike the Jama Masjid, we do not have a proper gate or a compound to regulate the entry of people, it is difficult to maintain social distancing if the doors are opened. We will hold consultations with committee members of other mosques before we decide on reopening the place for prayers,” Mufti Mukarram Ahmed, Shahi Imam of Fatehpuri Masjid, Chandni Chowk, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jama-masjid-to-reopen-from-july-4/story-5XKS9bUPQSX1kA65MUDP8I.html
30-06-2020||City||6 injured after car crashes into tree in Ludhiana||Six schoolgoing children, including two girls, were injured after the car they were travelling in crashed into a tree at a high speed near Guru Nanak Public School in Sarabha Nagar on Tuesday.The injured were taken to the hospital for treatment. The victims have been identified as Jaspartap Singh, Gursewak Singh, Dev Karan and Kirat. The police didn’t reveal the identity of the two victims. The car belonged to Jaspartap’s father Surinder Singh Bindra, who is a former master town planner.According to Division Number 5 SHO Richa Rani, the statements of the victims will be recorded once they are discharged from the hospital. “A case against unidentified persons will be registered for reckless driving and endangering the life of people,” she said.According to an eyewitness, the car heading from Sarabha Nagar gurdwara side was being driven at a speed of 100km per hour. When the car reached near Guru Nanak Public School, the driver lost control over the vehicle which crashed into a tree located right opposite to the house of Congress MLA Kuldeep Singh Ved.Sources said that one of the victims informed his family about the incident. Soon the family members of all children arrived at the spot and rushed them to the hospital.Soon the CCTV footage of the incident went viral and residents accused the police of hushing up the matter as it involves the children of high profile people.The police were also probing whether it was a case of underage driving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6-injured-after-car-crashes-into-tree-in-ludhiana/story-JjaDahyhu4gohf8DFddfLJ.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Road repairs suspended again amid monsoon in Chandigarh||Just a month after road recarpeting started in Chandigarh, the municipal corporation will halt the work from July 4 due to the onset of monsoon. Works worth ₹23 crore pending since last year will now resume in September.Road works approved for this fiscal will also begin in September, even though the MC has already floated tenders worth ₹40 crore.The work was suspended last year due to paucity of funds. After the UT administration sanctioned additional funds, the Covid-19 lockdown halted the progress. Meanwhile, the condition of roads has deteriorated across the city.Vendors’ licence fee waivedThe MC’s town vending committee on Tuesday approved exemption from payment of monthly licence fee to all registered vendors till June. Earlier, the waiver was given till May due to the lockdown.It panel also approved grant of a final opportunity for depositing pending dues by August 31 along with penalties of ₹3,000. However, the move will be first examined for legality.Also, about 700 registered vendors have been allowed to sell fruit and vegetables, while, about 400 others, who used to sell these items in CTU buses, have been permitted to continue for now.Meanwhile, the enforcement wing on Tuesday issued 55 challans to fruit and vegetable vendors sitting along main roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/road-repairs-suspended-again-amid-monsoon-in-chandigarh/story-zM2ImYJ40sHuShb4ba8meK.html
30-06-2020||City||Civil work contractors of North DMC threaten to stop work, demand dues||New Delhi: Civil work contractors of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation have threatened not to complete projects and refused to start work on new plans to protest against non-payment of bills amounting to approximately Rs 500 crore pending for over last five years.Representatives of the contractors’ union said they would adhere to the formula of “no money, no work” till their pending bills of various projects are cleared by the civic body. They said that due to financial challenges since lockdown, it has become difficult for them to continue work. Among projects that the contractors they have not been paid for include construction of lanes in Nabi Karim, Padam Nagar, Azad Market and renovation of MCD flats at Nani Wala Bagh in Azadpur. Officials said if the contractors strike work it may also delay repair of streets in areas across the city which is crucial to prevent flooding during monsoon. As per IMD, monsoon has already arrived in the city. The North corporation is the largest of the three civic bodies in Delhi. Its jurisdiction stretches from the Red Fort near Chandni Chowk in central Delhi to Narela-Bawana in north and northwest Delhi; and from Burari in North Delhi to Paschim Vihar in west Delhi. It has 24 assembly constituencies and two Lok Sabha constituencies. There are 500 civil work contractors who work for the north municipality. At least 1,000 labourers work under these contractors.“We are on the brink of starvation and not able to meet basic needs. Most of our bills after March 13, 2015 are yet to be cleared. Due to non-payment of our pending dues by the corporation, we are unable to look after our families. We have had written as well as talked to the civic authorities including the mayor, commissioner but nothing has happened. So, we have now decided to stop work and maintenance till our bills are cleared,” Gurmeet Singh Sethi, general secretary, Contractors’ Association of North MCD, said.To press for their demands, last week civil work contractors had also staged a demonstration at the Civic Centre — North Corporation’s headquarter.“Monsoon has already arrived and the maintenance work of broken streets and drains is still pending in areas such as Paharganj, Karol Bagh, Rohini among others. If contractors halt work then the situation may become worse during monsoon,” a north corporation official said who wished not to be named.The contractors are not the only ones demanding their dues from the civic body. Teachers, doctors, nurses and paramedical staff employed by the North Corporation have also complained that they were not paid their salaries for last 3-4 months.Sethi further said that contractors kept completing their work by borrowing money and material from suppliers in a hope that those pending dues would be cleared but it did not happen.“The last payment MCD released was of Rs 20 crore in February 2020 but that was a meagre amount against the pending dues of around Rs 500 crore. It did not serve any purpose. Now the situation is such that neither the supplier is lending us materials nor we are able to borrow from the market to complete pending works,” Sethi said.Jai Prakash, mayor North Corporation, admitted that bills are pending for long. He assured that the corporation was making efforts to clear bills.“We are aware about the situation and are in touch with our contractors. In the times of Covid-19 crisis we are first trying to ensure that coronavirus warriors are paid regularly. We are also arranging funds to clear pending bills of contractors as soon as possible,” the mayor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civil-work-contractors-of-north-dmc-threaten-to-stop-work-demand-dues/story-Bdlly85CY91ZnosjrPB9tM.html
30-06-2020||Lucknow||After long struggle, footballer Rani gets AIFF certificate||The All India Football Federation (AIFF) has issued certificate of participation at the senior nationals to Uttar Pradesh’s woman footballer Varsha Rani. The move is significant in view of Rani’s fight against an alleged injustice meted out to her by the Uttar Pradesh Football Sangh (UPFS) last year.In May last, the UPFS’ secretary Mohd Shamsuddin had issued “very poor performance” remark on Varsha’s certificate of participation at the Senior National Championship held at Cuttack (Odisha) in October 2018 after she allegedly refused to meet an alleged ‘unethical demand’ of the UPFS official in Varanasi.“I am thankful to the AIFF, which honored my request and issued the fresh certificate,” Bareilly’s Varsha said on Monday. “I will continue my fight against my harassment by UPFS secretary.”Hindustan Times in 2019 had raised Varsha’s issue following which the AIFF had begun its enquiry and even sought a clarification from the UPFS. “The participation agreement is issued by AIFF and nobody has the right to put any comment on a participation certificate issued by the AIFF,” AIFF secretary-general Kushal Das had then said.Shamsuddin had justified his decision to write ‘very poor performance’ on Varsha’s certificate. “There has to be some punishment for poor performance. So, I wrote a comment on the certificates of players. It is justified, as I want everyone to know how bad their performance was at the nationals.”“Some girls in the team were playing politics and intentionally lost the match. I had no other option but to put my comments on the certificates of the entire team. The AIFF cannot stop me from writing on the certificates even if it is issued by them,” he said then.In fact, Varsha had accused Shamsuddin of ruining the careers of many women footballers in UP by writing unfavourable comments on their certificates. “I was asked to come alone to collect my certificate of participation. When I went to Shamsuddin’s place with my parents in Varanasi, my father was scolded and given the certificate only after I submitted an affidavit seeking apology. It was a big humiliation for me and my parents,” Rani had said in her letter to UP’s chief minister Yogi Aditynath.“Even before the national championship, I was humiliated and harassed by people close to Shamsuddin during the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Memorial State Championship in Gonda. Almost all the girls in the team were asked to humiliate me in public. I tried to raise my voice but everyone told me to compromise with the system as it’s been happening for the last many years,” she further states.Shamsuddin has earlier been accused of sexual abuse by a woman footballer in Varanasi in 2014 and was even taken into custody. A few players HT spoke to alleged that the functioning of the Sanjay Singh-led UPFS was dictatorial.“I have my own style of functioning and I find my comments on the players’ certificates as an act of punishment for their indiscipline and poor performance during the Cuttack tournament,” he said.Shamsuddin’s act of signing ‘very poor performance’ on Varsha’s certificate was criticized by the Uttar Pradesh Olympic Association too. “No one has the right to write on the participation certificate of a player when it has been issued by the national federation. AIFF did justice to the girl footballer and it’s a lesson to UPFS official,” said UPOA’s secretary Anandeshwar Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/after-long-struggle-footballer-rani-gets-aiff-certificate/story-zCf9t8VpeNVKDhj7UJr3YP.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||State appoints special PP in Palghar lynching case||State government has appointed special public prosecutor (PP) Satish Maneshinde in Palghar mob lynching case. The state government has already transferred the case, in which more than 100 accused have been arrested, to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID).After the home department recommended the appointment of the special public prosecutor, the law and judiciary department recently issued the order. “In sensitive cases, we recommend special public prosecutor to ensure effective investigation and secure conviction,’ said a home department official.On April 16 this year three men - two seers and their driver - were dragged out of their vehicle outside Gadhchinchale village, located about 110 kilometres from Palghar, and beaten to death by a mob on suspicion that they were child-lifters. The incident occurred when the victims were going from Mumbai to Surat to attend a funeral. The deceased were identified as Kalpavriksha Giri, 70, Sushil Giri, 35, and driver Nilesh Telgade, 30. The seers belonged to Varanasi-based Juna Akhara and were slated to attend the last rites of their guru Mahant Shri Ram Giri in Surat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-appoints-special-pp-in-palghar-lynching-case/story-CTj9NK3eqKAIfYBwq1QrLI.html
30-06-2020||City||Two killed, 2 children injured after speeding car runs over four in Rohini||New Delhi: Two persons were killed and two children were injured after the driver of an allegedly speeding car lost control of the vehicle and hit them in Rohini Sector 16 on Tuesday evening.Eyewitnesses told the police that the Hyundai Accent car after running over the four persons also rammed some pushcarts on the roadside before coming to a halt. The errant driver left the car and fled the spot before the locals could catch him, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) PK Mishra said that a case of rash and negligent driving causing death was registered under Sections 279 and 304A of Indian Penal Code was registered and the car was impounded.“The vehicle has been found registered in the name of a resident of Budh Vihar in Rohini. Some documents were received from the car. The documents would help us identify and nab the person driving the vehicle at the time of the accident,” said DCP Mishra.At 6.40 pm, the DCP said, the police control room received a call regarding an accident and injured persons near a Hanuman temple in Sector 16. A police team reached the accident spot and found that some persons, including children, injured there. All the injured persons were rushed to the Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital.“Two of them, identified as Harish,40, and Vimla,35, were declared brought dead at the hospital. The injured children were Anshu,5, and Suraj,11,” DCP Mishra said, adding that the accident spot was inspected and the car was examined by forensic experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-killed-2-children-injured-after-speeding-car-runs-over-four-in-rohini/story-v6wHnrszDXkpMBquSiZp0L.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Bharadwaj being looked after well by jail says NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has opposed the plea of a lawyer and former professor Sudha Bharadwaj who is currently lodged in Byculla Women’s prison for her alleged involvement in the Elgar Parishad case. The NIA in its response to the application by Bharadwaj in the Bombay high court against the special court’s refusal to grant her interim bail has stated that Bharadwaj is using her comorbidities as an excuse to get interim bail during the pandemic. The NIA has assured that Bharadwaj is being provided with the medication she has been taking since the past 20 years for her diabetes and blood pressure and as the UAP Act under which she has been arrested, has no provision for bail, the special court’s refusal on May 29 was valid. The reply was to be heard by the court on Tuesday but due to paucity of time, the matter could not be heard and is expected to be listed for hearing on Friday.The NIA in its reply said that the medical condition Bharadwaj has referred to in her plea has no merit as she has been suffering from ‘some chronic illness’ since 20 years for which she is undergoing prescribed medication and she is being provided with necessary medical assistance in jail as the authorities have her medical records. “It is clear that the pleading concerning the medical condition of the petitioner is merely a ruse to obtain an order of interim relief which is not available to the petitioner otherwise on the merits of the case,” the reply states. The NIA has stated that as the evidence against Bharadwaj so far does not entitle her to seek any relief on any grounds including that of the pandemic.Bharadwaj had applied for interim bail before the special NIA court following the recommendations of the state-appointed high powered committee to release under-trials and convicts on interim bail and parole. The recommendations had however made an exception for under-trials and convicts who were incarcerated under special acts. However, after the special court rejected her application she approached the HC.In her appeal, Bharadwaj has said that as she is susceptible to the virus, she can be considered for interim bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-bharadwaj-being-looked-after-well-by-jail-says-nia/story-qFul0b5x656p8KYpSeXSsK.html
30-06-2020||City||Accused entitled to copy of status report filed in court, rules Delhi HC||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Monday said an accused should be given a copy of the status report or reply filed by the jail superintendent in the court in bail matters, while stating that it is not a “secret” and would help him to defend them efficiently after a plea was filed contending that several times that reports are filed in these matters in the court but is not supplied to the accused.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan , however, said that whenever the jail superintendent and the Investigating Officer (IO), in bail matters does not supply the reports and replies, the reason should be written in the court order explaining why the accused and his counsel were not being supplied a copy.“Every rule has an exception & that is also a rule. Depending upon the facts and circumstances as general rule the report of the IO and jail superintendent should be supplied to the accused so that they can assist the court in better manner and defend themselves & it is also basic for access to justice,” the bench said.The court’s order comes while hearing a plea by advocate Chirag Madan, who had contended that it has become a trend before the trial courts not to supply the copy of status report/report by the jail superintendent/ reply filed on behalf of the prosecution in response to the bail applications filed by the accused persons under relevant sections of Code for Criminal Procedure (CrPC).The plea filed through advocate Sai Krishna and Cheitanya Madan said that this is not only a violation of the Indian Constitution but also the principles of natural justice. Appearing for the petitioner, senior advocate Siddharth Luthra told the court that the reports are supplied only on request but it is not a matter of right.Advocate Rahul Mehra, standing counsel of the Delhi government (criminal), told the court that no specific statement has been shown highlighting that the copies are not supplied or denied to the accused. He stated that there is no reason normally to not supply a copy of IO’s report same in exceptional cases the reasons to be recorded in writing for the denying the copy.Following this, the court said that whenever the court is calling for any reply or status report, either directly or indirectly its copy should be given to the accused so that he can “defend himself efficiently”. It also said that as far as possible, an advance copy of the reports should be given to the accused also for better assistance to the court.“If there is any secrecy, the reasons can be mentioned in the order,” the bench said while allowing the reliefs sought.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/accused-entitled-to-copy-of-status-report-filed-in-court-rules-delhi-hc/story-hTaeUZAwTrQn9aci1gxRHI.html
30-06-2020||City||Teachers’ salaries: High court wants status report from Delhi govt on money due to north MCD||New DelhiThe Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Delhi government’s education and urban development departments to file separate status reports on the amount due or payable for the financial year 2020-21, including June 2020, to the North Delhi Municipal Corporation for the payment of salaries to 9,000 teachers working in the civic body’s schools. The court was hearing a plea which it had initiated itself over the non-payment of salaries to the teachers.The court asked the corporation to release the salaries of teachers for March, if they have received Rs 49.16 crore from the Delhi government for the month of June as stated by its additional standing counsel Avinish Ahlawat. A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad asked the corporation to also file a status report with a tabulated statement indicating the amount required to disburse its share of salaries to teachers in the year 2021, the money released till the quarter ending June 2020 and the unpaid amount.The court on Friday had criticised the civic body over the non-payment of salaries to 9,000 teachers since March this year. The court, while hearing an appeal by the Akhil Dilli Prathmik Sikshak Sangh, had termed it as “a sorry state of affairs” and equated teachers to Covid-19 warriors as they have been put on Covid duty also.On Tuesday, Avinish Ahlawat told the court that the Delhi government had sanctioned a sum of Rs 49.17 crore for April to the North DMC as grant-in-aid to disburse salaries to civic body teachers for April 2020, under the Scheme of Primary Education, for the year 2020-21.Ahlawat said as far as payment for May 2020 is concerned, the finance department has sanctioned Rs.49.17 crore to the North DMC vide an order dated May 1. She said the release order for a sum of Rs 49.16 crore (for June) was issued only on Monday and in all probability, the amount would have been remitted into the civic body’s account.Appearing for the civic body, senior advocate HS Phoolka said they will have to ascertain if the sum  had been received by the corporation. He said the Delhi government had not released the amount for June. Phoolka said salaries for 9,000 teachers employed by the north corporation was released in February 2020 but for March 2020, only 5,400 teachers on Covid-19 duties had been paid because of paucity of fundsHe said salaries of the remaining 3,600 teachers had not been released for March 2020 and no salary had been paid to any teacher for three months, from April 2020 till June 2020. Following this, the court said if the sum of Rs.49.16 crore for June has been received, then the unpaid salaries of the teachers for the month of March 2020 should be released “forthwith”.The Delhi government did not respond to queries for a comment.The matter would be now heard on July 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teachers-salaries-high-court-wants-status-report-from-delhi-govt-on-money-due-to-north-mcd/story-3EhSLixzWSl551s31YhKFO.html
30-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board extends water bill waiver scheme||In wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the water bill waiver scheme of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) has been extended by three months, the water utility’s vice-chairman Raghav Chadha said on Tuesday. People can now avail of the scheme up to September 30 this year. Earlier, the scheme was limited till June 30. “The scheme will benefit large number of people, who could not avail of it due to lockdown restrictions,” said Chadha. Under the scheme, all households with a functional water meter will be entitled to receive a 100% rebate on the late payment surcharge (LPSC) that is applied at a rate of 5% on the pending bill amount every month. The 100% waiver on LPSC is also applicable to commercial consumers. Besides, the extended deadline will also be applicable to slab-wise waiver of accumulated arrears for all domestic consumers (individual and bulk) depending on the category of neighborhood. For instance, houses in category E, F, G and H receive a 100% waiver on the entire water bill arrear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-jal-board-extends-water-bill-waiver-scheme/story-cQ7P66fyyWvKFzuOPTGBlI.html
30-06-2020||City||Ludhiana treatment plants: NGT asks Centre, state govt to release ₹36cr subsidy with 3 weeks||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF and CC) and the state government to release the pending subsidy of ₹36 crore to two common effluent treatment plants (CETPs) within three weeks.The directive was given on Tuesday during the hearing of a petition filed by the Punjab Dyers Association (PDA) against the delay in releasing the subsidy.The secretary of the MoEF and CC and the secretary, department of science, technology and environment, Punjab, have also been directed to file an affidavit regarding the same within a week. The next hearing of the case has been scheduled for July 23.PDA general secretary Bobby Jindal said, “Two CETPs are being established for the dyeing industry in the Tajpur Road complex and the Focal Point at a cost of ₹130 crore. The government had earlier assured a subsidy of ₹45 crore (₹22.5 crore for each CETP), out of which a sum of ₹15 crore has to be paid by the MoEF and CC, while ₹7.5 crore has to be borne by the state government. The rest of the amount has to be spent by the industry.“Till now, the state government has released only ₹3 crore (₹1.5 crore for each CETP) and the MoEF and CC have paid ₹6 crore (₹3 crore for each project). The remaining subsidy amount (₹36 crore for both projects) has been pending for the past around two years, due to which we were forced to move the NGT. The industry has already spent 80% of the amount and the projects will compete in 3-4 months if the subsidy is released by the government. The deadline has been set in September.”The CETPs are being established to stop dumping of untreated waste of dyeing industry into the Buddha Nullah through MC sewers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-treatment-plants-ngt-asks-centre-state-govt-to-release-36cr-subsidy-with-3-weeks/story-r0wOaRbE00eOOIzJOFD38J.html
30-06-2020||City||4 kids among 11 test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal, tally rises to 953||Eleven people, including four children, tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 953, officials said.Four cases each have been reported in Kangra and Una, two in Hamirpur and one in Solan.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said a 8-year-old son of a Covid-19 positive patient, who is an army jawan, tested positive for the virus. The army jawan, who came from Arunachal Pradesh on June 23, had tested positive on June 28 and is currently undergoing treatment at Military Hospital, Yol. The child has come in direct contact of his father. Another 7-year-old boy, also a family member and primary contact of the army jawan has tested positive. Both the kids are being shifted to Military Hospital.Besides, a 40-year-old man and his 8-year-old son, residents of Jaisinghpur sub-division, are among the new cases. They had returned from Delhi on June 18. The DC said five patients have also recovered in the district.In Hamirpur district, a 10-year-old child from Nadaun area tested positive. He is the primary contact of his Covid-19 positive mother. The boy was in institutional quarantine.Besides, a 23-year-old women, who returned to Delhi from Kyrgyzstan and from there to her village in Bhoranj area has tested positive.Four people, including two sisters, tested positive in Una.HAMIRPUR WOMAN SUCCUMBS TO VIRUS, DEATH TOLL MOUNTS TO 8Himachal Pradesh recorded its eighth death due to the virus on Tuesday as a 80-year-old woman from Hamirpur district succumbed to the disease at Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College (LBSGMC), Nerchowk in Mandi district. The woman had a travel history to Delhi. She was diabetic and was also suffering from hypertension and other age-related ailments. She had tested positive on June 22 and was admitted at the Covid-care centre in Bhota. She was shifted to LBSGMC when her condition worsened.Five of the eight deaths reported in the state are of persons suffering from a chronic renal ailment.The first death in Himachal was reported on March 23 when a US-returned Tibetan man from McLeodganj died of the contagion.357 ACTIVE CASESThe active cases in the state stand at 357 while 575 patients have been cured. Eleven people have migrated to other states and seven have succumbed to the infection.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 272 cases, followed by Hamirpur with 245 cases, Solan with 109 cases, Una with 108 cases, Chamba with 52 cases, Bilaspur with 44 cases, Shimla with 40 cases, Sirmaur with 38 cases, Mandi with 30 cases, Kinnaur with eight cases, Kullu with five cases and Lahaul-Spiti with two case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-kids-among-11-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-tally-rises-to-953/story-tSYamfRj3e9QcKyf6rnVgP.html
30-06-2020||City||Tablighi Jamaat: Court allows shifting of foreign nationals to alternative accommodation||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Tuesday allowed shifting of 65 foreign members of the Tablighi Jamaat who had participated in a religious congregation at the Nizamuddin Markaz during the Covid-19 lockdown to alternative accommodation after they had moved court, saying they were facing problems at the present facilities.A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar passed the order after the counsels for the Centre, Delhi government and Delhi Police said they had no objection to it. The bench allowed the 65 foreigners to shift from the existing accommodation to another as they were facing problems such as unhygienic conditions.The plea filed through advocates Ashima Mandla and Mandakini Singh had sought a modification in the high court’s May 28 order by seeking to include three more alternative accommodations for the foreign nationals connected to Tablighi Jamaat.On May 28, the high court had directed that 955 foreign nationals, who had participated in the congregation, be shifted from institutional quarantine centres, where they were kept since March 30 despite testing negative for Covid-19, to nine alternative accommodations.The plea said that during the course of the month, 65 foreign nationals housed at Meeraj International School faced discomfort with the arrangements there.On Tuesday, the high court allowed them to be shifted from Meeraj International School to Texan Public School in Moujpur here, a new accommodation suggested by them.The bench said that for such modifications, the petitioners need not approach the high court directly in future and can give a representation to Delhi Police, which will forward it to the government of India for a decision, and the entire process should be completed in one week.During the hearing, the central government’s standing counsel Amit Mahajan and Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra said they do not have any objection to the plea of the foreign nationals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tablighi-jamaat-court-allows-shifting-of-foreign-nationals-to-alternative-accommodation/story-jKvjigGh0gvFrWhNH7EkjM.html
30-06-2020||City||SDMC signs MoU to generate power from waste at Okhla landfill site||New Delhi: The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Tuesday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Indian Oil and National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) to set up a pilot project for ‘Waste to Wealth Plant’ at its Okhla landfill site. The MoU was signed in the presence of Union minister of petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan, Union minister of power RK Singh, Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, SDMC mayor Anamika and SDMC commissioner Gyanesh Bharti through video conferencing.Bharti said the project will address the problem of disposal of municipal solid waste. Under this project, the plant will process 50 tonnes per day of Refused Derived Fuel (RDF) segregated from municipal solid waste to produce Syn Gas. This Syn gas will be utilised to generate about 1MW electricity. “For this project, SDMC will provide one acre land in Okhla landfill site on lease to Indian Oil for setting up the plant. The south corporation will purchase the power generated from the plant at a mutually agreed rate. We will able to save an amount of Rs.2.6 crore due to the purchase of power from the proposed plant,” Bharti said in a statement.The commissioner further said that there would be an investment of 50% each by the Indian Oil and NTPC towards the capital cost in setting up of the plant through a consortium. Indian Oil will facilitate the technology for the plant and identify technology partner for Engineering Procurement Construction (EPC) of the plant and will handle the operation of the proposed facility. The NTPC will facilitate technology review for electricity generation and evacuation.Union minister Pradhan also stated that Delhi generates 10,000 tonnes waste every day and it is a “daunting challenge” to manage and process the entire quantity of waste. He said that setting up such “relevant and much needed” plant will go a long way in the production of enriched organic manure, generation of electricity and treatment of effluent waste.Anamika, mayor SDMC, stated that the initiative will definitely help the municipality in achieving 100% waste processing. “In future, we will try to replicate such plants in other areas also. This plant is an indigenous solution for the problem of solid waste,” she said. Property tax date extendedThe South and the North Delhi Municipal Corporation have extended the date of submission of property tax with 15% rebate by one month till July 31, 2020. Officials of north and south corporations have said that the decision has been taken to facilitate taxpayers who could not deposit property tax availing the benefit of 15% for timely payment. Earlier, the last for tax submission to avail the benefit was June 30, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sdmc-signs-mou-to-generate-power-from-waste-at-okhla-landfill-site/story-lV2oih2g7VzOcwWsQFbZrM.html
30-06-2020||City||Interim bail to Sidhu Moose Wala: “Look like an event organised by police,” observes court||The Sangrur district court has granted interim bail to Punjabi singer Shubhdeep Singh alias Sidhu Moose Wala in a case under the Arms Act on Tuesday.Granting the interim bail, additional sessions judge Gurpartap Singh directed Moose Wala to join investigation before investigation officer of the SHO concerned within seven days.Meanwhile, the court also directed Moose Wala to make himself available in the investigation of the case as and when required and will not tamper with the prosecution evidence.“The applicant will not leave country without prior permission of the court,” the orders stated. The next hearing of the case is on July 15.The court also observed that: “The video shown by the prosecution in the court, which was also one of the basis of registration of FIR, makes it look like an event organised by the police itself and even a green carpet has been laid out on the ground.”“When the firing event was organised by the police and police themselves helped the accused in firing weapons at a firing range, custodial interrogation of the accused is clearly not required,” the court said.The court further observed that it seems that only when the video was circulated on the social media, FIR was registered by the police to save their face.“Further perusal of the file reveals that the police are yet to get report from CFSL regarding authenticity of the video clip to the effect that whether it has been tampered/edited or not,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/interim-bail-to-sidhu-moose-wala-look-like-an-event-organised-by-police-observes-court/story-pjwiksvJLfDlPxHq1Oz6XK.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Elderly woman among six fresh Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh||An elderly woman is among six more Covid-19 cases reported in Chandigarh on Tuesday, which took the city’s tally to 440.Meanwhile, 15 more patients were discharged, taking the number of recoveries to 364 and active cases to 70.Those found infected include a 53-year-old man, 47-year-old woman and 15-year-old boy from Sector 41. They are community contacts of previous positive cases from the same sector.Two women, aged 36 and 65, who are household contacts of an infected person have tested positive in Sector 23. The sixth case is of a 40-year-old man from Dhanas. He is workplace contact of a patient from Punjab.Among those recovered, 12 have been discharged from Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital and shifted to the quarantine facility at Sood Dharmshala. Three more patients, who were in home quarantine, have completed their 17-day isolation. Dr G Dewan, director health services, Chandigarh, said the city is faring well on various Covid-19 indicators with doubling rate at 99.4 days, recovery rate at 82.04% and fatality rate at 1.36%.“Chandigarh remained vigilant with regard to screening and testing by conducting door-to-door survey and establishing flu clinics to screen suspected cases on the basis of symptoms such as influenza like illness and severe acute respiratory infections,” he said.Meanwhile, an 18-year-old youth tested positive in Panchkula, taking the total count in the district to 112. The patient is a resident of Sector 7. While 84 patients have been cured so far, 28 cases are still active in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/elderly-woman-among-six-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh/story-ZzI4S717PIrH46p8AgjQiI.html
30-06-2020||City||CP traders allege NDMC harassing in name of fine for illegal ads||New Delhi: The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has asked the traders in Connaught Place to pay penalty for “illegal” advertisements outside their shops, prompting charges by the traders that the civic body was harassing them. The traders said that the civic body had earlier this month issued a notice and said that as per the Delhi Outdoor Advertisement Policy 2017, the traders will have to pay penalty for “unauthorised” advertisement in the market. A notice issued by NDMC said, “All advertisements in NDMC area are governed by Delhi Outdoor Advertisement Policy 2017...any unauthorised/illegal advertisement will attract penalty for each day...accordingly the NDMC has approved that the penalty may be levied on account of unauthorised advertisements till further orders.”An NDMC official said there were many locations in the market where illegal outdoor advertisements have been put up by the traders. “The order has been issued in accordance with the policy and levy penalty,” he said requesting anonymity.The New Delhi Traders Association (NDTA) said that there were no illegal advertisements in the market and it was a move to “realise money and harass” traders.Atul Bhargava, president NDTA, said that all signages in the market have been put up on private property in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Delhi Urban Arts Commission (DUAC) during the Common Wealth Games 2010. “There is no violation of rules while putting up signages against the shops and there were no illegal advertisements in the market by the traders. This is another way of harassing traders who are already witnessing tough times due to coronavirus pandemic. Earlier, they threatened us with sealing by issuing notices for sunken floors and now trying to harass us further on the pretext of unauthorised advertisements,” Bhargava said. He added that the civic body in its notice did not clarify dimensions of signages, LED screens or hoardings beyond which penalty would be incurred. “Last week, the NDMC staff has started an exercise of measuring signages and flex boards on our shops in the market. We have requested the NDMC authorities to provide more clarity on illegal advertisements and dimensions of flex boards, signages and LED screens. At present, we are not able to pay even Rs 100 fine as the condition of traders is really bad,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cp-traders-allege-ndmc-harassing-in-name-of-fine-for-illegal-ads/story-zU0DxS1VzfYU6eurPjn5hI.html
30-06-2020||City||Consumer court directs ICICI Bank not to close 7 savings accounts of P’kula family||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum restrained ICICI Bank from closing seven savings accounts of a Panchkula-based family.The forum has issued a notice to the bank for September 2, meanwhile directing it to allow account holders to operate their accounts with all its existing benefits and facilities till further orders.The complainant Naveen Sood, a resident of Sector 2, Panchkula alleged that he and his family members have several joint and individual savings accounts with various branches of ICICI Bank in Panchkula for many years. He alleged that the bank on June 9 threatened to close all their accounts within 30 days.However, the copy of the notice issued by the bank states that it has taken a strong objection “to the unpleasant nature of your (Sood family’s) e-mails to the managing director (MD) and the senior management.”It added, “We have suggested that (you) exercise restraint when communicating with us, but this advice seems to have gone unheeded. Resorting to provocative language or rude and disruptive behaviour causes distress and impacts morale and efficiency of our staff.”The bank said “in view of the unpleasant nature of (their) interactions and in view with the policies of the bank, it ordered to close all family’s relationships with ICICI Bank with immediate effect.”However, the forum observed that “the closing of the accounts may cause hardships, inconvenience and financial loss to the complainant”.In four separate complaints filed by each member of the Sood family, a total amount of ₹42 lakh has been sought from ICICI bank as compensation and damages towards monetary losses, mental harassment, defamation and tarnishing the reputation of the customers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/consumer-court-directs-icici-bank-not-to-close-7-savings-accounts-of-p-kula-family/story-fc3glYnZTov0oNJrmH9LMP.html
30-06-2020||City||Chief Khalsa Diwan passes budget of Rs 147 crore for 2020-21||The 117-year-old apolitical Sikh organisation Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) passed approximately Rs 147 crore budget for 2020-21 in the meetings of executive committee and General House, held through video conferencing on Tuesday.In the presence of president Nirmal Singh, vice-president Inderbir Singh Nijjar said, “Rs 7 crore is allotted for construction of new CKD school on Ajnala Road, Rs 1.6 crore for Adarsh schools, Rs 20 lakh for Dharam Parchar, Rs 2 crore for upgrade of CKD rural schools, Rs 1 crore for development of Central Khalsa Orphanage and old age homes and other institutes, Rs 3 crore for purchase of more land, Rs 2 crore for construction of Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School at Bhagatwala, Rs 50 lakh more for acquisition of land and Rs 80 lakh for construction of CKD school at Sur Singh has been reserved.”“Apart from this, three badminton halls will also be constructed at Sri Guru Harkrishan International School, Ranjit Avenue,” he said.Honorary secretary Swinder Singh Kathunangal read out the agenda while honorary secretary Surinder Singh presented the budget for 2020-21 after highlighting the budget for 2019-20.He said the total revenue in 2019-20 was Rs 116 crore which is projected to increase to Rs 137.98 crore this year, an increase of Rs 21 crore over last year, which is 18.5%.While last year the total expenditure was Rs 121 crore, in 2020-21 this expenditure is estimated to increase to Rs 147 crore, which is an indicator of progress, he said.Kathunangal said that in the last financial year, CKD has successfully achieved the goal of equipping its CKD institutions with ultra-modern facilities and upgrading laboratories, libraries and new auditoriums with new technology and upgrade.To fill vacancies of CKD members who have passed away, resigned or cannot attend the required number of meetings of General House, new members were approved to be appointed first in the executive committee, and then the General House, unanimously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chief-khalsa-diwan-passes-budget-of-rs-147-crore-for-2020-21/story-Jri1W7U4svQgLFdVutx9eO.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Armed assailants decamp with Rs 1.8lakh, LCD TV from school in Ludhiana||Four armed assailants struck at a private school in Kila Raipur and decamped with Rs 1.8lakh, a motorcycle and an LCD TV after making the security guard hostage.The incident came to light on Monday when the Kila Raipur police registered a case and started investigation.According to investigating officer Balbir Singh, the incident took place on the June 28-29 night, when four assailants entered the school by scaling the wall and made security guard Nachattar Singh hostage.The security guard stated all assailants were carrying sharp- edged weapons. While one of them guarded him, the other three entered the school and took away the money, a 32-inch LCD and a motorcycle.According to the school staff, while Rs 1.2 lakh were collected as fees from students, a sum of Rs 60,000 was kept for making identity cards of students. The assailants also took away the 32-inch LCD TV kept in the principal’s room, the staff said.The investigating officer said the accused were caught in the CCTV camera installed in the school. He did not rule out the possibility of an insider behind the crime as assailants were aware that cash was kept in the school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/armed-assailants-decamp-with-rs-1-8lakh-lcd-tv-from-school-in-ludhiana/story-Z1JmLQ15zMDekJEHQdk4AJ.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||4 held for cheating people to donate for chhabeel, langar||The police arrested four members of a gang for cheating people asking them to donate money for chhabeel and langar. Acting on a complaint that the four youth were collecting money from residents in lieu of organising chhabeel stalls and langar, the police arrested them from Sector 42, Chandigarh. The accused were identified as Pritam Singh, 26, and Lakhwinder Singh, 24 of Ludhiana, Arjan Singh, 23, of Anandpur Sahib, and Gurmeet Singh, 28, of Patiala. They were sent to judicial custody by a local court on Tuesday. On June 29, the police received information that the accused were collecting money from the Sector 42 residential area by issuing forged cash receipts with no serial numbers. The police reached the spot and arrested them.During interrogation, the accused told the police that during summer they would collect money from residents and issue fake/forged cash receipts in lieu of organising chhabeel/langar. Four forged cash receipts books were also recovered from their possession. A case under Sections 420 (cheating) 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 120 B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code against the four accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-held-for-cheating-people-to-donate-for-chhabeel-langar/story-3mK8MHhLlfRHGAnXGqjbDM.html
30-06-2020||City||Delhi riots: Charge sheets filed in 3 murder cases near Johripur puliya||New Delhi: The Delhi Police have separate charge sheets in three murders that took place near the Johripur puliya (culvert) between February 25 and 26 during communal riots in North East Delhi, which claimed 53 lives and left more than 400 others injured.Nine men were arrested and have been charged for rioting, murder, destruction of evidence and criminal conspiracy in all the three cases, senior police officers privy to the cases said. The charge sheets were filed on Monday in a Delhi court.The three cases were among the eight cases that took place at the same spot, Johripur puliya-Bhagirathi Vihar drain from which nine bodies, including that of two siblings, were recovered between February 25 and 26.The dead persons in the three cases were Hamza, Aamin and Bhure Ali alias Salman. All of them were thrashed to death by a violent mob, that allegedly stopped passers-by, asked for their identities, and killed those them by attacking them with blunt weapons.The police, in their charge sheets, have said that a group including the nine arrested men and unidentified rioters were indulging in violence in Ganga Vihar and Bhagirathi Vihar areas since February 25 morning. A WhatsApp ground was also created and its members conspired to attack people of the other community, a police officer associated with the probe said, quoting the charge sheet. From February 25 afternoon to the next midnight (February 26), these accused persons bludgeoned nine persons to death.“Their modus operandi was that they would catch people and ascertain their religion by asking name, address and identity card. The victims were then attacked and thrown into the Bhagirathi Vihar drain,” the officer said, quoting the charge sheet.Police have said in the charge sheets that some more suspects have been identified in the cases but they are yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-charge-sheets-filed-in-3-murder-cases-near-johripur-puliya/story-RhNicFMAp1xPNr4BpQBizL.html
30-06-2020||City||Unlock 2.0: No curbs on movement, but educational institutions to remain closed till July 31||Chandigarh The Punjab government on Tuesday issued guidelines for phased reopening for ‘Unlock 2’ from July 1 to 30, reopening more activities in a calibrated manner in areas outside the containment zones.A government spokesperson said there will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods, including those for cross land-border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries. “No separate permission, approval or e-permit will be required for such movement. However, the district authorities have been allowed to impose such restrictions as deemed necessary in containment zones,” he added.The spokesperson said schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed till July 31. Online/distance learning will be permitted. Training institutions of the central and state governments will be allowed to function from July 15 and standard operating procedures (SOP) for the same will be issued by the department of personnel and training (DoPT), government of India.Activities such as metro rail, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums and assembly will remain prohibited. “International air travel of passengers will also be prohibited, except as permitted by MHA. Apart from this, no social/political/sports/entertainment/academic/cultural/religious functions and other large congregations will be allowed,” he said.The spokesperson said lockdown will continue to remain in force in containment zones till July 31 and such zones will be demarcated by the district authorities as per the guidelines of the Union health ministry. Only essential activities will be permitted in the containment zones.He said the movement of individuals for all the non-essential activities will remain prohibited between 10pm to 5am throughout the state, allowing relaxation of one hour. During Unlock 1.0, movement was restricted from 9pm to 5am. The district authorities have been directed to issue prohibitory orders u/s 144 of CrPC and ensure strict compliance.In addition, movement by passenger trains and Shramik special trains, domestic air travel, movement of Indian nationals stranded outside the country and of specified persons to travel abroad, evacuation of foreign nationals and sign-on and sign-off of Indian seafarers will continue to be regulated as per SOPs issued.Places of worship will remain open between 5am and 8pm. “The maximum number of persons at the time of worship will not exceed 20 with due distancing and, therefore, the worship time should be staggered accordingly, said the spokesperson. Langar and parsad are being allowed.Likewise, restaurants have been allowed to open till 9pm with 50% occupancy or 50 guests, whichever is less. Liquor can be served provided the restaurant has a valid permission from the excise department. The spokesperson said that night curfew will be strictly enforced. Guests will be allowed to enter and leave the hotel premises between 10pm and 5am based on their schedule of travel by flight/train. “The air/train ticket and hotel booking will serve as a curfew pass for one-time movement of these guests to and from the hotel during the curfew hours from 10pm to 5am, he added.All the shopping malls and shops, including shops in main bazaars in both urban and rural areas, are allowed to open between 7am and 8pm. Liquor vends will remain open from 8am to 9pm. Barber shops, hair-cut saloons, beauty parlours and spas have been allowed from 7am to 8pm, subject to compliance of the SOPs as issued by the Punjab health department.The spokesperson further said that shops dealing with essential commodities will be allowed to remain open till 8pm on all days. Restaurants and liquor vends will continue to remain open till 9pm on all days. On Sundays, shops (other than those dealing in essential commodities) and shopping malls will remain closed, he added. Sports complexes, stadia and public parks have been allowed to open from 7am to 8pm without spectators as per the SOPs of the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unlock-2-0-no-curbs-on-movement-but-educational-institutions-to-remain-closed-till-july-31/story-vldkaeKV18F8hcNJdtCHxH.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||LIT postpones anti-encroachment drive amid protest in Ludhiana’s Model House area||High drama was witnessed in the Model House and Dugri Road areas after Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) officials went to take action against encroachments made in the form of shanties over three acres of LIT land on Tuesday.Claiming that the land belonged to them, a family opposed the drive and staged a protest. One of them, Ravinder Singh Sonu, also slapped LIT executive engineer Jagdev Singh in the presence of a heavy police force after an encroachment was razed by the officials. The situation went out of control, following which LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam and assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Jatinder Singh reached the spot and warned encroachers of strict action.The LIT postponed the drive for a week asking the residents to submit proof of ownership, otherwise encroachments would be razed.Sonu said, “The land belongs to us and the LIT should measure its land in the area before conducting an anti-encroachment drive. We had also conducted a meeting with the then LIT chairman Paramjit Singh Sibia (now dead) and he agreed with us. A case regarding the same is sub judice in the court, but the LIT officials also ignored the same while taking up the drive.” Balasubramaniam said, “The land belongs to the LIT as it was acquired in the 1950’s, but it has been encroached upon by a few residents for a long time. The LIT has received several complaints against encroachments in the past and the court has also ordered that the land belongs to the LIT.”He added, “We had received information that construction was being taken up in the area, following which we planned a drive. The encroachers have been asked to present the ownership proof in a week, otherwise the encroachments would be razed. A police complaint is also being made against the residents, who slapped the LIT official and obstructed the drive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lit-postpones-anti-encroachment-drive-amid-protest-in-ludhiana-s-model-house-area/story-nA7UC4jswZczOpMYTe48rJ.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Teaching suspended at Panjab University, affiliated colleges till July 31||Panjab University on Tuesday decided to suspend teaching at the varsity and its affiliated colleges till July 31.Teaching at six constituent colleges will also remain suspended. Earlier, teaching had been suspended till June 30. PU registrar Karamjeet Singh said, “The decision was taken in view of the guidelines issued by ministry of home affairs for Unlock 2.0.”According to an order issued by the university, the chairperson of a department may call a faculty member when they require and only one-third of the non-teaching staff of the university can attend office. Also, in teaching departments, where number of non-teaching employees is five or less, the chairperson may call more than 33% of the staff for duty depending on requirement.“No employee will be allowed to leave headquarter without permission, as services of any employee from teaching as well as non-teaching staff may be required during this period,” the registrar said. Teachers directed to continue work from home Teachers of the university have been directed to continue work from home. PU senator Rajat Sandhir, who had earlier written to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar asking for teachers to be allowed work from home, said, “Teachers have been working and doing their research from home during lockdown. It is a viable option as it will prevent unnecessary movement of people.”Moreover, all employees have been directed to follow standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the university on Sunday. The principals of colleges have been directed to call employees on need basis as per requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teaching-suspended-at-panjab-university-affiliated-colleges-till-july-31/story-dRE9F9ndmwaChOOnzADz8O.html
30-06-2020||City||Punjab’s second Sainik School stuck in red tape||Chandigarh Punjab’s second Sainik School at Gurdaspur is stuck in red tape despite the availability of land and site survey.The new Sainik School at Dalla Gorian village of Gurdaspur district, which was proposed by the state government in December 2009, is getting delayed due to a logjam between the Union ministry of defence and the state government over completion of paperwork for the Sainik School at Kapurthala.The survey of the 40-acre site was carried out by the central ministry in June 2017 after it received a proposal from the present government. The Sainik School Society, the nodal organisation under the defence ministry for establishing and managing these prestigious schools across the country, had received the proposal from the state government in April 2017, according to information provided by the society under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, 2005.It further said the matter is under consideration and yet to be finalised.“The site has been found suitable for opening the school with student strength of 250, but there has been no progress in the past three years. The state government and the ministry are stuck on signing of a memorandum of agreement (MoA) for Kapurthala Sainik School,” said two officials familiar with the matter.Sainik Schools are established on the specific request of the state government. The MoA is to be signed between the state government and the defence ministry on their roles and responsibilities, including financial support. The executive committee of the Sainik School Society had in 2017 decided not to open any new school in states where the agreement for the existing schools are pending.“As the MoA for the Sainik School at Kapurthala is pending, there has been no progress on the second school. The file is pending with the finance department for approval for more than one year,” one of the two officials said who did not want to identified.The Punjab government had agreed to sign the MoA with the defence ministry in 1996-97, but nothing happened. As per the funding pattern, the state government has to bear the entire capital expenditure on land, buildings, furniture and educational equipment, besides maintenance cost of buildings, roads, furniture, transport, etc and award scholarships on the basis of income of parents. Similarly, the Centre pays for the three service officers and instructors, awards scholarships to wards of defence personnel, including ex-servicemen, and awards NDA incentive to cadets who join NDA.The Kapurthala Sainik School, established way back in 1961 as a feeder institution for the armed forces, has 568 students currently. The school has been a source of pride for the state government with an impressive list of alumni. On June 13, seven of its students passed out from the Indian Millitary Academy in Dehradun, including the one who was awarded the Sword of Honour.At present, there are 33 Sainik Schools, including two new ones in Uttar Pradesh and Odisha this year, in the country, with eight states having two or more of these prestigious institutions. And, a fourth of the cadets who joined the National Defence Academy between 2016-17 and 2018-19 came from these schools.BUREAUCRATIC WAYS Conceived way back in 2009, new school at Gurdaspur held up due to delay in signing of memorandum of agreement (MoA) for the existing one at Kapurthala||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-second-sainik-school-stuck-in-red-tape/story-TZGwMFIHpEDrmIeFv0fxSP.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||TV news anchor dies of Covid-19 in Mohali||Mohali : A 43-year-old senior journalist with the PTC Punjabi TV channel who had tested positive for Covid-19 died in a private hospital early on Tuesday, the fourth fatality in the district as 12 fresh cases were reported here, taking the count to 271.Davinder Pal Singh was a resident of Phase-10 and suffering from post renal transplant complications when he was hospitalised on June 13 after testing positive for Covid-19.However, even though he was released after recovery, Davinder Pal Singh was admitted to hospital again on Monday after a cardiac arrest, and died on Tuesday.The administration has counted him among Covid-19 fatalities.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the journalist was cremated as per protocol under the observation of health officials.“We will collect the samples of his family members and will also trace his contacts,” Dr Singh said.Other fatalitiesThe other Covid-19 fatalities include a Nayagaon resident (65) who died at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, on March 31 and a woman (74) whose reports came in positive after she died at the Kharar Civil Hospital on April 6 while being treated for acute hypertension and diabetes. 12 more test positiveEleven more cases reported in Mohali on Tuesday took the count to 271.Eight patients, all men, are from Behra village in Dera Bassi and are aged between 18 and 28. Others include a woman (37) from Baltana and another man (55) from Dhakoli, both in Zirakpur; a man (25) from Phase 4, who was admitted after suffering from influenza like illness (ILI) and another man (46) from Lalru Mandi, who had returned from Uttar Pradesh.All the patients are contacts of positive patients and have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. They are responding well to the treatment, Dr Singh added.At present, there are 271 patients in the district, out of which 197 have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tv-news-anchor-dies-of-covid-19-in-mohali/story-nkRauVHGjq1nPE2WHSsQoO.html
30-06-2020||City||4 arrested for stealing bikes for joyrides||Mumbra police arrested four persons for bike theft in Mumbra, Diva and Kalwa area. The accused would break the handle locks of the bikes, take them for a ride across the city and leave it at any place once the fuel tank was empty. They stole at least 14 bikes with the same modus operandi. According to police, many cases of vehicle thefts were being reported in the last few days in Mumbra and nearby suburbs. The Thane police commissioner had ordered investigation in the cases.Senior police inspector, M Kad, said, “Through CCTV footages we have nabbed Arshad Shaikh, 19, Suraj Saroj, 20, Aman Shaikh 20 and Sufiana Ansari, 19. They have confessed about stealing 14 bikes so far. They would start the bike by breaking the handle lock and go for a joy ride till the bike was out of fuel. They are habitual offenders and knew the mechanics of the bikes.”They are booked under Motor Vehicle Act, while the police are yet to recover the bikes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-arrested-for-stealing-bikes-for-joyrides/story-Of005KWsHc9HDPWigLrJyN.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Frequent power outages give Ambala residents sleepless nights||Frequent power cuts in the sweltering heat have resulted in sleepless nights for Ambala residents.Locals from various parts of cantonment and city said there have been frequent power cuts in their area for the last one week, especially at night. A resident of New Colony in Ambala cantonment said power disruptions have become the norm for the last few weeks and there is no redressal of complainants. “There have been frequent power cuts in my area and an official said there is a fuse problem that is yet to be repaired. Power cuts at night are most frustrating. We have tried to call officials of the electricity department from the area but there is no response,” said Manoj, an employee with a local private company.Another resident from city’s Prem Nagar area, Dinesh Gulati, said power disruptions at night for the last three to four days are making their lives difficult.However, superintendent engineer Rakesh Khanna said these are not power cuts but transmission issues due to an accident near Baldev Nagar area. “Due to an accident near Baldev Nagar, we had to transfer the load to other areas nearby, which lead to some transmission issues. Generally, fixing such issues takes time and a fault in transfer affects nearly 300 homes connected to it. We have fixed this in Mahesh Nagar area and hope there are no more complaints,” he said. On being asked about increase in consumption, Khanna said, “Yes, there has been a slight rise in urban consumption over the last few days in both city and cantonment compared to last year. There is also an estimated rise of 30% to 40% in summers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/frequent-power-outages-give-ambala-residents-sleepless-nights/story-nyaB9pWRQP9y7vvYH8ch9H.html
30-06-2020||City||Amritsar PPE kits scam: Statements of 20 GMCH doctors recorded||The district administration started probe into the alleged scam of purchase of 2,000 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Amritsar by recording statements of 20 doctors on Tuesday, after the centre government asked the state to ensure time-bound investigation into the matter.In April, doctors, nurses and other healthcare staff at the hospital had refused to use around 2,000 PPE kits alleging that they were substandard and did not include N-95 masks. They had also accused the authorities of paying around Rs 41 lakh for the kits, which according to the staff should not have cost more than Rs 7 lakh.Subsequently, Amritsar deputy commissioner Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon had marked an enquiry into matter on April 24, but no report was submitted to the authorities and the probe was on at a snail’s pace.Chief administrator of Amritsar Development Authority (ADA), Dr Pallavi Chaudhary, who is leading the enquiry, had called 20 GMCH doctors, including medical superintendent Dr Raman Sharma, head of medicine department and nodal officer of Covid-19 at GMCH Dr Shiv Charan Singh, and others for interrogation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amritsar-ppe-kits-scam-statements-of-20-gmch-doctors-recorded/story-VJMUEUxtslxfZv4EMgxoLL.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Webinar series organised by Panjab University dept during Covid lockdown concludes||The webinar series organised by Panjab University’s department of library and information science during the Covid-19 lockdown concluded on Monday.The department organised 21 webinars from April 24 to June 29 on the theme “Information generation, dissemination and use during Covid-19 lockdown’ in which eminent speakers from India and abroad deliberated on various issues. As many as 5,000 attendees participated in the webinars series. Also, recorded webinars are available on DLIS’ YouTube channel.During the concluding webinar on Monday, Naresh Kumar Agarwal, associate professor at school of library and information science, Simmons University, USA, spoke on “Disinformation generation, dissemination and use: Covid-19 and beyond”. He differentiated between information, misinformation and disinformation and highlighted how disinformation is generated, how it spreads and the critical thinking skills one must have to differentiate between fact and fake news. More than 250 attendees, including academicians, researchers and students from India and abroad participated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/webinar-series-organised-by-panjab-university-dept-during-covid-lockdown-concludes/story-Brekd4n8bRNMGSDhddgAVM.html
30-06-2020||City||In ‘unsaid’ Bihar of PM speech, parties trade fire||PATNAPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement Tuesday to extend the Pradhanmantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) till November this year drew predictably mixed reactions from political parties in Bihar, where Assembly polls are, incidentally, due in October-November.Under the scheme, over 80 crore people in the country will get five kgs of wheat or of rice every month.Though the prime minister didn’t mention Bihar in his televised speech announcing extension of the scheme, he spoke twice about Chhath, considered the holiest festival in the state. During the festival that usually falls in October-November, most people from Bihar residing outside come home and stay for a few days. Besides, nearly 25 lakh migrant workers from Bihar, who were working in other states, have returned home since the countrywide lockdown was imposed on March 24 to check the spread of coronavirus. Though many have started going out again in search of jobs, a large section is expected to stay back, given the uncertain environment they find themselves in. Given their voting potential, political parties in the state have already started wooing them, raising the issue of hardships these they faced while returning home and their employment prospects.While the ruling NDA in the state hailed the PM's announcement, the Opposition alleged it was electoral gimmick.“PM Modi is seriously concerned for the poor of the country. It is a welcome step. The Congress and RJD should not view it through the prism of elections,” said BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand. “It’s a big announcement. This should not be linked to elections. It will benefit all over country and not only Bihar. Elections take place every five years,” said JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan. RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav, the Leader of Opposition in Bihar Assembly, said the ruling alliance was more concerned about elections. “There is no concern for Corona. Cases are increasing. They are only eyeing elections,” he said.Earlier, on June 20, Modi had launched Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan (GKRA), which is to run for 125 days across 116 districts in six states to help migrant workers get jobs in their home states. Bihar is the biggest beneficiary of the state as 32 out of its 38 districts have been selected based on the criterion that over 25,000 migrant workers should have returned back from other states.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had lauded the initiative and said it would compliment the state government’s own initiatives to ensure that no one requiring immediate work was left without work.Politics apart, observers say the extension of scheme for free foodgrains cannot be a substitute for employment for migrants who have returned, even though it may help woo them for votes. “There is another side of the picture too. The rush to make ration cards makes it clear these many people were deprived of it and exposes the system. The migrants need money and employment. Though foodgrains will help poor, it is yet to be seen how much of it translates into votes,” said political analyst D M Diwakar of A N Sinha Institute for Social Studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-unsaid-bihar-of-pm-speech-parties-trade-fire/story-rocXaNhLM10lY45nlwF48H.html
30-06-2020||City||Drones to keep an eye on lockdown violators in containment zones in Ludhiana||The city police have started deploying drones to keep an eye on those defying social distancing norms, officials said on Tuesday. In a first-of-its-kind initiative, the police are clicking pictures of violators through drone cameras who will be identified with the help of area residents working as traffic volunteers, police informers and civic body employees. They would be warned of action through text messages.Around 102 WhatsApp messages have been sent to violators so far.Division Number 2 and 4 police stations have sent 97 messages to violators through WhatsApp and five messages were sent to those living in a containment zone.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-1) Deepak Pareek said, “The Ludhiana police are using drones to identify violators in containment zones. The drones can enter narrow lanes and provide a bird’s eye view. The footage, collected by drones, is continuously analysed by dedicated IT teams.”With the deployment of drones, the police will not have to enter the containment areas. There is also no physical contact. Initially, a warning would be served, but a repeated offender will have to face the music as challans will be issued to them,” said Pareek.As many as 20 cops, including DCP Ashwani Kapoor, were tested Covid-19 positive in June, following which the cops were instructed to follow the social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drones-to-keep-an-eye-on-lockdown-violators-in-containment-zones-in-ludhiana/story-nSQsNFhfppoApJa3T2g6EI.html
30-06-2020||City||Migrant found bludgeoned to death near YPS Chowk in Mohali||Three days after a painter was killed by unknown assailants at Badhmajra in Mohali’s Balongi, another migrant worker was found bludgeoned to death with a handpump handle near YPS Chowk in Phase 8 on Tuesday.The victim has been identified as Raja Ram, 30, who lived in the nearby Amb Sahib colony and worked as a gardener and labourer. The killers are yet unidentified.The matter came to light around 9am, when police received information about a man’s dead body lying on the rear of a liquor vend along the road near YPS Chowk.According to initial inquiry, the victim was murdered around 1:30am. He had suffered multiple blows to his head and face, said assistant sub-inspector Raspreet Singh. “The handpump handle with blood stains on it has been recovered and samples sent for forensic analysis,” he said.“We are looking into various angles. A few people have been rounded up on suspicion. We will interrogate them for more details,” said deputy superintendent of police Deep Kamal. While a case of murder has been registered against the unknown assailants at the Phase 8 police station, the body has been sent to the mortuary of the civil hospital in Phase 6, where postmortem would be conducted on Wednesday.Painter’s murder: Police still cluelessThree men and their aides who stabbed a 32-year-old man to death at Badhmajra village on Saturday night still remain unidentified.The victim, Sanjay Yadav, who worked as a painter, was stabbed thrice in the head and legs after his wife objected to the trio urinating near their house. “We are investigating the matter. No lead has been found yet,” said Amardeep Singh, station house officer, Balongi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-found-bludgeoned-to-death-near-yps-chowk-in-mohali/story-dt6b4Y3yYstHvSTuJJ0fiI.html
30-06-2020||Pune||Warkaris carrying holy ‘padukas’ leave for Pandharpur||Two flower-decked buses carrying the ‘padukas’ (holy footprints) of saint-poets Dnyaneshwar and Tukaram left for Pandharpur with handful of warkaris (pilgrims) from Alandi and Dehu on Tuesday on the eve of the ‘Ashadhi Ekadashi’.The district administration said that nearly 90 warkaris who were allowed to accompany the procession had tested negative for Covid-19 and were allowed to proceed. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “All the warkaris, part of the procession, have tested negative and we have allowed them to go with the palkhi following social distancing norms and hygiene guidelines.”Lakhs of ‘warkaris’, or devotees of Lord Vitthal, from various parts of Maharashtra and some neighbouring states throng the temple in Pandharpur every year on the occasion of ‘Ashadhi Ekadashi’. However, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government cancelled the annual wari pilgrimage, which is characterised by people walking to Pandharpur with palanquins from various parts of the state.This year, the bus took the traditional route through Pune, Satara and reached Pandharpur in Solapur district. The warkaris accompanying the palkhis were seen wearing masks and played ‘taal and mridanga’ before the buses left. The roads in Alandi and Dehu from where the buses set off were lined with colourful ‘rangolis’.Earlier, the Solapur district administration imposed a curfew in Pandharpur from Tuesday ahead of ‘Ashadhi Ekadashi’, to prevent crowds from gathering to stop the spread of Covid-19.Milind Shambharkar, the district collector of Solapur, issued the order on Monday late evening and imposed restrictions on people’s movement in and around Pandharpur town from 2pm on June 30 to midnight on July 2 under the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/tested-negative-warkaris-carrying-holy-padukas-leave-for-pandharpur/story-hYQPqIEKQ77ORXJ0i8CnMM.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||Body of man with stab injuries found in JJ MArg area||A body of a 50-year-old man with multiple stab injuries was found lying outside an electronic shop in JJ Marg area on Monday. The JJ Marg police have registered a case of murder and are looking for the culprit. The victim has not been identified yet. After conducting an inquiry, the locals said they called him Anna and he worked for shopkeepers and helped them load materials in the tempo. He lived in a shanty at JJ Marg area. His room partner, a 40-year-old is missing after the murder, said police officer. The body was spotted by passers around 6:45am and police were informed about the incident. “The locals informed us that the victim had a dispute with a man over sharing alcohol,” said senior inspector Sanjeev Bhole of the JJ Marg police station. “It appears that in fit of rage an accused stabbed in the victim’s abdomen with a sharp object three to four times and fled from the spot” added Bhole. The murder case has been registered and police are looking for him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/body-of-man-with-stab-injuries-found-in-jj-marg-area/story-eRpaOPElvv0BL0WcccC2DM.html
30-06-2020||City||Set up regulatory commission for price control in construction sector: J&K Apni Party||The Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) on Tuesday asked the government to constitute a regulatory commission to control unprecedented hike in prices of construction material which is giving a tough time to people besides hampering overall developmental activities across the UT.In a joint statement issued here, former legislators and Apni party leaders Mohammad Ashraf Mir and Abdul Rahim Rather have also demanded that a body of experts, including representatives of various construction material producing associations, should be formed to find tangible solutions to the issues faced by the construction sector.They said as compared to last year, there has been a record hike of at least 60% in costs of building materials like bricks, stones, sand, gravel and aggregate without any solid justification. “It is not the public only but the uncertainty in prices of raw materials that has badly hit the contractors who take up work based on a rate they foresee. The indiscriminate rise in prices of construction material may lead the common people and contractors into debt traps. This unjustified hike has badly hampered the overall developmental activities both in private and public sectors,” the leaders stated.The party leaders demanded that the regulatory commission, if constituted, should also be mandated to review the ban on process of extraction of building material in order to ensure maximum participation of local contractors and labourers that can eventually bring down the costs of building material.The party has also demanded financial package for businessmen and hoteliers of Jammu’s Old City areas and Katra. Senior leader Vikram Malhotra and former minister Manjit Singh said the business community and hoteliers have suffered financially due to the lockdown and have not recovered from the losses as the restrictions continue on religious tourism.They also appealed to the government to waive off electricity bills of people in Jammu and Kashmir due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/set-up-regulatory-commission-for-price-control-in-construction-sector-j-k-apni-party/story-r9cD7nxKW3YzKhIdNrRayN.html
30-06-2020||City||SGPC chief sets up subcommittee to probe missing 267 ‘saroops’||AMRITSAR Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal on Tuesday constituted a subcommittee to look into the matter of missing 267 Guru Granth Sahib’s ‘saroops’, hours after Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh sought a fair and independent probe from the gurdwara body. The subcommittee will comprise Golden Temple granthi Giani Maan Singh, SGPC general secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami, executive member Surjit Singh Kang, members Jagsir Singh, Gurtej Singh and Gurtej Singh Dhade and assistant secretary Simarjit Singh (coordinator).“Action will be taken on the basis of the report of the panel. Anyone found guilty in the probe will be punished,” said Longowal after presiding over a meeting of SGPC’s Dharam Parchar Committee at Teja Singh Samundari Hall here.The matter of missing 267 ‘saroops’ from publishing house of the SGPC at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib near Golden Temple was uncovered by the Punjab Human Rights Organization (PHRO) on the basis of a statement of Kanwaljit Singh, who retired as assistant supervisor of the publishing house on May 31.Kanwaljit, who also lodged a police complaint on Sunday against the SGPC officials, claimed that 80 of 267 missing ‘saroops’ got damaged in 2016 fire and the SGPC hid this incident. On the other hand, SGPC refuted his claim stating that he was lying to save his own skin.Hailing the bravery of Sikh soldier Gurtej Singh who fought Chinese troops on LAC with his kirpan, the Dharam Parchar Committee demanded that the story of his valour should be taught to school students. Longowal said due to the pandemic, ‘dharam parchar’ activities will be carried out using technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sgpc-chief-sets-up-subcommittee-to-probe-missing-267-saroops/story-dmAhNQ14RnogdnfYXlEvuO.html
30-06-2020||TV||Actor Vikas Kumar grabs the eyeballs in Aarya||The recently released web series, starring Sushmita Sen in and as ‘Aarya’ streaming on Disney+ Hotstar, is receiving great appreciation from critics for a power- packed story. But, other than Sushmita, who has made a comeback nearly after a decade, there is one more character who has been catching attention of the viewers and critics. The character is of ACP Khan, played by Vikas Kumar. Khan plays a cop who is driving the investigation, looking for a pen drive that will expose the drug traders.Son of a doctor in Bihar Sharif, Vikas has made a mark in the television and film industry for the last 10 years. He has earlier appeared as a senior inspector Rajat in CID, as well as inspector Umesh Jagdale in Pankaj Tripathi starrer web series ‘Powder’, produced by Yash Raj Chopra.Also Read: Appreciation is bigger than awards: ‘Panchayat’ series fame ChandanIn an interview with Hindustan Times, Vikas, who portrays a gay character in Aarya, says, “I liked the way the character was written. Although, ACP Khan is gay, but the series neither sensationalize the fact nor does it portray it as a big revelation. It has just one normal scene where his partner comes to him with a tiffin and asks why he is so stressed at work. This is how we normalise things for the LGBT community. Someone’s sexuality cannot be his or her identity. Here, Khan’s identity is not ‘gay’ but a ‘cop’.The character of ACP Khan evolves beautifully throughout the series. From the first episode itself, he is portrayed as the antagonist, but by the end of the series, he turns out to be the hero.Talking about the culture of web series, he said, “OTT platforms have given an exposure and opportunities to new as well as old actors for developing their skills. India is a little late in adopting the web series culture but now, with the lockdown becoming the new normal, OTT platforms have turned out to be a boon for the entertainment seekers and producers. In western countries, Hollywood actors are not only focusing on the silver screen but also working in web series for the OTT Platforms like Netflix.”Hailing from a small town of Bihar, Vikas has taken a big leap in the TV industry. Giving advice to the aspiring actors who come from a small town to Mumbai, he said, “Every outsider has to go through the struggling phase. But I don’t consider it as ‘struggle’. Rejection and failures are a process of becoming successful. The more you fail, the more you should be dedicated to work hard and win. Aspirants should first complete their education, get a degree, or gain some job experience and then plan to come to this industry. Proper planning, patience and hard work are the keys to success,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/tv/actor-vikas-kumar-grabs-the-eyeballs-in-aarya/story-1vJz9tgWMhOQbYz4aA4YnJ.html
30-06-2020||City||Withdraw cases filed against women for preventing entry of agri minister in Spiti valley: Activists to HP govt||The women groups and social activists across Himachal Pradesh have expressed solidarity with women in the tribal Lahaul-Spiti district’s Kaza against whom criminal cases were filed for preventing entry of agriculture minister Ram Lal Markanda in the valley in wake of Covid-19.Over a dozen women groups and social activists, in an open letter, have demanded that the state government should withdraw the cases filed against the women under various sections of the Indian Penal Code. Locals led by Kaza Mahila Mandal had staged a protest against Markanda, who also is the local MLA, for not adhering to the quarantine norms. Markanda had termed the protest as politically motivated.In the letter, the women groups and activists stated that on June 9 people of Kaza were protesting against the entry of outsiders in the valley. “However, when they learnt that the agriculture minister was entering the valley in a cavalcade of 15 cars, the locals got agitated and protested against the minister for violating quarantine norms,” the letter stated.It said that while the Centre and state government has started to lift restrictions, the people of Spiti valley have decided to continue with the lockdown norms to prevent the spread of virus.“To continue with the strict lockdown was also necessary given the lack of basic health facilities in the valley. Also, it would have been difficult to maintain social distancing in the tribal valley where people are dependent on each other,” the women activists stated.They said that the June 9 protest was triggered after the members of Tribal Advisory Committee (TAC) started to bring in migrant labourers. The locals had gone to submit a memorandum to the administration but learnt that all the officers were at the entry gate of the valley as the minister was visiting the area.The locals urged the minister to go into quarantine. However, when he didn’t agree the people protested and turned him away. Subsequently, cases were registered by the police against 190 women of Kaza under various sections of the Indian Penal Code.“Instead of appreciating the tribal women for their proactive work to save the valley, the government is humiliating and harassing them by registering police cases,” alleged the women groups and social activists.“We want the government to withdraw all the cases filed against these women or a compliant will be filed with the Women Commission and National Commission for Scheduled Tribes,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/withdraw-cases-filed-against-women-for-preventing-entry-of-agri-minister-in-spiti-valley-activists-to-hp-govt/story-5O3WxoqcZkDxJP4SroUVbO.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||No contract extension for over 200 multi-tasking staffers at PU||Over 200 multi-tasking employees working on a contractual basis at Panjab University are left in the lurch after the varsity decided not to extend their services. The multi-tasking staffers said that they received calls from their respective branch and department heads asking them not to attend offices from July 1 as no extension is being given to them after June. On this, the workers staged a protest on Tuesday outside the administrative block of the university demanding extension.Sanjay Kumar who has been working as a multi-tasking employee at Panjab University for three years said that no prior notice was given to him and others. “We were only informed through calls to not attend duties from July 1.” Multi-tasking staffers are recruited on a contract basis and they are given extension after a few months. There are around 250 such staffers working at PU’s departments and other branches. They said that the last extension was given to them in May for the month of June. Before this, they were given an extension of three months in March.“It is hard to find a new job at this time. I have a family. How am I to feed them,” asked Sunil Kumar who is working as MTS at PU from April 2019.The staffers said that despite regular employees attending offices on a rotational basis, they have been coming to work regularly without any leave. Panjab University, registrar, Professor Karamjeet Singh said, “Their term has ended on June 30. As minimal staff is needed during these days, we will retain them when the need will arise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-contract-extension-for-over-200-multi-tasking-staffers-at-pu/story-PmgQPZ9sbSyhmyVzdz6YSI.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab police busts KLF terror module, three arrested||The Punjab Police has arrested three alleged members of the Khalistan Liberation Front (KLF), foiling a bid to target socio-religious leaders and disturb the communal harmony of the state.Director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said the terror module, busted on Sunday, was operating in various parts of Punjab at the behest of pro-Khalistani elements based in Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and UK. He said one .32 bore pistol, along with seven cartridges, has been recovered from the trio identified as Sukhchain Singh of Sehra village, Patiala, Amritpal Singh of Achanak village, Mansa, and Jaspreet Singh of Borewal Sohan, Majitha. Their associate Lovepreet Singh, hailing from Kaithal, had been recently arrested by the Delhi Police, along with other KLF members, he said in a statement.The DGP said the three men, who came into contact with one other through social media, were in touch with Pakistan-based handlers who provoked them to target socio-religious leaders. “Amritpal was instrumental in connecting and motivating Sukhchain and Lovepreet. Initial investigations show that their Pakistan-based handlers also invited these men to visit Pakistan for planning the future course of action,” he said.One of the foreign handlers, based in Saudi Arabia, promised to provide them shelter once they execute their actions on ground. An FIR has been registered at Sadar police station in Samana of Patiala district under Sections 13, 16, 18, 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 and 25/54/59 of the Arms Act, and further investigations are in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-police-busts-klf-terror-module-three-arrested/story-vLsUxx6q5KVV5wjtvOh8zN.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Reduce central excise to bring down petrol, diesel prices, Sukhbir urges PM||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reduce central excise on petrol and diesel so that the common man, farmers and those in transport sector do not suffer.In a letter to the Prime Minister, the SAD president said that the steep hike in petrol and diesel prices was resulting in hardship for farmers who were sowing ‘kharif’ crop and the increased price of transportation had led to increase in prices of essential commodities. He said that the common man had also been adversely affected by the unprecedented hike. “Reduction in fuel prices would also help the industry get up on its feet by reducing the input costs,” said Sukhbir.ALSO WRITES TO PUNJAB CMThe SAD president also wrote a separate letter to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, requesting him to reduce the state taxes on petrol and diesel. He said that in Punjab, the state tax on petrol had gone up to 27.27% while for diesel it was up at 17.53%.Badal said the high quotient of state taxes on fuel had affected farmers the most. “Movement of migrant labour out of Punjab had led to doubling of transplantation rates of paddy. Amid the paddy sowing season and various farm operations, farmers have been hit by an unreasonable hike in state taxes on diesel,” said the former deputy CM.Trade and industry, which are trying to get back on their feet after a three-month lockdown, are also feeling the pinch of high state taxes on fuel. The common man is also reeling under the weight of the high tax on petrol, added Sukhbir, requesting CM to reduce state taxes to the maximum possible to provide substantial relief to the people.“Fuel prices in Punjab are among the highest in the country right now. The chief minister had promised before 2017 assembly elections that he would reduce fuel prices if the Congress comes to power. Unfortunately, fuel prices have increased manifold in Punjab since 2017,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/reduce-central-excise-to-bring-down-petrol-diesel-prices-sukhbir-urges-pm/story-R8WHyMejTfzUU9gjRl7ZFM.html
30-06-2020||City||Cabinet clears filling up of 4,245 posts in health, medical education||Chandigarh In a bid to effectively tackle the increasing coronavirus-related patient load in government hospitals, the Punjab cabinet on Tuesday granted the go-head for filling up 3,954 vacant regular posts in health and 291 posts in medical education and research departments.The cabinet gave the approval at a meeting chaired by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh here. Of the total 3,954 posts in health department, 2,966 will be filled in the first phase and the remaining 988, which would fall vacant on September 30, 2020, in the next phase, according to an official spokesperson.It also gave approval to continue the recruitment of medical officers (specialists) to be conducted by a special selection committee headed by Dr KK Talwar through walk-in interviews.Likewise, the cabinet also allowed recruitment of doctors, paramedics and other staff to be done through Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, by taking the recruitment out of the purview of Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) and Punjab Subordinate Services Selection Board (PSSSB).These include 235 medical officers (MOs-general), one MO specialist (microbiologist), four MOs specialist (social preventive medicine), 35 MOs (dental), 598 staff nurses, 180 pharmacists, 600 multipurpose health workers (MHW-female), 200 MHW (male), 139 radiographers, 44 dialysis technicians and 800 ward attendants.JUNIOR RESIDENTS TO BE RETAINED FOR ONE YEARThe cabinet decided to retain junior residents (JRs), who are passing out after completing three-year post-graduation, as senior residents (ad hoc) for one year against the bond given by them. As many as 232 JRs (other than PCMS category junior residents) will be retained against the bond given by them as 267 posts of senior residents are lying vacant. It also decided to recruit 32 assistant professors (anaesthesia) on contract basis for one year and seven super-specialist doctors on regular basis. Apart from this, 20 posts of anaesthesia technicians were also approved for one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cabinet-clears-filling-up-of-4-245-posts-in-health-medical-education/story-9QBdopdHK31N9ibj21S4oK.html
30-06-2020||City||Man stabs wife to death after quarrel over dinner in Ludhiana||A quarrel over ‘dinner’ took an ugly turn after a 43-year-old man killed his wife in Salem Tabri on Monday night. The victim has been identified as Jasvir Kaur,40. Her husband identified as Kulwant Singh who runs a Karyana store in the city was arrested by the police on Tuesday evening. The couple was married for 17 years and had two children from their marriage. The couple had a troubled marriage and both of them have lodged police complaints against each other in the past. They had also filed a court case for separation. However, the family of both managed to strike a compromise between the couple.According to Salem Tabri station house officer Gopal Krishan, the accused used to suspect his wife to be an infidel.On Monday, when Kulwant returned home later during the night, Jasvir Kaur refused to offer him dinner. This triggered a fight between the couple. In a fit of rage, the accused pulled out scissors kept in the house and stabbed his wife seven times on the head, chest and abdomen, the SHO said.The couple’s son witnessed the ghastly attack and raised the alarm. Witnessing commotion, residents of the locality informed the police about the incident. Cops reached the spot and rushed the victim to the hospital where she was declared brought dead.In the meantime, Kulwant managed to escape the scene. SHO Gopal Krishan said that a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-stabs-wife-to-death-after-quarrel-over-dinner/story-FRufXc4lXyRDwoktgvia6M.html
30-06-2020||City||J&K police chief, BSF IGP visit IB in Samba to review security setup||Jammu and Kashmir director general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh and senior BSF officials on Tuesday visited forward areas along the International Border (IB) in Samba district to review the security arrangements ahead of rainy season, an official said. The DGP also rewarded the Border Security Force (BSF) team who shot down a Pakistani drone, loaded with a sophisticated rifle and seven grenades, in Kathua district last week. Singh was accompanied by inspector general of BSF, Jammu, NS Jamwal and other senior officers. They visited border areas including the Basantar river bed to review the close coordination between BSF, police and other civil agencies in view of the rainy season, a spokesperson of the force said. The group also supervised the flood protection works on the Basantar river bed. Singh emphasised on ensuring real-time, close coordination between border guarding forces, civil agencies and local police to smoothly address the problems and concerns of civilians. Meanwhile, Jamwal briefed the DGP about the BSF’s domination in the Basantar river bed area and Singh praised the hard work put in by the security personnel to guard a difficult border, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-police-chief-bsf-igp-visit-ib-in-samba-to-review-security-setup/story-v1vR4pT6DQmau33V4HGoUJ.html
30-06-2020||City||Himachal’s former CPS Neeraj Bharti gets bail in sedition case||Congress leader and former chief parliamentary secretary (CPS), Neeraj Bharti, was on Tuesday granted bail by a Shimla court in a sedition case filed against him by the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) wing of Himachal Pradesh Police.Bharti was granted bail by the court of district and sessions judge, Shimla, in the afternoon on a personal bond of ₹50,000. Earlier in the day, the CID, Crime Branch produced Bharti in the court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) as his police custody was ending on Tuesday. The CJM court sent him to a 14-day judicial custody. However, the bail petition came up for hearing in the afternoon and he was granted bail.The former Jawali legislator was booked under Sections 124A (sedition), 153a (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code.He was summoned for questioning on June 24. He was interrogated till June 26 and eventually arrested. Bharti, in a series of posts on Facebook, had made ‘offensive’ remarks against the Prime Minister and RSS after the violent face-off between India and China in Galwan valley of Ladakh. A Shimla-based lawyer Narender Guleria had lodged a complaint against Bharti with the Crime Branch on June 20.The opposition Congress had criticised Bharti’s arrest, terming it as the government’s attempt to throttle dissenting voices.This was not the first time that Bharti landed in soup for making objectionable remarks on social media. He had triggered controversies in the past owing to his volatile social media posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-s-former-cps-neeraj-bharti-gets-bail-in-sedition-case/story-PNtwBBU0SU0kJ3lXvYp2UN.html
30-06-2020||City||Bihar asks people to tweet on embankment breaches||PATNAIn an attempt to involve people in keeping a vigil on the condition of river embankments in their areas as monsoon picks pace, Bihar’s water resources department (WRD) has come up with a Twitter hashtag where they could report any visible cracks or breaches.“Engineers of WRD, Bihar, are maintaining constant vigilance on embankments. If you witness any erosion or crack in the embankment and feel the need of flood protection work in your area, please inform us through Twitter with #HelloWRD. We will be there,” says a tweet from Bihar WRD.WRD minister Sanjay Kumar Jha said, “We will also soon launch a 24*7 call centre with a toll-free number for the people. Their involvement will help the department reach out to them faster and on time.” The unpredictability of rivers like Kosi and Kamla has always been a cause of worry in north Bihar. As per WRD figures, a few stations in the Kosi river basin in Nepal have received moderate to heavy rainfall in the last 24 hours. Dhap station in Nepal recorded the highest rainfall of 81.4 mm in the last 24 hours. For the next two days, there is forecast of 1-10 mm rainfall in the Kosi basin. In the Mahananda river basin in Nepal, few stations did receive moderate rainfall, but the situation remains steady, with water below the warning level on Tuesday.Water level of Kamla river, which wreaked havoc in Madhubani, Jhanjharpur and adjoining areas last year due to sudden surge of water, was also steady and below warning level in Nepal portion at 10.30 am on June 30, said a WRD official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-asks-people-to-tweet-on-embankment-breaches/story-QwkaU73RDa7Oa5QYUUekxJ.html
30-06-2020||City||Curfew to continue in Himachal from 9pm to 5am: CM||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday said the curfew will remain in force in Himachal Pradesh from 9:00pm to 5:00am till further orders. While addressing deputy commissioners (DCs) and superintendents of police (SPs) via a videoconference, the CM said the state government will regulate the influx of people entering Himachal to ensure orderly movement and avoid any chance of spread of Covid-19. He added that the state government has taken up the matter with the Centre.The CM said the mechanism of institutional quarantine and home quarantine will also be strengthened in the state. He asked the DCs to prepare a list of various developmental projects completed in their respective districts so that they could be inaugurated online. He also asked the officials to submit the list of projects for which foundation stones could be laid via videoconferencing so that people could benefit from these projects.The CM said since the apple season is round the corner, deputy commissioners must ensure adequate arrangements of labour and smooth transportation of the fruit to markets. “All preventive measures must be taken by the DCs for minimising losses to properties due to the monsoon,” he saidThe CM said due to the pandemic, it is not possible for him to visit district headquarters for interaction with various beneficiaries and therefore, the DCs must prepare a mechanism for him to address beneficiaries of various welfare schemes through video conferencing.Jai Ram launches online self certification facility for MSMEsThe CM also launched the online self certification facility for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) in the state on Tuesday. He said the initiative for simplification of processes under the ‘Ease of Doing Business’ will go a long way in providing relief to entrepreneurs.He said earlier the entrepreneurs had to take all required clearances from concerned departments prior to setting up of the enterprise, which generally resulted in unnecessary escalation of project cost and wastage of time. “This online certification facility will not only save the entrepreneurs from cumbersome procedures, but also facilitate in setting up the enterprise at the earliest,” he said. “With this facility, the entrepreneurs will furnish a duly filled “Declaration of Intent” to the nodal agency electronically on the portal. The nodal agency will grant ‘Acknowledgement Certificate’ in an electronic format to the entrepreneur within seven days,” he added.The CM said there will neither be any inspection of the enterprise nor any required clearance will be sought from the entrepreneur by concerned departments for three years or till the enterprise starts functioning (whichever is earlier) under certain acts.He said the state government brought an ordinance regarding self certification by MSMEs on November 6, 2019. It was passed in the winter session of the vidhan sabha and was notified on January 18, 2020. The rules were framed under the Act on June 11, 2020. He said now enterprises with investment upto Rs 50 crore on plant and machinery will fall under the MSME category. “Since about 99.5% industries in the state fall under this category, the online self certification portal facility will be helpful for entrepreneurs,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/curfew-to-continue-in-himachal-from-9pm-to-5am-cm/story-JqzdyzOGltTBiflQtapGfJ.html
30-06-2020||City||Bihar polls amid CovidKhadi gloves, bamboo sticks to use EVMs... poll panel hits some ideas||PATNAKeeping in mind safety concerns of voters during the upcoming Assembly polls in Bihar amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Election Commission (EC) is working on proposals to provide gloves and bamboo sticks, of the size of toothpicks, to voters in an attempt to ensure contact less voting as they press the button of their choice on electronic voting machines (EVMs).Some other innovative proposals include use of disposable syringes to put indelible ink on the finger of voters, setting up glass shields at the table of polling officers so that voters, when asked to identify themselves by taking off masks, do not come in contact with the staff.Bihar polls, scheduled to be held in October-November, would be the first stand-alone Assembly elections amid the Covid-19 pandemic and it is a challenge for the poll panel to ensure safety of voters and polling staff so that there is no spread of virus during heightened physical interfaces.“Sanitising EVMs after every vote is not possible. Bamboo sticks are environment friendly too,” said a senior EC official, wishing not to be quoted.Sources said the proposals have been sent by BIhar’s chief electoral officer to the Election Commission for final approval. “We have sent a few proposals for safety of voters at the booths. We are working on it. The concern is that voters do not come much in contact with any physical object or polling staff,” said CEO H R Srinivasa.The state has an electorate of 7.18 crore. There are 1.06 lakh booths and an additional 33,797 auxiliary booths have been planned so that number of voters at one booth is capped at 700 to maintain social distancing.EC officials said the process had started for requisition of these material and priority was being given to gloves from Bihar State Khadi Board so that it also generates rural employment. “The khadi board has been approached for gloves.Other material would be purchased locally and DMs will be authorised to do so,” said another EC official in know of the matter.Meanwhile, political parties were split on the proposed new measures. The BJP and JD(U), constituents of the ruling NDA, said they would support any such measure by EC for ensuring safety of voters, while Opposition RJD said it would infringe on the rights of voters and defeat the purpose of elections.“If EC takes any steps for safety of voters in view of Covid, we will support. But these should be widely publicised as our larger objective is to ensure 100 % voting,” said Nikhil Anand, state spokesperson of the BJP. JD(U) state spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan said, “We are in favour of safety measures for voters.”RJD’s state spokesperson Shakti Singh Yadav said, “In the name of Covid, there is an attempt being made to manipulate the polls. We will oppose any such move. We want the EC to conduct polls as in the past. Even in South Korea, elections were held amid Covid pandemic by using ballot papers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-polls-amid-covidkhadi-gloves-bamboo-sticks-to-use-evms-poll-panel-hits-some-ideas/story-8iWmzkRAhkT1fRHqXxuM1J.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||TikTok stars from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal say they stand by country’s decision, support the ban||The government on Monday, banned a host of Chinese apps, among them was TikTok, a video-sharing platform, used to create short dance, lip-sync, comedy and talent videos. Now, with the app banned, stars that rose to fame with the help of the platform say they will explore other options. Indian cricketer Yuzvendra Chahal, who was popular on TikTok, says he wholeheartedly supports the Indian government’s decision to ban 59 Chinese apps, including TikTok: “The government has taken the right step after tensions increased on the line of actual control (LAC).”“Playing cricket for India is my passion. I do not regret the banning of TikTok. I will remain active on Twitter and Instagram. My country comes first,” he said. FOLLOW ME ON INSTAGRAM, SAYS PUNJAB’S DARLING SARDARJI Moga’s five-year-old TikTok star, whose cheeky one-liners and adorable eye rolls in the guise of a tiny ‘sardarji’ won hearts across the globe and even caught the eye of Punjab CM Amarinder Singh, has asked fans to follow her on Instagram after the government banned the Chinese video sharing platform. In a recent video, the tiny sardar, Noorpreet Kaur, who goes by Noor, requests her supporters to follow her on Instagram. The video, which has been uploaded on the TikTok account of Sandeep Toor, who conceptualises and uploads the videos, Noor says, “TikTok is going to be banned so if you want to watch my new videos follow me on Instagram.” “We support the government’s decision, so we have now decided to be more active on Instagram,” says Toor.Sandeep’s TikTok account has 2.6 million followers, while his Instagram account only has 85,000 followers as of now.Noor’s father, Satnam Singh, said, “We stand by the government’s decision, but we request that a similar Indian platform should be introduced where children like Noor can exhibit their talent.”“After Noor became famous, many people came forward to help us construct a new house. Even the CM appreciated her,” he added. Noor had teamed up with Punjab chief minster Captain Amarinder Singh to spread the message of social distancing. The district administration has also made Noor their star campaigner for social distancing videos.‘I WILL CONTINUE TO REPRESENT MY CULTURE ON INDIAN APPS’For nursing student Shiwani Thakur, TikTok, was a way of showcasing the Himachali culture. “I deleted TikTok two-and-a-half weeks ago. Now, I use the Indian app Roposo, which is not quite up to the scratch but is a good alternative. I will continue to represent my culture and reach out to people. The banning of the app hasn’t affected me much.” Haryana’s politician Sonali Phogat, who had become famous through TikTok, did not respond despite repeated attempts. (With inputs from Aishwarya Khosla)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tiktok-stars-from-punjab-haryana-himachal-say-they-stand-by-country-s-decision-support-the-ban/story-oUoii5ePCyhPEVO7pVRccI.html
30-06-2020||City||Two dead, 1 injured in Shimla road mishap||Two people were killed after their car skidded off the road and fell into a nullah in Kotkhai area of Shimla district on Monday late evening, police said.The deceased are Sheela Devi ,45, and her son Abhishek ,23, both residents of Tipra village in Theog area of Shimla. Prima facie, Abhishek, who was driving the car, lost control over the vehicle which plunged into the nullah from a bridge. Before falling into the nullah, the car hit a local identified as Sanjay, who was walking on the bridge. The mother and son died on the spot while the injured pedestrian was taken to a government hospital for treatment. The bodies were handed over to the relatives after a postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-dead-1-injured-in-shimla-road-mishap/story-JqrPXKHwckdbiXT0hcbzLI.html
30-06-2020||City||TikTok star found dead inside beauty parlour in Haryana’s Sonipat||The body of a TikTok star was found with strangulation marks inside a box bed in her beauty parlour in Haryana’s Sonipat, a report has said.Hindustan Times’ Hindi news website, livehindustan.com, reported the woman’s body was found on Sunday by her sister’s friend.He found a foul smell inside the parlour and when he opened the box bed, he found her body. He called her family, who in turn informed the police.Police have launched an investigation into the murder of the woman, who has at least 1 lakh followers on TikTok, and sent the body for a postmortem examination.They said they found during their investigation that the woman went missing on June 26 when the accused visited her in the beauty parlour. She had told her sister about the accused’s visit, the report said.When she did not return home till late at night, her sister messaged her on WhatsApp. The sister received a reply from the woman’s number that she is in Haridwar and will return after three to four days. Police said the killer must have taken the woman’s phone and responded to the message.The investigation has also revealed that the accused had been harassing the woman for the last three years. The family changed their home and she had lodged a police complaint against the accused as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tiktok-star-found-dead-inside-beauty-parlour-in-haryana-s-sonipat/story-Pfc5sbLSODpENpPfYrVDRI.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Six police personnel test positive for Covid-19 in Punjab’s Moga||Moga: Six personnel from Nihal Singhwala police station and a safai karamchari of the Sanjh Kendra in Moga tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.Civil surgeon Dr Amarpreet Kaur Bajwa said that all six police personnel are asymptomatic but they have been admitted to the isolation ward of the civil hospital.“They contracted the virus from a constable who was tested positive on June 25. All patients are aged between 29 years and 57 years,” she said.The positive police personnel include a sub-inspector, two assistant sub-inspectors and two constables.Apart from the police personnel, a sweeper of the local Sanjh Kendra also tested positive.The district health department has collected samples of 32 other police personnel who came in contact with the six and quarantined them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-police-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-punjab-s-moga/story-8EB390xbOp49NqVycuzGzI.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||SHO of Manimajra police station booked for graft||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday booked inspector Jaswinder Kaur, station house officer of Manimajra police station in a graft case. A middleman seeking a bribe of ₹5 lakh on her behalf from a man named Gurdeep Singh to have charges against him dropped in a case of cheating has been arrested. Earlier in the day CBI raided the police station as well as Kaur’s residence and sealed both. CBI had arrested Bhagwan Singh, the middleman while accepting ₹1 lakh as part of the bribe from Gurdeep Singh, who had also paid him ₹2 lakh on June 19. Jaswinder Kaur had not been arrested till the filing of the report.  Gurdeep Singh had approached CBI alleging that SHO Jaswinder Kaur had demanded a bribe of ₹5 lakh from him if he did not want an FIR against him for cheating a man of ₹28 lakh to get his wife a government job.A case under Prevention of Corruption Act and 120 b (criminal conspiracy) of IPC was registered by CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sho-of-manimajra-police-station-booked-for-graft/story-DM0Hff9HzPxjpWUVCRPeYK.html
30-06-2020||Lifestyle||Summer drinks to the rescue!||Is the sweltering summer heat getting to you? Don’t worry, we have the perfect summer drink recommendations and recipes to take the heat off you!Bel ka sherbet - Grab some ripe bel fruits (2-3 medium sized) and get ready to make some sherbet. You’ll need to remove the pulp and mash it. Strain the pulp, add some water while straining it and finally add some jaggery to the strained mixture. Put the sherbet to cool, and enjoy it on a breezy summer evening!Watermelon mint crusher - Watermelon Mint Crusher, is an easy to make and interesting drink for a lazy summer afternoon. Ingredients required are one cup of fresh watermelon, four to five mint leaves, five drops of lemon juice and one table spoon of sugar syrup. Cut the watermelon in to chunks and de-seed it. Add all of the ingredients in to a blender, and blend it until everything is smooth. Pour it in to a glass and garnish with fresh mint spring.Shikanji - There’s no better substitute to an easy to make, thirst relinquishing summer drink than this one! Cut one lemon and squeeze them in to water / soda. Add some black salt and sugar and stir. Garnish with some fresh mint leaves and enjoy!Aam panna - The king of all fruits, mango’s season is upon us! For making this you’ll need around 5 small raw mangoes and some simple kitchen ingredients. Peel and cut the mangoes and cook them in a pan, adding a cup of water on medium heat till 8 minutes. The mangoes must be soft before you transfer the mango and water mixture to a blender.Add another 3 cups of water, some jaggery, and mint leaves and blend. Strain the blended mixture in to a bowl and add salt, pepper and cumin powder. Stir well, refrigerate and relish! Before serving, add some water if the mixture thickens over time.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFor more stories read Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/summer-drinks-to-the-rescue/story-VbDfKYUGyZdKj2NpJc67YI.html
30-06-2020||Pune||Extraordinary will to fight makes auto driver inspiration to many in Covid times||Pune Nagesh Kale, 27, does not have legs. He cannot afford prosthetics. Amidst the gloom and doom of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad battling the Covid-19 pandemic, Kale, an autorickshaw driver, shines like a bright light for his positive, “get-the-job-done” attitude.Kale does not have legs, but, he has his rickshaw and the will, and heart, to ensure the pandemic does not slow him down.“If I get a few long-distance daily customers it helps me financially, but, I can still earn on my own,” is Kale’s bottom line on his situation.Kale met with a train accident between Pune and Mumbai in 2013, as a result of which his legs were amputated.After the accident, Kale, who acknowledges the support he got at the time from his family, learnt to drive a rickshaw and since, has never looked back. He had to modify the rickshaw, and instead of leg brake, his auto uses a handbrake.Nilesh Thelar, is Kale’s friend who played a key role in helping him learn to drive the rickshaw. “Nagesh’s stubbornness helped him to learn the auto. I did not have to do much and just helped him in the initial days then he did everything on his own,” Thelar said.Kale, who lives in More wasti, Chikhali, with his wife and mother used to earn between Rs800-Rs900 per day before the lockdown. Now he earns between Rs 200-Rs 300 daily.Archana Kale, his wife, works in D-mart. “We got married in 2015, it was a love marriage. After his accident in 2013 he wanted my support and I was always there for him,” she said.Once rickshaws were allowed back on the roads in Pimpri-Chinchwad, Kale began operations immediately.In what can only be viewed as a serendipitous outcome of his physical challenge, him conquering it in Covid conditions and living a full and successful life, Kale began to inspire customers he transported.“I found customers who were downcast, were very uplifted hearing my story. Now, every afternoon, I visit different places - Wakad, Chinchwad, Pimpri and the Mumbai bypass road to pick passengers up. I just talk with them if they are interested,” says Kale.“Lockdown has disheartened many people. I thought, if I can survive the worst crisis of my life then why can’t people survive through this phase. I decided to support them,” he said. “If in life, I earn a good amount of money in future, then my dream is to open a driving school for the handicapped,” says Kale.Facing suicidal thoughts… and conquering themIn the last two months, 47 people in Pimpri and Chinchwad have died in cases attributed to suicide. Nagesh Kale wants people to face tough situations instead of quitting.Kale is no stranger to deep, dark, depressing, suicidal thoughts.“In my life I got the feeling of committing suicide thrice – first, when the accident happened; then, when I was in Sassoon hospital and my parents had to do everything; and the third time again during my last phase of treatment as I was unsure about my future,” Kale said.“With the help and support of my family and friends I did not give in and today, I live happily. No matter the problem, a person can survive. My life is an example,” is Kale’s view.How Nagesh Kale changed my lifeKale has made new friends from customers he has ferried, and had the chance to share his story with.Rinkesh Pardeshi, Chinchwad resident“I was fired from my IT company in Aundh during lockdown and I could not go back to Lucknow. Since I was feeling depressed my friends suggested I take the help of a psychiatrist in Chinchwad, where I stay. I met this auto driver (Kale) whose story is really inspirational. Now, I look to interact with him thrice a week.”Arpit Joshi, Wakad resident“I got divorced before lockdown started. My parents stay in Mumbai and my lawyer told me to consult a psychiatrist, which is going well. I then met this rickshaw driver a few days back and he is so enthusiastic even in such a situation. He inspired me to develop strong will power like him.”Cases of death by suicide in PCMC in April-MayPolice station SuicidesSangvi 4Wakad 12Hinjewadi 4Pimpri 2Chinchwad 5Nigdi 4Bhosari 8MIDC, Bhosari 2Chikhali 2Dighi 3Total 46||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/extraordinary-will-to-fight-makes-auto-driver-inspiration-to-many-in-covid-times/story-LVAZS9YfXQroFXrGDQgruO.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Night curfew timings relaxed by an hour in Chandigarh; educational institutions closed till July 31||Chandigarh: With the Chandigarh administration adopting the Union home ministry order on Unlock2.0 on Tuesday, the night curfew timings stand changed from 10pm to 5am. Earlier, the timings were 9pm to 5am.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida, in his capacity as the chairman of the state disaster management authority, issued the orders with immediate effect.The order says schools, colleges and coaching institutions in Chandigarh will remain closed till July 31.Cinema halls, gyms, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will continue to remain closed under Unlock 2.0.Any social, political, academic, cultural or religious function or any other large gathering will not be allowed in Unlock 2.0.Dates for opening of these will be decided separately, based on the assessment of the situation.The ministry said, “There shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/ approval/ e-permit will be required for such movement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/night-curfew-timings-relaxed-by-an-hour-in-chandigarh-educational-institutions-closed-till-july-31/story-EIvOT7MHnzEM5puIy4gUvM.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Diesel price hike eating into PRTC revenue||The constant hike in diesel prices for the past 23 days has eaten into the revenue of cash-strapped Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC).Despite getting rebate of Rs ₹1.98 per litre than the market price from the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), the PRTC is presently spending Rs 9-10 per litre extra on purchase of diesel to run its buses.The diesel price recorded an estimated increase of Rs 11.14 per litre in past 23 days, including fresh increase of 13 paisa per litre on Monday.The PRTC’s daily consumption of diesel was estimated at 85,000 litres before lockdown at the time when it was running a full fleet of 1,045 buses.The state transport utility is already facing revenue loss due to limited bus service and low occupancy due to coronavirus-induced lockdown. The corporation faced a loss of Rs 51 crore in the first 60 days of the lockdown, with average daily shortfall Rs 85 lakh.PRTC managing director Jaskiran Singh said the constant hike in diesel prices has put financial burden on the PRTC, which is presently running 30% (310 buses) of its total fleet of 1,045 buses.“We are studying the clauses in a deal with the IOC over rebate on diesel. Being the bulk purchaser of the diesel, we will approach IOC and seek more discount on purchase of the fuel,” the MD said.In January, the PRTC struck a deal with the IOC for five years (till November 30, 2024), for a rebate of ₹1.98 per litre over procurement of diesel in bulk.“It is difficult for PRTC to bear the cost of diesel at the time when there is low occupancy of passengers on several routes across the state. The corporation is spending Rs 10 per litre additional on purchase of diesel,” the MD said.He added that the decision on running a full fleet will be taken after taking note of expenses on diesel and seat occupancy on key routes across the state.In 2019, the Indian Oil and PRTC had struck a similar deal related to rebate on diesel prices for five years (till 2023), but due to fluctuation in prices of diesel in the past one year, the deal was disbanded.One of the senior officials said “In such a scenario, it is financially unviable for PRTC to ply buses. The immediate increase in bus fare and decrease in diesel prices can save PRTC finances.”“After relaxation in transport restrictions since March 18, the PRTC daily income has dropped from Rs 1.40 crore to Rs 30 lakh,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/diesel-price-hike-eating-into-prtc-revenue/story-XOgjNjQgzQ4w311lm3WFXJ.html
30-06-2020||Bangalore||Private medical colleges in Bengaluru to allot 50% beds for Covid-19 treatment||Private medical colleges in the city have agreed to provide about 4,500 beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Tuesday. The government has agreed to include private doctors and paramedical staff involved in treatment of coronavirus patients under insurance coverage. “We have held discussions, they (private medical colleges) have responded positively, they have assured that they will give more than 50 per cent of beds and provide necessary facility. They have agreed to give about 4,500 beds,” Yediyurappa said. Speaking to reporters after meeting with representatives of private medical colleges, he said this would help us in providing treatment to all those infected by Covid-19 and help them recover. “They (medical colleges) have said that they will try to make arrangements for more beds in the days to come,” he added. Private hospitals in the city on Monday after meeting with the Chief Minister had agreed to provide 50 per cent of their beds, which is about 2,000 beds to the government for Covid-19 treatment. Yediyurapa said, insurance and other facilities would be extended to private doctors and para medical staff also. “We have agreed to give compensation to private doctors and paramedical staff in case of death,” he said adding that steps would be taken to provide medical support through tele- medicine by using video conferencing mode. Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said, Bengaluru has the most number of medical colleges in the country- total 14- 11 of them are private and three are government. From three government hospitals 1,000 beds have been kept aside for Covid, he said, private colleges have total about 10,000 beds from these eleven colleges, and in today’s meeting managements of these colleges have agreed to make 50 per cent- about 4,500 beds including ICU available for Covid treatment. They have also agreed to make available ventilators, experts, doctors, para medical staff in fight against Covid, he added. Noting that all 4,500 beds may not be available immediately as non Covid patients may be undergoing treatment there, Sudhakar said, within 10-15 days they have agreed to ensure that all the beds are made available. The central allotment committee that we have constituted in coordination with nodal officers appointed for each medical college will allot beds in a scientific manner, he said. The rates fixed for private hospitals will be applicable for private medical colleges also. Pointing out that stipend has been increased upto 45 per cent for government medical college students during Covid period, Sudhakar said private medical colleges would also have to give stipend, the department would ensure that or else action would be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/private-medical-colleges-in-bengaluru-to-allot-50-beds-for-covid-19-treatment/story-EiylvghzBu1X4OO7JyzOGN.html
30-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Jama Masjid to reopen on July 4: Shahi Imam||The historic Jama Masjid, which had closed earlier this month due to a surge in Covid-19 cases in the city, will reopen for congregational prayers (namaz) from July 4, Shahi Imam of the mosque Syed Ahmed Bukhari said on Tuesday. The mosque was closed on June 11 in view of the “critical” conditions in the city due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, till June 30. Earlier, the mosque had reopened on June 8 after a gap of over two months with the government allowing further relaxations as part of unlock 1.0, the first phase of a calibrated exit from the coronavirus lockdown. Bukhari said that the decision to reopen the mosque was taken after consulting people and experts. “Under unlock 1.0, almost everything has opened and normal activities have resumed. We took this decision to open the mosque for people to offer namaz as the scare of the virus has lessened and awareness about safeguards against it has increased,” Bukhari told PTI.  He said that safety precautions like maintaining social distancing, wearing protective gear and sanitisation will be followed to prevent people from catching infection.  A private secretary of the Shahi Imam, Amanullah had died due to coronavirus earlier this month During the closure, people were asked to offer namaz at home, and only a few staff members offered the prayers five times a day at the mosque.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-jama-masjid-to-reopen-on-july-4-shahi-imam/story-QQ80LrIOm0WT2QA3Eu8e5I.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Women take charge of paddy sowing amid migrant labour shortage in Haryana||Faces covered and clothes soaked in mud, women can be seen industriously sowing paddy seeds in the scorching sun in Haryana. The region’s local women have stepped up to aid farmers reeling under acute labour shortage in the region. The transplantation of paddy is in full-swing in the state. Paddy cultivation has not suffered in the absence of migrant labourers as local women have come out in support of farmers. Leelawati, the group leader of women labourers in Darar village of Karnal district, said, “On the request of farmers, I formed a team of 15 women and started transplantation. Farmers were ready to pay more as they were in desperate need of help but we decided not to exploit their helplessness and only charge Rs 3,000 per acre.” LOCAL LANDLESS LABOUR RISE TO THE OCCASIONNow, most farmers in paddy sowing areas of the state in Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar are relying on the local landless labourers, especially women, to transplant paddy. With farmers running from pillar to post in these unprecedented circumstances, women labourers offered to help out the farmers and agreed to work for lower wages than migrant workers.Som Prakash, a small farmer from Dhanokheri village of Karnal district, said, “The locals are charging Rs 3,000 to Rs 3,500 per acre, which is lower than the migrant workers’ asking price of Rs 3,500 to Rs 4,500.” He adding that local women were performing the task thoroughly as opposed to migrant labourers who would try to hurry in order to earn more money. SOCIAL TIES REINFORCED The labour crisis has, on the upside, improved the social ties between farmers and the local landless labourers. The farmers had hitherto been dependent on the skilled migrant workers but after the lockdown they re-approached the locals.“The migrants are charging around Rs 4,000 but we have to respect our social ties and our relationship with the farmers. We cannot let our social ties deteriorate as they always help us whenever required,” says a labourer, Sarwan Kumar of Chamrori village in Yamunanagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/paddy-cultivation-haryana-s-local-women-take-up-the-baton-amid-labour-crisis/story-guH6YY6smlGQfh9bWLNFXP.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Akal Takht jathedar asks SGPC to pursue cases of Khalistani operatives held by Punjab Police||Three weeks after speaking in favour of a separate Sikh state of Khalistan, Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Tuesday asked the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to pursue the cases of Khalistani operatives arrested by Punjab Police recently.Addressing the media along with Takht Keshgarh Sahib jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh after a function to celebrate Miri-Piri Diwas, he said: “The arrest of innocent youngsters in the name of Khalistan is condemnable.”“It has come to our notice that Punjab Police have arrested few youngsters in the name of Khalistan. If any innocent person is arrested or anyone is put behind bars with false charges, this is condemnable and the SGPC should pursue and get the cases probed,” said Giani Harpreet Singh. Earlier this month, he claimed that every Sikh wanted Khalistan. “If the government offers it, we will accept it,” he said.Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh dismissed that statement of the Akal Takht jathedar, telling the media, “Sikhs in the country are leading prosperous lives. Why would they want a Khalistan? Nobody wants it and I don’t want. Every Sikh has always stood for the unity and integrity of the country. Do you know how many Sikh soldiers we have? They sacrifice their lives for the country. We fight for our country and this is our country.”Giani Harpreet Singh clarified in Talwandi Sabo later, “Sikhism can’t be defined by the idea of Khalistan alone. Sikhism is the global idea and this idea should bring peace to the world.”Taking serious note of the missing 267 Guru Granth Sahib saroops in the SGPC’s publishing house at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib near Golden Temple, he said, “The SGPC has been asked to conduct a probe and submit its report soon. Stringent action will be taken against the guilty.”Considering the complaints received by the Akal Takht about the appointment of ‘patit’ members in the Chief Khalsa Diwan, the jathedar warned those at its helm of action if they continue to take Sikhs who have violated the religious code of conduct in the 117-year-old organisation, an apolitical body that concerns itself with religious, educational and cultural issues.“The Chief Khalsa Diwan office-bearers have been asked to give details of the new members. Till they do this, they won’t be allowed to induct more members,” the jathedar said.Earlier, while addressing devotees at the function at the highest temporal seat of the Sikhs, Giani Harpreet Singh shared the history of Miri Piri Diwas, celebrated to commemorate the blessings of the sixth Sikh master, Guru Hargobind Sahib, who took charge wearing two kirpans called Miri and Piri, symbolising worldly (political) and spiritual authority. The two kirpans are tied together with a khanda at the centre, so the combination of both is considered supreme, Where action informed or arising out of the spiritual heart completes one’s purpose and meaning in the world of action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/akal-takht-jathedar-asks-sgpc-to-pursue-cases-of-khalistani-operatives-held-by-punjab-police/story-gUgVQgBPohb2q4cYVjbn7N.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||After Pak stock exchange attack, security tightened outside Mumbai’s Taj hotel||Police have tightened up security outside The Taj Mahal Palace in south Mumbai after the Karachi Stock Exchange terror attack, a senior official said on Tuesday.The iconic hotel in Colaba area was among the targets of Pakistani terrorists during the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack.The official told PTI that Mumbai police are on high alert after Monday’s Karachi exchange terror attack and as part of the enhanced anti-terror measures, security outside the hotel and other vital installations has been increased.There has been no confirmation from police so far about reports that a caller from Pakistan had threatened to blow up the luxury hotel.“Police are on alert and an adequate number of police personnel have been deployed in the (Taj hotel) area,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-attack-on-pak-stock-exchange-security-tightened-outside-mumbai-s-taj-hotel/story-Z3sdsLlFzcvObXm3kGgRXK.html
30-06-2020||City||60% of locusts have been killed in Agra: Agriculture department||As swarms of locusts continue to invade parts of Uttar Pradesh, the agriculture department in Agra said 60% of these crop-destroying pests have been killed using drones to spray insecticides on Tuesday.Swarms of these desert locusts were seen flying over Agra on Monday after invading parts of Rajasthan and Haryana.“Around 60% of locusts have been killed. Four drones given by the central government are being used to spray insecticides,” SN Singh, the assistant director of the agriculture department said, according to news agency ANI.An alert for Kanpur has also been issued by the district administration as the insects were seen flying around surrounding areas of the district.“According to the wind speed, the locusts can enter Kanpur. In view of this, an alert is being issued that all the people should follow the instructions of the government authorities and administration to save themselves from locust attack,” Brahmadev Tiwari, Kanpur’s district magistrate, said.Officials said the police, health and agriculture departments and the fire brigade are on alert as they keep an eye on the insects’ movement.In Lucknow district as well, the administration is on alert as the threat of locust invasion looms. Lucknow’s agriculture department has deployed more than 20 tractor-mounted pesticide guns in border area like Malihabad to kill the desert locusts.CP Srivastava, deputy director of the agriculture department, said more than 7,000 locals have been roped in these areas to scare away the locusts with the help of drums and other noise-making tools.The desert locust is a species of locusts, a swarming short-horned grasshopper. They fly in swarms potentially containing hundreds of millions of individual desert locusts and can move 150 kilometres a day.The invasion of these tiny insects can pose a serious threat to livelihoods of millions and cause a shortage of food supply in their relentless drive to eat and reproduce. According to the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of the United Nations, these are the oldest migratory pest in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-of-locusts-have-been-killed-in-agra-agriculture-department/story-9oXuiD5tBsVXCG1USJ1tuK.html
30-06-2020||Gurugram||Complete lockdown in 8 wards of Gurugram: No movement, door-to-door screening||Authorities in Gurugram will enforce a complete lockdown from Tuesday in eight containment zones for two weeks as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have surged in the Haryana district. Amit Khatri, Gurugram’s district magistrate, has said these wards have been identified as large outbreak zones or areas where there are 15 or more cases of the coronavirus disease.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Under the provision of the disaster management act, human movement will be completely banned here from two weeks from June 30 to July 14. The violators will be liable to face action under the Disaster Management Act 2005 and relevant sections of IPC (Indian Penal Code),” Khatri said.Wards identified as large outbreak areas:Ward number 4 Dundehera police station road, Aggarwal Sweets Gali (Sector 21), Dundahera community centre street, Vishal Mega Mart streetWard number 16 Arjun Nagar, Jyoti Park, MadanpuriWard number 17 Ratan garden and Shiv PuriWard number 20 Shivaji Nagar and Shanti NagarWard number 21 Baldev Nagar, Feroz Gandhi Colony, Ravi NagarWard number 22 Hira Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Shivaji ParkWard number 23 Hari Nagar Shakti ParkWard number 35 DLF Phase 3 NathupurWhat are the rules for these eight wards?* These areas will be completely barricaded from all exit points followed by adequate police deployment to prevent violation* The movement of residents will be allowed only if there is an emergency* The health department will start door-to-door screening in these areas through rapid antigen test to identify suspected Covid-19 cases* It will be mandatory for residents to install Aarogya Setu app and they will have to undergo thermal as well as symptomatic screening every time they step out of their houses for buying things * Industrial activities will be permitted in these areas only if the workers stay inside the factory premises. * Only essential shops and commercial establishments will be allowed to be open* These large-outbreak areas will be fully sanitised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/complete-lockdown-in-8-wards-of-gurugram-no-movement-door-to-door-screening/story-NSahPLmjEdvpa4oC6J43KO.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||Over one crore people benefitted from Shiv Bhojan scheme: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday said more than one crore people have so far benefitted from the state government’s ‘Shiv Bhojan’ thali scheme, which was started in January this year to serve a full meal to the poor at Rs 10.In view of the coronavirus-induced lockdown, meals were served at Rs 5 per plate, and stranded migrant workers and students,homeless people and many other citizens benefitted from the scheme, Thackeray said in a statement.There are 848 Shiv Bhojan centres in the state and the scheme is being implemented till the taluka level, he said.“The scheme, started on January 26 this year, was aimed at benefitting the poor and downtrodden and till today 1,00,00,870 thalis have been served. The scheme is proving to be a boon for the needy persons,” the chief minister said.Under the scheme, 79,918 thalis were served in January, 4,67,869 in February, 5,78,031 in March, 24,99,257 in April, 33,84,040 in May and 29,91,755 thalis were served in June, he said.The Shiv Bhojan canteens also adheredto the hygiene protocols during the lockdown period, Thackeray said.He said the state food and civil supplies department needs to be appreciated for handling the scheme in a very organised manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/over-one-crore-people-benefitted-from-shiv-bhojan-scheme-uddhav-thackeray/story-iHRNUDKBbN92SYcUsd5CQM.html
30-06-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka High Court functioning suspended today for sanitisation||The judicial, non-judicial and administrative functions of the Karnataka High Court has been suspended for Tuesday, for sanitisation of the entire court complex due to “unavoidable circumstances”.The High Court in a notice informed about the decision on Monday.“It is hereby notified to the litigant public/learned advocates/party-in-person/officers and staff of the High Court of Karnataka, Principal Bench, Bengaluru that, the judicial/non-judicial/administrative functions of the High Court is hereby suspended for one day -- on June 30, 2020, for sanitisation of entire High Court complex, due to unavoidable circumstances,” the notice read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-high-court-functioning-suspended-today-for-sanitisation/story-oAa8IDljJ927YkPJv3EPYL.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Anticipating spike in Covid-19 cases, Himachal govt defers retirement of doctors, paramedics till August 31||Anticipating a spike in Covid-19 cases in the coming months, the state government has deferred the superannuation of doctors, paramedics and faculty till August 31. Additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman issued an order to this effect late on Monday, exercising powers vested under Clause 3 of the Himachal Pradesh Epidemic Disease (Covid-19) Regulations, 2020.“It has been observed that the number of Covid-19 patients and those requiring treatment has been increasing and from trends as well as the situation emerging throughout the country and across the globe it is apprehended that the graph is likely to peak in the coming months,” reads the order.It is, therefore, expected that health institutions will be under more stress and under a heavier work load. Thus, the date of superannuation of all medical officers, faculty members and paramedical staff of all categories working under the government of Himachal Pradesh in the departments of health and family welfare and medical education and research retiring on June 30 will be deemed to have been deferred and extended up to August 31.RE-EMPLOYED STAFF TO CONTINUE The medical officers and paramedical staff, who were due to retire between December 31, 2017 to February 29, 2020, and were re-employed to fight Covid-19 will also continue to function as such till further orders.The extension and re-employment shall be regulated by the standard terms and conditions circulated by the state government in this regard.For the purpose of grant of extension and re-employment, the available vacancies in equivalent and analogous posts in the district as a whole or medical colleges will be utilised to draw salaries and emoluments.In case of extension and re-employment against promotional posts, if nobody else is eligible for promotion or a panel has not been drawn for the purpose against existing and anticipated vacancies the present posts may be utilised, says the order.In case no suitable post is available for grant of extension and re-employment or an incumbent joins on promotion, subsequently, ex-cadre posts shall be deemed to be created for the purpose of drawl of salary emoluments of the officer or official granted extension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/anticipating-spike-in-covid-19-cases-himachal-govt-defers-retirement-of-doctors-paramedics-till-august-31/story-gEsR3Z6hvTq7HlKbP1h0qI.html
30-06-2020||Delhi||Thunderstorm, rain likely in Delhi, NCR: IMD||The India Meteorological Department on Tuesday predicted thunderstorm with rain in parts of Delhi and NCR.“Thunderstorm with rain would occur over few places of Southwest, South Delhi, Jhajjar (Haryana), Hathras (Uttar Pradesh) and adjoining areas during next 2 hours,” IMD said in weather update issued at 5.23 am.Earlier, IMD had predicted ‘generally cloudy sky with light rain’ in the city on June 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/thunderstorm-rain-likely-in-delhi-ncr-imd/story-hEMyaa9SQ6du6cHRADGrnM.html
30-06-2020||City||One-year-old dies in UP, parents accuse hospital of negligence||A one-year-old child, who was suffering from high fever, admitted to a hospital in Kannauj district died allegedly due to negligence. “ My child died on June 28 due to hospital negligence. We had made several requests to the doctors but no one listened to us.” Premchand, father told ANI.Meanwhile, Kannauj District Magistrate, Rakesh Kumar Mishra said, “I had sought a complete report from the Chief Medical Superintendent. The child was serious and admitted to the emergency ward of the hospital. The doctor examined him but he died within half an hour.“At prima facie, there does not seem to be any negligence,” Mishra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-year-old-dies-in-up-parents-accuse-hospital-of-negligence/story-RI4jZYqnMT0c90eytuqSEN.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two policemen on patrol duty shot dead in Haryana’s Sonepat district||ROHTAK: Two police personnel patrolling the area near Butana check-post, which falls under Sonepat’s Baroda police station, were shot dead by unidentified assailants on Monday night, police said.The dead have been identified as special police officer (SPO) Kaptan Singh and constable Ravinder Kumar. Both of them were posted at Butana check-post.Senior police officials have reached the spot and started investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-policemen-on-patrol-duty-shot-dead-in-haryana-s-sonepat-district/story-2pDIg3obLdC0I2MCdtVmoL.html
30-06-2020||Delhi||How ASI geared up to combat locust attack in Delhi||Ahead of the locust attack in Delhi this weekend, the Archaeological Survey of India(ASI) issued elaborate guidelines to prevent any damage to trees, gardens and shrubs that fall under its jurisdiction. There are 174 protected monuments under the ASI in Delhi. Swarms have recently caused panic in the country as they extensively feed on plants and are capable of destroying large areas of vegetation, including crops. The threat has been particularly dire in Rajasthan; however, over the weekend Delhi issued an advisory to prepare for a possible attack. ASI swung into action after swarms were spotted in Gurgaon. “After the first notification was issued, Delhi did not see a swarm,” said a culture ministry official. “However, after the Delhi government issued an advisory on Saturday an emergency meeting was held with the DG ASI.” At the meeting, all division heads were directed to spray the required dose of two insecticides – melathion and cholopyriphos – to avoid any damage to protected properties. The ASI, in an office memorandum issued by the Department of Horticulture, had asked all division heads to “make necessary arrangements for spraying of pesticides to prevent damage caused due to the swarms of locusts…” HT has seen the office memorandum. “Both are old insecticides but they work really well,” said Aruna Urs, a farmer at Takshashila Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/how-asi-geared-up-to-combat-locust-attack-in-delhi/story-y9akt0ICAV40iXQVGdM2nM.html
30-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC to hear pleas on Jamia violence on July 6||The Delhi high court Monday said it will hear next week the pleas related to the violence during Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in December 2019.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan listed the matter for July 6 as arguments were not completed and the rejoinder filed by one of the petitioners was not on record. “Let the matter be adjourned to July 6,” said the bench, hearing the case through videoconferencing.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing Delhi Police, contended that “irresponsible” pleadings are filed in the rejoinder of one of the petitioners, Nabila Hasan, who has sought action against the police for allegedly brutally attacking the petitioners, students and residents of JMI.As her rejoinder to Delhi Police’s reply, filed in the petition, was not on court’s record, Mehta said he will address the bench on this issue on the next date of hearing.Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for Hasan, said he has filed an application seeking an addition to the prayer made in the petition||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-to-hear-pleas-on-jamia-violence-on-july-6/story-oQacweXOKjXDb3qYaN9i1I.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||6-year-old Mumbai boy raises ₹54K through artwork, donates it to NGO||Amid the lockdown and the rising cases of Covid-19, Samaritans across all age groups and economic strata have been going the extra mile to help those in need.Six-year-old Breach Candy resident Kavir Mody is one of them. The Class 1 student has, through his artwork, has raised ₹54,000, which he donated to Shrimad Rajchandra Love and Care (SRLC), a non-governmental organisation (NGO). The organisation has been raising money to provide supplies and equipment to Covid-19 hospitals, support frontline workers and distribute monthly ration to daily wage workers.Throughout May, Kavir’s mother Urvashi used to make theplas to distribute among the poor as well as the stranded migrants. One of the days, while helping his mother roll the theplas, Kavir realised that he wanted to do more to help those in need.Kavir had been painting in his free time since the lockdown was imposed in March and Urvashi suggested that they could try raising money from his artwork to donate for Covid-19 relief work. Kavir was enthusiastic about the idea and started experimenting further with his set of colours, canvas and art papers. “Initially, I was hesitant because I was unsure about who would want to buy a child’s paintings. But when we circulated the catalogue with all his paintings, requests soon began to pour in from our friends and relatives staying in Chennai, Bengaluru and even in the United States. Until now, he has sold 24 paintings, with each of them costing around ₹1,500 to ₹3,000,” said Urvashi. Some of his artwork include the dot art, the spider’s colourful web, the Atlantic Ocean and the deep blue sea. The young artist now aims to raise around ₹70,000 by July. “He continues to make more paintings everyday,” said Urvashi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/6-year-old-mumbai-boy-raises-54k-through-artwork-donates-it-to-ngos/story-5n05uMNQpBA6xd6aMv3HgL.html
30-06-2020||City||Restaurants in Mumbai can pay 50% liquor licence fee by September-end||The state has given reprieve to hotels and restaurants over the payment of the liquor licence fees. These establishments can now pay 50 % of the fee by September-end and the remaining 50 % by the end of the year. The initial proposal was to pay the fee in three instalments – 25% by June 30, next 25% by September 30 and the remaining 50% by December 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/restaurants-in-mumbai-can-pay-50-liquor-licence-fee-by-september-end/story-bYGwfL90rytKL4oi5qAfYL.html
30-06-2020||City||Bhiwandi Nizmapur civic body to set up 2,000 beds for Covid-19 patients||Starting Tuesday, the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) will set up a total of 2,000 beds for Covid-19 patients across the city at various educational institutes within a week. Bhiwandi has reported 1,740 cases so far, of which 944 patients are undergoing treatment, while 692 patients have been discharged. The city has also reported seen 100 deaths. “In the next four days, we will make provisions for 2,000 beds across the city. On Tuesday, we will open a 400-bed facility at Rais School and a 170-bed centre at Chacha Nehru School. In the coming days, we will set up 120 beds at Khudabaksh Hall and a 100-bed centre at Oswal Hall,” said new municipal commissioner of BNCMC, Pankaj Ashiya. The corporation has also made provisions for free testing at Rais School. It also said that if any hospital refuses to admit a patient or charges them exorbitantly, then complaints to the civic body can be made on toll free number 18002331102.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-nizmapur-civic-body-to-set-up-2-000-beds-for-covid-19-patients/story-99sIuurg6ffem4450AcAiO.html
30-06-2020||City||50 Covid-19 patients in dilapidated Ulhasnagar hospital building to be shifted||More than 50 Covid positive patients admitted in the dilapidated ESIS hospital building in Ulhasnagar, will now be shifted to a temporary hospital set up within the Tehsildar office premises in Ulhasnagar. This decision was taken by the new civic commissioner, Dr Mantada Raja Dayanidhi. The patients will be shifted when the alternate facility is ready, later this week. The ESIS Hospital was constructed in 1975 and has a capacity of 100 beds.After taking charge, Dayanidhi was surveying the Covid hospitals in the city when he came across the condition of the ESIS Hospital. “Currently around 50 Covid positive asymptomatic patients are admitted in ESIS Hospital. Instructions have been provided by the commissioner to shift these patients, as it would be dangerous to continue to house them in a dilapidated structure, especially during monsoons. Within a few days, a temporary arrangement will be made available at the New Tehsildar Office for these patients to be shifted,” said Dr Yuvraj Bhadane, public relations officer, Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation. Meanwhile, the Ulhasnagar Traders Association and the Forum of Manufacture Association have together imposed a self-lockdown from July 1 to 7 within the city. “Taking into consideration the increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases, we have decided to impose self-lockdown. Only essential shops will be open and most of them will also provide home delivery,” said Sumit Chakraborty, President, Ulhasnagar Traders Association. Till now, Ulhasnagar city has witnessed 1629 positive cases and 42 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-covid-19-patients-in-dilapidated-ulhasnagar-hospital-building-to-be-shifted/story-Ys8G3XUfUw70iErSLrunkO.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC disposes of PIL seeking cancellation of CISCE exams||The Bombay high court (HC) disposed of a public interest litigation (PIL) which sought directions to scrap board exams for Class 10 and Class 12 of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), which were scheduled to be held in July. This comes after the Supreme Court was informed by the council that it was adopting the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) formula of making the exams optional for the students this year and would declare the results by July 15. The HC, however, gave liberty to the petitioner to approach the court in case they were not satisfied with the assessment methodology which the council would adopt while declaring result.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice SS Shinde, while hearing the PIL filed by a parent and advocate Arvind Tiwari and others through video conferencing on Monday, was informed by the council that it had not prepared the methodology which was sought by the court in the earlier hearing.The council, however, informed the bench that as it had already submitted to the apex court that the results would be declared by July 15 and students would be given the option of appearing for the exams thereafter, the prayers of the petitioners were addressed. The council also submitted that as the SC while hearing the petition had said that all other litigations regarding CISCE and CBSE exams were deemed to be disposed of, hence these PIL should be disposed of.The petitioners, however, informed the court that as the council had not clarified the methodology of assessment it would adopt while declaring results, the petition should be kept pending till the CISCE furnished the same to the court.After hearing the argument, the bench upheld the contention of the council and said as the SC had ordered disposal of all PILs on the matter, the PILs stood disposed. It, however, granted liberty to the petitioners to file a fresh PIL if there were any grievances regarding the methodology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-disposes-of-pil-seeking-cancellation-of-cisce-exams/story-AQ6VTE1FLiEPPSDJfaLyGJ.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||Ban on travel beyond 2km was necessary, says Maharashtra CM||Although the Mumbai Police’s new order, prohibiting citizens from venturing beyond the 2-km radius of their homes, led to confusion and anger among many, the state on Monday said it was a necessary step. On Sunday, the police’s guidelines stated citizens can travel beyond 2km only if they have to go to work or in case of any emergency. The police also warned of action against those violating the rule.Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray said the motive behind the rule was to keep uncontrolled and unnecessary crowding on roads in check.“People in Mumbai and MMR [Mumbai Metropolitan Region] are seen venturing out of their homes without any reason, leading to crowding and traffic jams. This is not expected [of the citizens] when the Covid-19 outbreak is at its peak and [such acts] will hamper the efforts that have helped us in keeping the spread of virus under control in the state. Newer challenges will be posed before us in such a scenario and [thus] the steps taken by the Mumbai Police are necessary in larger interest,” Thackeray said.According to state government officials, there were no specific directives given to the Mumbai Police to impose these restrictions. “The steps were taken using the powers given to them through the notifications issued from time to time. It is true that the diktat created a lot of confusion and led to chaos, but it was necessary. Had they created necessary awareness among citizens, the confusion could have been avoided,” said a state government official.Meanwhile on Monday, despite the police’s action against motorists a day earlier, many vehicles continued to ply on roads, leading to traffic snarls in several areas. The Mumbai Police conducted nakabandi at 137 places across the city and checked 30,072 vehicles , leading to further traffic woes. The western and eastern express highways, the arterial roads leading to Mumbai from Vashi, and other main roads in the suburbs witnessed traffic jams till afternoon. “We are checking vehicles across the city and impounding those that have been taken out without any valid reason or documents,” said Madhukar Pandey, joint commissioner of police (traffic).In the past 24 hours, Mumbai Police along with the traffic department have impounded 14,691 vehicles. Senior inspector Mahendra Nerlekar of Jogeshwari police station said, “People are roaming unnecessarily. Some said they thought the lockdown is over. When we stop them, they say that they are going to office or to a hospital to meet their kin, but fail to show us the papers, owing to which we are forced to act against them,” Nerlekar said. (Inputs from Manish Pathak)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ban-on-travel-beyond-2km-was-necessary-says-maharashtra-cm/story-JDcogBIBeJzf1VgQe5Sq5J.html
30-06-2020||City||St George and Sir JJ Hospitals to get new ventilators in 15 days, says Mumbai guardian minister||A month after 81 ventilators donated to St George Hospital and Sir JJ Hospital were found to be of substandard quality, city’s guardian minister Aslam Shaikh said the two hospitals will get new, upgraded ventilators in 15 days.Shaikh said the existing ventilators will be taken back by the company which manufactured them. “The machines have not been up to the mark and will now be replaced with upgraded ones. I am not sure if the two hospitals will get the same number of ventilators [St George Hospital had received 39 ventilators, while Sir JJ Hospital received 42], but that will be worked out soon. The upgraded versions will arrive in the next 15 days.”A short while after the ventilators were donated, the two hospitals realised that the patients put on the machines did not show any signs of improvement. Following this, Sir JJ Hospital wrote to Dr TP Lahane, the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). “The machine is not able to give 100 percent FiO2 and when patients were put on other ventilator, they showed immediate signs of improvement in O2 saturation, respiratory rate and patient compliance. We are of the opinion that these ventilators cannot cater to the critical care of Covid patients,” stated Sir JJ Hospital’s letter, a copy of which is with HT.While Dr Lahane was unavailable for comment, Sir JJ Hospital’s dean, Dr Ranjit Mankeshkar, said, “We had never asked for the ventilators. One of the NGOs had donated them. We have been sending them back as they are lying unused. Also, we are not in a dire need of ventilators, as we have 98 currently, which are sufficient for now.”As per BMC’s data released on Sunday, 32 of 775 the ventilators in the civic facilities are currently not in use. A senior health official said, “We are not facing a shortage of these equipment at our facilities. There are ventilators that are vacant and the total capacity will keep on increasing.”Almost 5% of Covid-19 patients need to be put on a ventilator when they fail to inhale oxygen on their own. Then the patient is incubated and artificially, oxygen is pumped into the lungs. “Oxygen is supplied based on the level of oxygen saturation of a patient. As many patients develop bilateral pneumonia, they fail to breathe on their own. If the oxygen supply and the pressure are inadequate, the patient can die within a few hours of admission,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, in-charge of Sion Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/st-george-and-sir-jj-hospitals-to-get-new-ventilators-in-15-days-says-mumbai-guardian-minister/story-1nFPDxCNiKBi18j9VSUbaK.html
30-06-2020||City||Thane civic corporation to get 1 lakh rapid testing kits||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) will in the next two days acquire over one lakh rapid antigen testing kits to be used for mass screening of residents in red zones, civic commissioner Vipin Sharma said on Monday.RT Kendre, officer on special duty for Covid-19, said, “Currently, we conduct 800 to 900 tests on a daily basis, of which 250 to 300 people test positive. Till Saturday, we had tested over 41,000 people in the city. We will now have to increase the testing capacity for which the kits will be required. The kit gives results in 30 minutes and can be used for mass screening.”He said that if a person tests positive, he will not be retested, however, in case of a negative result, the test will be re-conducted in a week.“The tests are not completely accurate, however, they will help screen the patients. We will use them in areas which have a high density of positive cases. People will be screened using the kits, so we can identify and quarantine those who are positive at the earliest. Even if the person in red zone does not show symptoms, he will be tested,” Kendre said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-civic-corporation-to-get-1-lakh-rapid-testing-kits/story-nkjVPFrluQXSQviLv3RPmN.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||Woman gets notice for asking mosque to lower volume||The city police have sent a warning notice to Karishma Bhosale, a Mankhurd resident, who recently visited a local mosque to request them to lower the volume of Azaan played at the mosque. After her video went viral on social media last week, it led to controversy over Bhosale’s action. Later, she claimed she was being bullied by locals.Inspector Kishore Kharat, in-charge of Mankhurd police station, has sent a notice under section 149 (cognisable offences) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) addressed to her mother Varsha Bhosale on June 24, the day of the incident.The notice, a copy of which is with HT, stated it was inappropriate for her to visit the mosque and that she should have approached the police first with any grievance that she may have had. It also added that her going to the mosque and requesting them to lower the volume could have led to a law and order situation. The mother-daughter duo has been asked to abide by the rules, failing which they could be booked for going against the notice and face charges under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-gets-notice-for-asking-mosque-to-lower-volume/story-ij7TsBytEUfk5WMLr4mrJN.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||Centre’s Smart Cities Mission a mere announcement: Sena||The Shiv Sena on Monday took a jibe at the Centre over its Smart Cities Mission and said if smart cities like Mumbai and Pune are created in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar the population density of the cities in Maharashtra would come down. An editorial in the party’s mouthpiece Saamana said the Narendra Modi-led Central government’s Smart Cities Mission has merely remained an “announcement” after it was launched in 2015. Referring to Union minister Nitin Gadkari’s statement last month that there was a need to decongest Mumbai, the editorial said that Sena founder Bal Thackeray had cautioned about the rising population in Mumbai and Pune first. It said the Sena patriarch had sought ‘permit’ system in Mumbai, which had kicked up a storm in the Lok Sabha during prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s government, and added that Bal Thackeray withdrew the demand on the request of BJP leaders to save the Vajpayee government.“Because of Gadkari, this issue has come to the fore now… Gadkari is of the opinion that smart cities and smart villages like Mumbai should be created in other places. The suggestion is good, but the Modi government has already made an announcement to make 100 smart cities. From those 100, how many have materialised? Smart Cities Mission was announced on June 25, 2015; today in 2020, only 15% of the work has happened. The programme was good, but it only remained an announcement,” the editorial read.It further stated that around 7-8 lakh migrant labourers left Mumbai during lockdown, while 3-3.5 lakh such labourers from Pune went back to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand, etc. “Now these labourers are coming back to Mumbai. Around 1.50 lakh labourers have returned. This is because there is no development in their states. If you create smart cities like Mumbai and Pune in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, the population density of Mumbai and Pune will come down naturally. Jobs should be created in those states first. The Centre should focus on states like UP, Bihar Jharkhand and Delhi,” it said.The editorial added that labourers returning to Mumbai and Pune indicated that hunger prevailed over the threat of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/centre-s-smart-cities-mission-a-mere-announcement-sena/story-iP5HCaLXbMJL12iZ68oqPI.html
30-06-2020||City||No complete lockdown, but Thane sees complete chaos||Thane police commissioner Vivek Phansalkar on Monday put out a tweet on complete lockdown in Thane, only to retract from it hours later, just like the Thane Municipal Corporation, leaving residents panicking and thronging markets to stock up on essentials.The decision on a lockdown has been pending since Saturday, when the corporation first decided to impose it. The police department wanted a complete lockdown, while the civic body was indecisive. On Monday morning, both the authorities decided on a lockdown, however, the corporation again backtracked in the evening.Apart from the tweet, the announcements of lockdown were even made using autorickshaws across the city. Many even tweeted to know what will be allowed and what is restricted. The corporation’s earlier stance that home delivery of vegetables or groceries will not permitted only added to the confusion.Thane police commissioner claimed the tweet was removed and the lockdown will only be limited to containment and red zones. Vivek Phansalkar, police commissioner, Thane, said, “There will not be a complete lockdown in the city, but only in containment zones and red zones. Many people from Thane commute to Mumbai and nearby cities, so a complete lockdown is not possible. Instead, we will ensure that the lockdown restrictions are implemented strictly in containment zones and areas where the density of cases is more.”Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “We are still working on the norms of a lockdown. The notification of things permitted in the areas under lockdown will be in accordance with the state guidelines. Residents should not panic.” He, however, offered no clarity on complete lockdown.The flip-flop invited the ire of the residents. Harshada Sandhan, 37, a resident of Hiranandani Estate, said, “With no clarity on whether essential goods and grocery would be available, we went into last-minute panic to stock up on essentials, as in March, when complete lockdown was announced, it continued till May-end. With no information, we scrambled to stock up on perishables such as dairy and vegetables.”Many said the rush only made sure social distancing norms were flouted. Sagar Patil, 34, a resident of Dokali, said, “We heard the announcement and went to the market in my area. There was a huge crowd with no social distancing. There were queues outside wine shops too.”With 338 new cases on Monday, Thane’s case count is 8,506, while the toll is 292 with 15 new deaths. Meanwhile, the Ambernath Municipal Council (AMC) has extended its weeklong lockdown to another week till July 6. Earlier on June 23 the municipal council imposed a week-long lockdown due to the spike in Covid- 19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-complete-lockdown-but-thane-sees-complete-chaos/story-sE3Ku8cPYwGHoxMAarwq6J.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||Hire locals for work on Metro, other infra projects: Thackeray||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday directed the authorities to employ locals for the construction of Metro and other infrastructure projects that are stuck due to a shortage of labourers. Owing to the complete lockdown between March and May, several migrant labourers working on key infrastructure projects in Mumbai and surrounding areas went back to their home states.Thackeray held a meeting with Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) commissioner RA Rajeev, chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, and other senior officials about the projects stuck due to lack of manpower. “Local people should be given employment immediately where Metro and other infrastructure projects are stuck due to lack of labourers,” a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO) said quoting Thackeray.However, officials said it may not be easy to replace migrant labourers with locals, as they need certain skill set and training for these jobs.In Mumbai, construction of six Metro lines, including an underground corridor, is underway. Of the six projects, MMRDA is working on five corridors. Senior MMRDA officials said the work on Metro lines has not been halted, but is proceeding at 30% efficiency. Officials said around 1,000 labourers have re-joined work this month, and they expect another 1,200 to come in July to start work on Dahisar east-Andheri east (Metro 7), Wadala-Ghatkopar-Thane-Kasarvadavli (Metro 4), and Kasarvadavli-Gaimukh (Metro 4A) lines. “Since excavation and other works on ground are halted during monsoon, the requirement [of labourers] is relatively less, but right now the availability is scarce. If labourers do not return by July, we will have to hire more [labourers] through contractors. The contractors are saying more labourers will come in July, but we are not sure considering the rise of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and its surrounding areas,” an official said, requesting anonymity.Another official said, “As per the directives of the CM, we will inform the contractors to hire locals immediately. But the issue is we cannot replace labourers with other labourers. There are certain skill sets and training required to handle these jobs.”Thackeray also asked MMRDA and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to coordinate well during monsoon. He directed MMRDA to clear debris at construction sites and regularly drain pits so that there is no spread of diseases or any untoward incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hire-locals-for-work-on-metro-other-infra-projects-thackeray/story-8YBS1MX7b6qA5633O7HwnJ.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||Inflated bills: Don’t cut power supply, allow EMI, says MERC||The Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) on Monday issued directives for utility firms, including providing the option of easy monthly instalments (EMI) and not disconnecting power supply over non-payment of dues until grievances are redressed. According to MERC, only 6.35 lakh consumers across state were billed on actual meter readings during the lockdown, which is approximately 2.32% of the total consumer base.Following reports of inflated bills, MERC held a meeting with heads of all the four distribution licensees on June 27. In a statement released on Monday, MERC said that if one’s bill is more than double of the average for the amount charged during March to May, consumers should be given the option of dividing the payment into three EMIs. It has also asked utility firms to “set-up a robust monitoring mechanism”, like a dedicated help-desk or a grievance officer at all sub/divisions and divisional offices to address queries from consumers within a day of their receipt. Power supply cannot be disconnected until consumers have been given the option of EMIs and their grievances redressed, MERC stated.Consumers should also be provided with online software for them to self-check bills and meter readings must be rechecked on a suo motu basis if excessive consumption is noticed, said MERC. If they are not satisfied with their utility provider’s response, consumers have the option of reaching out to the electricity ombudsman. “The commission is keeping vigil on the billing issues and would not like any consumer to be put to any undue inconvenience by the distribution licensees,” MERC stated.Owing to the lockdown, actual meter reading was disconnected in March-end, following which consumers were billed on average consumption based on three months prior to March 2020, which were winter months. “The present bills raised on actual meter readings are of summer months where the consumption is normally high and the bills are always of higher amounts,” MERC said. However, thousands of consumers have complained they’ve been charged two to three times their normal usage.A senior member of the regulatory body said, “The utilities have also been directed to shift to automated meter reading in a year’s time, which will help accurate meter readings without human intervention and billing grievances will be reduced to a large extent.”According to MERC, only 6,35,746 consumers across Maharashtra were billed on actual meter reading during the lockdown period (see box), which is merely 2.32% of the total consumers. However, MERC has already approved installation of 7 lakh meters for Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML) and 66,000 meters for Tata Power, it stated.After Pannu, other celebs complain Following actor Taapsee Pannu who took to Twitter on Sunday to complain about a high electricity bill, more celebrities like actor Huma S Qureshi, producer Tanujj Garg and RJ Malishka tweeted about the issue on Monday. Former news anchor Faye D’Souza also complained about getting an inflated bill. Qureshi said that she received a bill of ₹50,000 when she had paid ₹6,000 last month.Consumers billed on meter-readingMaharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited: 6,11,537 of total 2.30 crore consumers in the state Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited: 570 of 27 lakh consumers in MumbaiTata Power: 23,446 of over 7 lakh consumers in MumbaiBrihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking: 193 of 10.5 lakh consumers in the island city||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/inflated-bills-don-t-cut-power-supply-allow-emi-says-merc/story-IoM5Pgig9l5smFaYwnGBtL.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||PwD quota doesn’t exist at Parel medical institute, says PG aspirant||An aspirant for a postgraduate diploma has called to notice that the College of Physicians and Surgeons (CPS), in Parel, does not have a person with disability (PwD) quota. It is mandatory by law for educational institutions to keep 5% of its total seats under the PwD quota. However, CPS has said it does not come under purview of this rule. Dr Swapnil Jadhav cleared MBBS under the PwD quota in 2014 and wants to pursue a diploma in radiology and electrology. However, having approached CPS several times over the past six weeks, Dr Jadhav has learnt it doesn’t have a PwD quota. “This despite a Supreme Court order which makes PwD quota mandatory in all government institutions offering higher education,” he said.Recently, Dr Jadhav approached the National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People (NCPEDP). Last week, NCPEDP sent a letter to CPS, recommending Dr Jadhav be admitted under the PwD quota as per section 32 of the Rights of Persons with Disability (RPwD) Act (2016), which provides for mandatory reservation of seats for PwD candidates in all higher education institutes. “The College of Physicians and Surgeons falls within the mandate of section 32 of the RPwD Act. Despite being a distinguished academic institution, it has neglected to fulfil its statutory obligations and the admission brochure for 2019-20 does not show any reservation being provided to PwD candidates,” states the letter dated June 19. NCPEDP further requests CPS to take urgent steps to comply with the RPwD Act.However, CPS has said the law is not applicable to it since CPS is a non-aided institute. “Only those institutes that follow admissions based on National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) scores or through the state common entrance test (CET) cell follow quota rules. Since we are non-aided, these quotas don’t apply to us,” said Dr Girish Maindarkar, president, CPS. He said the institute is yet to decide on how and when to implement NCPEDP’s recommendation. “We have a meeting scheduled for July 3 where we will discuss and decide how to act on the recommendations. For now, students interested in applying to our institute need to wait for the prospectus that will soon be released,” Maindarkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pwd-quota-doesn-t-exist-at-parel-medical-institute-says-pg-aspirant/story-kIbeMKGaDGATpDPCIve5nI.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||IMD’s yellow alert: MMR is likely to get heavy rain on Tuesday||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) witnessed an increase in rain intensity from Monday night which may continue throughout Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. The weather bureau has predicted heavy rain and thundershowers across isolated areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) for Tuesday.A yellow alert (be updated for heavy rain) has been issued for MMR and remaining areas of the Konkan coast. Mumbai may witness thunderstorms accompanied by lightning, gusty winds and heavy rain at isolated areas, while Thane and Palghar may experience thunderstorms with lightning. While no warnings were issued for Wednesday and Thursday, heavy rain at isolated places has been predicted for Friday (July 3). Meanwhile, a red alert (very heavy rain warning) has been issued for Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg from July 3 onwards.As predicted by IMD, parts of south and central Mumbai received intense thundershowers late evening on Monday with an average of over 40 mm rain, which falls under the ‘rather heavy’ category between 9.30pm and 10.30pm. According to location-wise rain figures (from automatic weather stations of IMD), within a span of an hour, the maximum rain was recorded at Dadar at 70.1 mm followed by Parel at 63 mm, Prabhadevi, 61 mm, Worli 58.4 mm, Sewri 51 mm, Byculla 41 mm, Dharavi 24 mm, Bandra 17 mm.“Cloud bands moved from northern suburbs over the city and further towards the coast, allowing intense localised thundershowers in isolated areas in northern and western suburbs followed by heavy rain in south-central Mumbai,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. “Monsoon systems do have embedded mesoscale systems (microclimate characteristics), which give intense rainfall at highly localised places,” he added.Earlier between 8.30am on Sunday and 8.30am on Monday, the Santacruz weather station, representative of the suburbs, recorded 39.4 mm rain which falls under the ‘rather heavy rain’ category, while 33.6 mm rain (moderate) was recorded at Colaba, representative of south Mumbai. IMD classifies 7.6 mm-35.5 mm rain as moderate and 35.6 mm-64.4 mm as rather heavy rain.Between 5.30pm and 8.30pm on Monday, light to moderate rain was recorded across several areas in northwestern suburbs including 27 mm rain in Dindoshi, 18 mm Goregaon, 14 mm Borivli, 12 mm Kandivli, and 19 mm in Kalyan-Dombivli. Santacruz weather station recorded traces of rain while no rain was recorded in south Mumbai. “A cyclonic circulation over west central Arabian Sea combined with a feeble offshore trough from Karnataka to Kerala coast is allowing moisture incursions and westerly wind pattern over the Konkan coast, allowing marginal increase in rain activity. This is likely to enhance monsoon currents through the week,” said an official from IMD.Meanwhile, with rather heavy rain over the past 24 hours, Mumbai has so far recorded 383.8 mm rain against the monthly average of 493.1 mm, which continues to be the lowest June rainfall in five years.On Monday, the day temperature in the city and suburbs was 1.1 degree Celsius above normal while the night temperature was close to the normal mark. South Mumbai recorded 92% humidity while 85% was recorded in the suburbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/imd-s-yellow-alert-mmr-is-likely-to-get-heavy-rain-on-tuesday/story-U8nl2fKpgkNuEhriNtrmdK.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||After state dept’s rap, housing societies allow house helps, drivers||Many housing societies have now decided to allow the entry of house helps and drivers from July 1, following the state cooperation department’s circular to the registrars to take action against those societies who disallow them.The housing societies, which were resisting the entry initially, said they have taken this decision under duress. “We were stern about not allowing house helps to protect our residents. However, the government’s order and ruckus created by a section of residents, forced us to relent,” said Karan Jotwani, of __Serenity Complex at Oshiwara. He said most house helps reside in the Anand Nagar slums where many Covid cases have been reported.Dhaval Shah, chairman of Lokhandwala-Oshiwara Residents Association, said, “Majority of residents do not want maids. The entire society will be at risk because of a few people.”The cooperation department issued a circular last week asking the registrars to inform the housing society office bearers that they cannot deny access to the maids and drivers in their premises, as it was contrary to the directives being given by the state government.Anil Kawade, commissioner, cooperation and registrar department, said the circular has been sent to housing societies. “We have told them not to bar the entry. If we get any complaint, we will take action against the errant parties,” said Kawade.Majority of housing societies barred entry to the maids and drivers during the lockdown. Despite the ease, they were unwilling to allow them thus causing a rift among the members.Noted housing activist Advocate Vinod Sampat said that it was the double standards on the part of the housing societies. “The housing societies cannot stop the residents from going out to work. However, they deny entry to the maids and drivers. Even the residents can be carriers of the virus. People need to take precautions, but denying entry to any section is wrong,” said Sampat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-state-dept-s-rap-housing-societies-allow-house-helps-drivers/story-wG72jU4ebz2Uu9pFDR6YxJ.html
30-06-2020||City||Nilje ROB to be repaired and opened in 15 days: MSRDC||Nilje rail overbridge (ROB) on the Diva-Panvel railway route falling on Kalyan–Shilphata Road, which was declared unsafe and was shut since June 15, will be repaired and opened to vehicles after load testing, said the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) on Monday.“After a joint visit by MSRDC and Central Railway (CR) on Monday, it has been decided that the bridge will be repaired and will be set open for vehicles after conducting a test to ensure it is safe to use, in 15 days. The repair work will be undertaken by MSRDC under the supervision of railway,” said Nitin Borule, executive engineer, MSRDC.A safety audit of the 50-year-old bridge was carried out by the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) which revealed that the structure of the bridge was unsafe and should be closed immediately in a view of safety of the railway as well as road traffic.However, when the bridge was declared shut, there was no clarity on whether the bridge will be repaired or be demolished. Commuters had asked the authorities to repair the bridge and open it citing that the closure led to major congestion on the parallel bridge.CR had, in May, decided to shut the bridge and informed concerned officials of MSRDC and Thane traffic police. On June 5, the traffic police released a notification about closing the bridge and diverting the traffic on the parallel new bridge.“When the bridge was shut all the vehicles were diverted to the parallel bridge, leading to severe congestion as many office-goers use this stretch. The authorities should open the bridge without delay,” said Anand Mehta, 30, a daily commuter from Navi Mumbai. “We have informed the IIT-B about conducting repair work. Once the work is finished, IIT-B will inspect and test its safety, following which the bridge will be opened to vehicles,” said Borule. After a part of Andheri’s Gokhale bridge collapsed on July 3, 2018, both the Central and Western Railway appointed a team of experts from IIT-B to inspect 445 bridges over railway tracks in the city.The 21-km-long Kalyan-Shilphata Road which connects Kalyan-Dombivli-Bhiwandi-Thane to Navi Mumbai is a vital link and sees major traffic during peak hours. With the closure of the 9-metre-long and 15-metre-wide Nilje bridge, there was an increase in traffic congestion.“The closure of the bridge and the relaxations on lockdown has led to traffic congestion. If the bridge is repaired and opened, it will give some relief to commuters,” said a traffic police officer from Kalyan (East), who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nilje-rob-to-be-repaired-and-opened-in-15-days-msrdc/story-IE4qUewB6TMUaX3OSNUANN.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||4 men attack 26-year-old with iron rod; 1 arrested||Ghatkopar police arrested one accused on charges of attempt to murder after four people attacked a 26-year-old man with an iron rod and bamboo in Ghatkopar on Sunday. Police are on the lookout for the other accused in the case.According to police, the victim, Prathamesh Pawar who works in a courier firm and lives in Bhatwadi area at Ghatkopar (West) had a fight with the accused, Aniket Bhogle, 25, a month ago when Pawar had asked Bhogle to stop had roaming in his area on bike during lockdown. Bhogle had then threatened Pawar and returned home. Later around 5pm on Sunday when Pawar was going on his bike, Bhogle and his three associates stopped him and started an argument. As one of the accused picked up an iron rod which was lying nearby, Bhogle snatched it and attacked Pawar with it, said a police officer. The other three also assaulted Pawar with bamboo. Some local people gathered, dispersed the accused and informed the police about the incident, said the officer. Pawar was taken to Rajawadi hospital for treatment.The police managed to arrest Bhogle from his area while the three other suspects have been identified and police are looking for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-men-attack-26-year-old-with-iron-rod-1-arrested/story-S9uM0VFNB9MODeOtzZdncK.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||State approves plasma therapy for mild and moderate Covid cases||The Maharashtra government on Monday permitted the use of convalescent plasma therapy in all dedicated Covid hospitals in the state as treatment for Covid-19 in an emergency situation. The state also launched Project Platina, in which 500 critically-ill patients of Covid-19, at 21 medical colleges across Maharashtra, will be given convalescent plasma therapy as a part of clinical trial.The government resolution issued by the medical education department on Monday says plasma therapy may now be considered for patients whose oxygen requirement is progressively increasing despite use of steroids.“With approval from union health ministry, Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), the state decided using convalescent plasma therapy as treatment in mild and moderate cases. With this, plasma therapy can be used as a treatment in emergency at all government, private and charitable hospitals declared as dedicated for Covid treatment but they have to follow protocol of emergency authorisation,” said Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary state medical education department.On Monday, Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray also launched Project Platina. With 500 critically-ill Covid-19 patients, the state claimed Project Platina is the world’s largest trial-cum-treatment project related to plasma therapy for Covid-19. Thackeray also inaugurated Covid-19 plasma banks at 13 of the 21 centres participating in Project Platina, for which ₹16.85 crore has been approved from the CM Relief Fund.HT had reported on June 11 that the state would implement a plasma therapy trial project.These 500 patients will be given two doses of 200 ml of convalescent plasma, which has been taken from a recovered Covid-19 patient. “The state also intends to take this further and isolate monoclonal antibodies against Covid-19 from this plasma and study its structure,” Dr Mukherjee said. The treatment during this trial will be provided free of cost to all participating patients.“Convalescent plasma therapy is coming up as one of the most important methods to treat severe Covid-19 patients in the absence of definite treatment drugs,” said Dr Mukherjee. “The trial will also help formulate definite treatment guidelines for the entire country and thus prove a milestone in the pandemic,” he added.In convalescent plasma therapy, plasma, a blood component, is transfused from the recovered patient — whose blood has antibodies to fight Covid-19 — to one still afflicted by the infection. The therapy may also be used to immunise frontline workers, families of patients and other high-risk people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-approves-plasma-therapy-for-mild-and-moderate-covid-cases/story-sOMURTVpLJxFRl2DZcuu3N.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||Student wings of political parties write to Mithibai College, demand fee hike waiver||A day after HT reported that students of Mithibai College in Vile Parle complained of a fee hike amid Covid-19 pandemic, student wings of political parties written to authorities demanding waiver of the hike. Meanwhile, the autonomous college run by Shri Vile Parle Kelavani Mandal (SVKM) charitable trust has extended the deadline for payment by six days till July 6.Students had also alleged that the institute did not allow students to make payments in instalments despite instructions from the University Grants Commission (UGC) and University of Mumbai (MU).Akhil Chitre from the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) has written to the management of SVKM and Mithibai College administration to waive the fee hike and to allow students to pay their fees in instalments. “If the college doesn’t pay heed to our demands, it will have to answer to the wrath of MNS,” said Chitre.Similarly, Mohammed Salman, president of the south Maharashtra wing of Student Islamic Organisation, has written to the Fee Regulating Authority to take matters into consideration.In view of the nationwide lockdown to control Covid-19 pandemic, UGC — the apex body governing all educational institutes in the country — had issued a letter on May 27 to all universities and colleges asking them to be sympathetic towards students while asking them to pay tuition and other fees. Subsequently, MU instructed all colleges, including autonomous ones, to not hike fees for the academic year 2020-21 and allow students to pay fees in instalments.Students of Mithibai College said that despite the directions, they had been given a four-day window to make payments and there was no provision for partial payment. Meanwhile, in a notice published on the website late on Sunday, Rajpal Hande, principal of Mithibai College, informed the students that the deadline to pay fees has been extended till July 6. Despite repeated attempts, neither Hande nor Asoke Basak, the chief executive officer of SVKM, responded to queries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/student-wings-of-political-parties-write-to-mithibai-college-demand-fee-hike-waiver/story-gmH8M4TJrHuvcmeZgpi1aO.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||Honour PV Narasimha Rao on his centenary year: Deora to govt||Former minister Milind Deora has demanded that state government honour former prime minister PV Narasimha Rao on his centenary year for his contribution to the state. Deora said that Rao, who represented the Ramtek constituency in 1984 and 1989, was fluent in Marathi and his liberalisation policies had benefitted the state and asked Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to convene an all-party meeting to honour him on his centenary year.Rao, born on June 28, 1921, was the prime minister of India from 1991 to 1996. He had ushered in liberalisation reforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/honour-pv-narasimha-rao-on-his-centenary-year-deora-to-govt/story-4wop0FR9jrFYd8DZBFNAuN.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||More local trains likely, state may allow more essential service staff||The Central and Western Railway along with state government officials on Monday confirmed that the number of local train services is likely to increase in the week. The meeting focused on permitting more people working for essential services, increasing the operation of train services and maintaining social distancing inside the local train compartments.The railways have asked the state to provide a detailed list of essential service employees who will be permitted to travel by train. “We have asked the government to speed up the process of issuing e-pass and also provide a list along with the number of passengers allowed to travel in local trains. Local train services will be increased after reviewing the additional number of employees.” said a railway official, who attended the meeting.A state government official said the list was expected by Tuesday. “We have asked for the list of employees expected to travel by local trains from the organisations that are included in the list of the essential services. We expect the list to be provided by Tuesday, after which the planning for the additional services can be done. Around one lakh more employees will be permitted to travel by local trains, in addition to the existing lot of 1.5 lakh employees,” said an official on conditions of anonymity.The officer said that for now, nationalised bank employees have been allowed to travel by local trains. The state has allowed defence personnel, employees from customs, income tax, post offices to travel by trains meant for essential staffers. The officer added that they may consider allowing employees from private and cooperative banks at a later stage.On Sunday, the Western Railway announced the operation of 40 new train services. A total of 202 local train services will be operated on the slow and fast line. Services will be introduced between Churchgate and Virar railway stations. Train services will also be introduced between Borivali and Vasai Road railway stations.The railways resumed local train operations in the city for essential workers on June 15. More than 200 train services are being operated by Central Railway and 202 train services are being operated by Western Railway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/more-local-trains-likely-state-may-allow-more-essential-service-staff/story-erE77nMCNa6Q1bBmU8EpKJ.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai mayor admitted to hospital, kidney stone suspected||Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar has been admitted to Saifee Hospital in south Mumbai on Monday afternoon due to suspected kidney stone after she complained of stomach pain. Confirming the news, a Shiv Sena leader said, “The mayor complained of strong pain in her stomach and was taken to Saifee Hospital around 12.30pm on Monday. Doctors advised her to get admitted for observation and she is likely to stay in the hospital at least for one night. The pain is likely due to kidney stone.”The mayor, a former nurse, has been carrying out rounds of major hospitals in the city to take stock of the Covid-19 outbreak. She had earlier home quarantined herself for 14 days in April, even though she tested negative for Covid-19, after she had paid a visit to a fever camps organised for media persons in the city. Pednekar and her staff were unavailable for comment on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-mayor-admitted-to-hospital-kidney-stone-suspected/story-yVymDA4RF22BTWH93hEt6L.html
30-06-2020||City||Fisherman finds 6-month-old female foetus in net||A 54-year-old fisherman from Uttan, Bhayander found a 6-month-old female foetus in nets on Sunday while fishing near the shallow waters of the coast. He informed Uttan Coastal police about the incident, following which the police sent the foetus for post-mortem.“The fishermen said the foetus, wrapped in a cloth, was caught in nets along with fish,” said assistant inspector Satish Nikam, Uttan Coastal police station.The officer added, “We have registered a case under section 318 (concealment of birth by secret disposal of the dead body) of the Indian Penal Code against unknown person. It seems the foetus could be result of an unwanted pregnancy and the mother may have aborted the child in her home and disposed it. We are investigating further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fisherman-finds-6-month-old-female-foetus-in-net/story-UuktP2iPnK6PyoLu6YDYWL.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||Coastal Road: Destroying corals violates wildlife laws, mangrove cell warns BMC||The forest department has cautioned the civic body on the threat to corals due to reclamation activity for the Coastal Road. The move comes following repeated complaints filed by residents, environmentalists and marine biologists over the safety of coral diversity.Corals are marine invertebrates that attach themselves to rocky intertidal regions or the ocean floor. They are given the same protection status as that of a tiger or an elephant (schedule-1) under the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972.Citing the presence of corals, in July 2019, the Bombay high court had questioned Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on reclamation activity without obtaining clearances under WPA.The mangrove cell under the forest department issued a letter recently to BMC reminding them about coral protection status under wildlife laws. “Corals have been reported from the Coastal Road project site, off Mahalaxmi, by the Mangrove Foundation, while studying intertidal coral diversity of Maharashtra. Several colonies of reef-building False Pillow corals (Pseudosiderastrea tayamai) have been observed in a large tide pool near the project site in Haji Ali,” the letter read adding, “Any act of destruction of coral species during the construction process shall amount to a violation of the WPA.”Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell) said, “Our team of marine biologists visited some sites over the past week. No destruction of corals has been observed so far. In some cases, we did not observe the coral presence due to the high tide. However, on-ground monitoring will continue.”Meanwhile, a letter signed by 250 Mahalaxmi and Haji Ali residents sent to state environment minister Aditya Thackeray on Monday requested the declaration of Mahalaxmi Bay area, the body of water from Mona apartments to the causeway at Haji Ali Dargah, as a marine sanctuary. “A possible way of achieving this would be to have a sea link rather than a road from Breach Candy club to the Haji Ali intersection. This would allow the Coastal Road project to proceed, while simultaneously protecting marine life,” the letter read, adding that residents were willing to maintain the Mahalaxmi Bay and the presently reclaimed area at their expense.BMC said they had stopped reclamation activity for a day to identify areas with coral presence following complaints. “A team from BMC, independent marine experts and researchers from National Institute of Oceanography visited areas in Haji Ali where the presence of corals could not be identified,” said Vijay chief engineer, BMC’s Coastal Road project. “In any case, we have appointed environmental experts and due care is being taken to protect eco-sensitive zones at project areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coastal-road-destroying-corals-violates-wildlife-laws-mangrove-cell-warns-bmc/story-wyDHxf7VYlYLNmr2R59P4K.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||Address welfare issues of transgenders in 15 days, HC directs state govt||The Bombay high court has directed the social justice and special assistance department, of Maharashtra government to decide on the representations made by an activist working for the upliftment of members of the transgender community, within a fortnight. The activist had approached the court through public interest litigation (PIL) seeking various reliefs and a welfare scheme for the community which has been suffering economically since the lockdown. The activist had claimed that due to the stigma, members of the community were not getting any assistance which the government has extended to farmers, small traders and migrants during the lockdown. The court then directed the activist to directly approach the concerned department.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice MS Karnik while hearing the petition of Vikram Shinde, an activist through video conferencing was informed on Friday last week by advocate Aditi Saxena that the ever since the lockdown was imposed in light of the Covid 19 pandemic, the condition of the transgender community had become pathetic.Saxena submitted that as most members of the community are sex workers or begged for a living, the lockdown norms took away their means of livelihood, in the form of social distancing. She further submitted that while the source of income dried up, the members were refused necessities like free ration, as they did not have a ration or Aadhar card. They were also refused basic healthcare and protective kits due to the stigma attached to them.The petition said that while the community was marginalised due to the stigma, the lockdown made their condition worse as the government did not frame or announce any welfare scheme for the over 40,000 transgenders in the state. A couple of representations to the state in April and May had also gone unheeded, thus forcing them to approach the court, the petition said.The petition sought provision of free housing and employment as community volunteers, free ration for six months, payment of ₹5,000 to each member for the same period and provision of Covid and non-Covid medical assistance and to establish separate quarantine centres for the transgender persons. After perusing the petition, the bench said that it was disposing of the petition with the following directions, “The petitioner is granted liberty to file a comprehensive representation, incorporating all the concerns of the community he seeks to represent, within a week from date addressed to the principal secretary to the social justice and special assistance department, government of Maharashtra. Should the petitioner avail this liberty and submit the requisite representation, the principal secretary shall proceed to consider and dispose of the concerns expressed under the law and by passing an appropriate order within a further period of a fortnight.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/address-welfare-issues-of-transgenders-in-15-days-hc-directs-state-govt/story-A23elc7epGEHth0YitJWZJ.html
30-06-2020||City||25-year-old duped of ₹1.05 lakh in an online fraud||CBD Belapur police on Friday booked an unknown person for cheating a 25-year-old assistant engineer of ₹1.05 lakh in online fraud.According to the police, the complainant Rajan Jagdale is a resident of Ulwe in Navi Mumbai. He was trying to purchase a two-wheeler online and was looking for contact numbers of dealers on the internet.The complainant contacted a dealer in Kharghar on June 11. A person posing as an employee at a showroom told him he could avail a discount, said police.“The caller asked him to transfer ₹1 on a web link, which would help him get a discount for the bike. The complainant completed the web transaction as instructed. Next day, ₹1 lakh was deducted from his account and ₹5000 was deducted a day earlier,” said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-year-old-duped-of-1-05-lakh-in-an-online-fraud/story-OzeovW5DhEC1fqf9o0YVRO.html
30-06-2020||Gurugram||Cops seize brown sugar worth ₹80 lakh from a slum in Sector 66||The police on Sunday late night busted a gang of drug smugglers and arrested a 24-year-old man from the Sector 66 slum area. The police also recovered 680 grams of brown sugar, worth ₹80 lakh, from his possession, said the police.The suspect was identified as Dilshad Sheikh, a native of Nadia in West Bengal, who had been living in Gurugram for the past two years. The police said he had been residing in the city for the last 10 years.Acting on a tip-off, the Sector 10 crime investigation agency (CIA) conducted the search operation. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the suspect was arrested from the spot and the recovered drug samples were sent to the lab for testing. “The contraband substance is suspected to have been bought from peddlers from West Bengal and was sold in Delhi-NCR Delhi through Sheikh. He is the middleman, who used to charge a commission of ₹10,000 per 100 grams and used to supply to two others, who were actively involved in selling the substance,” he said.During a preliminary investigation, it was allegedly revealed that the buyers used to visit Sheikh in the slum and on an average, he catered to 10 people daily.The neighbours told the police that they were unaware of his work. However, he carried expensive mobile phones , travelled in private cars and often bought expensive liquor and clothes, said the police.The police is interrogating Sheikh to find out details about the drug racket and the involvement of other people in the illegal trade.Sangwan said they have got details of the two dealers but they are on the run. “They used to purchase the drugs from Sheikh and them supplied to different parts of the city, along with Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad, and nearby districts. This gang has been active for the past 10 years in the city and majorly smuggled brown sugar and heroin as they have high a profit margin and are easy to carry,” he said.Muhammad Akil, commissioner of police, said the contraband is smuggled by stuffing them in gunny bags that are covered by stacks of fodder or vegetables. “We have analysed over 200 cases of drug seizures during the lockdown. We have seen that most of the consignments are smuggled from Delhi, West Bengal, and Uttar Pradesh. “The peddlers are taking advantage of essential services truck ferrying vegetables and groceries, by trying to hide the drugs below or inside the items,” he saidA case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered at the Sector 65 police station on Sunday night.The police said during lockdown they have arrested 101 people, recovered 880 kilograms of drugs from the city, including 1.5kg heroin. The police added that teams are deployed near all the farmhouses that are suspected as delivery hubs in Sohna, Bhondsi, and the Aravalis. These places are being closely monitored as they are hot spots for the sale of drugs. In the past, more than 100 people have been arrested form these spots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cops-seize-brown-sugar-worth-80-lakh-from-a-slum-in-sector-66/story-gmJ77oDhR62Ab0NgTb3KaM.html
30-06-2020||Lucknow||Set up Covid-19 helpdesks at all govt departments, says UP CM||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday ordered for an expeditious establishment of Covid-19 helpdesks at all state departments and organisations, including police stations, an official said on Monday.Till now, Covid-19 helpdesks have been established at 3,441 primary health centres and 853 community health centres.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage “Chief Minister Adityanath has directed that Covid helpdesks should be set up at all departments and organisations at a fast pace,” said Additional Chief Secretary (Home and Information) Awanish Awasthi.The Covid-19 helpdesks have to be set up at the private hospitals too he said, adding they have to be set up compulsorily at all hospitals, where OPD is functional. “Covid-19 helpdesk should also be set up at all police stations, block offices, tehsils, district headquarters,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/set-up-covid-19-helpdesks-at-all-govt-departments-says-up-cm/story-CnD8FDwOKO9tiROHEz1c6O.html
30-06-2020||Gurugram||Haryana to start plasma therapy for Covid-19 as part of ICMR trial||Haryana will administer convalescent plasma therapy to select patients infected with the coronavirus disease(Covid-19) at all its state-run medical colleges, as part of the ongoing nationwide trial by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Medical colleges in five districts — Rohtak, Bhiwani, Jhajjar, Sonipat, and Nuh—are expected to start giving plasma therapy within a week, while other medical institutions such as SGT Medical College in Gurugram, and ESIC in Faridabad, are expected to follow suit soon after, officials said. State health minister Anil Vij took to the microblogging site Twitter on Monday and announced, “Haryana to start Plasma Therapy for treatment of Covid-19 patients in all its medical colleges after approval from ICMR.” The health minister’s statement comes on a day when the Covid-19 cases in the state touched 14,210 cases and total 232 deaths. The first patient from Haryana to be administered the convalescent plasma therapy, as part of the ICMR’s trial at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh, recovered earlier this month on June 12. The patient, a resident of Kurukshetra, had recovered from the deadly disease despite having severe pneumonia and requiring oxygen therapy. “This is a positive step. More and more testimonies about the effectiveness of plasma therapy are coming from all over India. Private hospitals registering trial patients have also seen some successes, this will make the treatment accessible to more people,” Dr Ram Prakash, district epidemiologist, Gurugram, said. Convalescent plasma therapy involves injecting antibody-rich plasma from recovered patients into recovering individuals to help them fight the infection.While at least one private hospital in Gurugram is offering plasma therapy as a mode of treatment, as part of the trial by ICMR (the apex medical body in the county), the treatment hasn’t started in many hospitals. Dr Prakash added that widespread use of convalescent plasma to treat Covid-19 in Haryana was still a few weeks away, given that the ICMR’s trial results are only expected after at least a month. For now, only trial patients at state medical colleges — including SGT Gurugram and ESIC Faridabad— will have the option available of availing the therapy, Prakash clarified. The number of medical colleges across Haryana that will partake in the ICMR trial is unclear so far. The additional chief secretary (health), Rajeev Arora, on Monday did not answer calls and messages seeking comment.Dr Dhruv Chaudhury, nodal officer for Covid-19 monitoring in Haryana and head of the department of pulmonary and critical care at PGIMS Rohtak, where plasma trials are expected to commence this week, said, “Rohtak, along with four other districts, is preparing a list of suitable patients who have recovered and can donate their plasma. The treatment, as per ICMR guidelines, can be used for patients at a moderate to severe stage of the infection. We will initially be using it to help patients who are not responding to ventilator support.” It has previously been used during the Sars and Mers outbreaks (which were also caused by viruses from the same family as Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19). Plasma is a major component of a person’s blood, making up almost 55% of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-to-start-plasma-therapy-for-covid-19-as-part-of-icmr-trial/story-EQBrKrVNHGy63AyhGG4C4J.html
30-06-2020||Gurugram||Intensive contact tracing, more rapid antigen tests in 8 large outbreak areas of Gurugram from today||The Gurugram administration has decided to launch an intensive contact tracing exercise along with antigen testing in the eight large outbreak regions of the city which will be put under a 15-day lockdown starting Tuesday.Officials of the district administration said that in order to break the chain of transmission in these areas, there would be strict curbs on the movement of people also, with only emergency travel permitted.As per the government order issued on Friday, a large outbreak is defined as a localised increase in Covid-19 cases within a defined geographical area in a village, a town or a city. The cases may or may not be epidemiologically linked. For operational purposes, a large outbreak is deemed to be present when there are 15 or more cases.”A containment zone, in comparison, has been defined as an area, which has five cases. To take stock of the measures that have been proposed to be taken up in the outbreak areas,, a meeting of nodal officers for Covid-19 was held on Monday. The meeting was chaired by Ashok Sangwan, divisional commissioner, Gurugram.Sangwan said that special antigen testing centres have been established in all the eight eight large outbreak regions , where people with influenza like symptoms can go, and get themselves tested free of charge. “Seven teams of the health department have been formed, which will conduct antigen testing at 56 centres at designated spots for which dates have been fixed,” he said.During the meeting it was further decided that strict restriction on movement of people will be imposed in all eight large outbreak regions and nodal officers have been appointed to ensure compliance.“The focus will be on conducting antigen tests, RTPCR tests and serological survey to identify Covid 19 patients and check community transmission of the virus. Individuals, who have come in close contact with Covid positive patients, will be tested to check the transmission of virus in these clusters,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. The department will also be conducting a large scale information awareness and communication outreach in the eight areas, some of which have reported at least 150 cases each.Yadav also said that apart from seven teams, four additional groups have been formed to conduct antigen tests at 66 designated spots in other containment zones of the city.As per directions issued by Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner on Monday, areas identified as large outbreak regions will be barricaded from Tuesday and will have only a single entry and exit point. The order further said that essential services will be made available by respective government departments and information regarding dos and dont’s, helpline numbers and other services will be made available in these areas. The police and other departments will ensure that any person entering or exiting these areas should have Aarogya Setu application installed, thermal scanners would be deployed at booths set up for asymptomatic screening. Pamphlets and masks will also be distributed in these areas.The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikran, which is entrusted with the job of contact tracing, said that the authority will increase manpower and also launch web application to customize and share contact tracing data in real time.Jitender Yadav, administrator, HSVP, confirmed that they have decided to increase the people engaged in contact tracing in the large outbreak areas. “We have also developed a web-based application, which shall be introduced to gather data, update it real time, compile it and share it for easy accessibility. This will boost coordination with different departments and help contact tracing efforts,” he said.Apart from this, Yadav said private hospitals in Gurugram, which have taken land from HSVP on subsidized rates, have been asked to ensure that treatment is given to EWS patients as per agreement with the authority. “The hospitals have been asked to follow the norms so that patients from weaker sections of society can avail healthcare,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/intensive-contact-tracing-more-rapid-antigen-tests-in-8-large-outbreak-areas-of-gurugram-from-today/story-efYQHZxRJtsUcURbn5G6tM.html
30-06-2020||Chandigarh||HC stays Haryana’s move to hold exam for students opting science stream in Class-11||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday stayed the Haryana government’s move to hold examination for students, who are opting science subjects in Class-11 in state schools.A bench headed by justice Manjari Nehru Kaul passed the order based on the plea of a group of private schools in the state. The private schools had challenged multiple rounds of communication from the Board of School Education, Haryana, which directed that the students wanting to opt for the science stream in Class-11 will have to take an examination. The board had also asked the school authorities to upload the consent of such students for the examination on the website by June 17, failing which the report or the result of the students would be treated as “zero”. The schools told the court that government move is discriminatory in nature. Further, given the current condition prevailing across the globe due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, holding examination was risky.The court was told that due to Covid-19 outbreak, the result was declared on based on an average and all the students have got the admission to Class-11. It was also pointed out that the higher and technical education departments came out with a notification on June 23 that forbade the holding of examinations by universities and colleges. The schools have demanded that the same policy be adopted by the students opting for science.The schools have also alleged that the move is in violation of guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs under Disaster Management Act, 2005. The court has sought response from the government and the state board, by July 6, further directing that the conduct of the examination will remain stayed till the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-stays-haryana-s-move-to-hold-exam-for-students-opting-science-stream-in-class-11/story-KbBRyvhUiB9tqKt2KLa8FL.html
30-06-2020||Gurugram||MCG on the lookout for guest houses, schools, empty buildings that can be used as isolation centres||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is planning to use guest houses, government schools, colleges, paying guest accommodations (PGs), and ashrams in the city as isolation centres where patients infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) can be treated, said officials on Monday.MCG additional commissioner Surender Kumar held a meeting with officials from MCG, Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC), and the district education department in this regard at the civic body’s Sector 34 office on Monday.“In assistance with the education department and HSIIDC, we are preparing a list of all the guest houses, PGs, government schools, colleges, and ashrams that fall within MCG’s jurisdiction, and the list will be ready by the end of this week. We will use that information to identify buildings that have enough space to accommodate at least 25-30 Covid-19 patients,” Devinder Kumar, zonal taxation officer (ZTO) who attended the meeting, said.Kumar further said the MCG is also in the process of identifying vacant buildings which can be converted into isolation centres. The move comes after getting a nudge from chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar two week ago.There are around 3.5 lakh properties registered in MCG’s tax records. However, the MCG does not have any data on vacant buildings, said officials. A survey to identify empty buildings will be kicked off soon.“We don’t have any records on vacant buildings and will have to initiate a fresh survey for it. We are aiming to complete this survey within two months as it may take us some time to trace owners of such buildings and subsequently convince them to lease their properties to us,” an MCG official privy to the development said.On June 16, during a review meeting on coronavirus preparedness CM Khattar during a review meeting on coronavirus preparedness had directed authorities in Gurugram to identify vacant properties and convert them to isolation centres, citing that such buildings can accommodate a large number of residents if the Covid-19 cases spike significantly and there are shortages in hospital beds in the city. According to an estimate made by Vivek Kalia, nodal officer, hospital and ventilator management, if the number of cases increases to almost a lakh in August, the city would then require at least 37,000 beds and more than 2,000 ventilators. Currently, there are 48 hospitals in the city that have Covid-19 beds.On Monday, the total tally of Covid-19 cases in the district reached 5,260.MCG officials said they will be focusing their efforts in zones 1, 2 and 3, where the cases are significantly higher than MCG’s zone 4. As per MCG’s June 27 records, nearly 1,450 cases of coronavirus were reported from zone 1, over 1,200 cases each from zone 2 and 3, while zone 4 had around 800 cases.MCG’s zone 1 and 2 includes areas located on the left side of the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, the northern and western parts of the city. Zone 3 primarily includes areas falling on the eastern part of the city, starting from the Sirhaul toll till exit number 8 (sector 30/31 cut) on one side and till Ghata t-point on the other. Zone 4 mostly includes new sectors and areas falling along Golf Course Extension Road and Sohna Road.In collaboration with the district administration, the MCG has already tied-up with 18 RWAs for establishing isolation centres at their respective condominiums, gated societies, and colonies so far.In addition, MCG officials said they are also looking at identifying various community centres where Covid-19 patients who need oxygen support can be accommodated. Along with the health department, MCG is already in the process of establishing such a centre at a community centre in Sector 27 which will have more than 75 beds, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-on-the-lookout-for-guest-houses-schools-empty-buildings-that-can-be-used-as-isolation-centres/story-GBJZtTQFE0GExqOUgdP54I.html
30-06-2020||City||Six police teams deployed to trace missing man after his car found abandoned in Muzffarnagar||At least six teams of the Ghaziabad police and other police teams from Muzaffarnagar are trying to trace the whereabouts of a 36-year-old project manager of a Ghaziabad-based construction company after he was reported missing on June 26.The police said that Vikram Tyagi went missing while he was on way to his flat in a high-rise at Raj Nagar Extension from office. After his family tried calling him, his mobile was switched off around 7.45pm. After searching for him on their own they approached the police.Tyagi’s car was found abandoned in Muzaffarnagar on June 27 with bloodstains on some seats.“We have registered an FIR under IPC section 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder). There is still no trace of the missing man while his car, an Innova Crysta, was found in Muzaffarnagar—about 100km from Ghaziabad—with bloodstains on the middle seats. The car was also damaged from the rear end, which suggested it had taken a hit. The registration plates of the car were also missing,” said Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city).The police said they have also come to know two men were spotted in the car at a checkpoint near Khatauli in Muzaffarnagar district late Friday night. “Tyagi was not inside the car, but two men who were driving the car sped away when the police tried to stop them. Later the car was recovered in Muzaffarnagar. We have six teams deployed to trace the man and some teams from Muzaffarnagar district are also working on the case. We also scanned footage of CCTV cameras installed alongside the Delhi-Meerut Road, but we did not come across the car passing by in the footage,” Mishra added.According to the police, Tyagi’s last mobile location was found at Raj Nagar Extension just some distance from his home.The police added that Tyagi was not carrying much money on him and even his credit card was also not used anywhere. There was no deduction of any toll from the FasTag installed on his car, suggesting the person who was driving Tyagi’s car took a different internal route to reach Muzaffarnagar.“We are still investigating the entire incident and probing all angles. Our teams are also trying to trace the involvement of any gangs behind the incident. The family has still not received any ransom calls so far,” Mishra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-police-teams-deployed-to-trace-missing-man-after-his-car-found-abandoned-in-muzffarnagar/story-bYAZFxSd55inWLREbdWgxI.html
30-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram records 6 deaths, 102 new cases of Covid-19||The district reported 102 new cases on Monday, taking the total tally of reported cases to 5,260. The district’s daily test positivity rate (TPR) reached 10%, slightly up from Sunday’s a record low of 6.8%. Just two weeks ago, on June 14, the TPR was 100%.There were also six new deaths in the district on Monday, according to the daily epidemic bulletin of the district health department. Gurugram’s total mortality stands at 90 deaths, of which 55 patients died because of the presence of co-morbidities. Nearly 1.6% of the total reported Covid-19 cases have resulted in a loss of life. Gurugram on Monday also recorded 135 new recoveries (down from 279 the previous day), taking the district’s cumulative recovery rate to 73.8%. The number of active cases in the district now stands at 1,288 — down from Sunday’s tally at 1,327. Of these, 828 patients are currently under home isolation, while 59 patients have been hospitalised. The remaining 401 patients are under observation at various Covid-19 care facilities across the district.Gurugram on Monday also collected 931 new samples for testing, of which 330 were collected by the health department through targeted surveillance, using both antigen and RT-PCR tests, while 601 were arbitrary samples collected by private labs in the district. Health bulletins from June 16 onwards show that test results of most samples are being reported within a 24 hour period, thereby reducing Gurugram’s backlog of samples to 215, down from 221 on Sunday. On June 11, this backlog was of almost 450 samples. However, the total number of tests conducted was down from 1,302 tests on Sunday to 957 on Monday, a decrease of 26%. With an overall increase in private testing lowering the district’s test-positivity rate, Gurugram’s daily growth rate of reported cases dipped to 2.1% on Monday, down from 6% two weeks ago, while the doubling rate increased to 34 days.Dheeraj Singh, a data scientist based in the city, emphasized on the need to present disaggregated data in the district health bulletins. “While it appears that positivity is low, this trend is due to clubbing of private and health department data which comes from different surveillance streams. We will have a better idea of what the real picture if the numbers were provided under different heads.”Meanwhile, Haryana reported 381 number of cases on Monday, taking the total tally to 14,210 cases. Of these 9,502 patients have recovered and 4,476 patients are still under treatment. On Monday, the state reported, 9 deaths. The state’s total mortality stands at 232.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-records-6-deaths-102-new-cases-of-covid-19/story-kchuRMYKCn4kAPxjc02D7H.html
30-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram records 585% increase in Covid-related waste between April and June||The quantity of biomedical waste related to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the district has increased by 585% over the past three months, showed data compiled by Biotic — the concessionaire for biomedical waste management for Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG). In April, Gurugram amassed an average of 500 kgs of Covid-related biomedical per day. In June, this number exceeded more than 3,000 kgs per day, coinciding with a surge in the number of cases and deaths. On Monday, the total tally of Covid-19 cases in the district reached 5,260. Close to half of the city’s total medical waste now comes from the diagnosis and treatment of Covid-19 patients. In April, Covid-related waste accounted for just 14% of Gurugram’s total biomedical refuse collected. In June, this waste made up 48.5% of the total biomedical waste.In April, the district produced 15,076 kgs of Covid-related biomedical waste. In May, the quantity of biomedical waste ballooned to 33,502 kgs, more than twice what was produced the previous month. In June, the district generated 1,03,409 kgs of Covid-related biomedical waste or six times the amount produced in April.Meanwhile, the growth of routine medical waste collection remained stable at 94,369 kgs in April, 1,12,454 kgs in May, and 1,09,372 kgs in June. Experts said that Gurugram would soon start to produce Covid-related biomedical waste in excess of the routine waste produced from non-Covid procedures. “In cities like Delhi, biomedical and common waste management systems are already under strain. Gurugram and neighbouring districts with an increasing number of cases are also on their way there. My worry is that hazardous materials from Covid wards in Indian cities will get mixed up with regular waste as our own capacities run out,” said Sourabh Manuja, an environment and waste management fellow at The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI), New Delhi.Manuja also cited examples from other badly hits regions from across the world. “In Wuhan, China, for example, the total amount of biomedical waste had shot up by six times soon after the outbreak. We have also been seeing reports from the US and Italy, which are struggling to deal with mountains of Covid-related waste. And these countries have a significantly higher capacity to tackle their garbage issues than us,” he added.Gurugram, for its part, is nearing its fully carrying capacity of Covid-19 related waste. From operating at 25% carrying capacity in April, Gurugram’s dedicated biomedical waste management facility in Sector 36 has now scaled up operations to absorb the growing demand. “We are now operating at a 60% capacity,” said Vikas Gahlot, spokesperson, Biotic. “We are managing everything according to the protocol for now. We can process 20 tonnes of waste per day, but are currently processing about 12 tonnes per day. As such, we have some spare capacity left,” he said. Presently, Covid-19 related bio-medical waste from homes is collected ward-wise. Biotic’s waste workers make two pickups from each ward every week, equipped with a list of addresses where people are under home isolation. “The caretaker of the patient is responsible for bringing segregated waste to the truck, after taking necessary precautions, such as wearing gloves and masks and putting the waste in a yellow bag,” said a zonal sanitation inspector. A separate vehicle makes daily pickups from about 36 other hospitals and Covid care facilities in Gurugram.Kuldeep Singh, the HSPCB’s regional officer in Gurugram, said, “We have notified state guidelines for Covid-19 biomedical waste which are being followed. If we see a scenario in which the capacity is not enough, we shall work with the corporation to find a solution and engage additional resources if needed.”Despite repeated attempts, commissioner of MCG did not respond to calls and messages for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-records-585-increase-in-covid-related-waste-between-april-and-june/story-oOHJD0AxrCJa7A6WjM2IWN.html
30-06-2020||Gurugram||Cops seize liquor worth ₹30 lakh from a truck transporting vegetables in Nuh||The Nuh Police on Sunday night intercepted a vegetable truck, bearing a tag of “essential services”, and seized 11,000 litres of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth ₹30 lakh near Adbar Chowk in Nuh, said police officials privy to the matter. The driver and helper were arrested from the spot, said the police. The incident was reported around 8pm on Sunday, when the police received a tip-off that some bootleggers were allegedly trying to smuggle liquor into Maharashtra through Nuh, the police officials said. A team of policemen from crime investigation agency (CIA) placed barricades near Adbar chowk in Nuh and spotted a truck coming from the side of Gurugram.Narender Bijarnia, the superintendent of police, Nuh, said when the police team checked the truck, they found that it was loaded with vegetables and had a bill for the same. “When the police team asked the driver and the helper to remove the cover for a further check, they told them that they were transporting vegetables to Maharashtra in cartons. A total of nearly 50 cartons in the front were loaded with vegetables. However, when one of the police officials checked further, he found cases of liquor,” Bijarnia said. According to the police, the truck had a total of 947 cases of whisky of an Indian brand that was for sale in Haryana only and were recently packed.According to the police, the driver and the helper have been identified as Manish Kumar and Vishal Singh of Pathankot in Punjab.Bijarnia said the police have taken the suspects on a two-day police remand to question them about the mastermind and other people involved in liquor smuggling. The police registered cases against the suspects under Section 61 of the Excise Act and sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Nuh police station“The suspects have earlier smuggled liquor to Maharashtra during the lockdown in trucks loaded with fruits, vegetables, and other essential items but were not caught. They were given the task of smuggling liquor to Maharashtra through a third party in Punjab who had loaded the liquor from Gurugram,” he said.“During questioning, the suspects also revealed that the mastermind is a liquor trader and has been involved in smuggling liquor to Maharashtra and Gujarat for the past several years and that they have been carrying liquor on the same route. The drivers are changed after every 50 kilometres so that they remain unaware of the details of the trader and the end-user,” said Bijarnia The police said liquor is commonly smuggled from Haryana to Maharashtra as it is cheaper here. Further, the government of Maharashtra had banned liquor in the state during the lockdown and continues to do so in some parts of the state. Liquor smuggling by interstate organised syndicates has increased in Maharashtra since lockdown was announced and liquor worth nearly ₹120 crore has already been seized by the police in the state since the lockdown was imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cops-seize-liquor-worth-30-lakh-from-a-truck-transporting-vegetables-in-nuh/story-urWWLD0mdtD12CKzLrFrJN.html
30-06-2020||City||102-year-old Thane man beats virus||Through all the 28 days 102-year-old Sukha Singh Chabbra was under treatment for Covid-19 at a city hospital, he was unaware that he had contracted an infection that was ravaging the world.Chabbra on Monday became the oldest person in Thane city to win the battle against the virus and according to his family, the victory was all due to his willpower. Chhabbra’s grandson told HT that his grandfather’s hearing is weak and so he did not know much about the coronavirus. Chabbra, his grandson said, believed he was admitted for his cough, cold and some breathing issues and that was likely to have helped as Chabbra did not panic and was able to recover completely. Chabbra was greeted with huge applause and flowers from his family members after he was discharged on Monday.A resident of Cadbury junction in Thane (West), Chabbra, who was born in October 1917, tested positive for the virus on June 2. Taranjeet Singh, 32, his grandson, said, “Six of the eight members in my family have tested positive for the virus. I worked in the Gurudwara to provide food to labourers and government hospitals in Thane and contracted the virus during this service. He [Chabbra]got it from me. We both got admitted together and the first few days I was with him. My grandfather did not know much about the virus even though he watched the news. He is hard of hearing and was not aware of the pandemic. We told him he was admitted for cough and breathing problems. Since the fourth day of his admission to hospital, he was in ICU.”Singh said that his grandfather had a strong will to go home and meet his family, which kept him going. “He is now stable, although weak, but much better. My other grandfather, aged 86, is also infected and is still in ICU. He, however, knows about Covid-19 and is stressed, which is affecting his recovery, although he, too, is stable now.”Chabbra, who was a farmer and later went into construction business, was admitted in Kaushalya Hospital at Panchpakhadi. Dr Amit Lala Khomane , chief intensivist and head, department of critical care medicine at the hospital, said, “He required NIV (non-invasive ventilation) and inotropic supports to maintain his heart and lung functions for moderate ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome) along with Covid pneumonia. It was the patient’s own determination to fight it out at this age, which helped him recover.”The hospital also sponsored his entire treatment as his story was an inspiration for all doctors of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/102-year-old-thane-man-beats-virus/story-K9IaxzF9QiwbWBqnl0qNdJ.html
30-06-2020||City||Chief medical superintendent of Noida district hospital transferred||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday announced a slew of transfers and appointments in the state’s health department, the notable among which was that of the chief medical superintendent of district hospital in Noida, who was shuttled to MMG District Hospital as a senior consultant. Though there was no official confirmation, sources believed that the transfer of the chief medical superintendent had been prompted by the death of a 30-year-old pregnant woman from Khoda, who was allegedly turned away by several hospitals in Noida and Ghaziabad.Following the woman’s death, the Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate had initiated an inquiry and on June 8 had recommended the transfer of the CMS, while stating that some “capable” officer should be posted.“The CMS of district hospital has been transferred to MMG Hospital, Ghaziabad as senior consultant. The posting is on same rank. Earlier the doctor was into administrative work and now she will be handling clinical work,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad.The probe report into the death of the pregnant woman had highlighted several lapses, including the fact that the ambulance that she was being ferried in had dropped her off at the district hospital in Sector 30, despite being scheduled to take her to Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida. From there, the woman was rushed to four private hospitals, all of who turned her away, citing lack of beds.By the time she finally reached GIMS, she had died.The report found the doctors who checked and referred her, as well as the driver of the ambulance which dropped her outside the district hospital, were liable for negligence.“If she had to be referred to a higher centre from the district hospital, a senior staff member should have taken that decision. Concerned staff should have informed the senior management,” the report said.“Such instances have occurred in the past as well and points to supervisory negligence. We have written to the state government to transfer chief medical superintendent (CMS) of the district hospital,” DM Suhas had said after he received the report.On Monday, DM Suhas LY did not comment over the transfer but referred the matter to Dr Deepak Ohri, CMO of Gautam Budh Nagar.“She has been transferred by the state government on the recommendations of higher district officials as she was found guilty of dereliction. The CMO office has no role in her transfer,” Dr Ohri, said.HT is withholding the name of the officer as she couldn’t be reached for her comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chief-medical-superintendent-of-noida-district-hospital-transferred/story-9Z2KeX6sRKVQMfiVP0l6II.html
30-06-2020||Noida||Results of random testing indicate low infection rate outside containment zones in Noida, say officials||Out of the 400 reports— of the 1,152 samples collected at random in the district for testing against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)— only six samples have tested positive, district officials said. The low positivity rate of the samples so far, officials said, established that the infection rate was high only in high-risk containment zones and densely populated, unorganised residential areas in the district.The random samples were collected on Saturday, and while the reports of the rest of the samples are still awaited, the reports of 400 samples came from the National Institute of Biology (NIB) on Monday.Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said the results of the random sampling so far, indicate that Covid-19 infection is mostly controlled in most of the areas in the district. “So far, over 16,000 samples have been collected in the district, out of which 2,204 persons have been tested positive so far. We are taking samples for lab-based reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction tests (RT-PCR), rapid antigen kit testing, and testing methods,” he said. Till date, 8,000 rapid antigen kits have arrived in the district, out of which nearly 1,000 have been used for testing. The remaining 7,000 kits are expected to arrive in a day or two, he added.The DM, however, said the threat of coronavirus was far from over in the district. “ To curb the spread, the administration needs to be hard sometimes. We will not allow anyone taking the relaxations under Unlock 1 for granted,” he said. “Our team of doctors is keeping a round-the-clock vigil to check the further spread of this virus in high-risk areas. On Monday, as many 39 office premises and containment zones have been thoroughly sanitised. The health workers are also sensitizing people to maintain social distance and wear masks while going out,” he said.The district on Monday reported 53 new cases taking the overall count of the district to 2,204 cases.District chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri, as many as 211 positive patients were discharged from different hospitals on Monday—the highest number of patints to be discharged in a single-day, taking the overall number of cured patients to 1,430 in the district. “So far, 22 Covid-19 positive patients have so far lost their lives in the district so far. The district now has 756 active cases,” he said.According to the daily state bulletin on Monday, the overall tally of the Covid-19 positive cases in the state has touched 22,828, with 685 new cases in the last 24 hours. “While 672 patients have lost their lives due to coronavirus infection in the state so far, 15,506 patients have been cured and discharged from different hospitals in the state” the bulletin stated.Meanwhile, the police on Monday, arrested as many as seven persons in connection with the violation of section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code. “Three cases under section 188 of Indian Penal Code have been lodged, while 2,132 vehicles were checked on Monday. One vehicle was seized and other 794 have been served fines,” the GB Nagar police commissionerate spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/results-of-random-testing-indicate-low-infection-rate-outside-containment-zones-in-noida-say-officials/story-FVgvJnkFKhZSz9MWVXEh9L.html
30-06-2020||City||Man killed, 2 injured in clash over property dispute||Following clashes between two factions over an ongoing property dispute in a village in Greater Noida, a 61-year-old man was killed on Monday afternoon while two others were severely injured.The incident was reported from Niyana village in Kasna area around 2pm. According to the police, the two factions have always been at odds with each other because of an old feud over property in the village.“Today [Monday], some people from one faction were unloading bricks from a truck. One person from the other faction was trying to pass the group in a car but was unable to because of the truck. This led to an argument which soon escalated when more relatives joined in from both sides,” Rajesh Kumar Singh, the deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, said.In the ensuing confrontation, 61-year-old Brijendra received a bullet injury and died, while his nephew Devendra’s hand was cut with an axe-like tool. Brijendra’s brother was also severely along with several other people from both factions.“The injured persons were taken to a private hospital for treatment while the body of the deceased man was sent for an autopsy,” the DCP said.The matter ended with locals informing the police, and four of the accused men, Rajkumar, his sons Nishant and Monti, and his father, Jasmal, were arrested from the spot while the rifle and axe used in the murder were also seized. The men will be produced before a magistrate on Tuesday. The police said that a complaint has not been filed in the matter yet as the family is busy tending to the wounded. However, a case will be registered soon.The rivalry started when a piece of property in the village was sold to both the parties by a broker a few years ago. Brijendra’s family currently occupies the property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-killed-2-injured-in-clash-over-property-dispute/story-tYlNPGGd1litBjJI8yIswL.html
30-06-2020||City||Traffic snarls continue at Noida-Delhi borders||Noida: More than two months after Noida sealed its borders with Delhi, commuting between the two cities during the peak hours continues to be a problem.While in the beginning the Noida police were only monitoring entry into the city after the relaxations in lockdown, from June 13, even exit from the city are being checked. Only commuters with requisite administrative passes and those engaged in essential services are allowed to travel across the border.It was last week of April when the administration had decided to seal the borders with Delhi in the wake of the rising number of cases in the national capital. With the district administration maintaining its status quo since then, commuters continue to face snarls in the border areas.The Noida police have placed barricades on both sides to regulate the movement at all border points like Chilla, Kalindi Kunj or DND.“The police barricades placed on both sides hold up traffic, specially during peak hours. Without the barricades, the traffic movement will be smooth even if police check each vehicle,” said a daily commuter.Some commuters claimed that crossing the border at DND or Kalindi Kunj takes more than 40 minutes on average. “During peak hours, traffic crawls on both sides. Checking is irregular and the traffic becomes worse on Mondays. I hope that the restrictions or at least the barricades will be removed from July 1. Today, Kalindi Kunj was so jam packed that we had to take a turn and go via DND,” said Amrinder Singh, a commuter travelling from Faridabad to Noida.Police officials said that there are no orders yet to revoke the border sealing.“Entry and exits are still being monitored at DND and Kalindi Kunj. But at Chilla border, checking is there only at entry point,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police.He said that peak hour traffic is still an issue but the police are trying to make the situation better by opening more lanes on the border at the DND flyway.Gautam Budh Nagar had sealed its border with Delhi to avoid the spread of coronavirus cases. According to data released by the district’s health department, many Covid-19 cases in the district have been traced to sources in Delhi. While some people, who have jobs or businesses in the other state, want the border to be opened, Noida residents have supported the administration’s decision to keep it sealed keeping in mind the Covid-19 spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/traffic-snarls-continue-at-noida-delhi-borders/story-jViHhSCbHaC8k091P41zvK.html
30-06-2020||City||Constable accused of extorting money from dairy owner sent to police lines||A police constable deployed at the Dankaur police station was sent to Surajpur police lines on Monday for allegedly extorting money from a local dairy owner over “fabricated” liquor smuggling charges.The alleged incident had come to light after a video, which purportedly shows the constable shouting and threatening villagers at Atta Fateghpur with a stick, started doing the rounds on social media.The victim, Zahid, a milkman and a local dairy owner, had filed a complaint with the police on Sunday in the matter. According to his complaint, he was on his way back home after making milk deliveries when he was stopped by the police who asked for his movement pass and other documents.When his documents were found incomplete, Zahid said in his complaint, he was falsely accused of being a liquor smuggler and was threatened that he would be sent to jail. The constable in question then allegedly demanded some money from Zahir in order to drop the bogus charges, the complaint read.However, seeing the commotion a few villagers rushed to the spot to defend Zahir and one of them captured the incident on video. The constable can purportedly be seen threatening the villagers and the person making the video.Following the complaint by Zahid and after the circulation of the video on social media, senior police officers took cognisance of the matter and an inquiry was conducted by a Greater Noida assistant commissioner of police.“The constable has been sent to police lines following the probe. He was disturbed from the past few days due to some health issues which could have led to the incident,” said Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, zone 3.Police officers also said that the constable had also gotten into trouble a few days ago when he was disrespectful to a senior officer during a meeting.As many as six cases of alleged police brutality have come to light since May 10 in Gautam Budh Nagar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/constable-accused-of-extorting-money-from-dairy-owner-sent-to-police-lines/story-dQFVtPytY9exxfIlzAeTVI.html
30-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad’s only TrueNat machine out of order for three days||Ghaziabad: The district’s only TrueNat machine is out of order for the past three days after it developed a snag, severely affecting the Covid-19 testing in emergency cases, health officials said on Monday. The basic purpose of the TrueNat machine was to get results within an hour about the Covid-19 status of the patient who required emergency treatment such as a surgery. The machine had arrived in Ghaziabad about a fortnight ago to boost the testing capabilities in the district.“The machine is out of order for past three days. We had called up an engineer, but he was unable to repair it due to want of a component. We have already intimated twice the issue to the company. As of now, we are taking up tests through antigen kits which have recently been provided to the district,” said Dr Anurag Bhargava, chief medical superintendent of MMG District Hospital where the machine is installed.In May, the use of TrueNat machine was validated by the Indian Council of Medical Research for confirmatory detection of Sars-CoV-2 virus to boost testing capacities. While RT-PCR test results come in 24 to 48 hours, antigen testing, which provides results within half-an-hour, does not provide ‘true’ negative result of a patient, the officials said. The Ghaziabad health department had been carrying out about 30 to 40 tests through TrueNat machine, but the activity is now being taken up through antigen test kits, the officials said.“The TrueNat provides ‘true’ negative status of a Covid-19 patient while the antigen test provides ‘true’ positive result of a patient. In case the test result is not positive through antigen testing, we have to get negative result confirmed through RT-PCR test which takes time. As the TrueNat machine is out of order, it has hampered the testing,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.The TrueNat testing was also getting done in cases related to deliveries of women patients at the district women’s hospital. Doctors at the women’s hospital said they cannot stop deliveries even if they have to wait for the test results.“The reports of two patients were received after the deliveries. So, we got our doctors and nurses, who attended the deliveries, tested for Covid-19. But their reports turned negative. So, in absence of TrueNat test, we are taking risk as deliveries cannot be stopped or postponed,” said Dr Deepa Tyagi, chief medical superintendent of women’s hospital.The CMO said that one more TureNat machine has been sanctioned by the government and will arrive for the women’s hospital.At present, the Ghaziabad district has daily sampling capability of about 450 samples, including about 50 taken up by private labs, and these are sent to RT-PCR labs in Noida, Meerut or Delhi for testing purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-s-only-truenat-machine-out-of-order-for-three-days/story-pCXNcOZftPIpSoRw8I9WJI.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||Maha extends lockdown until July 31 with more restrictions||The Maharashtra government on Monday extended the ongoing coronavirus-enforced lockdown to July 31 and imposed stricter norms.A day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned people of stricter restrictions if violation of lockdown norms continued, the notification issued by the government has reduced shopping timings, restricted jogging and running to the neighbourhood and also told people in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) that travel within the region is allowed only for coming to offices.The state government is also expected to defer its plan of extending relaxations by two weeks as cases in the state continue to increase significantly. With the addition of 5,257 cases on Monday, the number of people infected so far has risen to 1,69,883. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had announced on Sunday that there will be no lifting of the lockdown after it ends on June 30, although the state government will extend a few relaxations in a calibrated manner. He, however, had expressed his unhappiness over the crowding at public places in cities and even in rural parts of the state. He had said the administration would be forced to impose stricter curbs if citizens did not follow lockdown norms.While allowing non-essential shops to operate at regular working hours (9am to 9pm) on alternate days from June 5 under its Mission Begin Again — a staggered plan to lift curbs launched on May 31 — timings have now been restricted from 9am to 5pm for non-essential shops. This was after authorities reported unnecessary crowding on roads in the evening. It has also clarified that travel permissions given within MMR are only for essential services and to facilitate office-goers and not for shopping and non-essential items. The notification said that physical activities such as jogging, running and cycling, which were allowed from June 3, are allowed only in the neighbourhood. State government has also given powers to local authorities — district collectors, civic commissioners, police commissioners — to impose stricter norms according to the Covid-19 situation and if they feel necessary. The earlier order had mandated local authorities to consult with the state government in case any such need arose. The state government is now considering to defer proposed relaxations by at least a couple of weeks in the prevailing conditions with the surge in Covid-19 cases. “CM spoke about the relaxations in his address on Sunday, but they are unlikely to come through at least for next two weeks. Cases are rising rapidly and most of them are due to the opening up of activities. We are at crucial stage of the fight against the pandemic and in such a scenario, immediate relaxations would not be wise,” a state government official said, after fresh rounds of meeting on Monday. The state government was planning more relaxations for industrial and commercial activities and more transport facilities to supplement them. It was also planning to allow more staff in government and private offices. The notification issued on Monday by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, exercising the powers conferred under Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act, said that the ongoing lockdown has been extended by a month as the government is convinced that it is still under the threat of the spread of the coronavirus. The state government has continued its demarcation of areas as red and non-red areas, on the basis of the spread of the disease. Areas governed by 19 municipal corporations, including nine in MMR, continued to be red zones with stricter lockdown norms. Maharashtra has 27 municipal corporations governing urban areas. Thackeray announced on Sunday that further relaxations will be rolled out under Mission Begin Again in a phased manner. The notification has said that the relaxations will be notified in due course. “The relaxations will be given by issuing separate notifications, like issued for earlier four phases, with due care and very cautiously,” said a state government official requesting anonymity. Mall, theatres, multiplexes, schools, colleges, gymnasiums, swimming pools remained to be shut across the state. Essential services have been allowed across the state, while shops and non-essential services are allowed with certain restrictions in red zones. Government and private offices are allowed to operate at 15 and 10% of their workforce (or 15 and 10 persons, whichever is greater) respectively. Non-essential services and intra-district public transportation have been allowed in non-red zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-extends-lockdown-until-july-31-with-more-restrictions/story-d8FsqHR2pPueNfRQJiX7UL.html
30-06-2020||Pune||Congress holds protest against fuel price rise||Maharashtra Pradesh Congress committee president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat on Monday blamed the central government for the rising fuel prices. The Congress has appealed to the Centre to rollback the price hike. The Congress has decided to launch agitations across the country at the taluka level, starting June 30, against the hike.Thorat was in the city to attend meetings and was also present for the protest against the fuel price rise organised by the Congress city unit on Monday at Alka Talkies chowk.Thorat said, “The middle and lower middle class is already struggling for survival during the lockdown and instead of providing them help, the government is imposing fuel price hikes and looting the common public. When Manmohan Singh was the prime minister, despite high oil prices in the international market, he controlled the fuel prices in the country. Right now, the fuel prices are at the lowest level in the international market, but the situation in the domestic market is different.”Meanwhile, Thorat also took a review of the Covid-19 situation at the Council Hall and instructed the administration to put in efforts to bring down the mortality rate. Thorat said, “Malegaon city executed some measures which helped control Covid-19 spread there. The administration must seek and adopt good practices.”Congress party’s city unit president Ramesh Bagwe; former MLA Mohal Joshi; Balasaheb Shivarkar; Ulhas Pawar and Abhay Chajjed, Kamal Vyware, Gopal Tiwari, among others were present for the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/congress-holds-protest-against-fuel-price-rise/story-NnVOJbT6wQr44mQ4bxk8SJ.html
30-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad ADM and his SDM wife test positive||Ghaziabad The additional district magistrate (ADM) of Ghaziabad city and his wife, who is sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) at Jewar in Gautam Budh Nagar district, have tested positive for Covid-19, officials of district administration said on Monday. The results have set alarm bells ringing in the top brass of the Ghaziabad district administration as well as some senior police officials who were in regular touch with the ADM for implementation of Covid-related guidelines in the district.While confirming that the two officials have been found positive, Ghaziabad district magistrate said that all protocols will be followed as the ADM participated in important meetings during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis.The ADM and his wife are admitted at Yashoda Hospital in Kaushambi at present. Officials of the hospital said that they both were admitted to the hospital on Sunday. “The ADM is asymptomatic, while his wife (who is SDM) is having mild symptoms. The SDM initially tested positive for the virus and later the ADM also tested positive. Both were admitted to our hospital on Sunday,” said Dr Sunil Dagar, spokesperson of Yashoda Hospital, Kaushambi.According to the district officials, the ADM had also been part of almost majority of important meetings, video conferences at the office of the Ghaziabad district magistrate where police and health department officials also attended proceedings.“The ADM has been a key officer. He was assigned important tasks of late for implementation. We will follow all protocols as for any normal Covid-19 patient. The office of the ADM, which is part of the DM office, is also sealed for 24 hours and sanitization is being taken up. He last met me three days ago. His wife, the Jewar SDM, has also tested positive for Covid-19,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad.Sources in the administration said that the ADM was also present during the inauguration of the L1 category Divyajyoti Hospital in Niwari along with the other senior administrative and health department officers. The Niwar facility has been opened a couple of days ago. The district health department is yet to begin contact tracing of the ADM after he turned positive for coronavirus.“We will now start contact tracing of the ADM. Samples of all those who may have come in contact with the ADM will be taken for testing. I myself used to sit at a distance of about two metres during the meetings at the district magistrate’s office, and took up all precautions,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, said.Meanwhile, the district officials of Gautam Budh Nagar said that they have taken up the sanitization work at the SDM’s office at tehsil in Jewar.“We will follow all protocols after the SDM tested positive. A detailed contact tracing will be done,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-adm-and-his-sdm-wife-test-positive/story-CJiHhe5pqEToroPIceVwoL.html
30-06-2020||Pune||PMPML revises rates of its buses on hire||The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has revised its rates on buses for hire after receiving a lukewarm response to its initiative which was flagged off in May 2020.Earlier, the rate per kilometre was Rs 83.50 per kilometre which has now been revised to Rs 50 to Rs 60 per kilometre.The PMPML board of directors reduced the existing per kilometre rates in an attempt to boost its revenue.In the last 3 months, the organisation has faced losses of around Rs 150 crore. The process to rent out PMPML buses has begun, and two buses have been rented out to a private company.“Earlier the rate for renting a PMPML bus was Rs 83.50 per kilometre with a minimum of 2,000 kilometres per month. It was conveyed to us by most companies that the rate is high, and so we didn’t get much response,” said Nayana Gunde, chairman and managing director (CMD), PMPML.“In the last three months during the lockdown, we have faced losses of at least Rs 150 crore and so the decision to revise the rates was considered,” she said.“Our per kilometre bus income is of Rs 50 and so the new rate will fall between Rs 50 to Rs 60,” said Gunde.“Once we start getting orders from nearby depots the buses will be sent to companies in a stipulated time,” she said.“We will be providing buses to Chakan, Hinjewadi, Bhosari, Chinchwad and other MIDC companies, government and private offices and IT companies as per their requirement. Monthly basis agreement will be done and the buses will be given on rent,” she added.Sameer Gade Patil, owner of Gajanan automobile parts manufacturers, Chakan MIDC, said, “At least 200 workers are working in our manufacturing unit and most of them live around the MIDC. If we get PMPML buses at affordable rates then certainly we will hire them for pick-up and dropping facility of our workers.”“Earlier we were not providing this service but now due to Covid pandemic and to get maximum workers at the company this facility will be provided,” he said.Get in touchTo rent a PMPML bus, contact – 020 24503300||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmpml-revises-rates-of-its-buses-on-hire/story-ZiN6UNkEm5QyfGhh4vhYVK.html
30-06-2020||City||Assistant bank manager, software engineer among four held for running online escort service||PUNE An assistant bank manager and a software engineer were among four people arrested on Saturday for running an online escort service in Baner.Pankaj Deshmukh, deputy commissioner of police, zone 4 of Pune, during a press briefing, said, “Four Indian national women were rescued from the house which was raided. The police had information about Russian nationals who used to live in the house as well. However, they were not found.”The assistant bank manager has been identified as Ravikant Baleshwar Paswan (34), a resident of Prime Society in Susgaon, while the software engineer has identified as Deepak Jaiprakash Sharma (36), a resident of Amber apartment in Sai chowk, Balewadi.According to police Paswan is a native of Bihar and Sharma is a native of Orissa. They were arrested on Saturday and will be police custody till July 4.“The bank officials say he has not shown up for work in the past year and a half. He, however, claims to be employed at the bank. The software person was the one to build the website and ensure search engine optimisation in the city,” said Deshmukh.The police have seized 11 mobile phones, four laptops, one iPad, and a car from them.They operated under the name of Sweet Services Escort and had a website for contacting customers.“They sent pictures of the women to customers on WhatsApp,” said Deshmukh.The men were arrested in the second round of investigation of a raid that led to arrest of two people identified as Suresh Pralhad (25) a resident of the Oyo house were the service operated from; and Naksen Ramdas Gajghate (52), owner of the Oyo property and a resident of Shagun Nisarg in Bavdhan. They were arrested on June 23.The escort service operated from a row house in Baner managed by Oyo.The police are on a lookout for a woman named Shivani Patil alias Zoya Rohan Khan, a native of Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh.A case under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chaturshringi police station. Senior police inspector Anil Shewale of Chthuhshrungi police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assistant-bank-manager-software-engineer-among-four-held-for-running-online-escort-service/story-hEQc43tw60TlPIMwzmUueP.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||State sees 5,257 new cases; tally is 169,883||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case count reached close to 1.70 lakh with 5,257 more infections, pushing the tally to 169,883. Of them, 73,298 are active cases, according to the state health department. Monday was the fourth consecutive day fresh cases crossed the 5,000 mark. With state officials expecting a peak in July, the number of fresh cases is likely to further rise and the situation may become more difficult in the coming days. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday has confirmed that there will be a spike in infections in the next few weeks as they have opened up activities and are giving further relaxations to ensure revival of the economy. State health minister Rajesh Tope, too, said that the peak had started.The state recorded 181 deaths on Monday, taking the toll to 7,610. Of them, 78 deaths were from the past 48 hours, while the rest were from past few days, health officials said.Mumbai has 76,765 cases after adding 1,226 more infections in the past 24 hours. Of them, 28,749 are active cases. Mumbai’s toll stands at 4,062 after 92 deaths were reported.As the struggle against coronavirus becomes more challenging on account of the spike in cases, the state government on Monday extended lockdown for another month till July 31. It has empowered all municipal commissioners and district collectors to impose necessary restrictions in their jurisdiction to contain spread of the pandemic, whenever required. It has further restricted long distance travel for non-essential items in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), comprising nine cities including Mumbai, where cases are rising rapidly. In Mumbai, police have restricted travel up to 2-km distance for residents, except for officegoers and essential services.The chief minister also expressed discontent over people stepping out and crowding places unnecessarily. “When the pandemic is reaching its peak, people in and around Mumbai are found stepping out of their homes and travelling unnecessarily. This is not expected. The spread that was contained and restricted by far, has now started rising and will turn into a big challenge before us,” Thackeray said in a review meeting he chaired on Monday. “As we have been opening up activities to ensure revival of the economy, we have been witnessing a rise in cases. As part of the relaxation, people step out of their homes, come in contact and spread the virus. Even in the near future, there will be a rise in cases as we open up more activities,” the chief minister said on Sunday in his address through Facebook live.“As the chief minister has said, we are expecting a rise in infections as we have been relaxing restrictions. But unlocking was done in a phased manner, because we have anticipated this and are also prepared for the situation. The health infrastructure was augmented to deal with the spike in cases. It also appears that the projection about the peak in July will be proved correct,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.On Sunday, Thackeray had warned people with stricter restrictions if violation of lockdown norms continued.Tope said, “We have started unlocking restrictions, but it is also subjective. If people are showing carelessness and found not following norms, which will result in rise in cases, then local authorities such as municipal commissioners and district collectors have been empowered to take decisions to impose lockdown.” The number of cases in MMR is rising rapidly. On June 3, it had 55,086 cases, which has increased to 1,15,021 on June 29, revealed figures of the state health department. In a meeting chaired by the chief minister to review the crisis in MMR last week, more stress was given on building jumbo hospitals in satellite cities because they don’t have enough health infrastructure to cope with the crisis in case of a peak. The chief minister instructed local authorities to focus on augmenting health infrastructure as we have to be prepared in advance,” said an official, privy to the development. Following the spike in cases, the Thane municipal corporation on Monday declared a complete 10-day lockdown in the city, starting from July 2. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation has also imposed a seven-day complete lockdown in 10 containment zones from Monday. Thane and Navi Mumbai have 9,644 and 7,677 cases respectively.Districts such as Ratnagiri and Hingoli, too, have decided to impose strict lockdown to contain the spread. Ratnagiri will see complete lockdown for eight days from July 1, whereas Hingoli has started its implementation for five days from Monday, but it is restricted only for Kalamnuri city. Ratnagiri and Hingoli have 570 and 266 cases respectively. Monday was also the 20th day the state has reported over 3,000 cases in a day. With 7,429 deaths on Sunday, the case fatality rate (CFR) of the state was recorded as 4.51%. It is the second-highest in the country after Gujarat, where the CFR is 5.77% with 1,809 deaths (31,320 cases) till Sunday, revealed statistics shared by the state medical education department. Maharashtra still has highest number of deaths across states in the country. By the end of May, the state has successfully brought down the CFR to 3.26% (on May 26) from 7.41% (with 148 deaths) on April 13. The tally of recovered patients also reached 88,960 after 2385 patients recovered on Monday. With this, the recovery rate has reached 52.37% The health department declared to have conducted 9,43,485 tests at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them, 7,73,602 people tested negative. It means 18% of the total samples tested positive, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-sees-5-257-new-cases-tally-is-169-883/story-ZeLmIgUzBUQvouP0W0MWUM.html
30-06-2020||City||Two lawyers from city write to NHRC about TN custodial deaths||PUNE Two city-based lawyers practising in Bombay High Court have written to the National Human Right Commission (NHRC) to take cognizance of the custodial killing of two people in Tamil Nadu.The application was made by advocate Prateek Rajopadhye and advocate Ashish Patankar who are criminal lawyers practising in Bombay High Court.“It is necessary to nip such incidences in the bud before it blooms into a poisonous flower of a police state. It is our humble and earnest request to your good office to take immediate cognizance of the aforementioned incidence and initiate an impartial and independent probe as any further delay will reduce the importance of the event and the basic sanctity of any investigation against the Tamil Nadu police,” read the application.The two were referring to the custodial deaths of father-son duo P Jeyaraj (50) and J Bennicks (31) by officials of Santhankulam police station, Thoothukudi, Tamil Nadu.The two deceased men were arrested under Sections 188, 269, 294 (b), 353 and 506 (2) of the Indian Penal Code for keeping their shop open after permitted hours.The two lawyers have alleged that the father-son duo was assaulted by inserting batons in their rectum, based on media reports.Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami-led state government of Tamil Nadu had asked for the case to be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The Madurai bench of Madras High Court on Monday gave its approval for transfer of the case to CBI.Recent custodial death cases in Maharashtra-Salma Sonu Attar (25) alleged that her husband Sonu Gani Attar (35) was killed after government railway police (GRP) officials arrested him for suspicion of petty theft in July 2019. A case was registered and transferred to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), Maharashtra.-Aniket Kothale (26) was killed in the lock-up of Sangli city police station after he was arrested in a case of theft in November 2017. Polcie sub-inspector (PSI) Yuvraj Kamte, constables Anil Laad, Arun Tone, Suraj Mulla and police naik Rahul Shetge, and civilian Zakir Pattewala were arrested by the police. The investigation in the case was done by CID officials and a chargesheet was submitted in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-lawyers-from-city-write-to-nhrc-about-tn-custodial-deaths/story-xqNBpwHlqatTnOtiWZvW3I.html
30-06-2020||Pune||Heavy rainfall forecast on July 3, 4 for Pune city||The Pune district which is receiving moderate rain since past one week is expected to receive heavy rains on July 3 and 4, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials.“On July 3 and 4 heavy rainfall is expected in Pune district. Rainfall will increase even in ghat areas,” said Anupam Kashyapi, director, India Meteorological Department .“So far the city has witnessed only moderate rain, but on July 3 and 4 there is a forecast of moderate to heavy rainfall, also in isolated areas,” added Kashyapi.Meanwhile, a heavy downpour caused waterlogging and traffic jams in many areas in the city on Monday.Areas like Pune station, Camp, Mangalwar peth, Fatimanagar received heavy rainfall for at least half an hour and then moderate rain continued till 8 pm.According to Kashyapi, “On Monday, till 5:30 pm, Pune received 050.0mm rainfall while Lohegaon received 011.0 mm rainfall. Pashan did not receive any rain.”The East street at Camp was mostly impacted as waterlogging caused traffic jams in the afternoon.“I had gone to Pune station to pick up my wife. While coming back around 4: 45 pm, it was raining heavily and there was water logging on East Street,” said Vardan Pandhare, a resident of Salisbury Park.“It rained heavily for half an hour in the cantonment area and so waterlogging was reported. Once the doors of nullahs were open, water got cleared in half an hour,” said Riyaz Shiekh, chief health superintendent, Pune Cantonment Board.The city recorded a maximum temperature of 33.2 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature was 22.3 degrees Celsius on Monday.BoxForecast till July 2June 30: Moderate rains, thundery activity, lightning very likelyJuly 1: Light to moderate rain very likelyJuly 2: Moderate rain very likely(forecast according to IMD)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-rainfall-forecast-on-july-3-4/story-vv6Im8nDBkitRW0jGAJrxJ.html
30-06-2020||Pune||Post-infectious Covid-19 inflammatory syndrome reported in children below 18: study||Four children who were admitted to the Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital showed symptoms of the Kawasaki disease, like swelling of hands and feet, peeling of the skin, coronary artery (heart blood vessel) dilatation, persistent fever and other signs of inflammation.All the four children are residents of containment zones in the city.Covid-19 positive children in countries like the US, UK and Italy have reported similar symptoms. Such cases were also reported in China, and India has also begun reporting these symptoms, in cases in Mumbai.While experts say it is not exclusively associated with the Covid-19 infection, it can cause a serious condition and must be reported immediately. The four children at Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital who were admitted on June 3 when first such case was reported were put on a ventilator and needed drugs to increase the pumping action of heart and antibiotics.Dr Jitendra Oswal, paediatric rheumatologist, Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital and Dr Bhakti Sarangi, -charge of paediatric critical care services, have worked on a study which states that these signs could be caused post the Covid-19 infection and usually occur after four weeks.The study also states that the condition is seen in children who test positive for Covid-19 RT PCR and exclusively in between the ages of 10-18 years. It is a serious condition which requires intensive care unit (ICU) treatment. One child among the four in Pune, according to the Bharati Vidyapeeth doctors, developed swelling of hands and feet, peeling off the skin of fingers and coronary artery (heart blood vessel) dilatation similar to that seen in the Kawasaki disease.A second child also had coronary artery dilatation, but, both these children were discharged.While the third child died of multi-organ injury, the fourth child is recovering and was recently taken off the ventilator.Dr Oswal said, “Although none of the kids tested positive for Covid-19 and neither had their family members test positive for the infection, they lived in the Covid-19 containment zone. We have treated about 50 Covid-19 positive kids in April and May most of them were asymptomatic and the rest had only mild symptoms. So it is quite possible that the kids were infected with Covid-19 and it went undetected as they were never tested for it. When we say it could be post infectious Covid-19 inflammatory syndrome it means that the antibodies produced at the time by the immune system attached itself to the internal organ tissues which caused inflammation. When it comes to children, the immune system may work in a different way.”According to Dr Oswal, three of the four children tested negative, but one child first tested positive at a private lab and then tested negative for the infection within 24 hours when the samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV).“It could be because of false negatives which is possible in 33 per cent of the cases or because they never have any respiratory symptoms and so they are never tested,” Dr Oswal said.Dr Arati Kinikar, head of the department of paediatrician at BJ Medical college said, “Such post-infectious inflammation is known across the globe and also recorded by WHO. It is not exclusive to Covid-19 infection, but it is serious and so has to be reported immediately if a child has recovered from Covid-19 infection or any viral infection in the past four-sixweeks. The child can be tested negative for the infection because the virus has left their body system. The signs of post-infection inflammation include fever, they may appear swollen, redness, rashes, but again it is not exclusively linked to Covid-19. Parents must not panic because of this as many bacterial infections too, especially during the monsoon, could have similar signs; however, it must be reported immediately.”Dr Kinikar further added that no such case has been reported from Sassoon hospital’s paediatric ward till date. The study also states that the children usually do not have respiratory symptoms, but more gastrointestinal symptoms, and that the Covid-19 RT PCR test maybe negative. These children’s clinical condition deteriorates very fast in just a few hours, and in an acute phase the child can die due to heart or multi-organ failure. If the coronary arteries are inflamed, it can be damaged and permanently dilated and there is a risk of either a block or rupture and death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/post-infectious-covid-19-inflammatory-syndrome-reported-in-children-below-18-study/story-A6HdV8CiRm2yTcGZV2PziI.html
30-06-2020||Noida||Noida man dies of Covid-19, family gets Rs 14 lakh bill||Amid lack of clarity regarding the rates that Noida’s private hospitals may charge for the Covid-19 treatment, a private hospital has given a bill of over Rs14 lakh to the kin of a Covid victim who was admitted at the facility for 20 days. The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has said that it will look into the matter. The patient, a Noida resident and a Unani practitioner who died on Sunday, was admitted at Fortis Hospital, Noida, on June 7 and was kept on ventilator for 15 days, hospital authorities and close relatives of the victim said. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe family took possession of the body on Monday against a legal declaration on a Rs10 stamp paper to pay the negotiated amount, one of the relatives said. The hospital gave a bill of over Rs14 lakh to the grieving family, which was later revised to Rs10.2 lakh after the insurance covered Rs4 lakh while the family paid Rs25,000, as per hospital authorities. However, the Fortis Hospital, in a statement sent to HT, said that the charges were transparent, discounted and “based on the CGHS (central government health scheme) tariffs as per the MoU with the government”.“The family of the patient was informed about the treatment details at every step and was also counselled about the criticality of the patient…The details have been submitted to the CMO office as well. Our transparent billing process ensured that the family of the patient was kept informed about the expenses incurred during the treatment. There is no discrepancy in the billing process in this case,” said the statement from the hospital. Meanwhile, the district administration said that the private hospital fee is based on “self-regulation”. “We are looking into the matter. But the media reports about the charges levied by the private hospital for the Covid-19 patient seem unverified. The health team has been asked to look into the matter,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.Asked if the district administration has imposed a cap or upper limit on the charges levied by private hospitals to treat a Covid-19 patient, the DM said that charges are based on the ‘self-regulations’ and different guidelines, including those of the central government. “The private hospitals are charging based on the self-regulation and the guidelines given by the health department that had been communicated to them. There are various government advisories on the maximum or upper limit of charges. For ICU, the maximum amount which can be charged is Rs10,000 while for the ventilator it’s Rs5,000 extra per day. The other charges like medicines, etc, are not included,” the district magistrate added. However, despite several requests to share the official document that verifies the district administration’s claims on capping of charges for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals, the administration officials stated they will share it soon.According to senior state health department officials, the decision on capping of prices in private hospitals has to be taken by the district administration concerned.“It’s the local administration of every district that would take a call and fix an upper limit on the charges that a private hospital can take for Covid-19 treatment. The state government has only fixed charges for the Covid-19 tests,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, health secretary, Uttar Pradesh.Meanwhile, the deceased’s family stated that there was no clarity on the maximum hospital fee in UP, as declared by other states like Haryana and Delhi.“There is no clarity on Covid-19 charges here. No order has been issued in this regard by the state government. We are still in talks with the hospital. We have lost a family member, and then are being asked to pay such unreasonable fee. We wish no one else has to suffer in future,” said a close relative of the Covid-19 victim.Recently, both Delhi and Haryana capped the prices for Covid treatment in private hospitals. A Delhi government order dated June 20 prescribes maximum per day package rates for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals. According to the order, for isolation bed charges can’t exceed Rs10,000 while for severe sickness (ICU without ventilators) it’s Rs15,000 and for ICU with ventilator care the cost is Rs 18,000. All the cost includes the cost of PPE kits. In Haryana, prices for private hospitals accredited by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Health Care Providers (NABH) are Rs 10,000 for isolation beds (including supportive care and oxygen), Rs 15,000 for intensive care unit (without ventilator care) and Rs 18,000 for intensive care unit with ventilator care.For the non-NABH accredited private healthcare facilities, Rs 8,000 a day has been fixed for isolation beds (including supportive care and oxygen), Rs 13,000 a day for intensive care unit (without ventilator care) and Rs 15,000 a day for intensive care unit with ventilator care. The rates will include charges for all lab investigations, diet, radiological diagnostics, monitoring charges, drugs, consumables, including PPE, masks and gloves, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-private-hospital-charges-over-14-lakh-for-treatment-of-covid-19-patient-for-20-days/story-9RIpoB3wrrHOueMNGD60ZI.html
30-06-2020||Pune||Obesity, hypertension, diabetes critical factor in Covid-19 fatalities||Obesity, a root co-cause of hypertension and diabetes, together a triumvirate of comorbid conditions fatally affecting patients infected with Covid-19, has become a critical factor in doctors assessing infected patients.Dr Vijay Natarajan, chief executive officer (CEO), at the Symbiosis University Hospital and Research Centre (SUHRC) said, “We have reported cases in our hospital where the patient was morbidly obese. It is very uncommon that someone who is obese does not have diabetes or hypertension. Obesity causes sleep apnea which affects the lungs and so, causes breathing problems. Since the virus causing Covid-19 affects the lungs and respiratory system, it affects an obese person even more so.”According to the integrated disease surveillance programme, Pune, of its 720 deaths related to Covid-19 in the Pune district, as of June 28, had 87 per cent or 623 deaths with an associated risk factor. Of that at least 44 have been diagnosed as being morbidly obese.According to Dr Abhay Tidke, district surveillance officer, health department, Zilla Parishad, there were six cases in the month of April and 14 in May that showed obesity as a comorbid condition. “In the month of April we reported six deaths in which obesity was a comorbid condition, then in May, it rose to 14, and then the remaining cases were reported in June. The common age group wherein obesity is reported is above the age of 37. In some cases, mild obesity can be ignored or neglected,” said Tidke. The World Health Organisation (WHO) defines a person overweight when the body mass index (BMI) is greater than, or equal to 25; and obesity is for those for whose BMI is greater than or equal to 30.BMI is a simple index of weight for height which is calculated in kilogrammes divided by the square of the height in metres (kg/ m2). It is the same formula for all ages and genders. “We are reporting more number of critical patients who are obese. It becomes difficult to treat in this case and also recovery takes more time. Obesity is an underlying condition in patients who also report diabetes and hypertension,” said a doctor at Sassoon Hospital who didn’t wish to be named.Dr Dileep Kadam, who heads the Pune task force said, “Obesity could cause obstructive sleep apnea which complicates treatment and recovery of the patients. When obesity combines with other health ailments like diabetes and hypertension, which is another common comorbid condition among those who lost their life due to Covid-19, it can further complicate the situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/obesity-hypertension-diabetes-critical-factor-in-covid-19-fatalities/story-sSsNgsnhE1D4z79PlSDmWO.html
30-06-2020||Pune||Three arrested for allegedly bludgeoning 27-year-old to death over minor scuffle in Yerawada||Police, on Monday, arrested three persons for allegedly bludgeoning 27-year-old to death at Yerawada.According to police, the incident took place on Sunday night after a fight between the deceased and one of the accused over public littering.The deceased has been identified as Faiyyas Kadar Shaikh (27) a resident of Ramwadi, Yerawada. He is survived by his wife and a three-month-old baby.The three arrested accused have been identified as Dayanand Ashok Salve (34), Umar Sharfuddin Pansare (43), and Akash Ankush Gaikwad (25), all residents of Ramwadi area in Yerawada.At 1:30 pm on Sunday, the deceased, accused and Atul Shelke were drinking alcohol at an under-construction building premises, on the first floor, in the area.According to police, Salve hurled verbal abuse at Shelke for littering plastic packets of eatables and empty bottles of alcohol from the building.“They were all known to each other. One of them (Shelke) threw the litter from the place where they were sitting and the other (Salve) disagreed and that led to a fight around 1:30 pm. A few hours later they were roaming around in the same area and got into a fight again. The murder took place around 3.45 pm,” said assistant police inspector Sameer Karpe of Yerawada police station.Shaikh was a friend of Shelke and was present with him on the first floor of the under-construction building.The abuse led to a physical fight in which Shaikh had beaten up Salve, according to the complaint in the matter lodged by another resident of Ramwadi.Salve, who was enraged by Shaikh, started attacking him and the other joined in.“The complainant is a witness who was among the many people who tried to stop the fight. But they smashed his head with a stone which eventually led to his death,” said API Karpe.A case has been registered against the accused under Sections 302 (murder), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code at Yerawda police station.Daily wage labourer allegedly killed by brotherA daily wage labourer was allegedly killed by his brother on Saturday. The deceased man has been identified as Suresh Khajappa Khanekar (32), a resident of Market Yard. He is survived by his wife and three children. He was bludgeoned to death with a metal rod in a shed near Gangadham-Kondhwa road. The arrested accused has been identified as Prakash Khajappa Khanekar (40). He was arrested on Sunday.A case has been registered at Bibwewadi police station under Section 302 (murder) of IPC.Police Patil shot at in KhedA police patil was shot at in Khed, Bhamburdwadi, on Sunday. The injured police patil has been identified as Sachin Walunj (35), a resident of Khed.He had reached a spot where a few people were meeting about an issue related to a local water tank.During the discussion, one of the members fired a domestic-made weapon at him. Walunj sustained an injury on his wrist and has suffered a fracture.The police are on a lookout for three people in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-arrested-for-allegedly-bludgeoning-27-year-old-to-death-over-minor-scuffle/story-1wVwJDeITzPQYBWDw9ZC9N.html
30-06-2020||Noida||Techie found dead in Noida, suicide suspected||A 32-year-old software engineer was found dead at his rented accommodation here on Monday, police said. Police are suspecting it to be a suicide case.The deceased hailed from Indore in Madhya Pradesh, the official from the local Expressway police station said, adding that he was married but lived alone in Sector 126. “He worked as an engineer in a private IT firm in the city. No suicide note was recovered from the spot. Preliminary probe from his neighbourhood did not suggest any dispute with anyone. It appears that some personal reason drove him to take the extreme step but the probe is on,” the official told PTI. The body has been sent for a post-mortem and legal proceedings were underway, police said.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/techie-found-dead-in-noida-suicide-suspected/story-qFeLB4MEjt3AqkK5QBUtyN.html
30-06-2020||Delhi||Antigen test shows 7.46% positivity rate in containment zones||Of the 99,274 people surveyed using the rapid antigen test, which began in containment zones and neighbouring areas on June 18, 7,414 tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) till June 26, suggesting a positivity rate of 7.46%,a senior Delhi government official said on Monday. Experts said the rapid antigen tests are providing a better picture of the spread of the infection since so far only those with symptoms in containment zones were being tested. With random sampling in containment zones and areas around them, and rapid testing, the outcome of these tests provide a more representative picture, they said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage The rapid antigen test, a much faster way to confirm positive cases, was started as part of the Centre’s and the state government’s efforts to ramp up testing in Delhi. “We are conducting close to 7,000-12,000 rapid tests per day. These tests are being done mostly in containment zones and its neighbouring areas. It is also being done in some other areas. It is helping us isolate positive cases early, as the test results are out within 30 minutes,” said a senior Delhi government official with the revenue department, which is compiling the testing data.The results, a district magistrate said, were used to identify new clusters of Covid-19 cases and redraw boundaries of the containment zones. On Sunday, the Delhi government increased the number of containment zones from 280 to 421.Tests that detect presence or absence of an antigen in the body are called antigen detection tests. An antigen is a foreign molecule that induces an immune response within the body, especially the production of antibodies, and detecting its presence determines infection. Delhi is the first state to roll out antigen-based testing as Covid-19 cases in the city have seen unusual surge in the number of cases, making it imperative to conduct large-scale quick testing to trace, treat and isolate the infected individuals. Till Monday, Delhi reported 85,161 cases and 2,680 deaths due to the infection.The test has high specificity (true negative rate) of 99.3% to 100%, which rules out people who are not infected. Tests with a high specificity are most useful when the result is positive. Sensitivity (true positive rate) is lower at 50.6% to 84%, which makes it less accurate in correctly diagnosing a positive case. This is why people with symptoms who test negative have to undergo an RT-PCR test to rule out active infection.“The antigen test helps us understand the prevalence of the infection. We could identify clusters where the number of cases is more and have redrawn the boundaries and added new areas accordingly,” the district magistrate said.This, another district magistrate said, will help in de-sealing containment zones at the earliest. “With this, we are able to identify positive cases and take them out of the zone or place them in home isolation. This way we can scale down the containment measures as soon as cases will go down,” said another official.Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College at Vellore, “It (the positivity rate) reflects the situation at the ground. If it is 7.46% in containment zones and neighbouring areas, then chances are that the positivity rate in non-containment areas would be far less.”A doctor with the district surveillance team said the rapid antigen test has expedited the Covid management process, as the cases are detected early. “The test has proved to be helpful in faster detection of positive cases in containment zones. We are able to identify and isolate these cases early. The RT-PCR test takes longer than a rapid test, so the detection of a case, its contact tracing, etc used to take time. But now we are able to take prompt action and check the spread of infection,” said the doctor, who didn’t wish to be named.The conventional real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test requires five to six hours to give results and specialised laboratory facilities in terms of equipment, biosafety and biosecurity.Early detection, doctors say, will help in keeping fatality rate in check, as timely diagnosis and treatment can be provided to patients. “When you pick up the infection early, it brings down the fatality rate since timely treatmentis key in managing and containing this disease,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the Indian Council of Medical Research.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicine at Safdurjung hospital, said, “The positivity rate through RT-PCR is high as those with symptoms or contacts of positive cases were getting tested. But now as we are testing people in the community using the rapid antigen test, the prevalence rate would be less as we are testing even those who don’t have any symptom.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/antigen-test-shows-7-46-positivity-rate-in-containment-zones/story-HtDcgeI2QNK2WExVEqt8AI.html
30-06-2020||Delhi||Re1 crore ex-gratia for family of Lok Nayak doctor who died of Covid-19||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced an ex-gratia amount of Rs 1 crore for the family of Dr Aseem Gupta, a professor of anaesthesiology and in-charge of Lok Nayak Hospital’s first Covid-19 intensive care unit, who died of Covid-19 on Sunday, describing him as a doctor known for going out of his way to serve his patients. “Dr Aseem Gupta, a senior doctor of LNJP Hospital, succumbed to Covid yesterday (Sunday). He was known for going out of his way to serve his patients. We have lost a very valuable fighter. Delhi salutes his spirit and sacrifice. I just spoke to his wife and offered my condolences and support,” Kejriwal tweeted on Monday.Also read: Delhi to get plasma bank to help Covid-19 patients: CM Arvind KejriwalExpressing his condolences, lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal said, “Deeply saddened at the death of Dr Aseem Gupta of LNJP who served tirelessly in fight against Covid-19. He was a great warrior who brought glory to the front line doctors and health workers. My utmost sympathies are with family members!”Gupta, who joined Lok Nayak hospital’s anesthesia department in 2004, was admitted at Max Smart Hospital in Saket with Covid-related complications since June 8. The 54-year-old had been in the ICU for almost two weeks. His wife, Nirupama Gupta, is a radiologist in Ghaziabad, where the couple lived. The couple has two sons, one of whom is studying in Australia and other is studying medicine in Dehradun.Dr Gupta’s colleagues in the anaesthesia department at Lok Nayak remember him as a person who was there for everyone who needed help. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“He was there, especially for the poor and those in need. He would work extra hours so that surgeries are done on time. He had a lot of contacts and he used them to help out people in need. He was also quite popular among resident doctors and spent time with them, which was apart from usual work-related conversations. He loved sports very much, and would sometimes get passes for cricket matches that he happily passed on to others. A very helpful chap; that is how we remember him in the department,” said associate professor, Dr Amit Kohli.Some friends called him ‘Mr Dependable’'. “I knew him for 20 years, and he was absolutely dependable. He would never say no to anything within his reach. He would go out of way to help. He was easy to work with and totally non-controversial. He was so popular among the fraternity that he was slated to take over as secretary of the Indian Medical Association’s east Delhi branch on July 1. We were going to soon announce it as we knew he was improving well. We were told he was recovering well and would have been moved to a ward soon,” said Dr Vinay Agrawal, past national president, Indian Medical Association.“He liked singing and dancing a lot. A total go-getter he was. No one expected the complication to arise,” Agrawal said.“Will always remember Aseem fondly. He was senior resident in anaesthesia while I was in my second-year masters of surgery at KGMC Lucknow. For so many emergency cases, I would just run back to the senior resident in the anaesthesia duty room, and finding him sitting there would reassure me the case would go smoothly. He would say in his booming voice , ‘Aur, Amit, kya kaat raha hai aaj, chal saath mein kaateinge’,” (So, Amit, what are you cutting, let’s cut it together),” recalled Dr Amit Gupta, professor, department of surgery, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.“After I moved to Delhi, we could not meet that often but whenever we met, he would always say, ‘aur Amit, abhi tak kaat raha hai’ (So, Amit, you’re still busy cutting),” said Dr Gupta.Infection among health care workforce is an area of concern, and Dr Gupta was also infected on duty. He was one among the scores of health care workers in the national Capital diagnosed with Covid-19. Lok Nayak had last month lost a senior OT technician to Covid-19, with unconfirmed reports that three employees who recently died at RML Hospital also tested Covid positive.Dr Jitendra Nath Pande, an eminent pulmonologist and former head of the department of medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi, died of Covid-related complications in May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-crore-ex-gratia-for-family-of-lok-nayak-doctor-who-died-of-covid-19/story-hmDtiu0gV057k1TSIAvhvN.html
30-06-2020||Delhi||Slow OPDs, delayed surgeries at top private hospitals||The three-year-old son of Sandeep Rajput, who works as a technician for a leading car-manufacturing company, has not stopped crying from pain. he toddler has a severe ear infection that needs immediate surgery. But, for the last two weeks, his parents have been struggling to get a date for an operation at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, which is one of Delhi’s largest private hospitals.“You can see the puss oozing out of his infected ear; it stinks and the doctor who saw him two weeks ago had also said that he needed surgery at once. We have been trying for the past two weeks. But are told to come back later. On Friday, we went to the hospital again and they asked us to come back on Monday. Today, the wait was very long, so we were asked to come again on Tuesday. The delay, they said, happened because the Covid areas were being segregated from non-Covid areas,” he said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“It is getting difficult to manage him. He’s been in great pain for the past two weeks, and the symptoms began a month ago. We requested the hospital for an appointment on Friday, and now it’s Tuesday. I hope it does not get delayed further,” added the boy’s mother Neelam, even as she struggles to pacify him..Elsewhere, Praveen Kuchhal’s younger brother, who is 48 years old and did not want be named, said he had to wait for a month before he underwent a surgery to get one of his kidneys removed at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. “It was taking long but then we thought it was good the hospital is taking precautions. Not just patients, but even doctors have to be confident about surgery. It was inconvenient, but we had no choice,” the man, who is a Delhi-based businessman, said.The Delhi government last month asked Gangaram hospital to be converted into a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) care centre. Ever since the government order, the hospital has been working to make the necessary arrangements, leading to delays and often inconveniencing patients.The hospital at present has 204 Covid beds, of which 134 are occupied, as per the Delhi Corona app on Monday.The hospital’s out patient-departments (OPDs) now barely treats 250 patients in a day, as compared to around 2,000 that it used to before the pandemic set in and strict social distancing measures were put in place.“We have been visiting this hospital for years now. It has always been busy. Earlier also, it would take time for consultation, admission, billing. But this time around, things are different and it is taking longer than usual. Even getting an appointment with a doctor takes long. There are fewer patients and even fewer doctors. People were saying it is happening due to Covid-19,” said Raj Kumar, Noida-based businessman dealing in dairy products. Kumar’s uncle is undergoing treatment in the orthopaedic department of the hospital.The hospital — one of the busiest private health hubs in the city — has been working at nearly 45% of its doctor strength in its OPDs for the past couple of months due to Covid restrictions.From 45 OPDs running six days a week that treated 40-50 patients each, the hospital has reduced consultations to about 10-12 patients per OPD. There are no more than 15 OPDs running for two-three days in a week now.“There is too much panic. You can see the staff being extra cautious, which is understandable as this disease is highly infectious. We are grateful that at least our patient was admitted and treatment started here. There were other smaller hospitals in our area but we had heard they weren’t admitting Covid patients, and that’s why we came here,” said Rakesh Kumar, whose uncle, an unconfirmed Covid-19 case, is undergoing treatment in the intensive care unit of Gangaram.The hospital is planning to start running full strength from July 1. “It takes time; we should be ready in a couple of days. I am asking all my staff to report back to work. There are many disciplines, like surgical departments, which cannot work online. You need to examine patients. You cannot stay at home all your life; we have to get back to normalcy as soon as possible as right now it is affecting the medical services we offer,” said Dr DS Rana, chairman, board of governors, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital.Just a stone’s throw away at BLK Hospital, patients in OPDs are also experiencing long waiting hours as the hospital has also been partially converted into a Covid care centre.“The screening process, before you even reach the OPD, is taking a lot more time. I was at the hospital at 9am on Friday and till 2pm my wife wasn’t seen by a doctor. We have been treated in the hospital before; it never took us this long. Why cannot they keep Covid patients at a separate hospital; it is causing huge inconvenience,” complained Roop Singh Guleria, a resident of north west Delhi’s GTB Nagar.The hospital at present is treating 114 Covid-19 patients, as per the Delhi Corona app on Monday.While emergency cases are being addressed, it is the non-emergency cases that have to face long queues.“ICU patients are being taken in quickly. But it is the non-emergency cases that you will find complaining as they have to wait longer. Even though the rush is less, it is getting a bit chaotic,” said Rohtash Kaushik, who had come from Haryana to get his father treated for neck cancer.BLK Hospital did not respond to questions on delayed appointments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/long-wait-for-consultation-at-delhi-s-private-hospitals/story-5Kf71gVRDm4nAp1lkstnOI.html
30-06-2020||Delhi||Deadline for door-to-door survey, screening extended in Delhi||The central government on Monday extended the deadline for the door-to-door health survey in Delhi’s containment zones from June 30 to July 6, which will be followed by a similar door-to-door screening for the rest of the city, a senior official of the Union home ministry said.“Door to door survey will be done first in containment zones on a priority basis by July 6. The date has been extended as the number of containment zones have increased to 435. This will be followed by door to door screening in the entire Delhi,” said a senior official in the home ministry.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageBoth the exercises are part of a set of recommendations by Union home minister Amit Shah who had chaired a Covid-19 review meeting with Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on June 21.The recommendations were notified by the directorate general of health services in Delhi through an order on June 22, which said that the survey in containment zones had to be completed by June 30 and a “comprehensive survey” for the rest of the city had to be completed by July 6.The order, however, did not specify when the two exercises should start nor did it specify a standard operating procedure (SOP) on how the surveys are to be done, which led to confusion among several district officials, said a senior Delhi government official.By Monday, the number of containment zones in the city had also shot up to 435 from 280 till three days ago, under a fresh delineation strategy, which too was part of Shah’s recommendations and notified through the same order.A Delhi government official welcomed the decision to extend the deadlines. “While all 11 revenue districts in the city had started with the survey of containment zones, the officials found it difficult to conduct a parallel survey in the rest of Delhi. There was resource crunch and more than that there was lack of clear directions on how that was to be done. The deadlines too were very tight and looked like an impossible task. The extension of the deadline concerning survey in containment zones and the clarity that the other (applicable to the rest of the city) would start after the first has brought quite some relief,” the senior Delhi government official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/deadline-for-door-to-door-survey-screening-extended/story-Ve8qaeo5eUtM4qAIFzj5gL.html
30-06-2020||Noida||53 new Covid-19 cases; recovery rate rises to 64.76 per cent in Noida||Gautam Buddh Nagar in Uttar Pradesh recorded 53 new positive cases of Covid-19 while 211 more patients got discharged, raising the recovery rate to 64.76 per cent on Monday, official data showed. The number of active cases has come down to 756. The overall number of Covid-19 positive cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar, adjoining Delhi, rose to 2,208, the highest for any district in the state, according to the data issued by the UP Health department. The district has so far recorded 22 deaths linked to the novel coronavirus, which has claimed 672 lives in the state and 16,475 across the country, as per official statistics. With the recovery of 211 patients since Sunday, the number of people who got discharged so far reached 1,430, it added.The recovery rate of patients improved marginally to 64.76 per cent from 56.67 per cent on Sunday, according to official statistics. Meanwhile, Gautam Buddh Nagar continued to have the highest number of active cases (756) in UP, followed by Ghaziabad (745), Lucknow (412), Kanpur Nagar (348), Meerut (273), Hapur (244), Varanasi (191), Aligarh (187) and Bulandshahr (170), the data stated. From Sunday to Monday, 685 new Covid-19 cases were reported across districts in the state, while 698 patients got discharged and 12 deaths were recorded during the 24-hour period, it showed. As of Monday, there were 6,650 active Covid-19 cases in UP while 15,506 patients have got discharged and 672 deaths have been recorded so far, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-53-new-covid-19-cases-recovery-rate-rises-to-64-76-per-cent/story-nMjHZtoarvlHjMPIZk0aPP.html
30-06-2020||Patna||Super-spreader wedding near Patna leaves 79 infected with coronavirus||Authorities in Bihar went into a tizzy after it was discovered that at least 79 of the 394 fresh cases of Covid-19 reported Monday were people who had attended a marriage ceremony at Paliganj near Patna on June 15 and that the groom, suffering from fever, had died just after two days of his marriage, without getting tested. A health official said about 300 samples of guests at the function were collected and the number of positive cases among the could go higher.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAccording to sources, the groom, a resident of Dihpali village under Masaurhi block in Patna, had arrived home at Paliganj days before June 15, when his marriage was scheduled. “The groom, a software engineer in Gurugram, was having fever and he had insisted not to get married on June 15. However, his parents gave him some medication and persuaded him otherwise,” a neighbour said.“The groom’s father is a school teacher at Paliganj and has constructed a house there. He had invited his friends from the teachers’ fraternity, besides other people, for the wedding ceremony,” said Rampravesh Rai, a local businessman of the area.The baraat went to Piplawan near Naubatpur block in Patna.“Two days after his marriage, the condition of the groom deteriorated and before he could reach AIIMS-Patna, he died,” said Dr Abha Kumari, in-charge of sub-divisional hospital, Paliganj.However, his family cremated the body without getting the Covid test done or informing authorities, said an employee of the hospital. “The news of his death spread like wildfire and people who had participated in the wedding or were connected with the function in any way started arriving at the hospital to give their swab samples for tests,” he said.Dr Kumari said when a medical team was sent to the groom’s house after his death, his family members claimed it was a heart attack case.After the incident, the family has shifted to Masaurhi, apprehending trouble.Dr Kumari said cooks and their family members, drivers and their kin, besides helpers and other people came and gave their samples. “Most of the patients are asymptomatic and after arrival of their report, they would be asked to remain in quarantine,” she said.Another employee of the hospital said infection might have also spread to Piplawan also, where the wedding was held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/super-spreaderwedding-near-patna-leaves-79-infected/story-xjI9R1AOum9zDalbTunROK.html
30-06-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt issues transfer and posting order of 144 state admin officers||The Rajasthan government has issued transfer and posting orders of 144 state administrative service officers, effective immediately.More than three dozen sub-divisional magistrates have been transferred, while the transfer of eight officers done earlier was cancelled and three officers were put under Awaiting Posting Order, an order of the Department of Personnel released on Sunday night said.The move comes ahead of local body and gram panchayat elections in the state.The State Election Commission of Rajasthan has completed preparations for polls to gram panchayats, zila parishad and panchayat samitis. It is yet to declare a schedule. The terms of 129 local bodies will end in August.As per the order, 89 officers of the 2019 batch of the Rajasthan Administrative Service have been given postings. These officers still have two months of training left but the government has given them posting in view of the coronavirus crisis, the authorities said.Earlier, in March, the government had transferred 50 RAS officers. In September 2019, 237 RAS officers were reshuffled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-govt-issues-transfer-and-posting-order-of-144-state-admin-officers/story-tMHxXIBC7tOpDa6f76xYdO.html
30-06-2020||Mumbai||TISS to commence new academic year in virtual mode from July 27||To ensure that students do not lose out on study time in the new academic year, the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) has decided to start regular classes in virtual mode from July 27.However, a group of students from the Mumbai campus has questioned the management’s decision, and highlighted the problems of internet accessibility faced by them at their homes. TISS students, who hail from different parts of the state, went back to their homes after the lockdown was imposed.A spokesperson for the management said that the institute has constituted a committee, and is in the process of conducting a survey to find out issues pertaining to internet accessibility for students.“Not more than one-third of the lectures will be live sessions. We are exploring the possibility of recorded sessions that can be downloaded by students at any time. Texts of the sessions will also be made available to students on email and WhatsApp,” said PK Shajahan, Dean (academics), TISS, Mumbai.While the admission process for new batches is currently underway, the present batch of students have been informed about the start of the academic year. An official statement with details of this process is yet to be released by the institute, said students.“We are not opposing the decision to start virtual classes. But we need clarity on certain loopholes that the institute needs to address. What about students without appropriate infrastructure for live online lectures? The institute also needs to clarify evaluation methodology in advance to prepare students,” said a spokesperson for the Progressive Students’ Forum, a student body at TISS Mumbai.In several posts on social media, students have demanded that the institute also share the results of their student survey and reveal how many students have dependable access to internet in order to make virtual classes viable, said students.While details of the survey are still ‘n progress’, the institute said lectures for the present batches will commence on July 27 and for new batches from August 10 .“We are still conducting online interviews for admissions to new batches across all four campuses, and these new batches will join only August onwards,” added Shajahan.TISS has already completed over 4,000 online interviews for 1,457 masters course seats across the Hyderabad, Tuljapur and Guwahati campuses. For the Mumbai campus, online admission interviews will be conducted in mid-July, said Shajahan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tiss-to-commence-new-academic-year-in-virtual-mode-from-july-27/story-hhOXezXgVDR2boxGn6kZMI.html
