02-03-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||5-year-old girl mauled to death by stray dogs in Bathinda; kin suspect foul play||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, March 2A five-year-old girl was mauled to death by stray dogs at a labourers’ colony in Bathinda on Monday night.The girl was playing outside her hut when she was suddenly attacked by a pack of stray dogs and was badly bitten by them. Dogs dragged her to the bushes near the colony. She suffered bruises all over the body.The girl has been identified as Aditi Sarkar, daughter of a labourer from West Bengal.A bloodied girl was admitted to the Emergency Ward of the Civil Hospital late night, where she died.On the other hand, her parents alleged that the girl has been murdered and the case should be probed thoroughly.On Tuesday morning, the board of doctors conducted a post-mortem and handed over the body to her family members.SI Beant Singh of Sadar Bathinda police station said in theprimary investigation it seems to be a case of attack by dogs. However, the allegations made by the family are also being investigated, he added. The exact cause of the death will be known only after the post-mortem report arrives. If anything emerges in the report, the police will take action on the basis of that.Shyamal Sarkar, the father of the deceased, has alleged that her daughter did not go out of the house after seven in the evening. She must have been abducted and killed by a person living nearby, he alleged, adding two-four days ago there was a quarrel with a labourer who worked with him. Sarkar has demanded a fair investigation into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/5-year-old-girl-mauled-to-death-by-stray-dogs-in-bathinda-kin-suspect-foul-play-219542
02-03-2021||Bathinda||SAD (A) workers to court arrest||Leaders of the SAD (Amritsar) today raised a question mark on the way the agitation started by farmer unions against the three central farm laws was being run.Addressing a press conference, senior leader Prof Mohinderpal Singh said the unions were not performing their duties in public interest. They should have raised the issue of release of Sikh youths in connection with the January 26 incident, besides harassment of women and children, he said.They said the party would stand by the farmers and soldiers and would oppose any wrong done to them.Prof Singh said their workers would court arrest in Delhi seeking the release of arrested farmers, cancellation of FIRs, repeal of the farm laws and legal provisions for MSP. First such group headed by women, including Harpal Kaur Sangrur, Rupinderjeet Kaur, Gurmeet Kaur, Deepinder Kaur, Gurmeet Kaur, Ranjit and Harjeet Kaur, would leave for Delhi from Takth Damdama Sahib at Talwandi Sabo on March 2. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/sad-a-workers-to-court-arrest-219164
02-03-2021||Bathinda||NFL stake sale move has farmers worried||The decision of the Union Government to sell 20 per cent stake of National Fertilisers Limited (NFL) to private players has not gone down well with the farming community, especially marginal farmers. They rued that they were already burdened with high agricultural input cost and such decision would further increase prices of fertilizers, thereby affecting their farm income drastically.Shingara Singh Mann, president, BKU Ugrahan, said, “Selling stakes of the NFL to private players will clearly result in increased prices of fertilizers, thereby burdening the marginal and medium farmers with additional input cost. If the government goes ahead with the decision of the privatisation of the NFL then we will chart out a plan to hold agitation against it in the coming days.”Mayank Sharma, public relation officer, NFL, Bathinda, said, “With the decision to sell 20 per cent stakes out of 74 per cent holding, the Union Government has made its intentions clear regarding privatisation of public sector enterprises. The Department of Investment and Public Asset Management has already initiated the process for the same.”He, however, said since the government would still have 54 per cent (above 50 per cent) stakes in the NFL, it won’t let private players to dictate pricing and they would barely have any say or control over it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/nfl-stake-sale-move-has-farmers-worried-219168
02-03-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Khalistan ‘ploy’ to weaken stir||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, March 1Harinder Bindu (43), president of the women’s wing of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), has become a prominent face at the ongoing farmers’ movement. She was just 13 when her father Meghraj Bhagtuana was gunned down by Khalistani militants at Sewewala village in Faridkot on April 9, 1991.Bhagtuana had floated the Front Against Communalism and State Repression and one of its slogans was “Na Hindu raj na Khalistan, raj kare mazdoor-kisan (Neither Hindu rule nor Khalistan, we demand workers’ rule”).Camping at the Delhi border since the agitation began, Bindu, while talking to The Tribune, said, “It is unfortunate that the government and a section of media labelled farmers as ‘Khalistanis’. How can we support them when many of us are their victims. Our only demand is the repeal of the three agricultural laws”.She alleged that earlier too, politicians had divided the country for their benefits, and now to weaken the farmers’ movement, ‘Khalistan’ was being used as a propaganda. “We don’t want ourselves to be labelled as ‘Khalistanis’. We are part of India. Even after the Partition, nobody has gained anything,” she added.Bindu alleged that it was a deep-rooted conspiracy against farmers and international bodies such as the World Trade Organisation and the International Monetary Fund were also pressurising the government to go ahead with these reforms to help big corporate houses.Lashing out at the Centre, Bindu said, “We are being described as ‘urban naxals’, ‘Khalistanis’, terrorists, ‘tukde-tukde’ gang and anti-nationals, whereas farmers are protesting for their land and survival.”She said on International Women’s Day, a number of women from Punjab would head towards the Delhi protest site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/khalistan-ploy-to-weaken-stir-219138
