03-03-2021||---||Youth dies at rehab centre, kin cry foul||Moga, March 2Sukhvir Singh (26) of Langeana Nawan village died after being allegedly tortured at a private drug de-addiction centre at Charik village in the district, the police said here today.On Monday, the family members of the youth staged a protest outside the drug de-addiction centre alleging that he was brutally tortured by the owners and staff two days ago that led to his death. He was not provided medical aid, they alleged.Jaipal Singh, SHO, Charik police station, reached the spot. The deceased youth’s mother, Karamjit Kaur and sister Jasvir Kaur told the police that the owner of the drug de-addiction centre, Inderjit Singh, brought Sukhvir from their house along with a few other youth a few days ago promising to rid them of their addiction.They claimed CCTV cameras installed at the centre revealed the owner and staff there torture youths by adopting third degree methods and removing their clothes. Karamjit Kaur claimed that her son was not given medical care. Instead, he was left in the open to die.However, Inderjit Singh refuted the allegations and claimed he himself was beaten up by the inmates for which he had complained to the police. Meanwhile, a septuagenarian showed injury marks on his back. He alleged the owners and staff beat him up.No case has been registered so far. The family of the youth urged the police to take footage of CCTV cameras, which will reveal the truth about the inmates’ plight.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/youth-dies-at-rehab-centre-kin-cry-foul-219644
03-03-2021||---||Girl ‘mauled’ to death by dogs||Bathinda, March 2A 5-year-old girl was mauled to death by stray dogs at Labour Colony, Bathinda, on Monday evening. The girl has been identified as Aditi Sarkar of West Bengal.As per the information, the girl was playing outside her hut, when she was suddenly attacked by a herd of stray dogs and badly bitten. The dogs even dragged the girl to the bushes near the colony, causing severe scratches on her body. The girl was admitted to the emergency ward of the Civil Hospital at night, where she died.The parents of the girl alleged that the girl had been murdered and the case should be probed throughly. On Tuesday morning, the board of doctors conducted postmortem of the victim’s body.Beant Singh, SI, Sadar Bathinda police station, said as per the primary investigation, it seemed a case of death due biting by dogs, but the allegations made by the family were being investigated. The exact cause of the death would be known only after the postmortem report arrived. If anything emerged in the report, the police would take an action, he said.Shyamal Sarkar, the father of the victim, alleged that her daughter did not go out of the house after 7 pm. She must have been abducted and killed by a person living nearby, because two to four days ago, there had been a quarrel with a labourer, who worked with him, he said. He demanded a fair investigation into the matter.The Sadar Bathinda police station is currently investigating the case. Doctors said the whole matter would be clarified after the postmortem report arrived.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/girl-mauled-to-death-by-dogs-219645
03-03-2021||Archit Watts||Mukstar’s Sadi Rasoi running out of steam||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, March 2The District Red Cross Society, which had been running ‘Sadi Rasoi’ till March last year before the Covid outbreak, has now shown its inability to run the subsidised kitchen due to the paucity of funds.The Congress, in its election manifesto in 2017, had promised a decent meal for Rs 5.Though the price of a ‘thali’ was initially fixed at Rs 5, after two months, it was doubled. Now, the District Red Cross Society has sought permission from the Deputy Commissioner’s office to fix the price at Rs 20.Currently, the subsidised kitchen is shut and the needy people are requesting officials to reopen it.Sources in the district administration said there was a proposal to give ‘Sadi Rasoi’ on lease or to convert it into a restaurant.Prof Gopal Singh Makkar, secretary, District Red Cross Society, Muktsar, said, “Due to the paucity of funds, we have made a proposal to increase the price of ‘thali’ to Rs 20. Besides, we are mulling to provide a packed ‘thali’ at Rs 30. We can run ‘Sadi Rasoi’ this way only or the state government should provide some monetary support. We don’t have much sources of income and are unable to bear more losses. Even the support from philanthropists is negligible. Further, we don’t get subsidised ration.”“We have to give salaries to 12 persons, who run this kitchen. A lot of money has been spent on buying utensils, furniture, chapatti and dough-maker machines. A library hall has been converted into the kitchen,” he said. This kitchen had also won the ‘SKOCH Award’ in the past.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/mukstars-sadi-rasoi-running-out-of-steam-219649
03-03-2021||Bathinda||Arms racket run from jail unearthed||The Bathinda police have busted an illegal arms racket being run by gangster Ramandeep Singh, alias Rummy Machhana, from inside the Patiala Jail.On getting inputs that Ramandeep was arranging weapons for his gang from UP, the police brought him here on production warrant and his interrogation led to seizure of four pistols. Ramandeep’s aide Jagsir Singh of Sirsa was also nabbed by the police and four pistols were seized from him.Bathinda IGP Jaskaran Singh said the police had registered a case against gangster Machhana and his four associates, while efforts were on to arrest the person supplying arms from UP.On February 16, Mandeep Singh (alias Mani), Parminder Singh (alias Gogi) and Amritpal Singh (alias Babbu) were arrested. The police seized 14 live cartridges, a 32 bore pistol and a 9 mm pistol. The trio said the weapons were provided to them by gangster Rummy Machhana. The police said 37 cases are registered against Machhana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/arms-racket-run-from-jail-unearthed-219650
