23-03-2021||---||Rain, wind flatten crop; no cause for concern: Experts||Moga/Bathinda, March 22Light rainfall in many districts due to a fresh western disturbance in the past 24 hours not only lowered the temperature, but also brought cheer to wheat growers.The Meteorological Department in Chandigarh has said intermittent rain will continue at isolated places in the state over the next 24 hours. In Amritsar, it was 3.2 mm, Patiala 1.8 mm and Ludhiana 3.4 mm. The rain was also witnessed in Moga, Ferozepur, Faridkot, Muktsar, Bathinda, Barnala, Sangrur, Mansa, Taran Taran, Gurdaspur, Mohali, Ropar, Fatehgarh Sahib and other districts of the state.Dr Jaswinder Brar, Agri Dept ScientistYield will be goodWheat crop needs cold conditions to thrive. An expected drop in the minimum temperature over the next five to 10 days will help increase the grain size, thereby boosting the yield.Reports from Taran Taran, Goneana in Bathinda district, Moga and some places in Ferozepur revealed that gusty winds of 30 to 40 kmph flattened the wheat crop. However, no hailstorm was reported from any part of the state. “The wheat crop has the tendency to withstand such vagaries of weather,” said Dr Jaswinder Brar, an agro-scientist of the Agriculture Department.He claimed the rainfall was beneficial for wheat growers who had sown their crop without burning straw by mulching technology. The scientist who visited several villages of Attiana block in the Sudhar area of Ludhiana on Monday said good moisture was seen in the roots of the wheat plants.Devinder Singh, a farmer in Attiana, told the visiting agro-scientist the crop was healthy and he was expecting a good yield. The paddy straw left in the fields had completely decomposed, making the soil healthy, he said.However, high-velocity winds and rain damaged the standing crop, which was to be harvested in mid-April, in parts of Bathinda district. Jagga Singh of Balluana village said: “It would be difficult to harvest the fallen wheat and they would have to pay more to labourers.”Another farmer Parminder Singh of Balluana village said “We were expecting bumper crop this time, but the standing crop now lies flattened in the field. The yield is expected to be reduced by around 50 per cent.” They also demanded that the government should immediately order a special ‘girdawri’ (revenue survey to assess losses) and give compensation to farmers for their crop loss. An agriculture expert, however, said this rain was good for the wheat crop at this point of time as it had lowered the temperature. “There is no need to panic as there is ample time for the crop to recover,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/rain-wind-flatten-crop-no-cause-for-concern-experts-228985
23-03-2021||Sameer Singh||Bathinda virtual kisan mela gets tepid response||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, March 22The virtual kisan mela organised by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) at its regional centre here has received a cold response as scores of not-so-tech-savvy farmers could not listen to expert panel discussions and lectures regarding latest agricultural techniques online this year.Paramjit Singh, PAU Regional DirectorOlder farmers not tech savvyOlder farmers are not so tech savvy, but younger ones are and they particpated in the event. We tried to make it successful.In the wake of Covid-19 restrictions, the mela was organised virtually. As a result, the university missed out on income generation from the sale of seeds and other equipment during the event.A senior university official, said: “Things cannot be the same when we are connected virtually. In the past, thousands of farmers from south Malwa districts visited the mela and attended sessions.“They would buy seeds, pesticides and other equipment, get water and soil tested at a single platform and enhance their knowledge. But with Covid curbs, they could not join us in large numbers,” he said.Bogh Singh, a Mansa farmer and a union leader, said: “Virtual kisan mela was merely a formality by the government and failed to serve its purpose of educating farmers in large numbers. A majority of farmers in villages do not have smartphones.”“The government could have organised block-level training camps in villages and distributed farm literature. It was merely a paper exercise. We not only condemn it but also demand probe with regard to utilisation of funds for the meet,” added Singh.Prior to Bathinda, virtual kisan melas were held in Nawanshahr, Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Faridkot and Patiala recently. University officials agreed virtual meets were not as effective as regular ones, but expressed their compulsion due to Covid restrictions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-virtual-kisan-mela-gets-tepid-response-228986
