31-03-2021||Malout||Tension in Malout over BJP’s bandh call||Tension prevailed in Malout town on Monday when BJP leaders visited various markets to make their bandh call successful and farmers, too, gathered in large numbers at Bathinda Chowk, seeking assurance from the police that they wouldn’t arrest any farmer without any concrete proof.Accused reach TikriTwo farmer leaders named in the assault FIR — Nirmal Singh Jasseana and Lakhanpal Sharma ‘Lakha’ — have reportedly reached the Tikri border. The Muktsar SSP said the probe was on.The BJP had given a call for bandh after Abohar MLA Arun Narang was assaulted on March 27. The bandh call, however, evoked a tepid response as a majority of traders kept their shops opened despite the BJP’s appeal to them to keep their establishments shut till 2 pm in protest against the state government. The police had converted the entire town into a fortress. The cops from neighbouring districts, too, were called in. IGP, Faridkot Range, Kaustubh Sharma was also present in the town. Though some diversions were made, the protest disrupted the traffic movement till late evening.Editorial: Matter of shameAttack on Abohar BJP MLA is deplorableMuktsar SP (D) Rajpal Singh assured the farmers that the police wouldn’t harass any farmer and make arrests after having concrete proof. Thereafter, the farmers lifted their protest at 7 pm. They alleged that the police raided the house of a farmer of Mohlan village who died about a year ago.As a preventive measure, a large number of policemen were deployed in the town on Tuesday as well. — TNSShops in Abohar shut for five hoursAbohar: Shops in the old walled city area were shut from 9 am to 2 pm on the BJP’s call for ‘Abohar bandh’ to protest the assault on legislator Arun Narang. Unprecedented security arrangements were personally monitored by DIG, Ferozepur Range. Riot control vans and commandos were deployed at all entry points to the town. BJP workers took out a bike rally and a march, and burnt an effigy of the state government. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/tension-in-malout-over-bjps-bandh-call-232280
