07 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||India’s COVID tally fifth highest in world||Registering a new high in the number of daily cases detected — 10,313 — India on Saturday overtook Spain to become the country with the fifth highest confirmed COVID-19 infections (2,46,520). The rise in cases comes despite the fact that 1,37,938 samples were tested on Saturday, down from 1,43,661 on Friday, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The death toll increased by 294 to 6,941, even as the recovery rate remained at close to 48%. Cases have steadily risen, doubling every 17 days, among the fastest in countries with the most infections. The surge in infections is reflected in a study led by officials at the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), a Union Health Ministry body, tasked with disease surveillance. The study found that India’s reproduction number (R0), or the average number of people a single COVID-positive patient infects, has increased between lockdown 1.0 and the beginning of lockdown 3.0. Moreover, India needs 621 million ‘recoveries’ to achieve ‘herd immunity’ at current rates of disease transmission, said the study that appeared online on June 2 in the peer-reviewed Indian Journal of Public Health (IJPH). India reported its first 100 cases on March 15, and its effective transmission rate then was 2.51. That means, on average, every two infected persons are infecting five others. However, not everyone spreads the virus equally. Some may have a higher viral load, some a reduced load and yet others may be more mobile and spread it wider than more sedentary persons. To factor these varying rates of spread, epidemiologists compute reproduction rates in a population as an average. For a pandemic to end, this number must dip below 1. The initiation of the lockdown reduced the R0, the authors said. “On April 2, eight days after Phase 1 lockdown, the estimated Rt (the R0 at a particular period) decreased to 1.91. At the end of Phase 1 (April 14) and Phase 2 (May 3) of lockdown, Rt was 1.28 and 1.83. As of May 4, 2020, latest Rt of 2.04 was estimated,” the authors said. May 4, or the beginning of lockdown 3.0, saw easing of restrictions in public activity. Since May 4, India’s COVID count has multiplied five-fold as have deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indias-covid-tally-fifth-highest-in-world/article31770353.ece
07 June 2020||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),||‘Maoists’ set fire to road construction machinery in East Godavari district||Suspected Maoists on Saturday set fire to machinery used in the construction of a road and a bridge across the Chandravaku stream, at Sarivela village under Chintoor police limits in East Godavari district. According to East Godavari Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi, the suspected Maoists set fire to the machinery, including two tractors, two earthmovers, a lorry and a concrete miller, which were being used for the construction of the road and the bridge around 3 p.m. “We decided not to rush to the spot as there is a likely threat for us (from the Maoists). However, we have received the information on the incident and are preparing to visit the site within two days to investigate it,” Mr. Nayeem said. Work on the road between two tribal villages was under progress under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, he added. The spot where the Maoists set fire on the machinery is barely five km from the State’s border with Chhattisgarh. “We are investigating as to who could have done it and from where they had come,” said Mr. Nayeem. A senior official associated with the road and bridge works said the group of Maoists had asked the personnel at the worksite to leave before setting fire to the machinery. However, no casualty has been reported in the incident. The ITDA-Chintoor authorities had prepared a plan to complete the road and bridge works in a few weeks, to provide road connectivity to the tribal people in the two villages from this monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maoists-set-fire-to-road-construction-machinery-in-east-godavari-district/article31770360.ece
07 June 2020||HYDERABAD:,||10 more COVID patients die||Telangana recorded a sharp spike in COVID cases also fatalties on Saturday. While 206 more samples tested positive for coronavirus, 10 patients succumbed. These are highest number of cases, and deaths in a single day and also the first time that more than 200 cases were recorded. Of the 206 cases, 152 were recorded in GHMC limits, also the highest number recorded so far in the corporation limits in a day. Of the remaining cases, 18 are from Medchal, 10 from Rangareddy, five each from Nirmal and Yadadri, four from Mahbubnagar, two each from Nagarkurnool and Jagtial, one each from Mahabubabad, Vikarabad, Jangaon, Gadwal, Nalgonda, Badradri, Karimnagar and Mancherial. Of the total 3,496 cases till date, 1,663 are active cases; 1,710 patients were discharged and 123 have died. Until a few weeks ago, cases were largely limited to GHMC, Rangareddy and Medchal. Only a few cases were reported from other districts. However, the situation has changed in the past week. Director of Public Health (DPH) G Srinivasa Rao said that a surge in cases in most of the districts across the State was observed. The DPH who earlier said that they were tracking cases of people with Influenza Like Illness(ILI), Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), to know if there is any spike, has urged people to immediately contact the nearest government health facility if there is onset of ILI or SARI symptoms. “Seeking medical care soon after onset of symptoms is vital to reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with COVID-19,” Dr Rao said. Of the new cases, 13 are of healthcare professionals and workers of Telangana government hospitals. With this, 60 senior doctors, three nurses at government hospitals have tested positive for COVID-19. The new cases detected on Saturday include two General Medicine Post Graduates (PG), two Cardiology PGS who attended patients at Osmania General Hospital, two house surgeons (MBBS interns) who worked at the Government Dental Hospital. Besides them, three nurses, two technicians, three Class-IV employees, at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) also tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/10-more-covid-patients-die/article31770597.ece
07 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Vande Bharat’s third phase from June 9||The third phase of Air India Express (AIE)’s Vande Bharat Mission to evacuate stranded Indians from West Asia and southeast Asian countries will commence on June 9. The services, which will be on till June 23, will begin with the IX 1181 flight which will leave Abu Dhabi at 10.45 a.m. and reach the Cochin international airport at 4.10 p.m. on June 9. The AIE will operate flights from Doha to Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur, Dubai to Kozhikode, and Kuwait to Kozhikode that day. The AIE will operate 107 flights to various airports in the country in the third phase. Forty-two flights will operate to the four airports in Kerala. There will be flights to the State on all days except June 22. There will be more flights from Singapore and Malaysia, according to airline sources. Fourteen AIE repatriation flights will land at the Thiruvananthapuram international airport, 13 in Cochin, 10 in Kozhikode, and five in Kannur. In addition, the AIE will fly to Chennai, Tiruchirappalli, Madurai, Coimbatore, Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Mangaluru, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Lucknow, Delhi and Amritsar. The airline will deploy over 20 Boeing 737-800 NG aircraft for the operations. The AIE had operated 22 repatriation flights in Phase I, 38 in Phase II, and 95 in Phase II plus of the Vande Bharat Mission that ended on June 4. The third phase begins against the backdrop of nine crew members on flights to Kerala testing positive for COVID-19. 300 flights In addition to the AIE flights, Air India will operate around 300 flights to Europe, Australia, Canada, the U.S., the U.K. and Africa between June 10 and July 1 during Phase III. Between May 7 and June 1, the Air India group has operated 423 inbound international flights bringing 58,867 Indian citizens back to the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vande-bharats-third-phase-from-june-9/article31770628.ece
07 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||108 new cases put active tally over 1,000||The number of active COVID-19 cases in the State crossed the 1,000 mark when 108 new cases were confirmed on Saturday. The State now has 1,029 active cases, while the total case tally stands at 1,805. Fifty more patients were put on the recovery list on Saturday, taking the total number of recovered patients to 762. Of the 108 new cases, 98 are imported cases diagnosed in people who had returned to the State from abroad and from other parts of the country. Ten persons acquired the infection through contact with other infected persons. Death toll 15 A 61-year-old patient, a Mumbai-returnee, who had been seriously ill at Manjeri Medical College Hospital (MCH), Malappuram, and was the first recipient of the convalescent plasma therapy for COVID-19 patients in the State died on Saturday, taking the death toll to 15. Senior health officials said that since no hospitals in Kerala had been chosen to be part of the PLACID clinical trial of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the State had to draw up guidelines for administering convalescent plasma therapy on compassionate grounds or when there were no other treatment options left for the patient. The institutional ethical committee clearance for administering the therapy was given late last night and the plasma collected from two prior patients at the Manjeri MCH itself was administered to the patient in the early hours on Saturday. Doctors said the patient was on ventilator and had gone far too over for him to be saved. The number of people in institutional or home quarantine in the State is 1,81,482, while another 1,615 persons with suspected COVID-19 symptoms have been isolated in hospitals. Ten new regions in Palakkad, Kollam and Kozhikode entered the hotspots list, taking the total to 138 now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/108-new-cases-put-active-tally-over-1000/article31770635.ece
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,||State govt. cuts grants for NLSIU by 75%||The State government has reduced grants to the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) by 75% for the 2020-2021 academic year. Over the last three years, the government had been allocating Rs. 2 crore to the university as maintenance grants for each academic year, but for 2020-21, it has allocated only Rs. 50 lakh. This comes at a time when the State government has reserved 25 seats in NLSIU for local students for the 2020-21 academic year. The total budget outlay for the university is Rs. 30 crore and the largest revenue source of the university is student fees. Currently, the student intake for their flagship BA LLB honours programme is 80 and 50 for their LLM programmes. Since its inception, NLSIU has received Rs. 16 crore funding from the State government. Vignesh R., president, Student Bar Association of NLSIU, said that the university was in the process of revamping the infrastructure and expanding to accommodate more students. “At such a juncture we need a steady source of revenue and it will help in ensuring that the funding from the State government does not reduce,” he said. Fee hike In fact, NLSIU had hiked its fees by more than 27% across the board for the 2019-2020 academic year which was met with opposition from students, who warned that the premier legal research institute will eventually exclude aspirants from socio-economically backward sections. The management had argued that the hike was necessary to meet a rise in costs and payment of salaries. The cut in grants has come as a huge disappointment to students and faculty members. NLSIU is ranked number 1 across the country in the National Institutional Ranking Framework rankings under the law category. Kanishka Singh, vice-president of the SBA, said this decision may impact financial aid to students. “While we seek to ensure that we are inclusive in our policies at the university and no one is prevented from studying at the university due to financial constraints, any cut in funding might end up having an adverse impact on the scholarships or financial support that is extended to the students,” he said. According to NLSIU sources, the government’s decision will have a “drastic impact on the functioning of the university”. “The university will have to tap into its alumni network and reach out to private philanthropists as well as find new dynamic programmes,” said a source. When contacted, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy told The Hindu that he would ensure that no funding was cut to the university. He said that this would be rectified. The university does not receive any funding from the Cente ral government but does receive grants from the State as it was established under a State government legislation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-govt-cuts-grants-for-nlsiu-by-75/article31770417.ece
07 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Highest single-day spike of 210 new COVID cases in State||The State witnessed the highest single-day spike in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases during the past 24 hours ending on Saturday morning. A whopping 210 fresh cases, including 161 cases of locals, which is also the highest single-day spike so far, were detected after 12,771 samples were tested, as per the bulletin issued by the Health Department. Active cases The tally has gone up to 4,460 and the number of active cases also went up to 1,786. The number of patients discharged is 2,601 and the toll stands at 73 as no new deaths were reported. Of the total cumulative cases, 3,588 are of locals and 741 are of foreign returnees, migrant returnees and people from other States. 1,000 in past week During the past week, the State reported 999 COVID positive cases which account for 22% of the cases reported so far since March 12, the bulletin said. Of the total, 644 cases are of locals while remaining are of foreign returnees and migrant returnees and people from other States. These cases were detected as 73,204 samples were tested in a week between May 31 and June 6. During the same time, the number of active cases has gone up by 609 and the number of daily recoveries slowed down. The district tallies are as follows: Kurnool (762), Guntur (556), Krishna (526), Nellore (304), Chittoor (298), Anantapur (274), East Godavari (272), West Godavari (182), Kadapa (150), Visakhapatnam (111), Prakasam (85), Vizianagaram (37) and Srikakulam (31). Foreign returnees Foreign returnees account for 131 cases and migrant returnees and people from other states account for 741 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/highest-single-day-spike-of-210-new-covid-cases-in-state/article31770358.ece
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Cases cross 5,000 in Karnataka||Three days after clocking over 4,000, Karnataka’s tally of COVID-19 positive cases touched 5,213 on Saturday, with 378 new cases. Of them, 333 are inter-State and eight international travellers. As many as 329 of the inter-State travellers are from Maharashtra. Two more persons from containment zones in Bidar and Vijayapura also succumbed to the infection, taking the death toll in the State to 59, apart from two non-COVID deaths. One of them was a 55-year-old female patient from Bidar diagnosed with SARI and other was an 82-year-old female patient from Vijayapura with several comorbidities. Saturday also saw a record number of discharges with 280 persons recovering. With a total of 1,968 discharges, the State now has 3,184 active cases. Maharashtra returnees continued to haunt Udupi and with 121 cases, this coastal district recorded the highest number of cases for the third consecutive day. With this, Udupi now has 785 active cases. Yadgir follows Udupi with 103 new cases. While Kalaburagi recorded 69 cases, Dakshina Kannada saw 24, and Bengaluru Urban 18 cases. The number of cases increased by 1,141 in four days from May 31 till June 3. Thereafter, in the next three days [from June 3 till June 6], the number has increased by 1,150. With 96% of the total active cases in the State being asymptomatic, the Health Department has submitted a proposal to the State Task Force, headed by the Chief Secretary, that even asymptomatic persons from Maharashtra should be tested as long as possible. The department had done away with the previously mandatory COVID-19 test for asymptomatic individuals from June 1. Moreover, asymptomatic individuals have also been exempted from institutional quarantine. “With asymptomatic cases having become a cause of concern among the community, we have now proposed to the government that asymptomatic Maharashtra returnees should also be tested. The task force will take a call on that on Monday,” Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cases-cross-5000-in-karnataka/article31770412.ece
07 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Border meet sets stage for more talks||India and China held crucial talks between senior military commanders on Saturday in an effort to ease the tension along the border. Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh, Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, led the Indian delegation to the Chinese border personnel meeting point at Moldo, opposite Chushul in eastern Ladakh. The Chinese side was represented by Maj. Gen. Liu Lin, Commander of the South Xinjiang military region. Sources said the difference in ranks did not denote a difference in seniority, and it was because of China’s military structure being different from India’s. The talks were scheduled to begin early but were delayed and started around 11.30 a.m. and went on for several hours, sources said. No breakthrough While the outcome was not known, the talks were not believed to lead to any major breakthrough but only set the stage for further talks. India’s major demand is the restoration of status quo before May, as beginning early May Chinese troops moved in large numbers into Indian territory at Pangong Tso, Galwan and Gogra in eastern Ladakh, and de-induction of troops by China. Another concern is Chinese build-up at Finger 4 of Pangong Tso up to where India has always held territory, while it claims areas as far as Finger 8. In addition, China moved armour and artillery close to the Line of Actual Control on its side, a measure which is against the boundary agreements. As a procedure, at the end of the talks, the two sides finalise the minutes of the meeting. Once the delegation returns, the Corps Commander would give an update to the Northern Army Commander and the Army chief, sources explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/border-meet-sets-stage-for-more-talks/article31770349.ece
07 June 2020||New Delhi,||Reserve Delhi’s hospitals only for residents, suggests govt. panel||A five-member committee formed by the Delhi government has suggested in its report that the State’s health infrastructure should be used only for its residents, sources said. “The report said that if people from outside are allowed to use hospitals, then we will reach 100% bed capacity in three days,” a source in the Delhi government said. The suggestion comes in the backdrop of Delhi recording over 1,000 novel coronavirus cases daily for the past few days and the AAP government facing heat over allegations of lack of hospital beds and other facilities. The government had earlier this week formed the committee, headed by Indraprastha University Vice Chancellor Mahesh Verma, to guide it on overall preparedness of hospitals in the city and augmentation of health infrastructure, among others, for better management of COVID-19 cases. Closed borders On Monday, announcing the closing of Delhi’s borders for a week, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said, “As soon as we open the borders, people from across the country will come to Delhi for better treatment. We have a capacity of 9,500 beds for COVID-19 treatment in Delhi hospitals… but all the beds will be occupied in just two-three days if we have an influx of patients from across the country.” The Chief Minister had also asked people to send suggestions on whether borders should be opened or whether borders should be opened but treatment in the hospitals should only be given to the residents of Delhi. On Friday, the government had said that it has received more than 7.5 lakh suggestions and will decide on whether to open borders to allow inflow of people from other States for medical treatment and other services based on these suggestions and after consulting experts. The government is yet to formally announce a decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/reserve-delhis-hospitals-only-for-residents-suggests-govt-panel/article31770553.ece
07 June 2020||Kochi,||India’s solar ferry sails into global contest||India’s first solar-powered ferry, Aditya , which became an icon on the Vaikom-Thavanakadavu route in Kerala, is among 12 such ferries that have been shortlisted for the Gustave Trouvé Award. It is the sole entrant from Asia. There are three award categories: one for electric boats up to 8m in length, electric boats more than 8 m long and electric ferry boats (passenger boats), the category in which Aditya is in the fray. Gussies Electric Boat Awards were instituted in memory of Gustave Trouvé, a French electrical engineer and pioneer in electric cars and boats. Trouvé was a prolific inventor with over 75 patents. Back in 1881, he developed a 5-m-long prototype electric boat. Built in Kochi Operated by the Kerala State Water Transport Department (KSWTD), the vessel was built by Navalt Solar and Electric Boats, Kochi. Buoyed by the success of the ferry and its rock bottom operating cost, the department is expected to roll out more such vessels in the future. The founder-CEO of the firm, Sandith Thandassery, a naval architect who graduated from IIT-Madras, explained what contributed to the success of the vessel. “As a public transport solar-electric ferry, it has proven its performance in its third year, transporting 11 lakh passengers and clocking a distance of 70,000 km, without a single drop of fossil fuel. It thus saved KSWTD over 1 lakh litres of diesel.” The per km energy cost of Aditya is low, and the ferry normally operates 22 trips a day, covering a total of 66 km, carrying 75 passengers per trip. It needs just Rs. 180 per day in energy cost, compared to about Rs. 8,000 for a diesel-run ferry of similar size. It is unusual for a high technology product to have such a low break-even period, Mr. Thandassery said. The financial viability of the zero pollution vessel is such that the KSWTD, in January 2020, said that it saved Rs. 75 lakh since its 2017 launch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indias-solar-ferry-sails-into-global-contest/article31770364.ece
07 June 2020||Noida,||Pregnant woman dies in ambulance after 13-hour search for hospital bed||An eight-month pregnant woman died in an ambulance after her family reportedly struggled to get her admitted to a hospital despite a frantic search for over 13 hours. The family claimed she was denied treatment by over half-a-dozen hospitals in Gautam Buddha Nagar. The district administration said it has ordered a probe to ascertain the facts related to the death of 30-year-old Neelam, a Khoda Colony resident, in the ambulance outside a hospital in Greater Noida on Friday night. In a video circulating on social media, Neelam’s husband Vijender Singh is seen claiming that he had pleaded at the doors of several hospitals, including government-run facilities, before she died. “We first went to the ESI Hospital, then to a hospital in Sector 30 [Child PGI]; from there we went to the Sharda Hospital. All of them refused to admit her,” her husband alleged in the video which surfaced on Saturday morning. ‘Ventilator support’ “She was admitted to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences [Greater Noida] where she also got a ventilator but it was too late by then. In all, the death happened in the ambulance itself,” said the husband. Neelam was undergoing treatment for pregnancy-related complications at the Shivalik Hospital in Noida which is a private facility, said Mr. Singh. He alleged that the family also tried to get her admitted to Jaypee and Fortis hospitals in Gautam Buddha Nagar and the Max Hospital in Vaishali, Ghaziabad, only to be told that no beds were available. Gautam Buddha Nagar District Magistrate Suhas L.Y. has ordered a probe into the incident. “Additional DM Munindra Nath Upadhyay and Chief Medical Officer Deepak Ohri will probe the matter,” the district administration said in an official statement. A similar incident was reported in Gautam Buddha Nagar on the night of May 25, when a newborn died allegedly due to lack of medical support as his father kept shuttling from one hospital to another between Greater Noida and Noida. Two private hospitals have been booked for alleged negligence in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pregnant-woman-dies-in-ambulance-after-13-hour-search-for-hospital-bed/article31770552.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Govt. caps tariff that pvt. hospitals can charge COVID-19 patients||The State Health Department on Saturday announced three slabs of maximum applicable daily tariff for treatment of COVID-19 patients in private hospitals. For this purpose, the hospitals have been classified under two categories — Grade A1/ A2 and Grade A3/A4. An official release said that Grade A1 and A2 hospitals can collect a maximum of Rs. 7,500 a day from COVID-19 patients who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms and have been admitted to the general ward. The maximum tariff for such patients in the general ward of Grade A3 and A4 hospitals has been fixed at Rs. 5,000 a day. However, in case of admission to the intensive care unit, all hospitals, irrespective of the grades they fall under, have been instructed to ensure that the charges do not exceed Rs. 15,000 a day. While the release said that hospitals cannot charge more than the fixed tariff, it did not specify if the tariff included all hospitalisation costs. Complaints noted The State government said that the tariff cap on private hospitals was fixed by a committee headed by the Health Secretary, taking into consideration complaints of hospitals charging exorbitant sums and also a representation from the Indian Medical Association, Tamil Nadu branch (IMA-TN), to cap the tariff in private hospitals. Recently, IMA-TN had proposed a tariff of Rs. 2,31,820 for 10 days for patients with mild/moderate symptoms in COVID Care Centres and Rs. 4,31,411 for 17 days for patients with severe symptoms, requiring treatment in hospitals and ICUs. C.N. Raja, president, IMA-TN, said that the association, along with the Nursing Home Board, had arrived at the cost structure following complaints about some hospitals charging Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 1.5 lakh a day. “We wanted the charges to be reasonable and affordable, without affecting the running of the hospitals. We were ready to forgo doctors’ fees too. We do not know how the government arrived at this price cap and what yardsticks it was based on. But we do not differ on the point that there should be a price cap,” he said. He raised the need for a price cap on COVID-19-related medical supplies to private hospitals as they have to purchase from the market. “We have been repeatedly appealing to the State and Central governments to bring a price cap on medical equipment, consumables and drugs for COVID-19 treatment. This included masks and personal protective equipment,” he said. Asked about the government’s decision, Apollo Hospitals vice-chairperson Preetha Reddy said, “We have to go through the details and see.” Smaller hospitals said that the challenge is to the keep the hospital running in the midst of the pandemic. Dr T.N. Ravishankar, who runs a hospital in East Tambaram, Chennai, said hospitals incurred expenses on deployment of healthcare workers in the COVID-19 wards and providing them PPE kits. “We need to have two staff nurses and two doctors who visit the patients each day, a dietician and the cleaning staff, all of whom must wear PPE. We must have two sets of staff so that we can run a ward,” he explained. Instead, the government could consider regulating the cost of PPE kits, he suggested. Giving a cost break-up, he said, the government-fixed tariff would cover basic medicine and PPE but expensive drugs could not be administered in case of terminal patients. “The price cap will not cover the infrastructure charges, the professional or lab charges,” he added. “I have to pay double the money to make my staff come to work because of the risk involved. If all hospitals are to be safe, life and medical insurance cover must be given to all our healthcare workers,” Dr. Ravishankar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-caps-tariff-that-pvt-hospitals-can-charge-covid-19-patients/article31770470.ece
07 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Temples to open for two-day trial run tomorrow||Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivasa Rao said arrangements were made to open all temples to their employees and local devotees for a trial run on June 8 and 9. It will be followed by regular darshan (only laghu darshan) to a limited number of devotees from June 10. As per the lockdown guidelines, temples would be open from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. and the darshan timings could be reduced if necessitated by local circumstances. Devotees have to produce Aadhaar cards or other approved identities without fail. The number of devotees seeking darshan had to be restricted and other precautions taken due to the threat which coronavirus continued to pose, he stated. Addressing mediapersons here on Saturday, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said temples located in containment zones, like the Srikalahasti temple in Chittoor district, would remain closed till normalcy is restored and wearing face masks and keeping a social distance of at least six feet were mandatory. Number limit Three hundred devotees would be permitted to have darshan per hour per line. Persons aged above 65 and below 10, pregnant women, and persons with co-morbidities were advised to keep away. Devotees have to do hand sanitisation at frequent intervals and not cough or sneeze openly lest the virus should spread from the carriers among them. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said devotees should not spit on temple premises and only those not having cough, cold or fever would be given entry. Thermal screening would be done at entrances and downloading Aarogya Setu mobile application was a must. Separate queues for darshan and exit were being provided. Steps were taken for crowd management at vehicle parking places. Physical offerings like prasadam distribution were prohibited and there would be no annadanam for the time being, the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/temples-to-open-for-two-day-trial-run-tomorrow/article31770362.ece
07 June 2020||New Delhi,||Woman unable to get a bed in 5 hospitals||When Samarth Thapa went to wake up his feverish 53-year-old mother around 8 p.m. on Friday, he found that she was having trouble breathing. He immediately tried to get her admitted to a hospital, but after eight hours of running around the city and approaching five different hospitals, Mr. Thapa could not find a bed for his mother. “Everyone turned us away saying that she is a suspected COVID-19 case. Finally, we got her tested for the virus at the fifth hospital. While we were looking for immediate care, even they refused to admit my mother,” Mr. Thapa told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/woman-unable-to-get-a-bed-in-5-hospitals/article31770554.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Corn on the mat||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/corn-on-the-mat/article31770419.ece
07 June 2020||UNITED NATIONS,||Country is still at risk, says WHO expert||COVID-19 has not “exploded” in India, but the risk of it happening remains as the country moves towards exiting the lockdown that was imposed in March to contain the disease, according to a top WHO expert. WHO Health Emergencies Programme executive director Michael Ryan on Friday said the doubling time of cases in India was about three weeks at this stage. So the direction of travel of the epidemic was not exponential but it was still growing, he said. The impact of the pandemic was different in different parts of India, and varied between urban and rural settings. “In South Asia, not just in India but in Bangladesh and ... in Pakistan, other countries in South Asia, with large dense populations, the disease has not exploded. But there is always the risk of that happening,” Mr. Ryan said in Geneva.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/country-is-still-at-risk-says-who-expert/article31770347.ece
07 June 2020||JAIPUR,||No stimulus for States yet, says Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has sought the Centre’s support to the States during the COVID-19 pandemic to help them revive their economies, while affirming that the package of Rs. 20 lakh crore had not provided any direct assistance to them. In an interview to The Hindu , he expressed the hope that new sectors of the economy would emerge once the crisis ends. Throwing light on the measures to contain the pandemic, Mr. Gehlot asked people to acquire new knowledge and skills to make themselves suitable for the “new environment”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-stimulus-for-states-yet-says-gehlot/article31770350.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Tally crosses 30,000-mark||With Tamil Nadu reporting 1,458 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, the State’s tally has crossed the 30,000-mark. While 633 patients were discharged from hospitals, the toll climbed to 251 with 19 persons succumbing to the infection in the last two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tally-crosses-30000-mark/article31770467.ece
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Hotels gear up to reopen with new SOPs||In the backdrop of the pandemic, the hospitality industry will open its doors to patrons tomorrow. The tourism sector, too, is slowly awakening with the government gearing up to welcome visitors and guests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hotels-gear-up-to-reopen-with-new-sops/article31770414.ece
07 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Former Delhi Police chief Ved Marwah passes away||Former Delhi Police Commissioner Ved Marwah, who also served as Governor of three States, died on Friday in Goa. The 87-year-old breathed his last at a hospital in Mapusa town, said acting DGP of Goa Jaspal Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-delhi-police-chief-ved-marwah-passes-away/article31770549.ece
07 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||U.P. launches skill mapping of workers||Uttar Pradesh has launched a skill mapping exercise for all returning workers to get an assessment of what employment can be provided to them. “Of 26 lakh people, we have completed the skill mapping exercise for 18 lakh,” said a source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-launches-skill-mapping-of-workers/article31770550.ece
07 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fraud of Rs. 57 lakh detected in JNU||A central expenditure audit team has detected a fraud of Rs. 57 lakh by over 100 officials of Jawaharlal Nehru University in claiming leave travel concession and reimbursement of phone bills in 2017-18. An official said the matter was put forth before the Executive Council meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fraud-of-rs-57-lakh-detected-in-jnu/article31770551.ece
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,||HC fiat on illegal immigrants||The High Court of Karnataka has declared that illegal immigrants and overstaying foreign nationals facing criminal cases cannot be allowed to move freely after release on anticipatory or regular bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-fiat-on-illegal-immigrants/article31770415.ece
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,||RS elections: State BJP plays it safe||The State unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has recommended to the party high command three names for two seats in the Rajya Sabha which the party can win comfortably with its numerical strength. Elections to four seats will be held on June 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-elections-state-bjp-plays-it-safe/article31770416.ece
07 June 2020||UDUPI,||Krishna Temple to open after about a month||The Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple will remain closed for about a month. Ishapriya Tirtha Swami of Paryaya Admar Mutt said on Saturday that the temple had decided to study the situation and nd then decide on reopening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/krishna-temple-to-open-after-about-a-month/article31770580.ece
07 June 2020||Chennai,||Employ local workers in place of migrants: CM||With migrant workers having left for their home States following the COVID-19 lockdown, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday urged industries to employ native workers to avoid any dip in production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/employ-local-workers-in-place-of-migrants-cm/article31770469.ece
07 June 2020||Chennai,||35 children, five staff in govt.-run home infected||Thirty-five children and five staff members in the government-run home in Royapuram for children have tested positive for COVID-19 as on Saturday morning, officials said. They have been admitted to a government hospital in Tondiarpet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/35-children-five-staff-in-govt-run-home-infected/article31770471.ece
07 June 2020||Chennai,||New containment strategy for 3 districts||Alarmed by the rising number of COVID-19 positive patients in districts around Chennai, the State has forged a new plan for micro-management of cases from Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam chaired a meeting with senior officials and police officers, who are part of the Field Support Teams (FST) in this regard in the Secretariat on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-containment-strategy-for-3-districts/article31770472.ece
07 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||As States prepare to unlock, 10 die in Telangana||The COVID-19 trajectory in Telangana took a sharp turn on Saturday with the death of ten people. The State recorded a total of 3,496 cases, of which active cases were 1,663, and death toll rose to 123. Tamil Nadu reported 1,458 new cases, taking the total case count past 30,000 on Saturday. While another 633 persons were discharged from hospitals, the State’s death toll climbed to 251 with 19 more persons succumbing to the infection in the last two days. Kerala on Saturday crossed the milestone of 1,000 active COVID-19 cases, as 108 more cases were confirmed. There was one fatality from infection. Kerala had 1,029 active cases, out of a total case tally of 1,805. Fifty more patients were put on the recovery list, taking the total of those who recovered to 762. Of the 108 new cases, 98 were imported, diagnosed among those who had returned from abroad or other States. Ten persons were infected by local transmission by infected persons. A 61-year-old seriously ill patient, a Mumbai-returnee, at Manjeri Medical College, Malappuram, who was the first recipient of convalescent plasma therapy for COVID-19 patients in the State, died on Saturday, raising the death toll to 15. Senior Health officials said no hospitals in Kerala had been chosen to be part of the PLACID clinical trial of ICMR, and the State had to draw up guidelines for administering convalescent plasma therapy on compassionate grounds or when there were no other treatment options left. Clearance for the therapy was given on Friday night and plasma from two prior patients at Manjeri MCH was administered to the patient early on Saturday. Doctors said that the patient was on ventilator and had deteriorated too much to be saved. The number of people on institutional or home quarantine in the State was 1,81,482, while another 1,615 persons with suspected COVID-19 symptoms were isolated in hospitals. Andhra Pradesh saw the highest single-day spike in fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday. A whopping 210 fresh cases, including a record 161 cases of locals were detected after 12,771 samples were tested, the Health Department said. The tally rose to 4,460 and the number of active cases to 1,786. The number of patients discharged was 2,601 and the toll stood at 73, with no new deaths. The fresh cases in Tamil Nadu took the total to 30,152. Chennai, with 1,146 new cases accounted for 20,993 cases and 197 deaths so far. As on date, 16,395 persons had been discharged from hospitals, accounting for a recovery rate of 54%, while there were 13,503 active cases. All 19 deaths occurred in Chennai, 10 of them in private hospitals. Three of the deceased were aged in their 30s. One of them - a 30-year-old man - died within 10 minutes of admission at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on June 4. His sample that was lifted in a private laboratory on June 3 returned positive for COVID-19 on June 5. He died due to cardiopulmonary arrest, acute abdomen/perforation peritonitis and septic shock. A 39-year-old man died at RGGGH on June 5 due to cardiopulmonary arrest and COVID-19 pneumonia, while a 31-year-old man admitted to a private hospital on June 5 with complaints of hyponatremia, acute pancreatitis and decompensated chronic liver disease, died on the same day.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada, and Chennai Bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/as-states-prepare-to-unlock-10-die-in-telangana/article31770301.ece
07 June 2020||Patna,||Slugfest over Shah’s Bihar ‘virtual rally’||The BJP is pulling out all the stops to make Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s “virtual rally” in poll-bound Bihar on Sunday a big success with party workers busy contacting and establishing online links with leaders, workers and supporters up to the booth level. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Tejashwi Yadav, however, said the BJP was showing “political vulturism”, and announced that the Rashtriya Janata Dal would observe the day as Garib Adhikar Diwas by beating on empty utensils. The elections to the 243 seats in the Bihar Assembly are due by November. RJD protest “In this crisis, the government has kept the plate of farmers and labourers empty, so in retaliation to their insensitivity, on June 7, RJD will awaken the government by beating on plates and bowls,” Mr. Yadav tweeted. “BJP’s rally amid ‘crisis of the century’ nothing but political vulturism.” He targeted Chief Minister Nitish Kumar over a letter reportedly written by a senior State police official and later withdrawn that raised concerns that the influx of unemployed migrants could possibly cause a law and order problem. BJP game plan Going ahead with its electoral plans, the BJP recently formed a seven-member Saptrishi committee at the State’s 72,725 election booths. The BJP’s Bihar in-charge, Bhupendra Yadav, and national organisational general secretary B.L. Santosh reached Patna on Friday and held several meetings with State party leaders. “Through this virtual rally, the party will virtually launch its poll campaign in Bihar,” a senior leader told The Hindu . Mr. Shah is scheduled to address the rally from New Delhi at 4 p.m. and is expected to highlight the achievements of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government’s second term. He is expected to focus on the election, which the party is set to contest in alliance with the Janata Dal(U) and the Lok Jan Shakti Party. Taking issue with the BJP for planning a rally at a time when the country was busy battling the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Yadav said the BJP was only interested in electoral victory even if it cost human lives. “At a time when the State and the country is reeling with a pandemic disease like COVID-19 that is threatening to reach the community level, the BJP’s rally speaks volume about the party’s priorities… electioneering at this time is nothing but political vulturism as they [BJP] want to win elections even at the cost of human lives,” he said. The RJD leader criticised Mr. Kumar, who holds the Home portfolio, over the controversial leaked letter that was subsequently withdrawn. “The Chief Minister, who holds the Home portfolio, should answer why his administration thought the migrant workers are called criminals and how they would create law and order problem in the State,” he told presspersons, adding “Why are employment rights denied to the migrants?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/slugfest-over-shahs-bihar-virtual-rally/article31770303.ece
07 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||U.P. launches skill mapping of workers||The plight of the inter-State worker returning home has loomed large over the crisis caused by COVID-19, with Uttar Pradesh being one of the first States to undertake skill mapping and announce policies to try and assure employment to returning workers within the State. It had launched a skill mapping exercise of all returning workers to get an assessment of what employment can be provided in situ. Through affidavits placed before the Supreme Court, it is now clear that more than 75% of all Shramik Special trains were taking these workers home to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Uttar Pradesh, according to the State government’s own undertaking, has received 26 lakh of its workers back from where they had migrated for work. “Of these 26 lakh people, we have completed the skill mapping exercise for 18 lakh,” said a senior source in the Uttar Pradesh government. According to the figures made available to The Hindu , construction workers comprised the largest skill set with nearly 16 lakh people having been employed in that sector. This includes contract labour, those with skills regarding specific works like flooring, painting and carpentry. An additional 55,000 people have experience in furniture and fittings and interior decoration. “Over 10,000 people previously employed as drivers have returned as have 5,000 and more information technology electronics technicians [data operators and low level jobs] and around 6,000 home appliance repairmen,” said the source. Around 2,000 technicians related to the automobile field have also returned home along with 1,300 beauticians, paramedics, pharma assistants and handicraft workmen and carpet weavers. The effort, say government officials, is to conclude the mapping fast and register them under the Kaamgaar Shramik Kalyan Aayog set up for them and put in place some insurance policies as well. According to Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) in the State, Siddharth Nath Singh, “The MSME Ministry has entered into four MoUs with industry associations like FICCI, Laghu Udyog Bandho, Indian Industry Association and NADRECO for providing jobs to 11 lakh skilled and semi skilled workers. The first step to that is the skill mapping exercise,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-launches-skill-mapping-of-workers/article31770329.ece
07 June 2020||New Delhi,||Centre blames ‘fake news’ for migrants crowding bus stations||The Union Home Ministry has blamed “fake media reports” and “misinformation” for the crowding of thousands of migrant workers and their families on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border on March 28. In an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court on Friday, the Ministry said, “Due to circulation of certain misinformation in the area of GNCT (Delhi), thousands of migrants gathered gathered at Anand Vihar bus terminal and Ghazipur border area on March 28. This gathering occurred due to fake media reports wherein a false information was circulated that 1,000 buses for travel of stranded migrants to their home State have been arranged and would be available at the said points.” The affidavit, however, does not mention a tweet by the office of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on March 28, stating: “The U.P government has arranged 1,000 buses to help workers, migrating due to the lockdown, to reach their destination without any hassle.” At 12.24 p.m., Delhi’s Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia also tweeted that 100 buses arranged by Delhi government and 200 buses of U.P government will ferry migrants who were walking.  The affidavit also said that “migrant workers not only in Delhi but also in other parts of the country, due to anxiety, instigation and other psychological reasons started a journey to their home town on foot.” The affidavit included a March 29 letter by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal written to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, saying the “fears and anxieties were further compounded by the unsubstantial rumours floating on social media that the lockdown is to be extended for three months.”  On March 29, two senior IAS officials were suspended and another issued a show-cause notice, along with a DANICS officer, by the Home Ministry for alleged dereliction of duty for not being able to contain the exodus of migrant workers from Delhi.  The L-G in his March 29 letter had said, “...we have been having daily joint meetings with senior officers, where I was informed that all arrangements have been made to provide essential services to the poor and needy to ensure that they stay where they are.” In some cases, the L-G in his letter pointed out, “large numbers of these workers” were picked up from their places of stay in DTC or cluster buses, which are operated by the Delhi government, resulting in “thousands of them crowding at inter-State bus terminals.” Mr. Baijal said what transpired was “contrary to the assurances” given in his meetings with senior officers and perhaps, there was “a failure to make adequate and timely arrangements for food, water and shelter and to reach out to these poor workers”, leading to their mass exodus. Advocate Omprakash Parihar was on record in the court representing the petition with Advocate Dushyant Tiwari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-blames-fake-news-for-migrants-crowding-bus-stations/article31770312.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Centre must help States put economies back on track’||The Rajasthan government has set an example in helping out the poor and needy during the COVID-19 pandemic, says Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot . He says the Rs. 20 lakh crore economic package announced by the Union government has not provided any direct assistance to the States.  You have been claiming that Rajasthan is a model State in the distribution of ration and other materials to the poor and needy during the COVID-19 pandemic. Has the assistance reached the people not covered in the food security scheme? How much has the State government spent on it? The Rajasthan government has set an example of helping out the poor and needy during the COVID-19 pandemic. Looking at the livelihood problems of the deprived sections of society, over 78 lakh people have been paid social security pension for three months, amounting to Rs. 2,100 crore. The State government has also deposited Rs. 2,500 each in the accounts of 33 lakh people who are not covered under the social security pension schemes. Those who did not have a bank account were given cash through the District Collector’s office. Till now, 3.60 crore dry ration kits/cooked food packets have been distributed free of cost to such people. Over 34 lakh people not getting wheat under the National Food Security Act have been provided 10 kg foodgrains each for three months. This has been procured by the State from the FCI at the rate of Rs. 21 per kg with the total cost of Rs. 79 crore. The recovery rate from COVID-19 in Rajasthan has touched 70%, which is among the best in the country. How has it been achieved and what was the role of doctors and health workers in it? The State government has utilised all resources at its disposal to contain the spread of COVID-19. We have followed the model of ruthless containment for all the hotspot areas by way of imposing curfew, sealing of the area, massive screening and total restrictions on movements. Another strategy has been to increase the number of diagnostic tests so that not a single case remains undetected. The high number of tests has also resulted in the number of positive cases going up. We have provided all the necessary medicines, equipment, PPE kits, quarantine/isolation infrastructure and moral support to the frontline corona warriors and others. The role of health care workers has been very significant in checking the spread of the pandemic. You have laid emphasis on micro-management of COVID-19 and adherence to protocols by all stakeholders. What are the difficulties the State government has faced in fighting the pandemic and what message would you give to the people who are apprehensive about the long-term effects of the disease? The biggest difficulty that the State had faced in fighting the COVID-19 was to conduct the testing of the large population. The capacity of testing in Rajasthan was negligible in the first week of March and as a result, the samples had to be sent to other States. Gradually, the rate of testing has increased and we have been successful in enhancing the polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based testing capacity to more than 17,000 tests per day. Our target is to bring daily capacity level to 25,000 per day. You have been very critical of the Centre’s package of Rs. 20 lakh crore to deal with the impact of the pandemic. What are its shortcomings and what are your suggestions for supporting the sectors such as agriculture? Being factual in my responses to the package announced by the Central government cannot be termed critical. The Rs. 20-lakh crore package has not provided any direct assistance to the States whereas it is the States which are fighting the pandemic at the ground level. More than 90% of the package is in the form of loan to industries and businesses and not as grants. As for my suggestions, I would say the minimum support price ceiling enhancement and inclusion of more crops in the MSP domain are vital for the agriculture sector. The Central government needs to handhold the States until their economies are back on the track.  Being factual in my responses to the package announced by the Centre cannot be termed critical||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-must-help-states-put-economies-back-on-track/article31770323.ece
07 June 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra to buy remdesivir at Rs. 12 crore||Maharashtra is planning to procure 10,000 vials of remdesivir, an anti-viral drug that is being tried globally on patients with severe COVID-19. Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday said the drug would be procured with nearly Rs. 12 crore in CSR funds. Remdesivir, a broad-spectrum anti-viral injection, was earlier tried for Ebola. It was approved by the Drug Controller-General of India early this week for “restricted emergency use”. Currently, its safety and efficacy in the treatment of COVID-19 are being tested in phase-three clinical trials. “We are reaching out to all the companies that have received the licence to make the drug. We will be procuring it from the company that offers it at the lowest rates,” said T.P. Lahane, head of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research. The U.S.-based Gilead Sciences that has made the drug has signed non-exclusive voluntary licensing agreements with five generic pharmaceutical manufacturers — Cipla Ltd., Ferozsons Laboratories, Hetero Labs Ltd., Jubilant Lifesciences and Mylan — based in India and Pakistan to expand supply of the drug. The company hopes to make it available in July. Two Bangladesh companies have announced production of the generic version of the drug under World Trade Organisation provisions that allow waiver of licences for the least developed countries. Gilead has maintained that it cannot verify the authenticity or effectiveness of a product not manufactured by itself or its licensed partners. Mr. Tope, however, said the State might consider getting the drug from Bangladesh if Indian companies do not have the required stock. The COVID-19 task force has made four important recommendations to reduce mortality. The recommendations include making remdesivir and another anti-viral drug favipiravir available for patients. While remdesivir has been procured for over 15 patients on compassionate grounds, fast-track trials for favipiravir are under way at many hospitals. The task force has also pushed for wider availability of re-purposed arthritis drug tocilizumab and psoriasis drug itolizumab, which have shown efficacy in reducing cytokine storm in COVID-19 patients. “Additionally, convalescent plasma therapy should be made available widely,” said task force member Dr. Shashank Joshi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-to-buy-remdesivir-at-rs-12-crore/article31770325.ece
07 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana and Andhra Pradesh throw challenges on projects||The brainstorming by the brass of irrigation sector in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh here on Thursday and Friday centred around challenges thrown by the States against each other on implementation of irrigation projects cutting into the share of other’s water in Krishna and Godavari rivers. The negotiations took place at the meetings of Krishna and Godavari river management boards which are advisory bodies appointed under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act to resolve river water disputes between the two States after formation of separate Telangana. The two river boards work under the administrative control of Ministry of Water Resources and answerable to an Apex Council headed by the Union Minister for Water Resources. The chief ministers of both States are its members. New projects The boards were mandated under the Act to ensure that the States did not ground any new project after formation of Telangana State without the prior approval of the Apex Council. Both the States must first appraise the respective river management boards and the Central Water Commission and then seek the sanction of the council for new projects. However, the States have been challenging each other for last six years that new projects were grounded without taking the boards into confidence. Telangana submitted a list of 15 new projects taken up by Andhra Pradesh on the Krishna river. AP listed out five projects in Telangana and enhancement of scope of three more projects. Apex Council nod On Godavari, AP complained about nine new projects in Telangana without the approval of Apex Council while the latter staked claim for pro-rata distribution of 45 tmc ft water diverted in AP from Godavari to Krishna basin. DPRs of all projects The meetings ended with the boards seeking detailed project reports for all the new projects in the two States so much so that it also fixed a deadline of June 10 for the ones on Godavari. What stood out in the deliberations was exemption sought by AP from scrutiny for projects constructed before formation of Telangana State but the latter insisted that they should also be covered because the Statehood movement was all about deprivation of the region in funds, water and jobs.  ‘Only reengineering’ Telangana denied taking up any new projects as the government only reengineered some of them to take water to irrigate areas in the State where farmers were distressed. Both the Telugu States stuck to their stands they utilised water well within their allocated share in the two rivers. Water entitlement For instance, Principal Secretary of Irrigation Rajat Kumar said the State was entitled to 243 tmc ft of Godavari water from Sriramsagar and Nizamsagar projects but what it got every year was not more than 40 to 50 tmc ft. Both projects were supposed to irrigate ayacut by gravity but the State government, at great cost, lifted water from Kaleshwaram to serve their areas. The argument of Telangana was countered by Andhra Pradesh on the ground that reengineering of already approved project was alright but the quantity of water as allocated must be maintained. The agreed quantities for AP and Telangana in Krishna as per State Reorganisation Act 66 : 34 ratio is 980 tmc ft while it is project-wise distribution already made out of a total quantity of 1,400 tmc ft in Godavari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telangana-and-ap-throw-challenges-on-projects/article31770609.ece
07 June 2020||New Delhi,||BJP will decide face of NDA in Bihar Assembly polls: LJP||In a direct snub to Bihar Chief Minister and JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar, Lok Jan Shakti Party (LJP) president Chirag Paswan asserted that only the BJP can decide who would lead the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Assembly elections slated for end of this year. His statement comes ahead of Home Minister Amit Shah’s digital rally addressing the State’s voters on Sunday. Mr. Paswan’s statement comes at a time when voices within the BJP have been picking faults with Mr. Kumar’s handling of the COVID-19 crisis. Many have been demanding that Mr. Kumar hand over the Chief Minister’s position to the BJP. Mr Paswan’s statement is convenient for the BJP, which so far officially maintains that Mr. Kumar will continue to be the face of the NDA. “Who will be the face of the NDA and lead us into the Assembly elections will be decided by the BJP, which is the largest constituent of the NDA in the State. Whatever decision the BJP will take in the interest of Bihar and the coalition, the Lok Jan Shakti Party will fully support it,” Mr. Paswan tweeted on Saturday. He has openly slammed Mr. Kumar, for what he called a delayed response in getting stranded students and migrant workers back during the extended lockdown. The LJP, meanwhile, is struggling to remain politically relevant in the State where, at present, it has not a single MLA. In 2015, it fought in alliance with the BJP, the Hindustan Awam Morcha and the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party. Out of the 243 seats, the party got 42 in the alliance but could only win two. Even the two MLAs it managed to send to the Assembly shifted loyalties later on. The JD(U) in 2015 was part of the ‘grand alliance’ with the RJD and the Congress. The LJP is worried that it may not get 42 seats, as in the last elections, with the JD(U) back in the NDA.  Whatever decision the BJP will take ... the LJP will fully support it Chirag PaswanLJP leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-will-decide-face-of-nda-in-bihar-assembly-polls-ljp/article31770309.ece
07 June 2020||Mumbai,||BJP dismisses Bajaj’s remarks on GDP||Days after industrialist Rajiv Bajaj described the lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a bid to control the spread of COVID-19 pandemic as ‘draconian’ which flattened the GDP curve, the BJP on Saturday said his opinion could not be taken as that of an expert. “Bajaj family is an expert in auto sector but not in medical sector or on dealing corona pandemic. That’s why his words on COVID cannot be taken as gospel truth like those on manufacturing autos, scooter or cars,” said Maharashtra’s former Chief Minister and present Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis. Addressing a press conference on social media platform, Mr. Fadnavis said anyone can have any opinion. “He gave his opinion, just like any other person. It is not an expert’s opinion. You can have one opinion, I can have different opinion and Rajiv Bajaj, too, has some opinion,” he said. In an online interaction on Thursday with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Mr. Bajaj had said, “The lockdown flattened the wrong curve — not the infection curve, but the GDP curve.” Referring to Mr. Bajaj’s citing the example of Spain, which never went for lockdown, Mr Fadnavis said, “Now, there are many videos of Spain saying lockdown could have prevented human fatalities.” When asked about Mr Bajaj terming the lockdown ‘draconian’, Mr. Fadnavis said, “I do not think the lockdown is draconian. Had there been an expert’s statement, then it would have been a different thing. But he is not an expert (on this).” Earlier, criticising the State government for its failure to control the pandemic in Maharashtra, the BJP leader alleged it was not only facing a ‘policy paralysis,’ but also ‘action paralysis.’ “The State government must review as to whether its announcements are being followed or not. It may claim to have reserved 80% beds in private hospitals, but it is a reality that patients are being denied admission in hospitals,” he said. The BJP leader also slammed the party’s former ally, Shiv Sena, saying the latter’s criticism of the BJP is neither principled nor has any meaning. The Sena too has said the lockdown was called in haste. “The Shiv Sena, even when it was in power with us acted as an opposition; they always criticised us. They have no fixed position ... One day they criticise Modi, other day praise him. One day Governor is targeted, other day his feet are touched,” Mr. Fadnavis said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-dismisses-bajajs-remarks-on-gdp/article31770319.ece
07 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha sees 173 new cases amid weekend shutdown||Odisha registered a record single-day spike with the detection of 173 new COVID-19 cases, pushing its tally to 2,781 on Saturday when the State began enforcing a weekend shutdown in 11 districts. As many as 150 of the new cases were detected in quarantine centres set up at the gram panchayat level, and the remaining 23 were local contacts in the community, officials said. The number of active cases stood at 1,055. Samples tested A total of 1,72,621 samples had been tested in the State till Friday. A total number of 112 COVID-19 patients were also discharged from hospitals on Saturday, taking the recoveries in the State to 1,716. Out of the total COVID-19 positive patients, 10 had died so far because of COVID-19, with two other fatalities attributed to other reasons, the State Health Department maintained. The weekend shutdown is being enforced in 11 migration-prone districts on all Saturdays and Sundays from June 6 to make people stay at home to reduce their exposure to the novel coronavirus. Night curfew continues to remain in force from 7 p.m. to 5 a.m. in the entire State. The districts in which the shutdown and night curfew continue simultaneously have reported about 100 or more cases so far. Most of those testing positive in these districts were migrant workers who had returned from other States since the nationwide lockdown started in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-sees-173-new-cases-amid-weekend-shutdown/article31770331.ece
07 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBSE set to release reduced syllabus||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will release a cut-down syllabus within a month to adapt to a shorter academic session and the loss of classroom time because of the COVID-19 pandemic, CBSE Chairman Manoj Ahuja said on Saturday. “There will definitely have to be some rationalisation of the syllabus, because there will definitely be some loss of time, even with blended schooling and home schooling... That’s what we are planning and we should be able to finalise it in a month’s time,” Mr. Ahuja said, speaking to teachers and principals at a virtual conference on schooling in the time of COVID, hosted by Ashoka University. “What that would entail broadly is that we retain the core elements which are very necessary in terms of learning outcomes. But concepts which are duplicated or seem superfluous will be shaved off,” he said, adding that some simple concepts, which could be dealt with in a practical manner, could also be left for self-learning by students. Schools will also be asked to start shifting to a competency-based education system from this academic year, with more focus on learning outcomes, said Mr. Ahuja. Aimed at moving away from the rote-learning, content-based, examination-focussed structure of Indian education, competency-based education looks to map a child’s understanding and application of concepts rather than knowledge of facts. While this is being done in an incremental manner, it means that from the coming year, the CBSE’s Class 10 board examinations will include 20% case-based questions, which have real life connections. There will be 10% such questions in the Class 12 board examinations for all subjects as well. Making this change in board examinations is just a small nudge to urge schools to change classroom teaching and assessment from Class 1 itself, said the CBSE chairman. The curriculum is being gradually overhauled to ensure that there are measurable learning outcomes attached to every single lesson, and ways to help teachers map whether each individual child is gaining competence in specific areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-set-to-release-reduced-syllabus/article31770333.ece
07 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala to take over vacant dwelling units||A seemingly unrelenting rise in COVID-19 infections linked to the influx of arrivals has prompted the State government to declare unoccupied ‘resident facilities and dwelling units identified by the district administration’ as institutional quarantine centres. The order, based on a recommendation of the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) on May 27, is aimed at averting the likely new wave of infections from overwhelming public and private sector health-care facilities. Officials clarify that the order does not occasion that Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) arriving from within the country and abroad by land, rail, air or sea could avoid institutional quarantine for the obligatory seven-day period. The order offers no scope for returnees to head home or to a destination of their choice immediately on arrival as interpreted by some sections of the media. The returnees would have to undergo institutional quarantine compulsorily in one of the centres designated by the government for seven days. They have the freedom to choose a facility close to home in their district. Only persons arriving in the State for short visits could escape institutional quarantine. However, the government would process such travellers separately at border check-posts. The visitors would have to produce their return ticket, reveal their travel plans in the State and give their date of return. District administrations and local self-government institutions have surveyed vacant ‘residential facilities and dwelling’ units that they could commandeer and turn into secured institutional quarantine centres if the inflow of returnees continued unabated. A bulk of the premises converted to quarantine centres are government rest houses, college hostels, hotels, unoccupied homes and institutions offered free of charge by charitable organisations and religious foundations. The government expected lakhs more to return home as air and land travel picked up momentum. Officials say the government found it particularly worrying that a bulk of the recent arrivals were from epidemic zones in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu and containment areas in the United Arab Emirates. Returnees, except indigent persons, would have to pay for their boarding and lodging at institutional quarantine centres. Deployed The government has deployed a triad of police motorcycle patrols, members of the neighbourhood watch and mobile phone tracking technology to detect institutional and home quarantine violators. A voluntary force of non-disabled citizens with a clean legal record trained in disaster management assisted the police in imposing the quarantine. Officials say institutional quarantine is legally enforceable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-to-take-over-vacant-dwelling-units/article31770291.ece
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,||BJP proposes three names for RS||The State unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has recommended to the party high command three names for two seats in the Rajya Sabha which the party can win comfortably with its numerical strength. Elections to four seats will be held on June 19. The three names sent are educationist Prabhakar Kore, whose Rajya Sabha term is going to end, Ramesh Katti (both from Belagavi), and hospitality industry magnate K. Prakash Shetty. Mr. Shetty is a surprise recommendation. The high command will take the final call and make a formal announcement of the party’s candidates from Delhi on Monday, sources said. Tuesday is the last day to submit nomination papers. High command’s move Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, party sources said, was playing a “safe game” by pushing the ball to the high command’s court by recommending the names of both Mr. Kore, who is retiring from the Rajya Sabha and aspires to be re-elected, and Mr. Katti, a former MP denied ticket in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The latter, with his brother and ministerial aspirant Umesh Katti, is identified with the “rebel” faction of the party unhappy with Mr. Yediyurappa for “sidelining” them. “The Chief Minister has not taken sides and has recommended both names. Even if Mr. Ramesh Katti does not make it, the blame will be placed on the high command,” said a senior BJP leader part of the core committee deliberations. Meanwhile, the recommendation of Mr. Shetty’s name for the second seat has surprised many. Chairman of MRG Group that runs Goldfinch Hotel, which has hosted BJP legislators during political crises several times, Mr. Shetty hails from Mangaluru and has been associated with the BJP and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) for over two decades, sources said. He is also known to be close to B.Y. Vijayendra, the Chief Minister’s son. The other names discussed as possible candidates for the second seat were: vice-presidents of the party in the State Tejaswini Ananth Kumar, wife of former Union Minister Ananth Kumar who also lost out in the race for a Lok Sabha ticket in 2019, and M. Nagaraj, an RSS leader from Dharwad. However, Mr. Shetty’s name was finalised. Sources said there were rumours of a formula that the State unit would get to choose a candidate for one seat, while the high command would field a candidate of its choice for the second seat. “The high command has not given us any instructions about a candidate of their choice for the second seat. So we have recommended a candidate for the second seat as well. It is left to the high command to decide,” said asenior leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-proposes-three-names-for-rs/article31770283.ece
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,||HC issues guidelines in cases against illegal immigrants||The High Court of Karnataka has declared that illegal immigrants and overstaying foreign nationals facing criminal cases cannot be allowed to move freely after release on anticipatory or regular bail, and they should be lodged in the Foreigners Detention Centres (FDCs) till the completion of trial of cases or deportation to their countries. Also, the court held that such foreign nationals should continue to remain in detention centres even if the case against them ends up in discharge or acquittal, till their deportation unless they are entitled to stay in India or the competent authority passes orders regulating their movement under Section 3(2) of the Foreigners Act, 1946. Their acquittal, discharge or release is no bar for the competent authorities to question the nationality of such persons before the competent tribunal as per the law, the High Court said. Justice K.N. Phaneendra (now retired) in his recent judgment laid down a series of guidelines to courts, police, and prison authorities for dealing with illegal immigrants and overstaying foreign nationals facing criminal cases for violation of the Foreigners Act and offences under other laws. The court passed the order while allowing a petition, seeking bail, filed by 46-year-old Babul Khan and his 20-year-old daughter Taniya, both illegal immigrants from Bangladesh, who were arrested in 2018. If courts refuse to grant bail, then foreign nationals would be lodged in regular prison till the completion of trial. And they continue to serve sentence in regular prison on their conviction and would be transferred to the FDC till their deportation on completion of sentence. Women foreigners The court also said that if a woman, who is a foreign national, is in custody and having an infant below the age of six or up to six years, the court may order the child to accompany the mother during her custody. If either of the parents (foreign nations) get arrested, the court said, then the custody of the child may be given to the other parent who is not arrested, and if both the parents are arrested and they are in custody in same or in some other case, the court may order the custody of children to their close relative or to government shelter home, or to any other organisation recognised or undertaking of the government where the government or authorities concerned can monitor the well-being of the child, as per the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. Withdrawal of cases Further, the High Court said if necessary and circumstances warrant, and the offences are not heinous or anti-social, or not punishable with imprisonment for more than three years, the authorities could take immediate steps for withdrawal of cases to enable early deportation of such illegal immigrants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-issues-guidelines-in-cases-against-illegal-immigrants/article31770285.ece
07 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Temples in Kerala set to open doors to devotees on June 9||With places of worship that have remained closed since March 24 reopening on June 9, temples have prepared protocols for devotees and rituals as prescribed by the State government on the basis of the Centre’s guidelines against the backdrop of COVID-19. Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) president N. Vasu said on Saturday that posters describing the protocols would be exhibited at the entrance to all temples and Devaswom guards would be deployed to ensure compliance. Only the main entrance would be kept open. Only those wearing masks or face covers would be let in and physical distancing would be ensured. Sanitiser dispensers would be provided. The TDB owns 1,250 temples, including the Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala, which will be opened for the five-day monthly rituals of Midhunom on June 14 evening. All devotees should register online for darshan and those from outside Kerala should upload on the website a certificate by an Indian Council of Medical Research-recognised laboratory that they have tested negative for SARS-CoV-2. Children below 10 years and adults above 65 years cannot register on the virtual platform. Darshan will be allowed for 16 hours every day from 4 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 4 p.m. to 11 p.m. Only 50 persons will be permitted on the temple premises and 10 persons at the ‘sopanam’ at a time. Around 200 persons will get darshan in an hour. Devotees can make bookings for ‘aravana’ and ‘appam’ on the website. The Ayyappa temple will will remain open for 15 days. The 10-day annual festival may be celebrated from June 19 to 28. In Guruvayur The flow of devotees at the Guruvayur Sreekrishna temple will be regulated through online registration, Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran said. The booking can be done on www.guruvayurdewaswom.com. The token with date and time of darshan will be sent by e-mail. Devotees should reach the queue complex at East Nada 20 minutes ahead of the given time, with token number and identity card. Six-hundred devotees — 150 per hour — will be permitted every day from 9.30 a.m. to 1.30 a.m. There will be no VIP darshan. Devotees will be allowed in batches of 50. Devotees and temple staff should wear masks. ‘Prasadam,’ ‘teertham’ and ‘nivedyam’ will not be given. A maximum of 60 weddings will be allowed every day between 5 a.m. and 1.30 p.m. The number of people, including the bride and groom, should be restricted to 10. The ceremony has to be completed in 10 minutes. 1,300 temples in Malabar Around 1,300 temples under the Malabar Devaswom Board are all set to reopen on June 9 in line with the COVID-19 protocol laid out by the government. The board controls temples in Kozhikode, Malappuram, Palakkad, Wayanad, Kannur, and Kasaragod districts. K. Murali, Devaswom Commissioner, said the board would abide by the government protocol. Details must The Cochin Devaswom has conveyed the measures to be taken to the administrators of its 406 temples. Devotees should wear masks and maintain a minimum physical distance of six feet, said K. K Rajan, Deputy Secretary, Cochin Devaswom Board. They must write down their name, age, address and mobile phone number at the point of entry. There will be a separate exit. The Devaswom authorities have instructed priests not to distribute ‘prasadam’ and ‘teertham’ and desist from sprinkling water on devotees. Priests must mandatorily wear masks.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode, Kochi, Thrissur bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/temples-in-kerala-set-to-open-doors-to-devotees-on-june-9/article31770294.ece
07 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Fatwa allows social distancing, wearing of mask during prayers||As places of worship, including mosques, are scheduled to reopen on June 8, Islamic seminary Jamia Nizamia in Hyderabad on Saturday issued a fatwa declaring social distancing during congregational prayers as permissible. The fatwa stated that according to the Sharia, congregants are to stand abreast, shoulder-to-shoulder, and that this is sunnah (tradition of Prophet Muhammad). But given the COVID-19 pandemic, standing at a distance from each other is permissible. In a separate fatwa, and dealing with the question of permissibility of using “non-fermented alcohol-based sanitisers” before prayers, the Jamia Nizamia upheld its usage. Answering a question on covering the face while praying, it said as a precautionary measure, wearing masks while praying is permissible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fatwa-allows-social-distancing-wearing-of-mask-during-prayers/article31770297.ece
07 June 2020||KOCHI,||Man United’s gesture wipes out Malayali youth’s lockdown blues||For Asif Mujthaba, a tour to the Theatre of Dreams, as his favourite football club Manchester United’s home ground Old Trafford is known, is nothing short of a pilgrimage and has for long topped his bucket list. Hailing from Thalassery, the 26-year-old diehard fan of the English Premier League giant was still nurturing that dream when the club delivered him an unexpected gift by sharing his drawing of Old Trafford on its official Twitter handle on Friday. Confined to work from home for nearly three months in Saudi Arabia where he serves as a project coordinator, Asif was about to take an afternoon nap during his off-day when he received a message from a friend. Twitter image “He shared a Twitter image of the drawing and asked whether the person mentioned as the artist was me. Even then I hadn’t noticed the Twitter handle and then he drew my attention to it. Since then I am in a haze,” said Asif, bubbling with excitement. He had drawn the image in 10 days over several irregular bursts of varying hours. The choice of Old Trafford was deliberate as he wanted to portray a symbol of the club that transcended time and its several star players over the years. Unlike white paper, which is the normal choice for a drawing, Asif went for what he called an “orangish brown” paper and the image came alive with strokes of black and white pens. “I wanted to convey a sense of vintage that engulfs the club,” he said. The image was brought to the attention of the club authorities, thanks to the efforts of the Manchester United Supporters Club Kerala, an officially recognised fan group, which sent it to them.  “This club has one of the biggest fan bases and for them to recognise my humble effort is the biggest recognition for me and it will take some beating to top this one,” said Asif for whom the gesture from his beloved club has wiped away all his hardships during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-uniteds-gesture-wipes-out-malayali-youths-lockdown-blues/article31770637.ece
07 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amid pandemic, Padma awards portal goes live||Amid the COVID-19 pandemic and extended lockdown, the portal for nominations for the Padma awards, which are announced on Republic Day, has gone live. The portal has been thrown open for nominations by any individual in a pre-agreed format. While the portal went live on May 1, letters inviting nominations have gone out as per convention to past Bharat Ratna and Padma Vibhushan winners and eminent citizens from various fields. While the letters invite nominations from them, all those have to be docked online before the portal closes on September 15. An 800-word description of why the nominee deserves the award is asked for. A certain weightage is given to nominations for public service and for women, those belonging to weaker sections, the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and people with disabilities. In the past few years, especially after 2014, many unsung heroes have shared the honours as an attempt is being made to democratise the process. While the online nomination process has been in place for the past few years, one of the first decisions taken by the Narendra Modi government, this time around it was expected that the pandemic may delay matters. “Since it is an online process, it could be launched on time,” said a government source, adding that he was expecting many nominations from among those who performed public service during the pandemic in terms of helping migrants and running community kitchen and supplying personal protection kits to medical and law enforcement personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-pandemic-padma-awards-portal-goes-live/article31770307.ece
07 June 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra cases cross 82,000-mark||Maharashtra recorded 2,739 cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, pushing its tally to 82,968. The State also recorded 120 more fatalities, taking the death toll to 2,969. The financial capital Mumbai topped the number of fatalities with 58 deaths, the city’s highest single-day jump so far. Of the latest victims in the State, 78 were men and 42 were women. More than half of the deceased had co-morbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, heart disease etc. While Mumbai continues to record the highest number of fatalities in the State, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region has also become a cause of concern. On Saturday, Thane recorded 10 deaths, Navi Mumbai and Ulhasnagar recorded six each, Mira Bhayandar recorded five, Bhiwandi recorded three, Vasai-Viral and Palghar recorded one each. Pune also recorded 10 deaths. The COVID-19 task force formed by the State government interacted with doctors in Thane, Kalyan-Dombivali, Jalgaon and Bhusawal to discuss the increasing number of cases and deaths, and ways to reduce the mortality. The case fatality rate in the State currently stands at 3.5%. On Saturday, nearly 2,234 patients were discharged from hospitals. Altogether, 37,390 patients have recovered and have been discharged so far, taking the recovery rate to 45%. Presently, 29,098 people are under institutional quarantine. New price cap State Health officials on Saturday announced that a new lowered price cap on COVID-19 testing is likely to be decided next week. The cost of the test is currently Rs. 4,500 and a State-appointed committee is working to further reduce it as the availability of testing kits is not an issue at the moment. The Indian Council of Medical Research has given the go-ahead to all States to rework the price caps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-cases-cross-82000-mark/article31770327.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||SSC exams postponed||Before the hearing began, Advocate General B.S. Prasad told the court that government has decided to treat those who write supplementary exams scheduled for August or September would be treated as “regular” students. Observing that nothing can be more important than the lives of students, who would be vulnerable to coronavirus while appearing for exams, the CJ said “where there is a will, there is a way” referring to conducting supplementary exams. When the AG said the government decided to treat supplementary candidates as regular since it was concerned with future of students, the CJ observed it was not showing similar concern about the likelihood of a student contracting the virus and dying of it. (With inputs from Legal Correspondent Marri Ramu)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ssc-exams-postponed/article31770602.ece
07 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||CPI(M) demands more Central aid||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has demanded that the Centre provide due financial assistance to State governments impoverished by COVID-19. Briefing reporters about the State secretariat’s deliberations here on Saturday, Mr. Balakrishnan said the party would conduct a mass protest on June 16 demanding relief. He said the decision to raise the annual borrowing limit to 5% with strings attached had not helped the States. The Centre was neglecting Kerala. About 10 lakh people would participate in the protest demanding Rs. 7,500 and 10 kg grain for each impoverished family outside the income tax net. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)were attempting to communalise even the death of a cow elephant in the State. Certain BJP and RSS leaders used the issue to target a particular community and sought to create an impression that animals and humans were being targeted in Malappuram district. Mr. Balakrishnan accused the Opposition United Democratic Front, especially Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, of conducting in an immature fashion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-demands-more-central-aid/article31770639.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Country is still at risk, says WHO expert||He stressed that as the disease generated and gained a foothold in communities, it could accelerate at any time as had been seen in a number of settings. Mr. Ryan noted that measures taken in India, like the nationwide lockdown, had helped to slow transmission, but the risk of an increase in cases loomed as the country opened up. “The measures taken in India certainly had an impact in dampening transmission and as India, as in other large countries, opens up and as people begin to move again, there’s always a risk of the disease bouncing back up.” He added that there were specific issues in India regarding the large amount of migration, the dense populations in the urban environment and the fact that many workers had no choice but to go to work every day. WHO Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan said the over 2,00,000 current novel coronavirus cases in India, a country of over 1.3 billion people, “look big but for a country of this size, it’s still modest.” She stressed that it was important for India to keep track of the growth rate and the doubling time of the cases and make sure that the number did not get worse. She said India is a heterogeneous and huge country with very densely populated cities and a much lower density in some rural areas and varying health systems in different States, and these factors posed challenges to the control of COVID-19. Ms. Swaminathan added that as the lockdown and restrictions were lifted, it must be ensured that people took all precautions. “We’ve been making this point repeatedly that really if you want behaviour change at a large level, people need to understand the rationale for asking them to do certain things [such as] wearing masks,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/country-is-still-at-risk-says-who-expert/article31770279.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||India’s COVID tally fifth highest in world||One of the co-authors of the study Additional Director, NCDC, Sudhir Kumar Jain that The Hindu reached out to said the R0 was “decreasing” as of present but he didn't explain the increasing R0 in the study. He directed this correspondent to the study's corresponding author, Dr Tanzin Dikid, Joint Director, NCDC, who said she didn't immediately have institutional clearance to discuss the paper with the media. “In respiratory infections with a novel virus, herd immunity is usually the only way to stop a pandemic. The whole world is grappling with this,” said Dr. Jain. A key wing of the NCDC is the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme that is tasked with monitoring infectious outbreaks and has experience in epidemiology. The authors of the study say that the lockdown has “slowed the pandemic” and that India's health system responded to the pandemic “with swiftness.” Their estimate for herd immunity at 45% was contingent on maintaining Rt of 1.83 which was “achieved at the end of extended lockdown.” Potential for increase However the Rt could keep increasing when the lockdown is lifted and ought to be “deliberated extremely cautiously considering critical care demand and fatalities, nature and length of immunity developed after infections, and the possibility of viral mutations, the authors underline. The infection trend was computed by a software that used existing infection trends to calculate the reproduction number at various points of the pandemic. Dr Sanjay Rai, President, Indian Public Health Association which publishes the IPJH said herd immunity referred to the number of people protected, either by exposure or vaccination. “The first lockdown certainly slowed progression and was meant to prepare our health facilities but it isn't clear what the objectives of the subsequent lockdowns were,” said. Dr. Rai was among the signatories of a recent petition by public health experts that criticised the government for not taking field-level epidemiologists on board on deciding lockdown extensions, “Estimates of R0 are all projections based on various assumption and we still don't know what the true numbers are for India,” he said. Low death rate India and Russia are the only countries with 2,00,000 cases plus where a lockdown has failed to curb a rise in cases. However, deaths in both these countries are the lowest when compared to other similarly placed countries. Brazil with 500,000 cases and 35,000 deaths didn't impose a national lockdown. The U.S. with 1.9 million cases and over a 1,00,000 deaths is still in a lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indias-covid-tally-fifth-highest-in-world/article31770281.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Border meet sets stage for more talks||Before the talks began, the Army issued an advisory to the media that both sides remained engaged through established military and diplomatic channels “to address the current situation in the India-China border areas” and speculation would not be helpful. “At this stage, therefore, any speculative and unsubstantiated reporting about these engagements would not be helpful and the media is advised to refrain from such reporting,” it said. Since the tension began, both Armies have held dialogues at various levels, including three meetings at the level of Major-General. Military experts had already stated that the military talks would not lead to a solution but would set the ground for diplomatic talks to end the impasse. On Friday, Naveen Srivastava, Joint Secretary (East Asia), Ministry of External Affairs, held a video-conference with Wu Jianghao, Director-General of the Asia Department at the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs. China said both sides agreed to “implement the consensus that two countries do not constitute a threat to each other” and “do not let differences rise into disputes”. Separately, in the midst of the tension, China has appointed a new commander to oversee the People’s Liberation Army’s Ground Forces along the India border. On June 1, it was announced that Lt. Gen. Xu Qiling was appointed as the new commander of the PLA Western Theater Command Ground Force. He will report to General Zhao Zongqi, commander of China’s Western Theater Command.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/border-meet-sets-stage-for-more-talks/article31770280.ece
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Broken number plate helps trace hit-and-run driver||With nothing more than a few shards of a licence plate, the Halasuru traffic police tracked down a taxi driver who rammed into two beat constables on their motorcycle and dragged the two-wheeler for one kilometre on 100 Feet Road, Indiranagar on Friday night. The driver, Salman Pasha, was arrested 12 hours after the accident. He had dropped off a passenger and was driving home when he knocked down Head Constables Dinesh H.S. and Srishaila Gotyala who were on patrolling duty. The duo fell down and sustained injuries while the taxi driver sped away. Passers-by took the injured policemen to a hospital. At the site of the accident, traffic Inspector Vijay H. recovered a few pieces of the registration number plate and a part of the bumper. “Using them, Mr. Vijay got some information on the registration number of the vehicle. He took the pieces of the bumper to a car showroom to identify the make of the vehicle,” said a police officer. The police examined CCTV footage to confirm the make of the vehicle and then approached the RTO. “Ten taxis operating in Bengaluru fit the profile. Teams were dispatched to the registered addresses of the drivers,” the officer added. One team approached Salman Pasha, 28, in Banaswadi. Police say he confessed. In his statement, Salman told the police that he got scared after the accident and returned to his house. “He has been arrested for hit-and-run, dangerous driving and also under various sections of the Motor Vehicles Act,” Narayana, DCP, Traffic (East) said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/broken-number-plate-helps-trace-hit-and-run-driver/article31770421.ece
07 June 2020||PALAKKAD,||Elephant’s death: search on for 2 more||A court at Pattambi remanded tapping worker Wilson, 35, arrested on Friday in connection with the death of an elephant in a stream at Ambalappara under the Mannarkkad forest range, for two weeks in judicial custody on Saturday. He was charged with baiting the elephant with an explosive-laden coconut in the forest fringes. The trap had been set for wild boars, but the elephant accidentally chomped the bait. Two other suspects are absconding. Forest officials said they were searching for the father-son duo who owned an estate at Orukkampara, near Thiruvizhamkunnu. A joint search is on with the help of the police. Hunting boars Forest officials said they had experience in hunting wild boars by baiting them with coconuts and fruits. The elephant that chewed the bait suffered a fatal wound in its mouth and it spent nearly two weeks outside the jungle with that wound. Attempts by the forest officials to drive the animal back to the jungle failed as it stood the ground. The elephant entered the stream as a last resort to cool its wound. Two days later, while attempts were made to rescue it with the help of two kumki elephants, the pachyderm succumbed to its injury. The death was due to drowning. People living on the fringes of the forests were facing conflicts with wild animals, particularly wild boars. Eliminating wild boars that come to destroy their crops with explosive snares is a common practice among them. Although forest officials charge cases, many incidents often go undetected. Forest officials said they would not relax the laws for anyone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/elephants-death-search-on-for-2-more/article31770295.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||NIA cites Lenin reference in Assam protests||The National Investigation Agency (NIA), probing the link of some anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act activists in Assam with the banned CPI (Maoist), has in a chargesheet said one of them had used words such as ‘Lenin’, ‘comrade’ and ‘lal salam’ on social media.  “Bittu Sonowal had referred to some friends and they addressed him as ‘Comrade’ and used words ‘Lal Salam’. One of his Facebook post is of a picture of Lenin with words, ‘The Capitalists will sell us the rope with which we will hang them’,” states the NIA’s 40-page chargesheet filed on May 29. Mr. Sonowal is the president of the students’ wing of the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), an organisation for peasants. He was arrested earlier this year along with the wing’s general secretary Manas Konwar and KMSS general secretary Dhairjya Konwar under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Their arrest and that of KMSS advisor Akhil Gogoi in December 2019 were in connection with the anti-CAA protests that turned violent and claimed at least six lives. “The NIA filed the chargesheet in 165 days instead of the stipulated 90 days ... [it] wants to establish Gogoi and the rest of us as Maoists but they couldn’t give any concrete evidence...,” said KMSS leader Bhasco D. Saikia. The chargesheet lists seizures such as a tab containing pictures and videos, including that of a speech, and a DVD with “incriminating conversations”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-cites-lenin-reference-in-assam-protests/article31770316.ece
07 June 2020||Mumbai,||Mosques in Goa to be shut till June 30||Mosques in Goa will remain closed till June 30 despite the government permitting the reopening of places of worship from June 8. The president of the Association of All Goa Muslim Jamats, Shaikh Bashir Ahmed, said the advisory to the community was due to the fact that COVID-19 cases have been on the rise in the State since June 1, when people started arriving from other States. Meanwhile, the Diocesan Centre for Social Communications Media, Goa in a statement said that churches would not open from June 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mosques-in-goa-to-be-shut-till-june-30/article31770321.ece
07 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Nagaland’s COVID-19 tally rises to 107||Nagaland has become the fourth northeastern State, after Assam, Tripura and Manipur, to record more than 100 COVID-19 cases. Health Minister S. Pangnyu Phom said on Saturday that the number of infected persons had gone up to 107, with 13 of the 252 samples tested testing positive in the last 24 hours. “All the 13 are returnees from Chennai,” he said. At the last count, Assam led the table among the eight northeastern States, with 2,397 cases, followed by Tripura, 694, and Manipur, 143. While all Nagaland cases are active, the number of those under treatment in Assam, Tripura and Manipur are 1,843, with the addition of 154 cases by Saturday evening, 521 and 93. Assam and Meghalaya are the only States where people have died of the novel coronavirus infection. Four died in Assam and one in Meghalaya. The Nagaland government has been criticised for repeating the “error” of sending an infected person with other returnees to their home district. The surveillance team in Dimapur, the State’s commercial and communication hub, had on June 3 sent 17 passengers of the Shramik Special Chennai Express train who tested negative to Peren district. But the results later revealed one of them had tested positive. She had reached Jalukie by then. Dimapur district surveillance officer Imtiwabong Aier said it was an “unintentional error”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nagalands-covid-19-tally-rises-to-107/article31770334.ece
07 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||All Sikhs want ‘Khalistan’: Akal Takht head||Giani Harpreet Singh, chief priest of the Akal Takht, the highest Sikh temporal seat, on Saturday said Sikhs wanted “Khalistan” and if the Centre offered it, they would accept it. He was responding to a question on the shouting of pro-‘khalistan’ slogans at the Golden Temple premises in Amritsar on the 36th anniversary of Operation Bluestar, after a scuffle broke out between Sikh activists and police. Mr. Singh said, “...If the government offers ‘Khalistan’, what else can we ask for? All Sikhs want ‘khalistan’...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-sikhs-want-khalistan-akal-takht-head/article31770304.ece
07 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Playing politics during pandemic’||Questioning the priorities of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the Congress said Mr. Shah is busy playing politics during the pandemic. The party started a social media campaign on 13 questions for the 13 years of the NDA government in Bihar. Among the 13 issues, the question of delay in bringing back migrant workers figures prominently. The party said the State did not get anything out of the Rs. 20 lakh crore special package announced by the Centre. It said the NDA government has failed on every count, forcing Biharis to go outside the State to look for employment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/playing-politics-during-pandemic/article31770310.ece
07 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Probe into Pampa sand removal sought||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Saturday demanded an anti-corruption inquiry into the government’s decision to permit Kerala Clays and Ceramic Products, a Kannur-based public sector entity headed by a functionary of the CPI(M), to mine and transport costly river sand from Triveni at Pampa. In a letter to the director, Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau, Mr. Chennithala said the government had used flood preparedness as a cover to circumvent the Forest Conservation Act to accord financial advantage to a public sector entity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-into-pampa-sand-removal-sought/article31770638.ece
07 June 2020||hyderabad,||128 Somalians stranded in Hyderabad evacuated||As many as 128 Somalians stranded in the city were evacuated by a chartered flight that took off at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport on Saturday. The passengers were serviced through the Interim International Departures Terminal which had been fully sanitised. The evacuees departed at 11.39 am by a Daallo Airlines flight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/128-somalians-stranded-in-hyderabad-evacuated/article31770603.ece
07 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Five speciality departments of NIMS to be shut for 3 days from today||As part of extreme measures to avoid spread of COVID-19 in hospitals, five departments in the speciality block of Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) will be shut for three days starting from Sunday to sanitise the entire block. Services in the other departments will continue as usual. NIMS Medical Superintendent N. Satyanrayana said that out-patient and in-patient services of Medical Gastroentereology, Surgical Gastroentrology, Urology, Cardiology and Surgical Oncology will not be offered from Sunday to Tuesday. Since operation theatres of the departments are also located in that block, elective surgeries will not be performed. However, emergency services involving specialists of the departments will be offered in emergency block. NIMS administration decided to close the block for deep cleaning and sanitisation after at least 24 of their healthcare professionals and Class-IV staff tested positive for coronavirus. Two nurses, three technicians and two Class-IV employees were detected with the virus on Saturday. “As we don’t know the source of infection, everything in that block will be cleaned, including air conditioners. The existing patients admitted in those departments are being shifted to the other block,” Dr Satyanrayana said. Meanwhile, in an attempt to stop transmission of coronavirus through droplets, the administration has placed a screen between doctors and patients in nephrology department on a pilot basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-speciality-departments-of-nims-to-be-shut-for-3-days-from-today/article31770605.ece
07 June 2020||BENGALURU,||ISRO, ARIES tie up for space monitoring studies||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) said it signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Aryabhatta Research Institute of Observational Sciences (ARIES), Nainital, on June 4, for cooperation in space situational awareness and astrophysics. ISRO said that for future endeavours in space exploration, it is important to be self-reliant in R&D in space environment, astrophysics and solar sciences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/isro-aries-tie-up-for-space-monitoring-studies/article31770305.ece
07 June 2020||Mumbai,||Winds to blame for damage to IndiGo aircraft wing in Mumbai||A SpiceJet aircraft’s step ladder damaged the wing of an IndiGo aircraft parked at Mumbai airport following a gust of wind on Saturday morning. “In the morning around 7.30 a.m, there were sudden strong winds. There was no prior weather warning or advisory. A SpiceJet step ladder, which was well secured...moved backwards and hit the Indigo aircraft on the right wing,” said a SpiceJet spokesperson. The DGCA has called for a report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/winds-to-blame-for-damage-to-indigo-aircraft-wing-in-mumbai/article31770315.ece
07 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Charges of death due to OIL blowout being probed||The authorities in Tinsukia district of Assam have ordered a probe into the allegations that four persons have died in a village near the Oil India Limited (OIL) well that has been spewing natural gas after a blowout on May 27. The district authorities began an investigation at the request of OIL. “We have asked the Deputy Commissioner to investigate so that the real cause of the deaths could be ascertained,” an OIL spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/charges-of-death-due-to-oil-blowout-being-probed/article31770320.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With 1,458 cases, T.N. tops 30,000-mark||With Tamil Nadu reporting 1,458 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, the State’s tally has crossed the 30,000-mark. While 633 patients were discharged from hospitals, the toll climbed to 251, with 19 persons succumbing to the infection in the last two days. Saturday’s case count, which marked yet another high for the State, took its tally to 30,152*. Chennai continued to report 1,000-plus cases. With 1,146 new infections, the city’s case count rose to 20,993. Chennai accounts for 197 deaths so far. As of date, 16,395 persons have been discharged from hospitals across the State. The recovery rate is around 54%, while there are 13,503 active cases. Deaths in Chennai All the 19 deaths reported on Saturday, including 10 in private hospitals, occurred in Chennai. Three of the deceased were in their 30s. One of them — a 30-year-old man — died within 10 minutes of being admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on June 4. His sample, which was lifted at a private laboratory on June 3, returned positive for COVID-19 on June 5. He died due to cardiopulmonary arrest, acute abdomen/perforation peritonitis and septic shock. A 39-year-old man died in RGGGH on June 5 due to cardiopulmonary arrest and COVID-19 pneumonia, while a 31-year-old man, who was admitted to a private hospital on June 5 with hyponatremia, acute pancreatitis and decompensated chronic liver disease, died on the same day due to septic shock and viral pneumonia. A 43-year-old man died in RGGGH on June 5 due to cardiopulmonary arrest, grade I COVID-19 pneumonia, type I respiratory failure and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Chengalpattu reported 95 new cases on Saturday, while Tiruvallur recorded 79. There were 16 new cases in Kancheepuram and 14 in Thoothukudi. A total of 35 persons who had returned from abroad and other States tested positive on Saturday. Among them were five returnees from Saudi Arabia and one from the UAE. Twelve persons who had returned from Maharashtra by road/train also tested positive for COVID-19. A total of 1,808 persons who had returned to Tamil Nadu on international and domestic flights and trains, by road and via seaports, have tested positive so far. As of date, a total of 1,638 children aged 0 to 12 and 3,129 persons aged above 60 have tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. The number of samples tested so far stands at 5,76,695, including the 16,022 samples tested on Saturday. Till date, a total of 5,50,643 individuals have been tested in the State. Web portal The Health Department has put up details of beds (total number available/in use/vacant), Intensive Care Unit beds and ventilators in private hospitals and private medical college hospitals in and around Chennai on its website -stopcorona.tn.gov.in. On Saturday, the details of 15 hospitals, along with contact numbers, were displayed on the page.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)   A total of 1,808 persons who had returned to Tamil Nadu on international and domestic flights and trains, by road and via seaports, have tested positive so far||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-1458-cases-tn-tops-30000-mark/article31770497.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Proximity to city a key factor for rising cases in nearby districts||Apart from Chennai, the districts of Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur have also been witnessing a spike in COVID-19 cases over the past few weeks. Both districts account for over 1,000 infections each, and the uptick in their case counts is primarily due to their proximity and links to Chennai. As of Saturday, Chengalpattu had a total of 1,719 cases. It is second only to Chennai when it comes to fatalities, having reported 14 deaths so far (one patient died after turning negative for the infection), according to a bulletin issued by the Health Department. “Zone VIII, which is in the Chennai Police Commissionerate limits, extends up to Vandalur. Nearly 90% of the cases are from there,” an official said. An analysis of cases reported in the last five days showed that two-thirds of index cases were persons travelling from Chengalpattu to Chennai for work. The secondary cases were in the local areas, the official said. Amid the spike in infections, officials have begun actively searching for cases. “We are conducting 25 camps every day to identify persons with symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI),” an official said. “We are now going to extend containment areas. For instance, if there are five positive cases in a single household, we will extend the containment area to 15 households. If it is a house in an apartment, the whole apartment will be brought under a containment area and monitored,” another official said. In Tiruvallur district, officials said a few places on the Tiruvallur-Chennai border were the areas of concern. They specifically pointed to Avadi Corporation, Tiruverkadu Municipality, Villivakkam and Poonamallee blocks. As of Saturday, the district had a total of 1,274 cases. “We have health teams to screen people coming here from Chennai. Details of such persons are noted and follow-up action taken if they have symptoms of COVID-19. Medical camps are being regularly held in these four places to identify persons with ILI,” an official said. “All asymptomatic positive patients are admitted to COVID Care Centres,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/proximity-to-city-a-key-factor-for-rising-cases-in-nearby-districts/article31770478.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Students, teachers to be screened at exam centres||The State government has issued Standard Operating Procedures for the conduct of the public exams in schools in the State from June 15 which includes the use of no-touch thermometers in all exam centres, temperature checks for drivers of buses that bring children to exam centres and strict enforcement of physical distancing norms. All staff, teachers and children will be screened before they enter the exam centre with a no-touch thermometer. This will be carried out by a team of three persons and physical distancing norms will be enforced when candidates queue up. If there are a large number of students, schools have been asked to contact the jurisdictional CEOs and procure more thermometers. The SOP for thermal scanning specifies that if the first temperature reading is high, those students can be segregated and a second temperature reading done. If students show any obvious symptoms that prevent them from taking up the examination, they have to be sent to the nearest hospital with an adult escorting them. If the student has symptoms of an influenza-like illness and has not tested positive for COVID-19, he or she can write the exam in a separate room away from the other candidates. For those having COVID-19, they should take up the exams during the supplementary stage. Buses to be disinfected All buses and vans of private schools should be disinfected before and after each trip and will have to be fitted with sanitiser dispensers. Body temperature of the crew should be checked before each trip and they should wear masks at all times. A list of hospitals and clinics in the nearby areas should be identified and this list should be made available in the vehicles. Standard Operating Procedures for private hostels which are accommodating students who will take up the exams have also been issued. Nodal officers The Director of School Education has asked all districts to appoint a nodal officer who will be in-charge of coordinating transport facilities for government schoolchildren who will take up the public exams. In a letter, Director of School Education S. Kannappan has asked all CEOs to appoint the nodal officer who will submit details regarding the number of buses needed and bus routes to the exam centres with the Transport Department. Officials have been instructed to inform the students well in advance about the details of the buses they will have to take.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-teachers-to-be-screened-at-exam-centres/article31770499.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Use local workers in place of migrants, CM tells industry||With most migrant workers having left for their home States following the COVID-19 pandemic, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday called upon industries in Tamil Nadu to make use of native workers to avoid any slump in production. The State government is “closely monitoring the situation and will announce more relaxations [from the lockdown] depending on the circumstances,” he said. In this regard, the Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation is keen to join hands with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) to impart necessary skill training to native workers, Mr. Palaniswami said, during the inauguration of ‘Luminous Tamil Nadu’, a virtual meet organised in Chennai. Mr. Palaniswami said that the government would implement district-level reforms and further simplify procedures for obtaining clearances. The new normal The world economy had been affected by the pandemic and this had resulted in several changes to lifestyle, he said, pointing out that wearing of masks, enforcement of physical distancing norms and working from home for certain sectors had become the “new normal”. The CM said that he had instructed officials to focus primarily on four points — ensure that industries adopt the new normal; attract new investments to the State; simplify government procedures and practices; and simplify loan procedures to increase the money in circulation for businesses. As a result of the incentives announced for production and manufacturing of medicines and medical equipment in Tamil Nadu, several companies had commenced production and were delivering across the country, he said. Elaborating on the steps taken by the State government to help the MSME sector under the COVID-19 Relief and Upliftment Scheme (CORUS), he said that a capital subsidy of Rs. 120 crore had been granted to 955 companies. Mr. Palaniswami also recalled the constitution of the Special Investment Promotion Task Force to attract investments from countries looking to shift base to India, and the constitution of a panel under former RBI Governor C. Rangarajan to advise the State on short and medium-term responses to COVID-19. He also referred to the recent signing of MoUs with 17 companies for investments to the tune of Rs. 15,128 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/use-local-workers-in-place-of-migrants-cm-tells-industry/article31770489.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Masks, handwashing made compulsory for shoppers||Shoppers will not be allowed to make purchases if they do not wear masks, going by the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued for shops and other establishments by the State government on Saturday. Persons with cough, cold or fever should not be allowed into a shop and all customers should clean their hands before entering and while leaving the shop with soap or hand sanitiser, according to a notification issued for COVID-19 containment by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam. “All persons should wear a face mask. Persons without a face mask shall not be allowed to buy goods,” it said, adding that all customers must wait at earmarked spots to maintain physical distancing. Customers should not be allowed to touch anything in the shop “unnecessarily” and they should wash their hands again once they reach home. Instructions to shopowners and workers include making markings to ensure mandatory two-metre distance between customers in the waiting area. “At a time, only one person should be allowed to buy goods” and only four or five persons should be allowed to wait, it stated, and added that shops should leave all windows open for good cross ventilation. Caution boards All shops and establishments should display signage (with a minimum 3x3 ft) at the entrance, clearly indicating the importance of wearing masks, handwashing and physical distancing. Floor, door handles, tables and door knobs should be disinfected with 1% hypochlorite solution (1 kg of bleaching powder in 30 litres of water) or 2.5% lysol (1 litre of lyson in 19 litres of water), at least 10 times a day. The government has issued a separate SOP for customers, owners and workers in restaurants in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/masks-handwashing-made-compulsory-for-shoppers/article31770487.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New containment strategy for three districts around Chennai||Alarmed over the increasing number of COVID-19 cases in districts around Chennai, the State has forged a new plan for micro-management of cases from rural and urban areas in Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam chaired a meeting with senior officials and police officers, part of the Field Support Teams (FST), in this regard, at the Secretariat on Saturday. Though Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu are separate districts, they are “inextricably connected” to the State capital and people from these districts are to be considered Chennaiites even though they are not residents of the district, a senior official said. Hence, a specific strategy is necessary, the official added. “Many of the cases reported are from Chennai suburbs, and unlike Chennai, a separate strategy is to be adopted because these districts have both urban and rural areas,” he said. In rural areas of these districts, awareness about COVID-19 was higher and this helped in containment efforts. But this wasn’t the case in urban areas. “There is a need to micro-manage these areas. Street-specific and area-specific strategies are needed,” officials said. Lack of planning Officials felt that the lack of planning in Chennai, in the initial stages, had resulted in the inability to control the number of cases in areas under the Greater Chennai Corporation. But with a Special Officer and five Ministers designated to supervise efforts, the government was now hopeful, they added. It may be recalled that though FSTs were constituted for Chennai and other cities in the State earlier, the government reconstituted them to focus only on Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu districts, following the rise in the number of cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-containment-strategy-for-three-districts-around-chennai/article31770492.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traders volunteer to shut shop||Thousands of wholesale and retail shops in congested localities like Sowcarpet, Flower Bazaar, Elephant Gate, Seven Wells and Kotwal Chawadi will voluntarily shut down for a week from Sunday to help contain the spread of COVID-19. Essential supplies, however, will not be hit. At least 15,000 members of the Federation of Madras Merchants and Manufacturers’ Associations (FMMMA) have given their consent for this. “Divisions 54, 55, 57 and 59 of the Greater Chennai Corporation have witnessed a spike in COVID-19 cases. There is a huge floating population in these areas since Sowcarpet is the hub for wholesale business. These will close for a week,” FMMMA general secretary Satish Chavan said. At a meeting on Saturday, FMMMA president Surendar Vyas and vice president Vinod Nair briefed the members of the decision. “This is our second voluntary lockdown. The first was between March 23 and 25,” Mr. Chavan said. He felt the spread was more from asymptomatic persons. “This voluntary lockdown means closure of business worth a few hundreds crores of rupees. But making money is not the only motive of a trader…this is our way of giving back to the society,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-volunteer-to-shut-shop/article31770481.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||35 children, 5 staff of govt.-run home in Chennai infected||Thirty-five children and five staff members in a government-run home in Royapuram have tested positive for COVID-19 as on Saturday morning, officials from the Social Defence Department said. While all infected children have been admitted to a government hospital in Tondiarpet, the remaining 22 of the 57 children in the home have been shifted to an adjacent building where they have been quarantined, a senior official said. The results of some more children are awaited. ‘Staff got it first’ An official from the District Child Protection Unit in Chennai said that the first child who tested positive had fever. “The infection probably came from one of our staff members who earlier tested positive,” the official said. Among the 57 children were those rescued from the streets and those taken in after calls to the childline number. Many were from outside Tamil Nadu. “They are kept in a reception home until the Child Welfare Committee meets and decides on their case,” the official said. A senior official from the Social Defence Department said that precautions had been taken at childcare institutions across the State. The official pointed out that a majority of the children were sent home soon after the lockdown was announced as per Supreme Court guidelines. Activists alleged that many children testing positive at a government-run home was an indication of the lack of focus on childcare. “All children in childcare institutions across the State should immediately be screened, and if possible, tested for COVID-19,” said A. Devaneyan, a child rights’ activist. Mr. Devaneyan said that District Collectors must convene meetings with all officials involved in child protection to ensure that steps are taken to safeguard not just those in childcare institutions but also those sent home. He stressed on the need for taking steps to identify, and if needed, inform the families of children who have tested positive. Girija Kumarbabu, a child rights’ consultant, said that caregivers at home should be educated on safety measures and step-by-step guidance must be provided.  All the children in childcare institutions across the State should be immediately screened  A. DevaneyanChild rights activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/35-children-5-staff-of-govt-run-home-in-chennai-infected/article31770483.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents fear temporary markets pose risk of infection, call for closure||Residents in some areas have opposed the emergence of temporary markets in their neighbourhoods, apprehensive of the risk they pose of COVID-19 infection. After the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) and the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) closed down the Koyambedu wholesale market, many new markets have been set up for the sale of vegetables and fruits in residential areas. The temporary markets attract huge crowds, causing a scare among residents. Residents of Virugambakkam opposed the wholesale and retail market on Arcot Road near Virugambakkam bus stop. “These markets have been attracting huge crowds. Our residential area has over 100 senior citizens. The risk of COVID-19 infection from the market is high. So, we request the Corporation to remove these markets,” a resident of Virugambakkam said. “The markets are a source of livelihood for hundreds of people during the lockdown. One trader in the market offers work for at least 20 people,” said M. Nainar, a trader in the market. “We have requested residents to maintain physical distancing and wear masks,” he added. “Over 65 markets in the city have been closed and relocated. New locations have been identified. But we will close those that pose a risk of COVID-19,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-fear-temporary-markets-pose-risk-of-infection-call-for-closure/article31770476.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rains likely in a few districts today||As Southwest monsoon advances in Tamil Nadu, the Meteorological Department has forecast that some districts in the State are likely to get heavy rains on Sunday. Officials of the Meteorological Department said that the Southwest monsoon has advanced upto Puducherry. During the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Saturday, some places in the State had received rains due to convective activity and the influence of southwesterlies. Eraniel in Kanniyakumari district received the highest rainfall of 9 cm and Nagercoil recorded 8 cm. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai said one or two places in districts, including Kanniyakumari, Theni, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli and Dindigul are likely to get heavy rains on Sunday. Thunderstorm activity may increase over the State around June 10 and many places are likely to get rains. A low pressure area is likely to develop over Bay of Bengal and westerlies may strengthen under its influence and bring thundershowers over the State. The weather system is being monitored and rainfall activity will depend on the movement of the system, he said. Heat during daytime would decrease across the State except for the Northwestern parts where the maximum temperature is expected to be around 40 to 42 degree Celsius, he added. The Meteorological Department has advised residents to avoid direct exposure to sun between 11.30 a.m. and 3.30 p.m. in these areas. Some places in Chennai and its suburbs may experience light rains during evening or night hours for two days. The maximum temperature may be around 39 degree Celsius in the city till Tuesday. The Meteorological Department has also warned fishermen not to venture into the sea as strong wind reaching a speed of up to 40-50 km per hour is likely to prevail over Gulf of Mannar and Comorin area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-likely-in-a-few-districts-on-sunday/article31770500.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. to bear girl’s education expenses||Commending the gesture of C. Mohan and his daughter M. Nethra in Madurai, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday announced that the State government would bear the girl’s higher education expenses. Mr. Mohan, a hairdresser from Melamadai, had saved Rs. 5 lakh for his daughter’s education, but chose to spend it on feeding the poor during the lockdown, on her insistence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-to-bear-girls-education-expenses/article31770485.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Physical court hearings in 10 more districts||The Madras High Court has decided to permit physical open court hearings in 10 more districts in the State. It was already permitted in nine districts. The permission has been granted with an advisory that lawyers aged over 65 can avoid such physical hearings and instead argue cases through videoconferencing. A circular issued by the High Court Registry stated that district headquarters and taluk courts in Ariyalur, Perambalur, Erode, Pudukottai, Cuddalore, Namakkal, Dindigul, Virudhunagar and Kanniyakumari, apart from the taluk courts in Tiruppur district alone, could start holding physical open court hearings from Monday. Other restrictions, such as using masks, hand sanitisers and following physical distancing norms had also been imposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/physical-court-hearings-in-10-more-districts/article31770493.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man falls into Adyar while trying to click selfie||A man fell into the Adyar in an attempt to take a selfie while standing on the edge of the Thiru Vi Ka Bridge on Saturday. Personnel from the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Service (TNFRS) rescued him. According to the police, Satis, 34, a resident of Kolathur, was taking a selfie while standing on the edge of the bridge around 6 p.m. when he accidentally fell into the river. Passersby alerted the police and fire control room around 6.15 p.m. Inspector Christin Jaysil from the Adyar police station rushed to the spot and a fire and rescue vehicle from Mylapore arrived shortly after. “Luckily there was only hip-deep water and he was standing in it. Fire officer in-charge Sripathy from Mylapore station and his team used a 30-ft extension ladder and he climbed up safely by 6.30 p.m.,” the officer said. The police have advised people to be careful while standing on the bridge and taking photos.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-falls-into-adyar-while-trying-to-click-selfie/article31770474.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation gets a Special Coordinator||A day after the Tamil Nadu government nominated five ministers to oversee containment measures against COVID-19, it appointed senior IAS officer Pankaj Kumar Bansal as Special Coordinator for the Greater Chennai Corporation. Mr. Bansal will analyse and work out appropriate intervention strategies in identified high-risk zones. He will work alongside the Corporation Commissioner and the Special Nodal Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-gets-a-special-coordinator/article31770479.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin slams bid to hasten expressway project||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday condemned the Centre for a plea filed in Supreme Court seeking early hearing of an appeal challenging Madras High Court verdict quashing the land acquisition for Chennai-Salem Expressway project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-slams-bid-to-hasten-expressway-project/article31770502.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK moves HC to bring back stranded Tamilians||DMK has filed a PIL plea in the High Court seeking a direction to the State government to accord necessary clearance for landing of aircraft so that Indians stranded in foreign countries could be brought back at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-moves-hc-to-bring-back-stranded-tamilians/article31770504.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Brother-sister found dead||The decomposed bodies of siblings Sridhar, 50, and Jaya Kalyani, 45, suspected to be theatre artistes, were found in their house in Kodungaiyur on Friday. Police have sent the bodies for post-mortem and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brother-sister-found-dead/article31770480.ece
07 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Use of country bombs to hunt wild boars in Coimbatore too||In mid-April, a team of Prohibition Enforcement Wing of the police led by Inspector Baskaran had gone to a farmer’s house near Annur in Coimbatore following a tip-off on brewing of arrack. The team, not just found fermented wash, but also stumbled upon ‘avittukai’, a country made explosive to hunt wild boar in areas along some forest boundaries in Tamil Nadu. The handling of the explosive itself was proven risky for the PEW team as it fell from the grip of a constable and went off. The constable escaped with minor injuries. On May 30, staff of Periyanaickenpalayam forest range of Coimbatore Forest Division held two men with six such explosives, three live rounds used in double barrel rifle, wild boar meat, and fermented wash. Though the explosive is used to hunt crop raiding wild boars, it could turn fatal for other animals including elephants, like the pregnant pachyderm that had a tragic death in Kerala. “Two elephants, including a calf, have died of injuries caused by avittukai explosion in the Coimbatore Forest Division in the past,” alleges K. Kalidas of Osai, an environment organisation. Risks “It is mainly used to kill wild boars to protect crops and sometimes for meat. Very few people follow the practice as it involves risks. It can be stopped if authorities take action against violators other than collecting fine,” he says. Though local people had claimed that avittukai explosion was reason for the injuries in the mouth of at least two wild elephants in Coimbatore Forest Division since 2016, the Forest Department attributed them as ulcer. Elephants injured by such explosion starve to death as they will not be able to take proper feed. “This practice is followed in many parts of the country where wild boars cause damage to crops. Laying live wires in farms are also a practice to kill wild boars due to which elephants were electrocuted in many instances,” says T.S. Subramaniya Raja of Wildlife Association of Rajapalayam. Sources in the know of the making of the explosive said that two chemicals, mainly sourced from fireworks units or quarries, were mixed and put in a small metal container in paste form with small stones, metal pieces or steel balls used in ball bearings at the first stage. As it dries, the container tightly wrapped with threads. To attract wild boar, avittukai is wrapped with things ranging from rotten rat skin to meat waste and is placed on areas frequented by the animal. Fruits are meant for herbivores. According to M. Ananda Kumar, wildlife scientist with Nature Conservation Foundation, developing strong networks with local people and gathering of intelligence through them can be one of the measures to address the problem. More coordination “The Forest Department and the police should have more coordination in tracing the roots of such cases and cutting the supply chains,” adds Coimbatore-based environmentalist K. Mohanraj. According to P. Durairasu, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Head of Forest Force, networks such as Village Forest Committee and Eco Development Committee have been active in Tamil Nadu to prevent wildlife crimes and use of crude explosives for poaching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/use-of-country-bombs-to-hunt-wild-boars-in-coimbatore-too/article31770530.ece
07 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Restaurants gearing up for reopening of dine-in service from tomorrow||Restaurants in Coimbatore district are preparing to open doors on Monday for dine-in services and have put in place several measures that will making dining safer for the guests and the staff. “The district administration and the food safety authorities have given a set of Standard Operating Procedures (SOP). We are working with them to see how even the small players can follow these,” says Jegan S Damodarasamy, Executive Director of Sree Annapoorna Sree Gowrishankar Hotels and executive committee member of the Coimbatore District Hoteliers’ Association. The air conditioned halls will not be open to customers. Even the tables in the non-AC halls have been reduced to ensure personal distancing. Outlets in the malls and airports will not be open. Checking temperature, use of sanitisers, disinfectants and masks are all mandatory for the staff. “Even the small players are willing to comply with the norms as there is a fear among every one about the virus. No one wants any of their staff to be affected. So every one wants to comply and observe the safety measures. The association members are sharing inputs, ideas and helping each other in implementing the SOPs,” he added. However, there are a few challenges. Over 90 % of the north Indian workers employed at the hotels have returned home. Even those from within the State have returned to their home towns. The hotels and restaurants are trying to organise vehicles to bring back workers from within the State. But labour shortage will have an impact on the services and menu offered, he said. Following a meeting with the association representatives and food safety officials, District Collector K. Rajamani said the hotels will be permitted to be open from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. Personal distancing and use of masks is mandatory. There is no permission for the hotels to have functions in the halls that they have. “If any eatery or restaurant is found violating the norms, the premises will be sealed,” he said. The city has three shopping malls and these are also preparing to open shutters, whenever the State government permits re-opening of malls. According to sources in the malls, there are several efforts that have been taken to ensure safety of visitors to the mall. Probably, theatres and play areas will open later. Initially, only actual customers will be allowed to the shops. Food courts will accommodate far lesser customers and will encourage take a ways. The malls have prepared SOPs for their staff and visitors separately. These will be implemented whenever the government permits re-opening of the malls, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restaurants-gearing-up-for-reopening-of-dine-in-service-from-tomorrow/article31770516.ece
07 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||FSSAI’s guidelines for hotels, restaurants||Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has issued advisory for hotels and restaurants in view of the Central Government relaxation that they could be opened from Monday. District Collector K. Rajamani and FSSAI designated officer K. Tamilselvan held a meeting with representatives of hoteliers’ association on Saturday and issued advisories. Instructions included reduction of seating capacity to 50 % of the existing capacity to enable adequate spacing for physical distancing, compliance of mask for employees, frequent cleaning of restrooms, minimal occupancy of customers in elevators, promotion of digital payment modes, use thermal screening of food delivery agents and promotion of parcel service to reduce crowding of customers. Hotels and restaurants were also advised to avoid parties and gatherings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fssais-guidelines-for-hotels-restaurants/article31770524.ece
07 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||33rd Shramik train leaves Coimbatore Junction||After a gap of seven days, the Salem Division of Southern Railway operated a Shramik special train from Coimbatore Junction for migrant workers on Saturday. According to railway officials, the train was bound for Balasore, Odisha, and left the junction at around 3.45 p.m. The special train with Linke Hoffmann Busch coaches transported 2,000 passengers. The last Shramik special train was operated from Coimbatore Junction on May 29. The trains have been operated to nine States namely Bihar (11), Uttar Pradesh (6), Odisha (6), Jharkhand (3), Assam (2), West Bengal (2), Rajasthan (1), Madhya Pradesh (1) and Chhattisgarh (1). Mettupalayam Junction saw the operation of the third Shramik special train on Saturday. The train was bound for New Jalpaiguri, West Bengal, and 933 migrant workers from the Nilgiris district boarded, officials said. After leaving Mettupalayam Junction at 5.50 p.m., the train arrived at Coimbatore Junction, where 350 workers boarded the train. Another 317 migrant workers boarded the train at Erode Junction . So far, special trains from Mettupalayam have been operated to Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/33rd-shramik-train-leaves-coimbatore-junction/article31770527.ece
07 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Action will be taken against those not wearing mask: Coimbatore Collector||Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani on Saturday warned of strict action against those who do not wear mask or do not maintain personal distancing. The Collector told presspersons that local body officials and the police will take action against those who do not wear masks when they come out and those who do not maintain personal distancing at shops and public places. Committees will be formed with officials from the local bodies, the police and revenue department to monitor whether the public follow the precautions. Further, those who come to the district from other places should be under home quarantine for 14 days. If people are not staying at home during the quarantine period or are entering the district without permission, action will be taken against them. Mr. Rajamani said vigilance will be strengthened at the check posts. Nearly 2,500 passes are issued a day. So far, 20,041 people have been tested in the district for COVID-19. So far, 158 people have tested positive and only 11 of them are under treatment. On Friday (June 5) alone, as many as 986 people were tested. Since the lockdown continues, more than five people should not gather at shops or other public places. The government is taking several steps to contain the spread of COVID-19. But it can be controlled effectively only with the co-operation of the public, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-will-be-taken-against-those-not-wearing-mask-coimbatore-collector/article31770517.ece
07 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation’s warning||Coimbatore Corporation has laid down restrictions on restaurants when they resume business June 8 onwards. According to a Corporation release, the Food Safety officers have suggested restaurant owners refrain from using refrigerated items. If the Corporation found the restaurant owners violating any of the norms, it would initiate stringent action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporations-warning/article31770522.ece
07 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Five more air, road passengers test positive||Five persons, who recently came to Coimbatore from Maharashtra and Bengaluru, tested positive for COVID-19, said a senior official of the Health Department on Saturday. A 63-year-old man from NSN Palayam, who came from Mumbai via Benagaluru, and a 34-year-old man from Nehru Nagar, who came from Bengaluru, on Thursday were the two air passengers who tested positive for the disease. A 48-year-old woman and a 50-year-old man from Thane and a 29-year-old man from Mumbai were the persons who came to Coimbatore by road and later tested positive. They were admitted to Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. Meanwhile, three more cases were added to the list of total number of persons tested positive for the disease in Coimbatore district as per the COVID-19 media bulletin issued by the Health Department. As of Saturday’s bulletin, 158 persons tested positive in Coimbatore district so far. The district had 11 active cases of the disease on Saturday as per the bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-more-air-road-passengers-test-positive/article31770525.ece
07 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Online classes can’t be denied: Minister||The State government will take action against private schools if they refuse access to online classes for students who have not paid their fees during the lockdown, School Education Minister K. A. Sengottaiyan warned on Saturday. The Minister told journalists that schools were allowed to conduct online classes for students during the lockdown period, but they should not force parents to pay fees. The Minister urged parents and students to lodge complaints with the School Education Department if they had any issues. He said action would also be taken against schools if they asked parents to pay fees through online mode now. Asked if any Class X student was infected and whether concessions would be extended to such students, the Minister said students were asked to collect their hall tickets on June 8 and 9 from their schools and only then the list of infected students, if any, would be known.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/access-to-online-classes-cant-be-denied-minister/article31770503.ece
07 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Minister warns of action||The State government will take action against private schools if they refuse access to online classes for students who have not paid their fees during the COVID-19 lockdown, School Education Minister K. A. Sengottaiyan warned on Saturday. The Minister told journalists here that schools were allowed to conduct online classes for students during the lockdown period, but they should not force parents to pay fees. The Minister urged parents and students to lodge complaints with the School Education Department if they had any issues. He said action would also be taken against schools if they asked parents to pay fees through online mode now. Asked if any Class X student was infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus and whether concessions would be extended to such students, the Minister said students were asked to collect their hall tickets on June 8 and 9 from their schools and only then the list of infected students, if any, would be known. Students living in COVID-19 hotspots would be transported by vans to examination centres and District Collectors were asked to monitor it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-warns-of-action/article31770528.ece
07 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||One tests positive in Erode||A 35-year-old man, who had returned from Abu Dhabi, tested positive and is undergoing treatment at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital in Perundurai. The man had arrived at Coimbatore airport four days ago and a swab sample was taken. He was sent to his native village in Sathyamangalam. After he tested positive, he was admitted to the hospital.  Total positive cases  With this, the total number of positive cases in the district is 73 as on Saturday. Though he tested positive four days, his count was added to the district rally only on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-tests-positive-in-erode/article31770512.ece
07 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown in erode||Due to maintenance works, there will be no power supply in the following areas from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on June 9, Tuesday .  Sivagiri sub-station: Sivagiri, Vettuvapalayam, Kagam, Konthalam, Minnapalayam, Palamangalam, Veerasangili, Kallapuramkottai, Vilankattuvalasu, Ellakadai, Kulavilakku, Karakkaattuvalasu, Kovilpalayam, Aayaparappu, Molapalayam, Parapalayam, Vilakethi, Kuttapalayam, Amman Kovil, Thoppapalayam, Perumparappu, Vadugapatti, 24 Velampalayam, Pannaikinaru, Karattupudur, Kattupalayam, Rakamapudur, Itchipalayam, Muthayanvalasu, Karukkampalayam, Unjalur, Othakadai, North Pudupalayam and surrounding areas.  Nadupalayam sub-station: Nadupalayam, Thamaraipalayam, Malayampalayam, Kombanai Pudur, P.K. Mangalam, Injampalli, Kolanalli, Karumandampalayam, P.K. Palayam, Solangapalayam, Pasur, M.K. Pudur, R.N. Palayam, Kalipalayam, Kolathupalayam, Semmandampalayam ad Kuttapalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown-in-erode/article31770513.ece
07 June 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers sent to West Bengal||A fresh batch of 704 migrant workers from West Bengal left for their native by a special train on Saturday. Of them, 598 workers were working in different parts of the Karur district. The remaining 106 persons were working in Namakkal district. To enable them to board the train, the authorities had brought them to the Railway Junction in Karur by special buses from different points in Karur and Namakkal districts. They were given food packets before embarking on their journey. District Revenue Officer C. Rajendran saw them off. The workers expressed their gratitude to the State government for making arrangements for the journey. A total of 2,396 persons have so far been sent to various States such as West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Manipur, Punjab, Haryana and Maharashtra since the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-workers-sent-to-west-bengal/article31770711.ece
07 June 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Krishnagiri records 8 new cases||The district recorded eight new cases, all from Uthangarai, taking the number of active cases to 16 in the district on Saturday. Speaking to The Hindu , Deputy Director of Health V. Govindan said the fresh cases included five returnees from Chennai and three truck drivers returning from Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Bihar. All eight persons were shifted to Krishnagiri government hospital. In the meantime, the authorities had temporarily closed down a private hospital for disinfection after a 48-year-old woman, who had undergone treatment for chronic conditions died. However, sample lifted for COVID testing post mortem returned negative. “The patient was undergoing treatment at the hospital before she was shifted to Uthangarai government hospital. She had chronic disease of which she died. Her sample collected after death returned negative. But still, as a precautionary measure, we temporarily ordered to shut the hospital for disinfection,” Dr. Govindan told The Hindu. As of date, the number of active cases was 16, here in the district. 60 ventilators Dharmapuri Government Medical College Hospital was equipped with 60 ventilators, with the capacity to treat as many serious cases of COVID-19 patients, said Dean of the hospital Poovathi on Saturday. Speaking to The Hindu , Dr. Poovathi said the number of ventilators were being added every week. “Every week, across the State, two or three ventilators are being added to the hospitals. So far, there has not been a need to use them on COVID patients here, who have been largely asymptomatic.” As of Saturday, eight persons were discharged and only two are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/krishnagiri-records-8-new-cases/article31770514.ece
07 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||10 fever clinics set up in Sellur||Ten makeshift clinics have been set up in Sellur area to monitor fever cases as there has been a rise in number of cases over the last one week. Since fever is a common symptom of COVID-19, authorities say they are planning to keep a close eye in the area to curb the rise of cases. Collector T. G. Vinay says the clinics would help identify fever cases early on. Sellur is densely-populated with around 50,000 residents. A total of 120 nursing students will go door-to-door to check for suspects. Those with complaints of cold, cough and fever will be directed to the clinic where they will be treated and examined for three days. If symptoms persist, their swab samples will be collected. Two doctors and 10 nurses from Urban Primary Health Centres have also been deployed here. Currently there are six active COVID-19 cases from Sellur, says a Government Rajaji Hospital source. “Earlier, testing will be done only when a patient showed any distinct symptom of COVID-19. Now, however, tests are done for those who complain of persisting fever too,” the Collector says. The clinics have been set up on 60-Feet Road, Ahimsapuram Sixth Cross Road, Nagammal Koil Street, Bose Main Road, Tagore Nagar, Thomas Street, Nandhavanam, Suryarajyapuram, Krishnapuram Colony and Palam Station Road. Since June, there has been a rise in fever cases in Sellur after many were discharged on May 16. According to data from the district administration, only two cases were reported on April 24 and April 25. However, since June 2, there has been at least one positive case from the area till date. Deputy Director of Health Services Priya Raj says Sellurwill not be labelled a cluster as the cases are spread across different streets. Health officials say those who have recently tested positive are largely contacts of COVID-19 patients, while some others are residents of containment zones. “The area itself is congested. This could definitely lead to an outbreak. If you have observed the current situation and a high number of cases imported from other districts, it is likely that areas like Sellur will report more cases,” says a health department source. He says they are continuing to seal roads and not just specific houses or complexes of the COVID-19 patient as ordered by the State government to be on the safer side. Between five and 10 contacts of COVID-19 positive cases are being tested for each patient. Assistant City Health Officer B. Vinothraja says they are also giving kabasura kudineer, zinc and vitamin c tablets to residents. There is also a plan to provide additional tablets to those who are aged above 60.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-fever-clinics-set-up-in-sellur/article31770692.ece
07 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Seven test positive in Madurai||Seven people tested positive for COVID-19 here on Saturday. The total number of cases stands at 298. The new cases include a member of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) unit at Madurai airport. The 26-year-old man had fever for three days, said Collector T. G. Vinay. The six others - one woman and five men - hailed from S. Alangulam, Vilachery, Sellur and Bethaniapuram. The largest number of discharges on a single day took place on Saturday as 33 people tested negative for COVID-19 during the final test at Government Rajaji Hospital. The Collector said that 21 people were discharged on Friday and 12 on Saturday. The number of active cases stands at 66. The number of fresh cases in Thoothukudi continued to increase in feverish pitch as the district added 14 more infections, all indigenous cases, on Saturday. The district now has 137 cases, all undergoing treatment in Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. Kanniyakumari added 10 more cases - five each of indigenous and imported cases - to take the total to 87. The district has 32 cases under treatment. Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts added two cases each, both indigenous. While Tirunelveli’s tally touched 384, Tenkasi’s stands at 100. The districts have 55 and 15 active cases respectively as on Saturday. With the discharge of 17 patients from various hospitals, the number of active cases has come down to 29 in Virudhunagar district. Though four new cases were reported on Saturday, three cases were cross notified to other districts. Now the tally stands at 144 with 115 cases having been discharged. In Theni district, six patients were discharged from Government Medical College Hospital. Five cases were reported from Dindigul district and four from Ramanathapuram. All indigenous cases, they had contacts with persons who had tested positive. Sivaganga district had no fresh case and only five persons are under treatment as 30 patients have been discharged so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-test-positive-in-madurai/article31770699.ece
07 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC Bench to hear cases only through video conferencing||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court which had only recently resumed staggered open court functioning will now hear urgent and emergent matters only via video conferencing from Monday, after three of its judges in the Principal seat in Chennai and one judge in the High Court’s Madurai Bench tested positive for COVID-19. According to a High Court notification, in the High Court Bench, one Division Bench and three Single Judges will hear cases through video conferencing from their residences for the time being till June 30. The working of the court staff will also be minimum. In view of the decision taken by the Administrative Committee of the Madras High Court, filing of cases will be made through e-mail only. Requests for urgent motion shall be made through e-mailthamilj1968@gmail.comto the Registrar (Judicial), High Court Bench, who in turn will place the matter before the portfolio judges concerned and the matter will be listed subject to the convenience of the judges. Apart from the High Court Judge in the Madurai Bench, the judge’s personal security officer has also tested positive for COVID-19. Following this, the High Court Bench campus was sanitised and disinfected. The advocate chambers on the court campus have also been closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-bench-to-hear-cases-only-through-video-conferencing/article31770696.ece
07 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||10-month-old baby boy rescued||Sellur police rescued a 10-month-old baby boy on Saturday after a complaint of illegal adoption between two families. Police said the baby, born in last August, was handed over by the parents to a childless couple. Both parties had not followed the established procedures for adoption of children. They just entered into a written agreement certified by a notary public. After the issue came to light, Child Welfare Committee member B. Pandiarajan, lodged a complaint. “The baby has been taken to a government home. Further enquiry is under way,” a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-month-old-baby-boy-rescued/article31770695.ece
07 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Measure to boost residents’ immunity||Corporation Deputy Commissioner V. Nagajothi distributed vitamin C, zinc tablets and kabasura kudineer powder to 20,101 residents of non-notified slums across the city on Friday as a measure to boost their immunity. In the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, the civic body is distributing them to around 1.5 households from 142 notified and 189 non-notified slums. Residents’ welfare associations have been urged to procure and distribute them to their residents. “Most of the persons who have tested positive for COVID-19 are not displaying any symptoms. Also, with increased public movement due to the ease of restrictions in place, it is important to boost the immunity of residents,” said Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/measure-to-boost-residents-immunity/article31770690.ece
07 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 112.65 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 32 cusecs and a discharge of 125 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 37.83 ft. (71 ft.), with nil inflow and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 1,605 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday was (in mm): Thekkadi 21.2, Periyar dam 9.6 and Kodaikanal 7.2. The water level in Papanasam dam on Saturday stood at 43.10 feet (permissible level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 903.24 cusecs and a discharge of 100 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam (permissible level is 118 feet) stood at 70 feet. The dam had an inflow of 70 cusecs and discharge of 325 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article31770694.ece
07 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Discourse by Andavan Swamigal||The Arulgnana Sabai Madurai will be conducting its 243rd monthly discourse through Zoom on Sunday. The discourse is to be delivered by Srimath Andavan Sri Varaha Maha Desikan Swamigal, the 12th Pontiff of the Andavan Ashram in Srirangam. The discourse will be on ‘Thirupan Azhwar Kanda Thiruvarangam...” from 6.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. Devotees can listen with the user ID: 850-693-1513 on their handsets, a spokesman of the Arulgnana Sabai from Thiagarajar College said here on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discourse-by-andavan-swamigal/article31770700.ece
07 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Outrage over body being thrown into pit||A video of front line workers in Puducherry hurriedly dumping the body of a COVID-19 patient from Chennai in a pit triggered outrage on Saturday. The 45-year-old Chennai resident had come to Puducherry on Wednesday to visit his wife. The next day, he developed chest pain and was taken to the Indira Gandhi Government General Hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. He was tested for COVID-19 and and the results returned positive, said a doctor. Following this, staff deputed by the Villianur commune panchayat took the body in an ambulance to a burial ground. The clip showed the workers taking the body in a stretcher and then throwing it into the pit dug for his burial. When contacted, S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health and Family Welfare Services, said that based on the clip, the department had sought a report. The body, as per protocol, was packed in a polythene bag and handed over for burial. “We made sure all protocols mandated for the burial of COVID-19 patients were followed. The video is shocking as it is a clear case of insensitivity shown to the dead. The staff may have panicked as they were handling the burial of a COVID-19 patient for the first time,” he said. Doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and patients in the critical care unit of the hospital have been isolated.  The staff may have panicked as they were handling the burial of a COVID-19 patient for the first time S. Mohan Kumar Director, Health and Family Welfare Services||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outrage-over-body-being-thrown-into-pit/article31770494.ece
07 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Three more COVID-19 cases reported||Three persons, including an intern at Jipmer, tested positive for COVID- 19 in Puducherry on Saturday taking the tally to 107.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-more-covid-19-cases-reported/article31770501.ece
07 June 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||College student struck dead by lightning||An-18-year-old college student was killed in a lightning strike near Keeranur on Saturday. According to sources, lightning stuck S. Tamilselvam of Kadapillaiyarpatti when he went to a field for work. He was a first year student of a college. Keeranur police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-student-struck-dead-by-lightning/article31770726.ece
07 June 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Protest against racial discrimination in United States||The Tamil Nadu Movement for Right to Live of the Oppressed on Saturday staged a protest in Seithur to condemn the recent ‘racist murder’ of African-American, George Floyd, in the United States. Led by its State vice-president P. Lingam, the demonstartion showed solidarity with the African-Americans and whites, who were jointly agitating against racial discrimination in the United States. Mr. Lingam said American citizens were on the streets despite the threat posed by COVID-19 to put up a fight against racial discrimination. The worldwide protests to uphold democratic equality showed the humaneness of the people, according to him. The protestors demanded that the State and Central governments put strong pressure on the United States government to give up its policy of racial discrimination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-against-racial-discrimination-in-united-states/article31770688.ece
07 June 2020||salem,TAMIL NADU||84 discharged in Salem||As many as 84 patients, who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19, at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital were discharged on Saturday. According to doctors, the patients had travelled to Salem from places like Maharashtra, Chennai and others. Mr. Raman said, “strict checking is being carried out at check posts and swab samples are collected. We have also started a survey of persons above 60 years of age in the district and they are provided with medicines for lifestyle diseases for two months. To ensure they do not venture out, volunteers have been arranged to get them essentials.” Three new cases Three COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Saturday. According to health officials, two of the patients have travelled from Chennai and Maharashtra to the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/84-discharged-in-salem/article31770519.ece
07 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||28 cases in Salem||Police on Friday registered 28 cases and detained five vehicles for violating prohibitory orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/28-cases-in-salem/article31770520.ece
07 June 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Old man and son electrocuted||An old man and his son were electrocuted near Kadayanallur on Friday night. S. Muthuraj, 30, a farmer from Krishnapuram , had gone to take a bath after returning from work. An electric wire had snapped and fallen on a steel mesh near the switch board. Muthuraj, who accidentally touched the mesh while switching on the motor, got electrocuted. When Muthuraj failed to return even after 10 p.m., his father Subbiah, 79, went to the tractor shed along with his relative. On seeing his son lying on the ground, Subbiah tried to lift him and got electrocuted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/old-man-and-son-electrocuted/article31770727.ece
07 June 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Old man, son electrocuted||An old man and his son were electrocuted near Kadayanallur on Friday night. S. Muthuraj, 30, a farmer from Krishnapuram , had gone to take a bath after returning from work. An electric wire had snapped and fallen on a steel mesh near the switch board. Muthuraj, who accidentally touched the mesh while switching on the motor, got electrocuted. When Muthuraj failed to return even after 10 p.m., his father Subbiah, 79, went to the tractor shed along with his relative. On seeing his son lying on the ground, Subbiah tried to lift him and got electrocuted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/old-man-son-electrocuted/article31770697.ece
07 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Man poisons daughters, attempts to end life||Two girls, aged seven and five, were poisoned to death by their father who also attempted to end his life near Sethubhavachatram. According to sources, the Sethubhavachatram police received information from the police outpost at the Government Hospital, Pattukottai on Thursday night that a man and two girls had been admitted to the hospital for treatment of poisoning. Subsequently, the police started the investigation which revealed that the man and his wife were separated and the children were residing with their father. On Thursday evening, the man allegedly fed his children and himself some eatables mixed with some poisonous liquid. A few minutes later he disclosed it to his neighbours and swooned. Subsequently, the three were rushed to the Government hospital, Pattukottai and from there they were referred to the Thanjavur Medical College hospital. However, the girls failed to respond to the treatment and died at the TMC hospital on Saturday while the man was still under treatment, police said. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-poisons-daughters-attempts-to-end-life/article31770719.ece
07 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Micro-finance companies in Thanjavur district indicted||The All India Democratic Women’s Association has indicted that micro-finance companies in Thanjavur district of causing mental agony among the womenfolk. In a petition submitted to the district authorities here on Thursday, the AIDWA district president, R. Kalaiselvi, secretary, S. Thamizhselvi and treasurer, E. Vasanthi claimed that the micro-finance companies were collecting the dues from the borrowers who were already facing financial problems in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/micro-finance-companies-in-thanjavur-district-indicted/article31770715.ece
07 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Building owner waives rent||A medical practitioner at Pattukottai who owns a shopping complex in the town has waived three months' rent to be paid by the shopkeepers. Ninety-year-old, Dr.Rathinam, who owns the shopping complex, informed the 6 persons who had taken the shops in the complex on rent that they need not have to pay the rental for the months of March, April and May as they were not able to carry on their normal business activity in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. He had foregone around Rs. 4.20 lakh to be realised by him through rent from the shopkeepers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/building-owner-waives-rent/article31770718.ece
07 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Urban forests to be raised under Miyawaki method||Buoyed by the patronage for the urban afforestation initiative on South Devi Street in Srirangam, which has come in for appreciation from Minister for Local Administration S.P. Velumani, the Tiruchi City Corporation has planned to take up similar projects at six more locations in the city. Balaji Avenue, Perumalpuram and Srinivasa Nagar (North) in Thiruvanaikoil, Melur Road in Srirangam and two sites in Sanjeevi Nagar have been identified for the afforestation programme. Of them except Perumalpuram, others were earmarked as park sites when the layouts were developed by promoters. The sites were subsequently brought under the control of the Corporation. The site identified for the project at Perumalpuram is owned by the Ranganathasamy Temple in Srirangam. The temple administration has consented to carry out the project on its 65 cent site at Perumalpuram. The project will be implemented under the Miyawaki method, a Japanese method of urban afforestation in populated areas. Unlike the traditional method of planting of trees, where sufficient space is provided between each sapling, the Japanese method advocates planting of more trees in small space. S. Sivasubramaniam, Commissioner, Tiruchi City Corporation, told The Hindu that a sum of Rs. 4 lakh would be spent at each site. Drip irrigation systems would be installed at each site to irrigate the plants. No fertilizer would be used for the growth of the plants. S. Vaidhyanathan, Assistant Commissioner, Srirangam Zone, said that planting of tree saplings at Balaji Avenue had already been completed. About 6,000 saplings were planted. Similarly, planting of saplings at Sanjeevi Nagar had also been started. It had been placed to complete the process within a week. More than 50 varieties of various tree saplings had been sourced from various nurseries in Tiruchi, Madurai, Pudukottai and others. About 25,000 tree saplings would be planted at all six sites. The site at Perumalpuram alone would account for 10,000 tree saplings, Mr. Vaidhyanathan added. Mr. Sivasubramaniam said that the Corporation would explore the possibilities of adopting Miyawaki method of urban afforestation in the park sites to be developed in the near future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/urban-forests-to-be-raised-under-miyawaki-method/article31770721.ece
07 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Passengers come from Kuwait||Hundred and three Indians hailing from various districts in the State arrived at the international airport here from Kuwait by a Kuwait Airways flight on Saturday. The flight landed here at around 4.40 p.m. and all passengers were screened by medical teams on arrival. The passengers hailed from 24 districts, including Tiruchi, Chennai, Thanjavur, Ramanathapuram and Tirunelveli. Since none of them had any symptoms of the novel corona virus, they were sent to their respective districts by special buses. The flight on its return journey carried about 6.3 tonnes of vegetables, airport sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/passengers-come-from-kuwait/article31770714.ece
07 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||24 more persons test positive for COVID-19 in central region||Twenty more fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in central region on Saturday. Of them, Karur and Nagapattinam districts accounted for maximum number of cases followed by Ariyalur district. While Karur and Nagapattinam districts recorded 6 cases each, Ariyalur had 5 cases. Tiruvarur accounted for 4 COVID-19 cases. Two cases were reported in Thanjavur and one in Pudukottai. Of the six cases in Karur, five were reported from Pallapatti and the other patient was from Devarmalai. A one and-a-half-year-old girl was among those who tested positive for the virus. They had been admitted to the Government Karur Medical College for treatment. According to a media bulletin, out of the five cases in Ariyalur district, two had contracted the virus from a patient, who returned to Ariyalur from Kerala. Two patients were the contacts of persons who had returned from Chennai. One patient had contracted the virus from a Maharashtra returnee. All five of them were being treated at the Ariyalur Government Medical College Hospital. In Pudukottai district, a 37-year-old patient from Ambalpuram, who tested positive for the virus, was under treatment at the Ranees Government Hospital. There were no fresh cases in Tiruchi and Perambalur districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24-more-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-central-region/article31770712.ece
07 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi railway junction gets Green Station Certification||The Tiruchi Railway Junction has been awarded Green Railway Station Certification with ‘Gold’ rating by the Confederation of Indian Industry. The Environment Directorate of Indian Railways with the support of Indian Green Building Council has developed the Green Railway Stations rating system. The rating system addresses national priorities such as water conservation, handling of waste, energy efficiency, reduced use of fossil fuels, lesser dependence on usage of virgin materials and health and well being of occupants. A Southern Railway press release said Tiruchi railway junction was awarded with Gold rating (72 points) for Green Railway Station Certification by the CII based on many parameters such as improvement in passenger amenities, green cover, energy conservation, water conservation, solid waste management, smart passenger services and other innovations carried out in the railway junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-railway-junction-gets-green-station-certification/article31770716.ece
07 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Integrated farming system to be promoted in seven central districts||The Agriculture Department, in association with the Horticulture and Animal Husbandry Departments, will implement the Integrated Farming System (IFS) phase III under the National Agriculture Development Project in 23 districts in the State this year, including seven central districts. The project, which seeks to promote a holistic approach to farming, would encourage beneficiary-farmers to take up a host of allied activities towards doubling their income. The IFS would be implemented in the core delta districts of Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam, besides Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Karur and Ariyalur in the central region this year. Kancheepuram, Thiruvallur, Cuddalore, Villupuram, Vellore, Salem, Thiruvannamalai, Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Coimbatore, Erode Tiruppur, Madurai, Theni, Sivaganga and Tirunelveli are the other districts where the scheme is to be implemented. Selected beneficiaries would be given a subsidy of Rs. 60,000 per IFS unit whose cost would work out to Rs. 1.21 lakh which includes components such as agriculture, kitchen garden, milch cow/buffalo, goats, backward poultry birds, vermicompost units, horticulture fruit plants, apiary units, agro forestry-fodder trees, compost pit and livestock shelter. About 2,500 IFS units are to be promoted during the year under the initiative in these districts. According to Agriculture Department officials, in Tiruchi and other districts, IFS units have been promoted as a pilot project last year. About 99 units were promoted last year in Manachanallur in Tiruchi district with a subsidy of Rs. 1 lakh each (the subsidy has since been reduced to Rs. 60,000). During the current year, 50 units each would be promoted in Manapparai and Manikandam blocks. According to P. Asokan, Joint Director of Agriculture, preliminary enrolment of eligible farmers is under way in the two blocks. About 25 % of the beneficiaries would be farmers from Scheduled Caste. Individual applications would be processed after inspection by officers of the required land and other facilities with the applicants. Deputy Director of Agriculture (central schemes) B. Elangovan said the scheme would involve a convergence of various farm activities and seek to utilise the efficiency of farmers and the land to the maximum. Recycling of farm waste and organic farming would also be encouraged under the project. “By adopting a holistic approach and taking up agriculture, horticulture and other allied activities simultaneously, farmers will be able to get gainful employment, achieve self-sufficiency and generate income round the year,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/integrated-farming-system-to-be-promoted-in-seven-central-districts/article31770717.ece
07 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Works inspected||The Chief Engineer of the Public Works Department, Water Resources Organisation, Tiruchi, S. Ramamoorthy, on Saturday inspected the ongoing works on renovating the sluices of the Sarasavalli canal, which branches off from the Peruvalai canal near Pachur village on Saturday. The work has been sanctioned at a cost of Rs. 25 lakh under the kudimaramathu scheme. Retaining walls would be built opposite the sluice. The work would prevent flooding of about 300 acres of lands in the area, an official release said. Mr.Ramamoorthy instructed the officials to complete the works before the release of water in the canals for irrigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/works-inspected/article31770724.ece
07 June 2020||TIRUCHi,TAMIL NADU||Bus service||The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, Tiruchi, will operate buses up to border villages on Tiruchi-Madurai and Tiruchi-Dindigul routes, Collector S.Sivarasu has said. In a statement issued here, Mr.Sivarasu pointed out that the buses were being operated within the various zones and said that the TNSTC buses would be operated up to Puzhuthipatti on Tiruchi-Madurai route and up to Ponnambalapatti Tollgate on Tiruchi-Dindigul route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bus-service/article31770725.ece
07 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Opt for e-payment: Tiruppur Collector||As restaurants and hotels gear up to reopen for customers, Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said on Saturday that those with COVID-19 symptoms should strictly not eat outside. He urged the public to wear masks at all times except while eating. Customers should preferably reserve tables in advance at the restaurants and opt for e-payments. Customers should not stay longer than required at the restaurants and must not use the public toilets on the premises. Workers at hotels and restaurants must wear protective clothing (masks, gloves, apron and cap) and must self-report to the officials immediately if any COVID-19 symptoms were found during work. The workers must not use the toilets meant for customers and must avoid staying or eating at the restaurant/hotel premises during the night, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said in a release. Restaurants and hotels must allow occupancy of only 50 % and must arrange for a waiting room for additional customers. All customers must be screened for high body temperature using thermal scanners. The premises must be cleaned every day.  Salem Staff Reporter adds:  Members of the Salem district hotel owners’ association said that they would screen customers before entering when they visit their hotels once opened. The members of the association said that they would resume operations according to government guidelines from June 8 and all safety measures would be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/opt-for-e-payment-tiruppur-collector/article31770518.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation begins demolition of encroachments at Muthannankulam||Coimbatore Corporation on Saturday started demolishing houses built encroaching upon the Muthannankulam tank, a project that has been in the pipeline for nearly a decade. The Corporation deployed its men and machinery to start the demolition on the south-eastern and eastern side of the tank, off Thadagam Road. Officials from the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board, Tangedco and Coimbatore City Police were present to assist the Corporation. Sources in the Corporation said the civic body would in the course of next seven days demolish all the 1,577 houses that were built on the tank bund on the eastern side, abutting the Thadagam Road, and northern bund, abutting the Sundapalayam Road. More than two years ago, the Corporation had kick-started the project by identifying the people who had lived there for a long time and documenting their presence to provide alternative houses. The evicted people would get alternative accommodation in the flats built by the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board. To 279 of the 1,577 families the Board had allotted houses in its tenements in Anna Naga-Kuniamuthur, 888 families in Malumichampatty, 109 families in Keeranatham, three families in Vellalore, 237 families in M.G.R. Nagar and 61 families in Ukkadam. The sources said at the start of the demolition, 992 families had vacated their houses and shifted to the alternative accommodation provided to them. Of the vacated 992 houses, the Corporation had demolished 300 by Saturday evening, the sources said. The rest were in the process of vacating their houses. The residents were, however, unhappy with the Corporation demolishing their houses. S. Poongothai, a resident, said at the time of the enumeration exercise to identify the families to be evicted and provided alternative accommodation, the Board had omitted a few families. While the Board had allotted her a house, it did not allot her daughter, who lived with her son-in-law nearby. S. Revathi, another resident, said the Board went by the public distribution system (ration) card to identify the beneficiaries. It should have gone by the property tax book record because though joint families had one ration the members therein lived in separate houses. The Corporation sources clarified that that there were three categories of people who objected to the demolition – people who were members of a family but sought additional flats for their sons or daughters, people who had rented the encroached houses after the owners had vacated those for the TNSCB flats, and, those who did not want the flats but land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-begins-demolition-of-encroachments-at-muthannankulam/article31770508.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Govt. caps tariff that pvt. hospitals can charge COVID-19 patients||Recently, IMA-TN had proposed a tariff of Rs. 2,31,820 for 10 days for patients with mild/moderate symptoms in COVID Care Centres and Rs. 4,31,411 for 17 days for patients with severe symptoms, requiring treatment in hospitals and ICUs. C.N. Raja, president, IMA-TN, said that the association, along with the Nursing Home Board, had arrived at the cost structure following complaints about some hospitals charging Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 1.5 lakh a day. “We wanted the charges to be reasonable and affordable, without affecting the running of the hospitals. We were ready to forgo doctors’ fees too. We do not know how the government arrived at this price cap and what yardsticks it was based on. But we do not differ on the point that there should be a price cap,” he said. He raised the need for a price cap on COVID-19-related medical supplies to private hospitals as they have to purchase from the market. “We have been repeatedly appealing to the State and Central governments to bring a price cap on medical equipment, consumables and drugs for COVID-19 treatment. This included masks and personal protective equipment,” he said. Asked about the government’s decision, Apollo Hospitals vice-chairperson Preetha Reddy said, “We have to go through the details and see.” Smaller hospitals said that the challenge is to the keep the hospital running in the midst of the pandemic. Dr T.N. Ravishankar, who runs a hospital in East Tambaram, Chennai, said hospitals incurred expenses on deployment of healthcare workers in the COVID-19 wards and providing them PPE kits. “We need to have two staff nurses and two doctors who visit the patients each day, a dietician and the cleaning staff, all of whom must wear PPE. We must have two sets of staff so that we can run a ward,” he explained. Instead, the government could consider regulating the cost of PPE kits, he suggested. Giving a cost break-up, he said, the government-fixed tariff would cover basic medicine and PPE but expensive drugs could not be administered in case of terminal patients. “The price cap will not cover the infrastructure charges, the professional or lab charges,” he added. “I have to pay double the money to make my staff come to work because of the risk involved. If all hospitals are to be safe, life and medical insurance cover must be given to all our healthcare workers,” Dr. Ravishankar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-caps-tariff-that-pvt-hospitals-can-charge-covid-19-patients/article31770490.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Jawan laid to rest in native village||Army jawan P. Mathialagan, who was killed in Jammu and Kashmir was laid to rest with full military honours at his native village near Edappadi here on Saturday. Mathialagan, an havildar with the Indian Army was killed in action at Aknoor sector in Jammu and Kashmir along the Pakistan border on Thursday night. His mortal remains were brought to Sulur Air Force base in an AN-32 flight from Delhi on Saturday. A convoy of Territorial Army TA-110 transported the body in an ambulance to his native village Vethilaikarankadu in Edappadi. District Collector S.A. Raman paid respects on behalf of the State Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jawan-laid-to-rest-in-native-village/article31770511.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers stage protest||Farmers from Kuppanur here conducted black flag protest on Saturday condemning statements by Ministers in favour of the Salem - Chennai green corridor project. They raised black flags in their farmlands and condemned statements made by Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan and Information and Publicity Minister Kadambur C. Raju in favour of the green corridor project. A. Chandramohan, State secretary of All India Kisan Mahasabha demanded the resignation of both the ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-stage-protest/article31770510.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi GH gets new COVID-19 equipment||Minister for Information ‘Kadambur’ C. Raju on Saturday inaugurated fully automated electrochemiluminescence immunoassay analyser (EIA) at Government Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital for COVID-19 management. The hospital is the first in a southern district to get the Rs. 25-lakh facility, which was introduced in Chennai. The analyser provides the result of a parameter (IL 6), which analyses the risk of progression of COVID-19 patients to a more serious disorder at an early stage. This helps in initiation of specific treatment at an early stage and helps reduce mortality rate. Due to faster analysis, test results are provided in just 18 to 27 minutes and can be used to estimate four other parameters (ferritin, Trop T, Procalcitonin, Vitamin D) that are essential for management of COVID-19. It can also be used for other parameters such as hormones, tumour markers and for diagnosis of HIV and hepatitis infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thoothukudi-gh-gets-new-covid-19-equipment/article31770689.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Whale shark washed ashore||The decomposed carcass of a 35-year-old whale shark washed ashore at Athankarai on Saturday. Weighing 1.5 tonnes, the male whale shark was 6.3 m long and 3.6 m wide. Forest Range officer (Ramanathapuram) S. Sathish said the animal could have collided against a rock as it showed signs of internal bleeding. There were no signs of external injuries, ruling out any possibility of a boat-related accident or poaching. The carcass was buried in a pit on the seashore after bleaching powder and acid were sprinkled on it. Assistant Conservator of Forest A. Ganesalingam and Palk Bay wildlife warden A. S. Marimuthu were present during the postmortem. The whale shark, among the most endangered species in the world, has been spotted around seven times in the Gulf of Mannar region and once in Palk Bay area, Mr. Sathish said. There were only around 7,000 whale sharks in the seas. Despite being the largest fish, it was an endangered species. It could grow up to 12 m and had 3,000 teeth, which were not used for hunting as they feed on planktons and eggs of fish. Much like the tiger’s stripes, each whale shark had its own distinct dot patterns. “Carcasses of three whale sharks have washed ashore,” the officer said. “A sub-adult was rescued and rehabilitated. Since the animal is listed under Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, it must be protected. We request fishermen to let us know if there are any sightings in the future.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/whale-shark-washed-ashore/article31770704.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pvt. school ‘blocks’ students from online classes||A private school in Coimbatore has blocked 15 students from its online classes as a punitive measure for the alleged derogatory messages posted by their parents against the school. M. Aruna, mother of two Class IV students at the school in Vadavalli, said that her children were unable to log in from June 3 for the online classes, which is being conducted for students of Classes I to V from June 1. In a letter addressed to District Collector K. Rajamani, a copy of which she shared with The Hindu , she alleged that the class teacher also removed her from a WhatsApp group meant for communication of “academic details to the parents” by the school. An official from the school reportedly told her, “The management instructed me to remove list of parents from the group and also not to permit their kids to attend online classes because those parents have posted message in social media against the school (sic),” she said in the letter. However, Ms. Aruna denied posting anything derogatory against the school on social media platforms. “I was added to a parents association group which was a discussion forum among the parents (sic),” she claimed in the letter, adding that she shared a media report regarding online classes in the group. When contacted, a senior official from the school said that 10 parents were allegedly circulating messages in WhatsApp group against online classes conducted by the school. Once the school management came to know about these messages, they instructed the teachers to not allow the children of these 10 parents, he said. “We are not against the children,” the official said, claiming that missing these classes will not affect their academic performance as it is not mandatory. The 10 parents must write a letter explaining the situation to the school principal, following which the students will be allowed to participate in the online classes again, according to the official. Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer P. Usha said that the issue has come to her notice and an inquiry is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pvt-school-blocks-students-from-online-classes/article31770526.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till June 6   No. of persons tested +ve so far: 158 No. of persons recovered: 145 No. of persons died: 1 No. of active cases: 11 (Another death cross-notified to Kerala)    House quarantined: 1,304 Positive: 114 (No fresh cases on June 6) Discharged: 114 (No active cases)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district/article31770523.ece
07 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Maharashtra returnee dies in Belagavi dist.||A 50-year-old man from Kattanbavi village in Belagavi district died of a heart ailment in the district designated COVID-19 hospital on Saturday. As a Maharashtra returnee, he had completed institutional quarantine of seven days and had gone home to observe week-long quarantine. His relatives brought him to the district hospital after he complained of chest pain on Thursday. He died on Saturday. Doctors say he had no symptoms of COVID-19. Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli said that his throat swab was collected on Friday and sent for testing and his test result was expected on Sunday. Till now, only one old woman with co-morbidities, had died in Belagavi district (in April).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/maharashtra-returnee-dies-in-belagavi-dist/article31770582.ece
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Only 2.12 lakh drivers apply for compensation||While announcing the one-time compensation of Rs. 5,000 for auto and taxi drivers, the State government had estimated that 7.5 lakh drivers could benefit from the COVID-19 relief package announced by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. More than 15 days after the Transport Department started receiving applications on ‘Seva Sindhu’, only 2.12 lakh drivers had availed of the benefit as of Saturday. Drivers unions have demanded the State government relax certain rules so that more drivers can benefit. Transport Commissioner N. Shivakumar told The Hindu that around 40,000 drivers have received the money. When asked why the number of applicants was lower than the projected number, he said it was difficult to give a reason. “In the coming days, the number may increase,” he said. Of the applications received, only 700 have been rejected. “The department has approached the State government for permission to allow drivers to apply online till the end of June,” Mr. Shivakumar said. Taxi driver Gangadaraiah received Rs. 5,000 on June 5. “I had applied for compensation on May 23. I earned nothing for two months,” he said. Even though restrictions have eased, business remains down. “I hardly get two bookings per day. Compensation announced by the State government is not sufficient. I request the Central government to help the drivers by announcing compensation. I have no income to pay my EMI, tax and house rent,” he said. Drivers’ unions have demanded that the State simplify eligibility rules. The president of Namma Chalakara Trade Union K. Somashekar said, “We had requested the State government to relax several norms. In cities like Bengaluru, it’s common for two drivers to drive one vehicle, and both should be eligible for compensation. Relaxing certain conditions will help a large number of drivers in the State,” he said. Drivers have also demanded the State government relax the rules on providing vehicle Fitness Certificates to claim compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/only-212-lakh-drivers-apply-for-compensation/article31770445.ece
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lockdown, rains, predictions of dull festive season have potters worried||Potters in the city are at risk of losing their livelihood as not only were they unable to work during the lockdown during the otherwise busy summer season, but with the onset of the rains, they are looking at further losses due the unavailability of raw material. “I was optimistic this summer as earthen and decorative clay products usually see a high demand in March, April and May due to weddings. But the lockdown was enforced, marriages and parties were cancelled and I suffered huge losses,” said M. Srinivas, who runs a pottery shop on Kummara Street in K.R. Puram. Traditional potters in Bengaluru usually work for six to seven months in summer and ahead of Ganesha Chaturti and Diwali. Many feel it’s unlikely that business will pick up after the monsoon as people are not spending money with the number of COVID-19 cases showing no signs of decline. “We don’t think Ganesha Chaturti and Diwali will be bright and colourful,” said a potter. Potters in the city source clay from various districts, including the neighbouring Kolar. Due to the complete lockdown from the last week of March to May, it was difficult for them to source clay and other raw material. “Our kilns are running out of wood for us to burn or glaze our products. Hence, the whole process has been hit and we are clueless on what to do,” said a claymaker on Old Madras Road. Unable to sell their products, potters have stacked their wares in their homes and godowns. S. Nanjundappa of ‘Kumbara Karakushala Kaigarika Sangha’ in New Pottery Town says their homes and godowns are filled with unsold products including earthen pots and other decorative items. “Until someone buys them, we won’t have enough space to start new work. Our earning season has also passed,” he said. Potters like Nanjundappa feel that the government should actively encourage and promote handicrafts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-rains-predictions-of-dull-festive-season-have-potters-worried/article31770423.ece
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Trade unions oppose changes to bylaws, petition State govt.||Terming the changes brought to the bylaws that diluted the qualification for the post of the director of the Karnataka State Labour Institute (KSLI) during the COVID-19 pandemic as “illegal”, trade unions have urged the State government to restore the original bylaws in the interest of the State. Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) has petitioned Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Chief Secretary T.M. Vijaybhaskar against the amendments, and would also seek a legal recourse. The All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) has also taken a strong objection to the amendment to the bylaws, and has written to the Labour Secretary in this connection. The AITUC too plans to approach the court against the amendments. Meanwhile, post the amendment, the Labour Department has called for applications from suitable candidates for the post, and the last date for applying for the director’s post is June 9.   ‘No meeting called’ “The changes have been brought during the time of the pandemic and that too without convening the general body meeting to modify the bylaws, which is illegal. This has been done to favour one officer,” alleged C.V. Lokesh of the BMS. In fact, he pointed out, that senior officials, including Additional Chief Secretary Rajkumar Khatri and Principal Secretary Shalini Rajaneesh, who are on the board, have not signed the “circular resolution” which has been passed during the pandemic. Similarly, the National Law School of India University, which is the founding partner of the institute, has also opposed the amendments brought to the bylaws, he added. With the amendment to the bylaws, the qualification for the post of the director, which mandated for a person to have a Ph.D with research and teaching experience, has been changed to accommodate retired IAS officer who held the position of the Commissioner or Secretary of the Labour Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trade-unions-oppose-changes-to-bylaws-petition-state-govt/article31770453.ece
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Garment workers stage protest||Nearly 150 garment workers staged a protest in front of a garment factory on Mysore Road on Saturday. Pramila Naidu, chairperson, Karnataka State Commission for Women, intervened, held multiple rounds of talks and brokered peace, said a statement from the commission. These workers reside in Mandya. The factory provided for transport from Mandya before the lockdown, which they discontinued. “We workers - all 150 of us - reside in various villages of Mandya district. The company recruited us a year ago promising transport every day, which they provided. However, when the factory reopened in the first week of May, the transport facility was not resumed. None of us could return to work, which has eventually cost us the pay for May,” said Mamata, a garment worker at the protest. Those who protested on Saturday, wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, demanded the resumption of transport facilities. Following the intervention by Karnataka State Commission for Women, the company agreed to get the workers KSRTC bus passes and reimburse all the transport costs they incur to travel to work. “They said the business was under stress and they couldn’t run a bus every day, but agreed to reimburse the costs. While they agreed to pay the full salary for April when the factory was closed, they are unwilling to pay us the salary for May, when we were unable to work. For now, we will resume work from Monday,” Ms. Mamata said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/garment-workers-stage-protest/article31770428.ece
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Panel finds proposal on treatment cost for scheme patients ‘reasonable’||The cost of COVID-19 treatment for asymptomatic patients from the below poverty line (BPL) families is likely to be fixed at Rs. 5,200 a day under the Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka (AB-ArK) health insurance scheme. This rate — which is part of a proposal submitted by the Federation of Healthcare Associations of Karnataka (FHA-K) to the government — has been recommended as “reasonable” by an eight-member committee set up by the government on June 4 to do a costing study of COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals. The committee, however, has recommended that the ceiling of the rates proposed for non AB-ArK patients (cash and private insurance patients) should be slashed by 20%. The FHA-K, jointly with the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) and the State unit of the Association of Healthcare Providers of India (AHPI), had earlier this week submitted a costing proposal to the government both for those covered under the AB-ArK and other private insurance schemes and those paying cash. ‘Excludes COVID testing’ Nagendra Swamy S.C., FHA-K principal coordinator, said the proposal by private hospitals factors in the PPE cost and excludes COVID-19 testing. The COVID-19 test required prior to discharge costs Rs. 2,250 if the government pays it. Otherwise, it costs Rs. 4,500 in a private testing lab. “The treatment cost has been proposed at Rs. 7,000 if the patient needs oxygen support in a ward, at Rs. 8,500 in an isolation ICU (without ventilator) and at Rs. 10,000 if admitted in the ICU with a ventilator. All these costs are inclusive of PPE and routine drugs and investigations,” Dr. Nagendra Swamy said. “The number of days of hospitalisation will not be the same for every patient. Hence, we have fixed it on a daily basis. However, the price does not include the cost of treatment of comorbidities. High-end drugs and plasma therapy will be charged at actuals,” he said. Similarly, for private insurance and cash paying patients, the treatment cost has been proposed at Rs. 15,000 in a general ward, Rs. 20,000 in a ward with oxygen support, Rs. 25,000 in an isolation ICU without a ventilator, and Rs. 35,000 in an ICU with a ventilator. Sources said the committee headed by N.T. Abroo, executive director of the Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST), which implements the State’s health insurance schemes, met on Saturday and recommended that the price quoted by the FHA-K for AB-ArK patients is “reasonable” and hence can be “accepted” by the government. “We studied the costing model adopted by Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and Punjab. The proposal by the FHA-K for AB-ArK patients is “acceptable” as it includes PPE and other consumables apart from bed charges and routine investigations. The committee unanimously agreed to recommend that the rates for AB-ArK patients can be accepted,” said a member of the committee. “For non-AB-ArK patients, the ceiling should be slashed by at least 20% as the rates are higher when compared with that in other States,” the member said. The proceedings of Saturday’s meeting will be sent to the government and placed before the COVID-19 Task Force that is scheduled to meet on Monday. A final decision will be taken after that, the member added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panel-finds-proposal-on-treatment-cost-for-scheme-patients-reasonable/article31770455.ece
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vendors prey on fear of virus, sell school-branded masks to parents||With the State government proposing that schools can reopen in July in a phased manner, parents are being flooded with calls from vendors of masks and sanitisers. Many of these vendors are using the names and logos of schools to sell their products. Parents claim that the marketing tactics used by manufacturers are aggressive to the point of playing on their worst fears that their children will contract the virus. They are also selling the products at almost double the rate. For instance, masks that cost Rs. 200 are being sold for Rs. 400. “Some vendors even claim that they are representing the school,” said one parent. However, school managements have decided to distance themselves from this issue. Following complaints from parents, the Delhi Public School sent a message to parents of their six schools that they are not associated with any vendor selling products with the DPS logo. “It has been brought to our notice that some agencies are using the school's name and logo to sell products like masks and sanitisers. Kindly note that the school is not associated with such vendors. Please refrain from falling prey to these anti-social elements who see an opportunity in such adverse circumstances,” the DPS management said in a message to parents. The management has also filed a complaint at Kumaraswamy Layout and Varthur police stations requesting action against those who are misusing the school’s name and besmirching its reputation. Santhosh S., a parent of a class nine student who studies in a CBSE school in north Bengaluru, said that uniform vendors too are selling masks along with the uniforms, tie and belt. “They are saying that it comes as a set and we need to buy the entire set. The mask alone costs Rs. 450,” he said. Parents have no choice but to buy uniforms as many schools have insisted that students wear them even while attending online classes. “I don't plan to send my son to school for the next few months even if school commences. Hence, I don't see the need to buy the mask,” said Mr. Santosh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vendors-prey-on-fear-of-virus-sell-school-branded-masks-to-parents/article31770433.ece
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New rules notified for recruitment of gazetted probationers||The State government has notified new rules for the recruitment of gazetted probationers, and under the new rules, the interview board members should record the reasons for award of marks for candidates in the personality test of either less than 40% or more than 80%. “Provided that, in case marks so awarded in the personality test is less than 40% or exceeds 80%, the interview board members shall record the reasons for such award,” said a notification issued by the government. The government framed new rules under the Karnataka Recruitment of Gazetted Probationers (Appointment by Competitive Examinations) (Amendment) Rules, 2020. Allegations These changes have gained significance in the light of several allegations of irregularities in evaluation of candidates during the interview. CID inquiry into the 2011 batch recruitment had also indicated irregularities during the interview process. Being the most subjective part of the evaluation, the interview process has seen multiple reforms being introduced. The erstwhile Siddaramaiah-led Congress government had introduced a set of reforms, based on the recommendations of the P.C. Hota Committee Report, introducing subject experts on the interview panel and restricting the number of interviews to be conducted per day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-rules-notified-for-recruitment-of-gazetted-probationers/article31770452.ece
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Deshpande urges Centre to expedite Hubballi-Ankola rail line||Congress leader and former Industries Minister R.V. Deshpande has urged the Centre to expedite work on the controversial broad-gauge railway line between Hubballi and Ankola for the development of North Karnataka. This line has faced opposition from environmentalists, who argue that it will result in the destruction of forests in the region. Mr. Deshpande said in a letter to Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar that this railway line can play a catalytic role in the development of North Karnataka, which is acknowledged as a backward region. At the 14th meeting of the State wildlife board on March 20, it was recommended that 595.64 hectares of forest land in Karwar, Yellapur and Dharwad divisions be diverted for laying the broad-gauge rail line. “Such being the case, I request you to accord sanction for diversion of forest land for this rail link,” the Congress leader said. In a two-page plea to the Centre, Mr. Deshpande said that in 1997-98, the Railway Ministry had sanctioned laying the broad-gauge rail line from Hubballi to Ankola for around 168 km, linking Hubballi with the existing Konkan Railway line. This was to provide a direct rail link from the North Karnataka hinterland to the west coast of the State. The initial work on a portion of the track up to Kalaghatagi has already been done, he said. Former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee laid the foundation stone for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deshpande-urges-centre-to-expedite-hubballi-ankola-rail-line/article31770458.ece
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kharge to file nomination papers tomorrow||Veteran Congress leader M. Mallikarjun Kharge will file his nomination papers for the biennial elections to the Rajya Sabha on Monday. Elections to four Rajya Sabha seats will be held on June 19. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president-designate D.K. Shivakumar told presspesons that no supporters and party workers should come to Bengaluru on the day Mr. Kharge files his papers. The last day for filing nomination is June 9 and the deadline for withdrawal is June 12. Mr. Shivakumar said he would take charge of party affairs officially at an event on June 14 and preparations have been made for it. Restrictions in place Meanwhile, Legislative Assembly Secretary M.K. Vishalakshi said that in view of COVID-19, only five leaders, including the contesting candidate, would be allowed in at the time of filing of nomination papers. She said mediapersons and cameramen would not be allowed inside. Social distancing and other norms should be followed during the filing of nomination papers and the conduct of elections, she said. However, mediapersons can speak to the contesting candidates on the corridors of the State Secretariat. She had written to the Health and Family Welfare Department to deploy a doctor and other personnel for conducting thermal testing of all the people entering the Secretariat during the filing of nomination papers. The Secretary said she had not received any nomination till Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kharge-to-file-nomination-papers-tomorrow/article31770460.ece
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police station sanitised||Health Department officials on Saturday sanitised J.B. Nagar police station and sent 24 staff to be quarantined after an accused in custody tested positive for COVID-19. On June 1, the police had arrested a man in a sexual harassment case. He underwent a medical examination, and took a COVID-19 test. On June 5, it was learned that he had tested positive. The accused has been put in institutional quarantine. Two more suspects in different cases, who had been detained at the time, have also been tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-station-sanitised/article31770446.ece
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Number of containment zones up to 45||With 18 cases reported in the city on Saturday, the number of containment zones have gone up to 45 as of June 6. In one day, the BBMP has identified five new containment zones. The West zone has the highest number of containment zones with 11, followed by Mahadevapura zone having eight, East zone with seven, Bommanahalli zone with six and South zone with five containment zones. There are three containment zones in Yelahanka, four in Rajarajeshwarinagar and one in Dasarahalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/number-of-containment-zones-up-to-45/article31770434.ece
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Crack down on usage of fake e-way bills: CM||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday directed officials of the Commercial Taxes Department to inspect and initiate strict action by imposing fines on transport companies involved in the misuse of e-way bills and other illegal activities. He reviewed the status of tax collection in the department and instructed officials to take stringent action on the usage of duplicate e-way bills and misuse ofthe provided time limit for transport of goods. Accordingly, the number of road vigilance teams has been increased from 77 to 116. These teams have inspected 2.89 lakh transport vehicles and 7.46 lakh e-way bills. Out of this, 300 unlawful cases have been found and Rs. 6.21 crore collected in tax and fines. The Chief Minister directed officials to hold a survey of dealers doing transactions worth more than Rs. 40 lakh and a survey of commercial complexes in big cities which collect monthly rents of more than Rs. 20 lakh. The officials said Rs. 4,313.13 crore has been released by the Centre as Goods and Services Tax compensation for the period of December-February in 2019-20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crack-down-on-usage-of-fake-e-way-bills-cm/article31770456.ece
07 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||School holds drive-thru graduation ceremony for students||The Class of 2020 of Canadian International School (CIS) were given a farewell at a ‘Drive Through’ graduation event on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/school-holds-drive-thru-graduation-ceremony-for-students/article31770447.ece
07 June 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||All discharged in Chikkamagaluru||The Chikkamagaluru district has become free from confirmed cases of COVID-19. All 16 persons who tested positive were discharged on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautam informed the media that 18 cases were reported in the district. Among them, two turned out to be false negative. The remaining 16 underwent treatment. “As on today, there are no cases in the district,” he said. The officer appealed to the public to maintain social distancing and wear masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-discharged-in-chikkamagaluru/article31770591.ece
07 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Schools reopening: Kuberappa seeks setting up education experts’ panel||Taking exception to reopening of schools and colleges amid COVID-19 pandemic without proper consultation with stakeholders and experts, Congress candidate for Karnataka West Graduates’ Constituency R.M. Kuberappa urged the State government to constitute a committee of educational experts and hold consultations. Addressing presspersons here on Saturday, Mr. Kuberappa said at a time when parents were concerned about their children, the Department of Public Instruction had asked the teachers to go to school. “It has also directed them to bring children to schools by convincing the parents. This is nothing but yielding to the lobby of private educational institutions and not development of education. The Education Minister should act responsibly,” he said. ‘Take stock’ Referring to universities contemplating on providing online education to students, he said not all had smartphones and Internet facilities and the Higher Education Minister should take proper stock of the situation before taking any step. However, the Higher Education Minister was not stepping out of Bengaluru, he said. On the practical problems faced by PU college teachers to go to Bengaluru to take up evaluation of PU answerscripts, Mr. Kuberappa said it was difficult for them because of pandemic. “Steps should be taken to decentralise evaluation,” he said.   Mr. Kuberappa said the Congress had appealed to the Election Commission to fix the dates for elections to the graduates’ and teachers’ constituencies and he hoped that a decision would be taken in a week’s time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-reopening-kuberappa-seeks-setting-up-education-experts-panel/article31770584.ece
07 June 2020||K.C. Deepika,KARNATAKA||Hotels gear up to reopen with new SOPs||In the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic, the hospitality industry will open its doors to patrons tomorrow in a scenario not experienced before. The tourism sector, too, is slowly awakening with the Karnataka government gearing up to welcome visitors and guests, under guarded circumstances. The State government released a set of guidelines for the industry on Saturday for tourists, popular tourist destinations and those affiliated with the tourism sector such as transport operators. Apart from necessary COVID-19 protocol involving social distancing and sanitisation, the guidelines have also announced COVID-19 Crisis Management Teams for tourist destinations and accommodations. The long list of dos and don’ts are expected to change the way travel happens in a lot of ways - from check-in and room service to dining and sightseeing. In addition, the industry too has started taking measures to adapt to the new situation. State-run Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC) hotels are set to open in a phased manner with half occupancy. Kumar Pushkar, MD, KSTDC said only four hotels of 20 will be opened in the first phase to enable efficient staff training and sanitisation and disinfection of premises. The first bookings are open for KSTDC properties at Madikeri, Mysuru, Badami and Kumara Krupa - Bengaluru. “We will be starting with 50% occupancy only, mainly because once guests check out, we can disinfect the premises more thoroughly. The training is also an important aspect of how to behave, how to monitor touch point sanitisation, etc., as we don’t want any hotel to become points of infection,” Mr. Pushkar explained. With some sectors, such as doctor and dental clinics, hiking prices to cover safety costs, will there be an impact on hotel tariffs too? Mr. Pushkar said the hotel industry ecosystem is competitive and dynamic, wherein prices increase with demand. “But we can’t increase rates now as that would be discouraging people to travel. We are looking at generating some kind of revenue. Once functional, then we will see. There has been very good demand for jungle lodges already. But there could be hesitation initially to travel,” he said. The private tourism sector, too, is cautiously opening their doors to visitors. An OYO spokesperson told The Hindu that the precautionary measures being implemented include minimal touch policies, ensuring accessibility to protective equipment, higher standards of hygiene, cleanliness and sanitisation. “We have trained 1,000 hotel partners under this programme. We aim to implement these measures across 18,000 hotels in India in the coming weeks,” said a spokesperson for the company. Hoteliers are expecting a growing preference for staycations where travellers would prefer independent boutique hotels with limited capacity. “We can also expect domestic travel to boom as restrictions continue on international travel across most destinations,” the spokesperson added. Zubin Saxena, MD and VP, Operations, South Asia, Radisson Hotel Group, said that have developed new standard operating procedures (SOPs), a 20-step protocol for hotels and a 10-step protocol for meetings and events. “There is no doubt that people will begin to travel again soon. Over the past decades, hospitality brands have earned the trust of their guests for comfortable stays. Now, this needs to be extended to personal health and hygiene. As soon as the industry can establish this, people will step out and travel again,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hotels-gear-up-to-reopen-with-new-sops/article31770431.ece
07 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Agriculture facilitators demand more honorarium||Agriculture facilitators across the State will stage a protest outside Raitha Samparka Kendras on Tuesday demanding reinstatement of facilitators and revision of monthly honorarium to Rs. 10,000. President of the Shramajeevigala Vedike, Chandrashekar Hiremath, said over 5,000 agriculture facilitators were entitled to Rs. 5,250 a month as salary during their recruitment, but they were only receiving Rs. 4,000 a month now. The government recruited 5,000 facilitators in 2009 across the State to act as a link between farmers and the department, to educate farmers to get better yield, and also enlighten them about government schemes. Mr. Hiremath said that agriculture facilitators would not give up the protest until their demand was fulfilled. The agitators will follow social distancing and only four from each district will participate in the protest and submit a memorandum to Chief Minister B.S.Yediyurappa through the district administration, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/agriculture-facilitators-demand-more-honorarium/article31770585.ece
07 June 2020||KALABURAGI/Vijayapura/Yadgir/Hubballi/Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Bidar, Vijayapura record two COVID-19 deaths||As many as two deaths owing to COVID-19 have been reported in Bidar and Vijayapura. In Bidar, a 55-year-old woman [P-1951] died on Friday. As per a bulletin from the Department of Health and Family Welfare on Saturday, the patient was admitted as a case of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) on May 16. The district also saw 33 persons discharged, bringing down its active cases to 135.  In Vijayapura, the samples of an 82-year-old woman, who died on May 27, tested positive on Saturday.  Yadgir district saw 103 cases on Saturday and all of them are returnees from Maharashtra. The total number of cases recorded in the district is 476. Of this, 68 have been discharged and one person died. In Raichur, two persons tested positive. With this, the number of cases reached 358.  Kalaburagi district reported 69 new cases on Saturday, taking the total number of positive cases to 621, including seven deaths. However, the district also saw 38 persons discharged. The total number of active cases in the district is 448. According to officials, all new cases have a travel history to Maharashtra. In Dharwad district, six patients , including four of a family, were discharged from KIMS Hospital in Hubballi. According to officials, the family had a travel history to Maharashtra and two others had returned from Telangana. On Saturday, three more positive cases were reported in Dharwad district taking the total number to 57. The district has 23 active cases. Dakshina Kannada reported 24 cases and includes returnees from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Turkey, and the U.A.E.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bidar-vijayapura-record-two-covid-19-deaths/article31770587.ece
07 June 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Book on COVID-19 released||Dentist and District Home Guard Commandant Murali Mohan Choontharu brought out a handbook on COVID-19 ‘Sankalpa-2020’, which was released on Saturday. “COVID-19 is here to stay. We need to live with it by exercising necessary precautions and improving our lifestyle, immunity,” he said at the book release in Mangaluru Press Club. The book gives information on social distancing, wearing of masks and ways of improving immunity. It also gives information about thermal scanning, quarantine, use of the hyroxychloroquine, plasma therapy, herd immunity, and use of ventilators. “Free copies are being given to all Primary Health Centres and government schools,” Dr. Choontharu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/book-on-covid-19-released/article31770590.ece
07 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Hospitality industry hit by low footfall in Mysuru||The hotel industry in Mysuru and Kodagu, which banks on tourism for its revenue, is in dire straits with zero footfall since the lockdown as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic. With the peak tourism season having passed, the sector is gripped by deep financial crisis. Many cash-strapped hotels are planning to wind up business run in rented buildings, unable to pay high rentals, staff salaries, and power bills. In Mysuru city, over 120 hotels are run in rented properties. A prominent ‘star-rated’ hotel in Mysuru became the first casualty recently as it closed its operations. Many may follow suit, industry insiders opine. “A small percent of hotels are run in own buildings here. If the rent for April and May is not waived, many will be forced to shut shop. There is no point running hotels when there are no tourists. Also, running hotels post-COVID-19 seems exceedingly unviable since business is not assured for the next six months at least,” said C. Narayana Gowda, president of Mysuru Hotel Owners’ Association. He told The Hindu that hoteliers were keeping their fingers crossed and hoping that things would become normal from June 8. “Hoteliers are uncertain of bookings but are looking at 25% business in restaurants. The next one-and-a-half year will be tough,” he felt. Mysuru city alone has 9,500 rooms that are vacant. Restaurants are offering parcel services and urging the government to permit them to operate full scale. The situation for Kodagu hotel industry is worse than Mysuru. The district has been hit by crisis for the third successive year. After floods and landslips, it’s COVID-19 this year. Many hotels in Kodagu are up for sale but are finding no takers. Families banking on tourism revenue for their livelihood are in debt. As many as 5,500 hotel rooms and 25,000-30,000 rooms in homestays remain unoccupied. “Many hoteliers are not keen to run operations at least for the next year. About 50-60% hotels in Kodagu are run in rented properties by people from Kerala and many are planning to suspend business. For us, 2020 is over and we are looking at 2021,” said B.R. Nagendra Prasad, Kodagu Hotels, Resorts and Restaurants’ Association. “Waiver of rent, fixed power bills and cut in property tax has been sought. The rental fee runs into lakhs of rupees. If at least two months’ rent is waived, the industry can survive,” he said. Kodagu is known for homestays and about 40-50% operate in rented properties. People from Kerala, Telangana and Bengaluru also run them. “A prominent resort near Kushalnagar needs about Rs. 30 lakh a month to sustain its property. Premium properties are also facing the heat. Business will never be like before,” a hotelier argued. Industry insiders said, “If restaurants are asked to close early for a few more months because of the pandemic, it is pointless to be in the food business.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hospitality-industry-hit-by-low-footfall-in-mysuru/article31770426.ece
07 June 2020||Mysuru/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State zoos to reopen tomorrow||After a gap of nearly three months, the century-old Mysuru Zoo is reopening for visitors on Monday. Other zoos in the State, including the Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP) and Tyavarekoppa Lion and Tiger Safari, too will reopen. BBP will have a revised carrying capacity for the zoo, Butterfly Park and Safari. Non-AC vehicles will be used for safaris and the bus will run with half occupancy. Tickets will be available only online on the park website. (https://bannerghattabiologicalpark.org) The Zoo Authority of Karnataka had urged the government to consider reopening of the zoos in the State with the easing of lockdown curbs and accordingly they had been permitted to restart operations from June 8 with all safety precautions in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-zoos-to-reopen-tomorrow/article31770437.ece
07 June 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Acquire land to set up industries: Raichur DC||R. Venkatesh Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, has said that the Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board ( KIADB) should expeditiously acquire the necessary land to develop the industrial sector in Raichur district. He was addressing a meeting of officials here on Friday. Mr. Venkatesh Kumar told Prakash, Assistant Development Officer of KIADB, that 690 acres of land are required to set up various industries. Hence, officials should take up the issue with the higher authorities in Bengaluru, he added. “Raichur needs industries so that the district can be developed and local youths can get jobs,” he said. The district administration has already written to the authorities but there has been no reply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/acquire-land-to-set-up-industries-raichur-dc/article31770595.ece
07 June 2020||Udupi,KARNATAKA||Udupi tops State in number of cases for three days in a row||For three days in a row, Udupi district has topped in the number of COVID-19 cases reported among all the districts in the State — 92 cases on Thursday, 204 on Friday, and 121 on Saturday. Once in green zone, the coastal district has seen a big spike since mid-May in COVID-19 cases. The district had recorded only three cases from March 29 to May 14. The total number of people who had tested positive in the district since March has touched 889. Presently, there are 785 active cases in the district. Over 12,500 people have been tested in the district since March. In droves The increase in the number of cases is owing to a large number of people, who are natives of Udupi district but working in other States (mostly Maharashtra), returning to the district. Nearly 7,000 people returned in just four days — from May 11 to 14. Nearly 95% of those who have tested positive for COVID-19 are from Maharashtra. According to Vishu Shetty Ambalpady, a social worker, a large number of returnees worked in hotels as waiters, supervisors, managers, and cooks. People of Udupi are well-known in the restaurant business across India. There are also those working in different capacities in various factories, and industrial and other units in Mumbai. They have returned to the district in droves. Two requests To deal with the situation, the district administration has put two requests before the State government — first, it should permit staggered arrivals of returnees from others States, especially Maharashtra, so that it will be possible to manage the cases; and second, it should permit home quarantine for the returnees. “This is because it will be difficult to manage the institutional quarantine centres during the monsoon. The government is yet to take a decision on it,” said G. Jagadeesha, Deputy Commissioner. Presently, about 200 people are coming to the district by train daily. To deal with the returnees, all the 158 gram panchayats have been directed to have one quarantine centre each to accommodate 50 people. The six urban local bodies in the district have been directed to have three quarantine centres each, all with a capacity of 100. Already there are about 300 quarantine centres in the district. P.V. Bhandary, psychiatrist and social activist, said the district administration should plan well to deal with the next phase of returnees, especially with regard to the quarantine centres. “It should take more schools and choultries for quarantine centres so that proper distancing is maintained between the people there. The returnees should not be shunned; after all, they are our people,” he said. Mr. Ambalpady said that some persons in institutional quarantine have been found roaming around and this could lead to spreading of COVID-19 in the district. “The administration should take stern action against such violations,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-tops-state-in-number-of-cases-for-three-days-in-a-row/article31770450.ece
07 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Krishna Temple to open after about a month||Though all temples in Udupi district will reopen on Monday, the Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple will remain closed to devotees for about a month. In a video message, Ishapriya Tirtha Swami of Paryaya Admar Mutt, said on Saturday that the Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple had decided to study the situation for the next 20 to 30 days and then decide on reopening the temple for devotees. If the temple was reopened on Monday, then devotees from Bengaluru and other places would come to visit. The health of both devotees and staff was important. “The worshipping of Lord Krishna is being done by seers of the Ashta Mutts for the last eight centuries. We do not want to break this tradition,” he said. “We have daily expenses of over Rs. 1.2 lakh. Nearly 200 persons work at the temple. We have been providing food for staff of the Health Department and 200 other persons daily,” the seer said. Meanwhile, Sadashiva Prabhu, Additional Deputy Commissioner, said temples in Udupi district would reopen for the public from June 8 as per directions of the Centre. In a release, he said it was incumbent on devotees to wear mask and wash their hands with soap at the facilities provided outside the temple. They should maintain social distance inside the temple. Devotees entering the temples would have to undergo thermal scanning.  Those with fever, cold, cough and other symptoms would not be allowed to enter temples. Devotees can only have ‘darshan’ of the deity and should not bring flowers, fruits and other offerings. Those above 65 years and below 10, and pregnant women should avoid coming. Footwear should be left in their vehicles, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krishna-temple-to-open-after-about-a-month/article31770592.ece
07 June 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Business of clay water pot sellers hit hard||Sellers of earthen pots in North Karnataka make good sales of their ware during the summer months. But this year, most of summer coinciding with the lockdown period has meant a complete loss of business fir them. Four months ago, Kallappa Kumbar had spent around Rs. 1.5 lakh to buy clay pots from different areas including Bagalkot and Belagavi to sell them during summers. “March, April and May are months when clay pots are in high demand as many people use them to keep water cool. Many people, despite having refrigerator, still prefer to drink from clay pots. But owing to the lockdown, I have lost all business,” he said. He does not know how to pay his suppliers. Another seller said that as against the usual sale of 500 to 600 pots during the season, they could not sell even 100. They said that even the present stock of pots can’t be stored for a year as they could lose quality or get damaged. Some of them have taken to selling plastic pots, which do not get damaged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nk-clay-pot-sellers-unable-to-do-business-this-summer/article31770424.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Main lanes of Jayadeva flyover reduced to dust||One of the major landmarks of the city, Jayadeva flyover, will be reduced to dust in a few days. The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has completed the task of demolishing the main lanes of the flyover, and only a few piers are left for removal. The 15-year-old flyover was built at a cost of Rs. 21 crore by the Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA). The BMRCL had identified the flyover for demolition to build a multi-level intersection metro station. BMRCL Chief PRO B.L. Yeshwanth Chavan told The Hindu that the demolition generated 6,000 cubic metres of debris, which has been dumped in a quarry identified by the BBMP in Chikkajala. “Main lanes of the flyover, including a loop, have been demolished, and only a few piers remain. They will be cleared within a few days,” he said. After missing several deadlines in the past, in 2019, the BMRCL decided to take up the work of demolition in a phased manner. Last July, a loop of the flyover used by motorists coming from Bannerghatta Road to reach the Central Silk Board was demolished. In January 2020, the BMRCL started demolition of the main lanes. Due to lockdown, work was stalled for a short time, but BMRCL resumed the demolition on April 23 taking the necessary safety precautions. Prior to starting demolition work, the traffic police had imposed traffic diversions in the area and congestion was a nightmare for motorists. As per the plan, the BMRCL is building a multi-level metro station at the junction that will also accommodate a road-cum-metro flyover towards Silk Board ( R.V. Road and Bommasandra metro line). “The contractor of the metro project has already built pillars for the road-cum-metro flyover on either side of the flyover. After completing demolition work, other metro station projects will start,” said Mr. Chavan. Once the Phase II Namma Metro project is completed, from Jayadeva intersection station people can use the metro to travel towards Silk Board, M.G. Road, R.V. Road station and Gottigere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/main-lanes-of-jayadeva-flyover-reduced-to-dust/article31770443.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mobile application for real time information on weather||The next time it rains and you find yourself wondering which route to take to avoid floods, you may be able to access real-time information on your phone. The ‘Bengaluru Megha Sandesha’, a mobile app, promises to provide real-time information and alerts on weather, rainfall, flooding in Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) jurisdiction. It was launched by Revenue Minister R. Ashoka on Saturday. The app provides data on three main modules – live weather, forecast, and safe routes. While live weather and forecast tabs provide location based information on prevailing temperature, rainfall, wind speed and direction, the safe route tab provides information on live rainfall and road inundation on all probable routes (location to destination). Along with the app, a web portal ‘Varunamitra’ was also launched. The bilingual app, in Kannada and English, has been developed by the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Management Centre (KSNDMC) in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.), BengaluEru. Mr. Ashoka said that the app provides data from 100 Telemetric Rain Gauges (TRG), 12 telemetric weather stations (TWS) and water level sensors installed and maintained at various locations. “Both, the app and the web portal, will help people and civic agencies to tackle rain related issues,” he said. An emergency tab will enable citizens to connect with BBMP emergency control rooms. Safety tips on Dos and Dont’s during rain and flooding will be provided, a KSNDMC official said. Varunamitra portal The government also launched ‘Varunamitra’, a dedicated web portal for weather information in BBMP areas. It will also provide details on flood vulnerable areas in each zone. It has a real-time weather dashboard that provides zone wise weather information, location specific rainfall and inundation, and colour coded information on flood severity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mobile-application-for-real-time-information-on-weather/article31770439.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BCU reduces affiliation fee by 10%||Bengaluru Central University has decided to reduce the affiliation fee for colleges under its jurisdiction by 10% for the academic year 2020-21. The annual affiliation fee is usually increased by 10% every year. However, considering the prevailing situation owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, the university has decided not to increase the fee this year. Instead, it has planned to reduce the amount to ease the burden on colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bcu-reduces-affiliation-fee-by-10/article31770440.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||In one voice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-one-voice/article31770436.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||All set||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-set/article31770594.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ready to reopen||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ready-to-reopen/article31770462.ece
07 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Protest against mineral sand mining at Thottappally||Protest is brewing over mineral sand mining at Thottappally in Purakkad grama panchayat. On Friday, the police arrested 18 people, including Purakkad grama panchayat president Rahumath Hamid, for blocking trucks transporting mineral sand to the unit of the Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd (KMML) at Chavara. Last month, as per a State government decision, around 550 trees in the possession of the Irrigation Department close to the Thottappally pozhi (sandbar) had been cut down by invoking various sections under the Disaster Management Act. Widening pozhi According to the government, the trees were chopped to widen and deepen the mouth of the pozhi to ensure smooth flow of water from Kuttanad to the sea through the Thottappally spillway. The government further allowed KMML to remove sand from the pozhi and the place where the trees once stood. According to officials, the KMML has been given permission to extract 2 lakh cubic m of sand. The KMML will pay Rs. 465 per cubic m. However, the move has met with widespread protests from the local residents, especially from fishers, who say the government decision is aimed at large-scale extraction of mineral sand under the disguise of flood mitigation. Stop memo Members of the Janakeeya Samithi, which is spearheading the protest against the sand mining, said they had moved the Kerala High Court against the government decision. Last week, the United Democratic Front-ruled Purakkad panchayat issued a stop memo to the Irrigation Department and KMML. Two days later, the government transferred the panchayat secretary. V. Sasikanthan, vice president, Purakkad panchayat, said the government had allowed the sand mining without consulting the local body. “The mineral sand mining is going to create serious environmental and livelihood issues. Even after we issued a stop memo, the removal and transportation of sand continue unabated,” Mr. Sasikanthan said. Stiff opposition Almost all major political parties, including the Congress, Communist Party of India (CPI), and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), are opposed to mineral sand mining at Thottappally. CPI(M) backs govt. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)], on the other hand, has come out in support of the government decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-against-mineral-sand-mining-at-thottappally/article31770709.ece
07 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Four more cases in Alappuzha||Four more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Saturday. This included three from foreign countries and one from Mumbai. According to officials, a young man and a woman, hailing from Vayalar and Puliyoor respectively, came from Tajikistan on May 28. They were in quarantine after reaching the district. Another patient, a youth from Budhanoor, had come from Muscat in Oman on June 1. As he was showing symptoms of COVID-19 on arrival at Karipur airport, the person was immediately shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, Malappuram. The fourth person, a young woman from Alappuzha, reached the district from Mumbai on May 26. She was observing the mandatory quarantine period. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 70.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-more-cases-in-alappuzha/article31770683.ece
07 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Employees’ dues will be cleared, says Minister||The State government will initiate measures to clear the dues of employees of Autokast, a ferrous foundry manufacturing unit in the public sector at S.N. Puram, near Cherthala, this month itself, Minister for Industries E.P. Jayarajan has said. Mr. Jayarajan, along with Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, visited the Autokast on Saturday. The Industries Minister said the company had been making huge losses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/employees-dues-will-be-cleared-says-minister/article31770710.ece
07 June 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Online class facilities in Wayanad||A meeting of senior officials of various departments, chaired by district panchayat president K.B. Naseema, decided to ensure online education to all school students in the district before June 10. The details of the students who were yet to get the digital facilities for online studies would be collected with the assistance of teachers, civic bodies and Kudumbashree workers. Facilities would also be provided to students at nearby Anganwadis, cultural centres and community study centres of local administrative bodies, she said. Students who had missed the online classes owing to technical issues need not worry as the classes would be repeated. They could also utilise social media for the purpose, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-class-facilities-in-wayanad/article31770645.ece
07 June 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Man escapes from quarantine facility||A 42-year-old man who returned from Karnataka a few days ago and was quarantined at a government facility at Tholpetty near Kattikulam in the district escaped from there on Saturday. Manikkuttan of Chittedath at Vakathanam in Kottayam had illegally entered the State a few days ago through the Tholpetty checkpost, and was institutionally quarantined by the Thirunelly grama panchayat authorities at a private lodge. The Thirunelly police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-escapes-from-quarantine-facility/article31770646.ece
07 June 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Directive to migrants||All migrant workers in the district who wish to return to their native places should register their name and details to the civic bodies in their area on or before June 8, district labour officer said in a release here. For details, call 04936-203905.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/directive-to-migrants/article31770652.ece
07 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Old railway station premises being cleared of garbage||The premises of the old railway station behind the High Court, adjoining Mangalavanam, are now being cleared of tonnes of garbage on an order issued by the court last month. The Kochi Corporation began the garbage clearing process on Saturday and expects at least 150 truckloads of waste in the next few days. For decades, waste has been dumped on the land alongside Mathai Manjooran Road, said Deepak Joy, councillor representing Ayyappankavu. Considering the land is spread out over a vast area and is not walled or fenced in most places, monitoring has been difficult, leaving it open to anti-social elements and waste dumping, he added. The High Court in its order had asked for a committee to be formed comprising the Area Manager of the Railways, Secretary of the Kochi Corporation, councillor representing the area, and the health inspector concerned to ensure surveillance and inspection of the area to prevent further dumping of waste, besides installing surveillance cameras. A tender had been invited to construct a wall around 60 to 70 acres, but had received no response, said Nithin Norbert, Ernakulam Area Manager, Southern Railway. Another will be invited soon. Relics of the old railway station and railway quarters lie hidden in the midst of the dense undergrowth and vines, with broken awnings, crumbling walls, and gaping holes in the roofs. The roughly 104-km-long railway line between Shoranur and Ernakulam, the erstwhile Cochin State’s first, culminated here. After discussions and deliberations over several years, construction of the line began in 1899 and took three years to complete, with the construction of bridges in some sections hitting hurdles. Goods and passenger trains began to ply on the line from 1902 onwards. It cost Raja Rama Varma XV, then ruler of the State, a princely sum of Rs. 70 lakh, nearly emptying the coffers. Since the land lies in Mangalavanam’s buffer zone, a National Green Tribunal (NGT) order prevents any construction on the site, Mr. Norbert said. The railways, which had been considering proposals to restore the buildings of the old station and turn it into a ‘heritage railway station’, has appealed to the Supreme Court against the NGT order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/old-railway-station-premises-being-cleared-of-garbage/article31770657.ece
07 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Discovery of body at plywood unit sets a tough task for police||The discovery of the body of an unidentified man from the chimney of a plywood company at Pattimattom near Perumbavoor has set the police an unenviable task of tracing the identity of the person, with no conceivable leads before them. The body, suspected to be that of a migrant and in a highly decomposed state, was found on May 23 when workers mounted the chimney to clean it prior to reopening the firm after the lockdown.  ‘Unnatural death’ As soon as they opened the chimney, a hand protruded out of it, startling the workers who promptly informed the supervisor who in turn alerted the Kunnathunadu police. Though it has all the trappings of a murder, the police are not prepared to jump at that conclusion and have accounted it as an “unnatural death” for the time being. “The body was over a month old, which means it was placed there after the lockdown. According to the police surgeon who conducted the post-mortem, the person could be aged between 20 and 50 years,” said V.T. Shajan, Station House Officer, Kunnathunadu. The body was cremated after collecting samples, which have been sent to the forensic lab in Thiruvananthapuram for DNA profiling. S. Kaliraj Mahesh Kumar, DIG (Ernakulam Range), has constituted a special investigation team to probe the case. Crime scene inspected Mr. Kumar on Friday inspected the crime scene and held a meeting with the team on the progress of the investigation, which is being monitored by K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural), and K. Bijumon, DySP, Perumbavoor. For the time being, focus is on finding out whether the profile of the deceased matches that of any person reported as missing in the extended rural limits.  The company premises accommodated 85 migrant workers throughout the lockdown, and they have now been asked not to move out till the case is solved. “Though the company employed a solitary guard, he could hardly account for all the movements of workers and whether they had brought in anyone from outside at any point,” said sources associated with the probe. Only after tracing the identity of the victim can the police confirm it to be a murder or not and the motives behind it.  The body, suspected to be that of a migrant, was found on May 23||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/discovery-of-body-at-plywood-unit-sets-a-tough-task-for-police/article31770649.ece
07 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||In defence of ‘dynamic’ testing strategy for State||Kerala has adopted a ‘dynamic’ testing strategy for COVID-19, contrary to opinions aired by a few experts, Rajan Khobragade, Health Secretary, has said. Most countries aim at a test positivity rate (TPR) of less than 2%, like South Korea. For Kerala, it is 1.5% against the national average of 4.3%. Since the TPR of Kerala is less than 2, doing more tests would be a wastage of resources. High case fatality rate and test positivity rate are indicative of testing the sickest and not doing enough screening tests. The State’s TPR of 1.5% and case fatality rate of 0.5% are indicative of better use of resources based on a dynamic testing matrix supported by contact tracing and quarantine activities, as per a publication on the State’s testing strategy by the Health Department. Healthy figures While the presumption is that the number of cases increase with the numbers of tests, it has not happened in the State, says Dr. Khobragade. On an average, Kerala has tested 71 samples for one positive case while at the national level the average is 23 samples for a positive case. The State has also tried to capture indicators of community transmission by looking at the number of pneumonia deaths or a surge in hospital admissions with severe respiratory illness. However, no increase has been reported. “The number of tests and the category of people to be tested have been expanded. Around 3,500 to 4,000 tests are done a day now,” says Dr. Khobragade. Depending on the situation in the days ahead, the testing strategy too would evolve. The State would start another major surveillance testing as well. With the influx of Keralites from abroad and other States, the testing strategy has been revised to include more samples of people from localities with more COVID-19 positive cases or their contacts, he says. The earlier strategy was to test symptomatic persons arriving at airports and seaports, while the asymptomatic ones were advised to follow strict home quarantine. Targeted testing was done when testing facilities were fewer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-defence-of-dynamic-testing-strategy-for-state/article31770659.ece
07 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Drive to detect night curfew violations||The Ernakulam Rural police have kick-started a special drive after detecting flagrant violations in night curfew over the last couple of days. As many as 392 cases were registered, and several vehicles were seized during the drive that predominantly focused on traders, shops, and other business establishments. “While life is almost back to normal during the day time, there is still a curfew in place between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m. Unless it is for some medical emergency, people are not supposed to be out during that time, and motorists venturing out should carry passes,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). He warned that those found violating the curfew would be slapped with various provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance and the Disaster Management Act in addition to the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drive-to-detect-night-curfew-violations/article31770650.ece
07 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||3 cases in Ernakulam||Three persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Saturday. One positive case is a 47-year-old Pune native who had arrived by flight from Nigeria on May 31. The patient’s condition remains critical at the Government Medical College Hospital. A 41-year-old who had returned from Dubai on May 26 tested positive, besides a 28-year-old who came from Delhi on June 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-cases-in-ernakulam/article31770653.ece
07 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Mosques to remain shut||The Ernakulam Central Joint Mahallu Coordination Committee has decided to put off opening of mosques in the city until the COVID-19 situation is reviewed at a later date. The decision to postpone the opening of mosques was taken in the interest and the safety of society and the nation, A.A. Siyad Kokker, president of the Ernakulam Central Muslim Jamaath who presided over the meeting, said. The Kochi Taluk Central Jamaath Council decided to keep mosques shut at Mattancherry, Palluruthy and Fort Kochi till June 30 in view of the density of population, narrow, busy spaces and the rise in the number of positive cases of late.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mosques-to-remain-shut/article31770651.ece
07 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam sees highest single-day spike at 19||The district saw the highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases with a total of 19 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. Among them, eleven are medical students from Tajikistan who reached the Kannur airport on May 27. Another medical student, a 19-year-old Punalur resident who travelled on the same flight, was tested positive on Friday. She had boarded a KSRTC special service to Thiruvananthapuram and her sample was taken on June 1. Seven others who tested positive are from various parts of the Middle East while the last one had travelled from Nigeria.  A 15-day-old infant, the youngest COVID-19 patient in the district, was discharged on Saturday after being cured of the infection. The baby was delivered at Government Medical College Hospital, Parippally, by emergency C-section procedure and both the baby and his 26-year-old mother were undergoing treatment there. Neendakara was added to the list of hotspots on Saturday. After the Shaktikulangaraharbour was closed, all the fishing boats started thronging Neendakara, resulting in huge crowd and forcing the authorities to shut it too. The other hotspots include Kulathupuzha, Thenmala, and Aryankavu village panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-sees-highest-single-day-spike-at-19/article31770684.ece
07 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Congress bid to buy peace in KC(M) fails||Amidst attempts by the Congress to navigate the United Democratic Front (UDF) through the biggest flare-up in the Kerala Congress (M) feud since the Pala byelection, the standoff over the Kottayam district panchayat has exploded into an overt fight between the two sides. The faction led by KC(M) working chairman P.J. Joseph is all set to move a no-confidence motion against the incumbent president of the local body, a nominee of the Jose K. Mani group. With just two members in the 22-member district panchayat, the faction desperately requires the Congress support to move a no-confidence motion. The Congress has eight members in the panchayat, while four members owe allegiance to the Mani faction. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has seven members, while the the remaining member belongs to the Kerala Janapaksham. The rival faction, which has two Parliament members, however, is confident of the Congress not doing anything that will weaken its position at the Centre. Hence, it stands firm on its position not to surrender the seat even if it causes a strain in the relations within the coalition. The situation, meanwhile, has caught the Congress completely off guard as it seeks to keep both sides on board in view of the upcoming local body elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-bid-to-buy-peace-in-kcm-fails/article31770660.ece
07 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Murder case: phones, weapons recovered||In a major breakthrough, the police team probing the murder of a 60-year-old woman in Kottayam here on Saturday recovered three mobile phones, a couple of knives and a pair of scissors used for the crime, and a bunch of keys stolen from her residence. Based on a statement by Muhammad Bilal, the accused, the police carried out a search in Vembanad Lake near Thanneermukkom. Following this, the police took the accused to Alappuzha where he had abandoned a car stolen from the crime scene and to the lodge where he had stayed prior to leaving for Kochi. A probe is also on to ascertain whether the accused had received any help locally from Alappuzha.  Bilal is now slated to be produced before the court on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/murder-case-phones-weapons-recovered/article31770676.ece
07 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Two more cases in Kottayam||Two persons who had returned to Kottayam from Mumbai and New Delhi tested positive for SARS-VoC-2 here on Saturday. Officials said a 24-year-old person from Olassa who reached Kottayam from Mumbai on June 2 and a 34-year-old native of Arunnoottimangalam who landed from New Delhi two days later tested positive for the virus. The family members of the person from New Delhi who had travelled along with him have been shifted to a quarantine centre in Kottayam. Meanwhile, 1,391 migrant workers from West Bengal returned on board a Howrah-bound train which left Kottayam at 4.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-cases-in-kottayam/article31770677.ece
07 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Traders, workers take up cleaning drive||It was cleaning day in Kozhikode on Saturday, as hundreds of people, including merchants, dealers, employees and trade union workers joined hands to clean up 19 markets spread across the city. Local residents and non-governmental organisations too took part in the massive cleaning drive. The drive was launched by Mayor Thottathil Raveendran at the Central Market. Traders suspended sales for the duration of the drive and joined in. Trade union and Corporation workers washed down market streets. “We saw larger public participation than expected at the Palayam and Central markets,” said Corporation Secretary Binu Francis. The markets at Kovoor, Beypore, Cheruvannur, Kallai, Palayam, Elathur, Kinasseri, English Church, Vellayil, Puthiyara, Eranhipalam, Karapparamba, Mankavu, Panniyankara, Payyanakkal, Arakkinar and Mathottam were cleaned up to prevent the spread of contagious diseases during the monsoon. Under the leadership of ward councillors, 272 public spaces in the city were also cleaned up as part of the drive. The Secretary said such drives would continue in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-workers-take-up-cleaning-drive/article31770642.ece
07 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Major mosques to remain closed||Major mosques, especially those located in cities and towns, will remain closed to the faithful, though the government has allowed places of worship to reopen from June 9. The committees that run major juma masjids in the State, which attract a large congregation during daily prayers and Friday prayers, have decided to wait as the pandemic threat is not conducive to their reopening. Mosques in suburbs where believers are familiar to each other will be reopened on Tuesday. The committee that runs the Palayam Muhiyudheen Mosque here decided that the masjid would remain shut till further notice because opening it in strict compliance with the government’s COVID-19 restrictions would be burdensome. “Around 400 to 500 worshippers come to the mosque at a time and it will be difficult to take down the details of everyone. It is also not possible to restrict the number of worshippers reaching the masjid at the heart of the city,” said Hussain Madavoor, chief Imam of the Palayam Muhiyudheen Mosque. Pattala Palli, another major juma masjid in the city, will also remain closed. “Unlike in rural areas, mosques in towns will draw more worshippers,” said P.M. Abdul Kareem, member of the managing committee of Pattala Palli here. If one person who offered prayer at the mosque was later confirmed COVID-19 positive, the entire area would be cordoned off, he added. The decision on reopening of mosques managed by the Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulema will be taken in a couple of days. Kozhikode Khazi Jamalullaily Thangal said the decision on reopening of the mosques would be taken after discussions with religious scholars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/major-mosques-to-remain-closed/article31770674.ece
07 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Worker dies as well under construction caves in||A 54-year-old man was killed after a well under construction caved in at Koyilandy in Kozhikode on Saturday. The police identified the deceased as Narayanan, a daily-wage worker from Chemanchery panchayat. Four others who were working along with him had a narrow escape. They were rescued by Fire and Rescue Services personnel from the Koyilandy station. The injured have been admitted to the Koyilandy taluk hospital. According to the police, the incident took place around 9.30 a.m. As local residents noticed the incident on time, rescue operation was carried out quickly, they said. Chemanchery panchayat president Koomully Karunakaran said the well was being constructed on land that was least suitable for it. The work was carried out under the supervision of a private landowner, he added. Revenue Department officers reached the spot and conducted a preliminary investigation. According to sources, the work was carried out without adopting any safety measures for the workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/worker-dies-as-well-under-construction-caves-in/article31770648.ece
07 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Youth goes missing in flash flood||A 17-year-old boy who was bathing in the Iruvazhinji river went missing following a flash flood near the Urumi power house at Punnakkal near Mukkom on Saturday. Hani Rahman, a native of Poolappoyil, was swept away when he was bathing along with four friends in the river. Water level in the Iruvazhinji river rose to an alarming level following continuous showers on Saturday. Residents of Pulloorampara and surrounding regions expressed concerns over a possible landslip inside the forest. The Thiruvambady police and the Fire and Rescue Services unit from Mukkom have begun search operations to trace the missing youth. Local volunteers familiar with the terrain are helping the rescue teams. Meanwhile, the Revenue Department officials have urged people living on the river banks to remain alert. Families in vulnerable areas were asked to move to safer locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-goes-missing-in-flash-flood/article31770643.ece
07 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Flash floods hit many areas in Nilambur||Nilambur and neighbouring places witnessed flash floods on Saturday evening as it rained heavily in the region. The rain that started by mid-day continued through the night. Many areas were submerged in the rainwater. Floodwaters entered many shops at Nilambur. The KNG road saw flash floods as Jyothipadi, Janatapadi, Minarvapadi, Veliyamthodu, and Mathimoola were submerged. Water entered shops at Veliyamthodu and Minarvapadi. Vehicular traffic was affected. The Odayikkal regulator shutters at Mambad were opened. People living near the regulator bridge at Pookkottumanna, Chungathara, were in fear as the rain intensified. The entire Nilambur region is considered extremely vulnerable to floods. The region suffered heavily in the floods in 2018 and 2019. The consecutive floods had destabilised many areas. People in the region are living under constant threat of landslides. Major landslides in the forested hills will lead to floods in the Chaliyar and its tributaries like Karimpuzha, Kuthirapuzha, Vaniyampuzha, Kanhirapuzha, Kuruvanpuzha, Punnappuzha, Kalakkanpuzha, Cherupuzha, Kottapuzha, and Karakkodanpuzha. Kavalappara, Pathaar and the Nadugani ghat road had suffered heavily in last year’s rains. As many as 59 people had been buried alive at Kavalappara alone in a gigantic mudslip.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flash-floods-hit-many-areas-in-nilambur/article31770669.ece
07 June 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Elephant carcass found at Attappady||An elephant aged around 10 years was found dead at Kallamala, near Agali, in Attappady on Saturday. The carcass was decomposed and is believed to be two weeks old. An investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elephant-carcass-found-at-attappady/article31770670.ece
07 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Man in quarantine found dead in Adoor||A 52-year old man, Yesuraj, hailing from Marthandom in Tamil Nadu and who was in quarantine in a house at Vayala, near Adoor, since June 2 was found dead on Saturday. Yesuraj who went to his home village of Marthandom two months ago had returned on a motorcycle on June 2. The health workers and police who reached the house on Saturday morning, as he failed to attend their phone calls, were the first to find him lying dead inside the house. The body has been shifted to the General Hospital at Adoor for COVID-19 tests.  The number of COVID-19 patients in the district has gone up to 89, with nine more Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) testing positive on Saturday. Among the nine cases, a 38-year-old woman of Pullad came from Kuwait, a 39-year old woman of Kadapra came from Kuwait on May 27, a 26-year-old youth of Seethathode came from Kuwait on May 27, a 61-year-old woman of Ranni came from Delhi on June 2, a 62-year-old woman of Kozhencherry came from Ahmedabad on May 25, a 53-year-old woman of Theeyadickal came from Kuwait on May 26, a 28-year-old youth of Niranom came from Kuwait on May 30, a 26-year-old youth of Mannady near Adoor came from Chennai on June 3, and a 35-year-old man of Eraviperoor came from Gujarat on June 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-in-quarantine-found-dead-in-adoor/article31770678.ece
07 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Auction of oxen flayed||Sabarimala Ayyappa Seva Samajom (SASS) State president Akeeramon Kalidasasan Bhattathrippad has taken strong exception to the auctioning of oxen at Oachira Parabrahma Temple allegedly for slaughter. The oxen were offered to the deity by the devotees and the temple authorities had done an unpardonable offence by auctioning them for slaughter, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/auction-of-oxen-flayed/article31770671.ece
07 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three cases in capital district||Three people who came from outside the State recently were diagnosed with COVID-19 in the district on Saturday. The number of active cases has touched 74. One of the patients, a 52-year-old woman who hails from Parasuvakkal, had arrived from Kuwait at the Cochin International Airport on May 26 and was at an institutional quarantine facility in Varkala. Another patient, a 50-year-old woman from Pulimath, had arrived from Dubai on July 3. The third patient, a 30-year-old man from Vazhichal, had come from Hyderabad on June 3 on a domestic flight.   The district administration has released the travel histories of three COVID-19-infected people, including the 77-year- old priest who died recently as well as a remand prisoner, whose sources of infection are yet to be known. The priest, who died at the Government Medical College Hospital while recuperating after an accident, also underwent treatment at the District Hospital in Peroorkada. The remand prisoner, who had been arrested by the Venjaramoodu police in connection with an assault case on May 25, was found to have travelled to Pazhakutty in Nedumangad, Vellanchira, and Thembamoodu prior to his arrest. The authorities also released the patient flow-chart of a 33-year-old Anad native who was diagnosed with the disease on May 31. He was initially hospitalised at the Nedumangad District Hospital on May 28 after he developing uneasiness. On questioning, he divulged that he had travelled to Tamil Nadu where he consumed liquor with two friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-cases-in-capital-district/article31770680.ece
07 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Churches to be strict with curbs||Major Church denominations in the State have decided to strictly adhere to the pandemic-prevention protocol set in place by the government while reopening the places of worship. Metropolitan Archbishop of the Syro-Malankara Church Thomas Mar Koorilose told The Hindu that his Church had prepared a protocol for the reopening. The number of attendees in the Eucharist would be fixed in terms of the space available and the faithful could also attend the service standing outside the church. The youth wing of the church would not allow anyone with COVID-19 symptoms to enter the church. Additional Mass Mar Koorilos said each parish would decide on holding additional Mass if it could not accommodate all members inside the church at one go. The Eucharistic host would be served on the palms. The faithful would be advised to conduct a part of the prayers at home itself so that the service could be completed in an hour. Priests above the age of 65 years would not be permitted to enter the church. Directive to bishops The Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church would take a decision on the reopening of its parishes in the coming week. “A decision on the reopening of parishes for the church members will be made during a bishops’ synod to be convened in a couple of days,” said Fr. Johns Abraham Konat, official spokesperson of the Orthodox Church. The Syro-Malabar Church has asked its bishops to ensure stringent compliance with the government directives while opening the churches. “The bishops need to initiate measures keeping in mind the rules and regulations prescribed by the government,” said Fr. Abraham Kavilpurayidam, spokesperson of the church. “We will ensure that the number of persons at a time in a place of worship will not be more than 100. The circumscribed space for 15 persons will be 100 square feet (9 square metres),” he said. Churches and the premises are being disinfected.  (With inputs from Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, Kochi bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/churches-to-be-strict-with-curbs/article31770672.ece
07 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Another held in gang-rape case||The police recorded the sixth arrest in a case pertaining to the alleged gang-rape of a woman in Kadinamkulam on Saturday. Kadinamkulam native Manoj was chargesheeted on Saturday. Meanwhile, the investigation team led by Attingal Dy.SP S.Y. Suresh is gathering evidence that they believe will strengthen the case against the gang. The statement of the victim’s five-year-old son could prove decisive. The minor reportedly narrated the circumstances that led to their alleged abduction. By way of his statement, the police have charged four of the seven accused, Noufal, Mansoor, Akbar Shah and Arshad, under the POCSO Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/another-held-in-gang-rape-case/article31770679.ece
07 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State receives 60% rainfall in excess||The first week of the southwest monsoon season has been a thoroughly wet one for Kerala. The State has received 60% rainfall in excess from the normal for the June 1-6 period, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Seven districts, Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kasaragod, Kannur and Alappuzha, have recorded ‘large excess.’ Yellow alerts Most central and southern districts could expect isolated heavy rainfall on Sunday, the IMD said. Yellow alerts have been issued for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and idukki. The other districts could expect light to moderate rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-receives-60-rainfall-in-excess/article31770663.ece
07 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Talk on tropical cyclone||The Thiruvananthapuram chapter of the Breakthrough Science Society will organise a talk on ‘Tropical cyclone and climate change’ by M. Govindan Kutty, Associate Professor, Department of Earth and Space Sciences, IIST, at 10.30 a.m. on Sunday. For free registration, visit https://bit.ly/webinar7june||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/talk-on-tropical-cyclone/article31770675.ece
07 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||School teacher found dead||A 44-year-old government school teacher was found dead in a canal in Nandiyode on Saturday. The deceased was identified as G. Binukumar of Nandiyode. A Mathematics teacher of the Government U.P. School in Vithura, he has been conducting online classes through the KITE Victers channel. Binukumar is suspected to have died on Friday after falling into the canal while he was returning after conducting a recorded session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/school-teacher-found-dead/article31770681.ece
07 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU facility to change exam centre||The APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has provided an opportunity for students who are set to appear for the BTech seventh and eighth semesters honours and eighth semester regular and supplementary examinations to apply for a change in their examination centre. Candidates can avail the facility through the student login on the university portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-facility-to-change-exam-centre/article31770662.ece
07 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rs. 1000 cr bonds to be issued||The government is issuing bonds worth Rs. 1,000 crore to mobilise funds for development activities in the State. The bonds will be auctioned on June 9 at the Mumbai Fort office of the RBI through the e- kuber system. For details of the auction, log on towww .finance. kerala.gov.inor refer the notification issued on June 5 by the Finance Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-1000-cr-bonds-to-be-issued/article31770665.ece
07 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||John Wycliffe funeral on July 4||John (Sunny) Wycliffe, pioneering leader of the Indian community in the USA who passed away on May 30 was known for his efforts in organising the Malayali diaspora as a vibrant group in America. Born at Neyyattinkara, he had his school education at Kottarakara and completed his post graduation from University CollegE. He leaves behind his wife and four children. The funeral will take place on July 4 at Henderson SDA Church, Maryland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/john-wycliffe-funeral-on-july-4/article31770664.ece
07 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Police stations to accept online petitions||Police stations in the State will seek to promote online petitions under plans to minimise interaction with the public in the light of the rise in COVID-19 infections. State Police Chief Loknath Behra has issued directions to dispose of online petitions at the earliest and inform petitioners of the status through digital modes of communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-stations-to-accept-online-petitions/article31770666.ece
07 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Police to strengthen presence at railway stations||The police are strengthening the surveillance and enforcement system at railway stations in view of the large number of people arriving in Kerala from other States by trains. Officers in the rank of Inspector General have been put in charge of the police deployment at major railway stations. Crime Branch IG E.J .Jayarajan will head the police force at major railway stations in north Kerala and Traffic IG G. Lakhman will be in charge in stations in southern districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-to-strengthen-presence-at-railway-stations/article31770667.ece
07 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||16 persons test positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Thrissur||COVID-19 was confirmed in 16 persons in Thrissur district on Saturday. Five members of a family from Irinjalakuda, including 41-year-old woman and her children aged 14, 11, 6 and 3, who came from Bahrain on May 27, were reported positive. A 26-year-old man, who arrived from Bahrain also tested positive. A 48-year-old man from Vellangallur and a 31-year-old man from Kaipamangalam, who came from Kuwait on May 27, and a four-year-old boy from Avinissery, who came from Abu Dhabi on May 28, too tested positive. The other was a 50-year-old man from Thandilam, who came on June 2 from Qatar. Five persons who came from Mumbai were tested positive on Saturday. They are a 49-year-old woman and her 20-year-old son from Puthukkad, who came on May 27; a 23-year-old man from Chalakudy and 40-year-old man from Punnayur, who also reached on May 27; and a 33-year-old from Kodakara, who reached on May 5. A 52-year-old man who came from Delhi on May 25 too reported positive. In Kozhikode Four persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode on Saturday. The first patient, a 36-year-old, had returned from Chennai by bus on May 29. The second and third patients, aged 57 and 49 respectively, had returned from Gujarat by car on May 23. The fourth patient from Eramala, a 38-year-old man, had returned from Chennai by car last week. In Malappuram Twelve more tested positive for COVID-19 in Malappuram on Saturday. When six of the cases were returnees from abroad, four had returned from other States. Two got infection through contacts. But it is not clear how they acquired the virus. An 80-year-old man from Salem making a living by begging at Kuttippuram and a 43-year-old man arrested by the police at Kuttippuram were tested positive, sending shockwaves through the district. A 63-year-old former Santhosh Trophy football player from Parappanangadi died of COVID-19 on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/16-persons-test-positive-for-sars-cov-2-in-thrissur/article31770655.ece
07 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Weather station at Peringalkuthu||The Meteorological Department has set up an automated weather station at Peringalkuthu dam, equipped to send rainfall rate at the reservoir and surroundings to the District Collectorate and the Meteorological Department, Thiruvananthapuram. The system can measure rate of rainfall, atmospheric temperature, moisture content in the atmosphere, speed of wind, and atmospheric pressure, and send data to the data filter. It works on solar energy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/weather-station-at-peringalkuthu/article31770644.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In anticipation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-anticipation/article31770687.ece
07 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP centralised graft, alleges BJP leader||The YSR Congress Party has totally stopped development of the State and centralised corruption in Andhra Pradesh, alleged Bharatiya Janata Party State vice-president S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy. At a press conference here on Saturday, Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy demanded an inquiry by a sitting judge into the alleged irregularities and corruption in purchase and acquisition of lands for distribution of house sites. He challenged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu for a debate on development during their tenure of one year and five years respectively. “We are ready for a debate and can prove that the BJP had done more development than the TDP and the YSRCP governments,” Mr. Vishnuvardhan said. The TDP government had applied colours even to trees, while this government had gone a step forward and painted all government buildings with its party colours, he said. People had lost faith in regional parties and were looking towards national parties now, he said and challenged the YSRCP government to release a White Paper on development in one year. “Have you constructed at least one house for people in the past one year,” he questioned the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-centralised-graft-alleges-bjp-leader/article31770734.ece
07 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||J.C. Prabhakar Reddy, 3 others booked for fraud||The Tadipatri police on Saturday filed a case against former MLA and TDP leader J.C. Prabhakar Reddy and three others for allegedly forging documents and selling 18-wheeler trailer lorries. Ten persons who had purchased the vehicles staged a dharna in front of the TDP leader’s residence demanding their money back as they were allegedly sold BS-III lorries as BS-IV vehicles. The Road Transport Department had seized the vehicles, they said. “The lorry owners in whose names the vehicles were registered approached Nageswara Reddy, fleet manager of Mr. Prabhakar Reddy, and demanded their money back. As Mr. Prabhakar Reddy’s family owned the company and he himself enjoyed the sale proceeds, Mr. Nageswara Reddy advised the lorry owners to put forth their demand before the former MLA and accompanied them to his residence,” said Tadipatri Deputy Superintendent of Police A. Srinivasulu. The police immediately cleared the place and ensured that there was no untoward incident. Mr. Nageswara Reddy and the lorry owners later filed a complaint with the police against Mr. Prabhakar Reddy under Sections 420, 467, 468, and 471 of the IPC, said Mr. Srinivasulu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jc-prabhakar-reddy-3-others-booked-for-fraud/article31770733.ece
07 June 2020||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||18 take ill after consuming beef||Eighteen persons, who included 10 children, have taken ill reportedly after consuming beef at a festival at Salapudepa village of Etapaka mandal in the Chintoor Agency area in East Godavari district, according to District Medical and Health Officer M. Mallik. Among the children, five are girls. A family in the village offered prayers to the local deity and served lunch to the villagers on Saturday. “All the 18 persons have been admitted to the Primary Health Centre at Gowridevipeta, where they are responding to treatment, and their condition is stable,” Mr. Mallik said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/18-take-ill-after-consuming-beef/article31770753.ece
07 June 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chief Whip dares TDP for debate||Government Chief Whip G. Srikanth Reddy on Saturday reiterated his demand that Telugu Desam Party president N. Chandrababu Naidu or his son N. Lokesh should get ready for a debate on the success of the one-year rule of the YSR Congress Party. He said he was ready for the debate either in Kuppam or Mangalagiri. Mr. Reddy was critical of TDP leader Bonda Uma’s remark that he would send boys of the TDP office in response to Mr Reddy’s demand for a debate on developmental works for people of Kuppam and the State by the YSRCP government. Mr. Reddy said that he respected dignity of labour. He said that during the last one year farmers, the poor, women and all communities were ensured justice. Mr. Reddy said that being a common man, he was ready for a debate with Mr. Lokesh though he was a defeated MLA candidate. He observed that if the TDP would announce that their office boys were more knowledgeable than Lokesh, he would not mind to have a debate with the former.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chief-whip-dares-tdp-for-debate/article31770738.ece
07 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ensure quality in Naadu-Nedu works’||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Saturday inspected Naadu-Nedu works and availability of health services at Gangavaram mandal in East Godavari district. Mr. Muralidhar Reddy said that stringent action would be initiated against those responsible for poor quality of works under the Naadu-Nedu project at government schools. The Collector inspected the progress of the project at Nellipudi, Kottada, and G. Venkataramapuram in Gangavaram mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-quality-in-naadu-nedu-works/article31770750.ece
07 June 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Supporters of TDP, YSRCP clash, 4 hurt||At least four persons were injured in a clash between supporters of TDP and YSRCP at Thalluru village under Vatsavai mandal in Krishna district on Saturday. The supporters of both parties reportedly clashed over Thalluru former sarpanch Bhadrayya rejoining the YSRCP. No case registered According to the police, no case has been registered so far as no one from either party lodged a written complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/supporters-of-tdp-ysrcp-clash-4-hurt/article31770366.ece
07 June 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore, Prakasam see steady surge in new cases||The south coastal districts of the State, Nellore and Prakasam, continue to suffer the effect of the surge in COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu as 18 new cases were reported from the two districts in the last 24 hours. The worst-affected were Sullurpeta and Tada, which accounted for five and four of the district’s 16 fresh cases respectively, while three more persons tested positive in Nellore city.  More than 200 recoveries Podalakur, Vinjamur, Marripadu, Duttalur reported one case each, according to a health bulletin released by the Medical and Health department on Saturday. The number of active cases rose to 102 in the district. As many as 324 primary contacts of the infected persons were quarantined. So far, 205 persons, most of them Delhi returnees and their primary contacts, have been discharged on recovery. Meanwhile, health authorities subjected to screening all passengers who came by special trains to Nellore. In Prakasam district, two more persons tested positive. A 66-year-old woman from Mupparajupalem village, near Kandukur, contracted the disease on her return from Chennai, while a 25-year-old man from S.N.Padu village got infected after coming from Hyderabad, COVID-19 nodal officer John Richards said. With this the number of active cases went up to 46 in the district. Cluster containment action plan was unveiled in the newly-affected mandals in both the districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nellore-prakasam-see-steady-surge-in-new-cases/article31770369.ece
07 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco growers burn bales as prices plummet||Farmers in Kanigiri burnt a few bales of tobacco and blocked the arterial Kangiri-Ongole State Highway on Saturday in protest against fall in prices of their produce in the wake of coronavirus-induced economic downturn. Upset with the traders rejecting a majority of the over 600 bales brought by them for e-auctions, a group of restive farmers consigned to flames a couple of bales after stalling the auctions. Police personnel led by Sub-Inspector G. Sivanarayana persuaded the farmers to relent and restored vehicular traffic after an hour-long protest. The farmers could not sell more than 80% of their produce after curing as more than 45 days were lost due to the lockdown. Their hopes of clearing the stocks when the lockdown was eased in a staggered manner outside the containment zones were dashed as the traders drove down the prices, complained Kanigiri Tobacco Growers’ Welfare Association president K. Venkateswara Reddy. “We will have no option but to stall the auctions indefinitely if the Union and State governments do not come to out rescue,” he said. The price of F-2 grade variety, which used to fetch more than Rs. 170 per kg prior to the lockdown, fell to Rs. 150 now, explained YSRCP Farmers’ Wing president Mareddy Subba Reddy. Traders were offering only Rs. 110 per kg for the medium grade varieties and Rs. 80 per kg for low grade varieties. Exporters stay away Exporters, who had given indents at the time of fixation of crop size, were not seen in the market now, and contend that they had not got confirmed orders from the overseas buyers. On an average, the prices for various grades of tobacco fell by about 30% after the lockdown was relaxed in the 12 auction platforms coming under the Southern Light Soil (SLS) and Southern Black Soil (SBS) regions with an estimated production of about 85 million kg, he said. “Farmers will be forced to incur a loss of about Rs. 3 lakh per barn if the depressed market condition continues for the export-oriented crop,” he feared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tobacco-growers-burn-bales-as-prices-plummet/article31770737.ece
07 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Moratorium on loan repayment sought||The Tobacco Board will hold a special meeting soon to iron out the issue of low prices for different grades of the produce offered by the traders after relaxation of lockdown. As agitated farmers pressed for the board’s intervention at a meeting here on Saturday, its Chairman Y. Raghunatha Babu advised them to wait till June 10 – the time sought by the exporters for finalisation of firm orders from global players. He also promised to go to New Delhi to draw the attention of Union Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal to their demand for announcement of a bonus price, as provided in 2014-15 by the Union and State governments after a spate of suicides by growers in Prakasam district. Farmers from different auction platforms in the Southern Light Soil (SLS) and Southern Black Soil(SBS) regions wanted the board to purchase directly from them. “We are ready to wait for a few months to take payment from the board,” they said. Crop holiday sought A majority of the farmer leaders pressed for a crop holiday during the next season as they had been rendered “captive growers” to meet the needs of domestic cigarette manufacturers and exporters, who exaggerate the indent at the time of fixing the crop size and drive down the prices at the time of auctions under one pretext or the other year after year. The farmers demanded a liberal financial package from the Centre, including a three-year moratorium on repayment of loans and waiver of interest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/moratorium-on-loan-repayment-sought/article31770735.ece
07 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Short film on COVID warriors released||The proactive steps taken by Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal and his team to enforce lockdown to combat the COVID-19 pandemic have inspired a bunch of students to make a short film. Titled ‘Heroes of the Darkest Hour’, the film, made by T. Saran Reddy, K. Bharadwaj, V. Rohan, M. Jaswanth and T. Sundar, throws light on the hardships faced by the warriors while rendering their services amidst the crisis. It was released by Guntur Range IG J. Prabhakar Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/short-film-on-covid-warriors-released/article31770370.ece
07 June 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||800 Catholic churches to be opened from Monday||About 800 Catholic churches in Krishna district will open from June 8 after a gap of 70 days, and prayers will begin by adhering to COVID-19 guidelines. The managements are making foolproof arrangements for devotees visiting the churches. However, children below 10 years, senior citizens, pregnant women and persons suffering with fever will not to allowed into the churches, said Vijayawada Bishop Rev. Telagathoti Raja Rao. “We observed the measures being taken by the Catholic churches in other countries and States for reopening of the temples. Dos and don’ts have been circulated to the managements and instructions have been given to arrange boards in this regard,” the Bishop told The Hindu on Saturday. Review meetings were conducted with the heads of the churches and guidelines had been prepared for functioning of temples. Instructions had been given to the managements to follow the norms framed by the Revenue, Municipal, Police, Medical and Health and Panchayat Raj officials for reopening of the churches, Rev. Raja Rao said. “No ‘teertham’ will be offered and songs will not be allowed in churches. Divya puja will be performed with limited devotees and no mass prayers will be allowed,” the Bishop said. Gunadala Mary Matha Shrine Rector Fr. Eleti William Jayaraju and Vicar-General Muvvala Prasad said devotees would be allowed in batches and only 50 devotees would be allowed in one batch. “Barricades have been arranged at the ‘Swaroopams’ and accommodation will be provided on the temple premises. All the devotees are requested to follow the rules strictly,” said Rector Jayaraju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/800-catholic-churches-to-be-opened-from-monday/article31770374.ece
07 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Take action against land grabbers, officials told||Legislative Assembly Speaker Tammineni Sitaram on Saturday directed officials to take stern action against land grabbers, in Ponduru mandal in Srikakulam district. Mr. Sitaram expressed displeasure over the delay in identification of government lands for the distribution of house sites to poor people. He visited a site in Lydam village in the mandal for the construction of a lift irrigation scheme at an estimated cost of Rs. 8.56 crore. Some locals informed him that the revenue officials reportedly were dilly-dallying over identification of beneficiaries. The revenue officials told the Speaker that a few “influential” people had grabbed government lands and it was the reason for the delay in selection of sites for distribution. Mr.Sitaram directed them to take strict action against those causing delay and asked the officials to furnish a report on details of such lands immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/take-action-against-land-grabbers-officials-told/article31770755.ece
07 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan will discuss Vamsadhara issue with Naveen, says Minister||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will soon hold talks with his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik to iron out all differences with regard to the sharing of Vamsadhara waters, R&B Minister Dharmana Krishnadas has said. ‘YSR’s dream project’ Stating that construction of the Neradi bridge across the Vamsadhara was possible only with the consent of the neighbouring State, Mr. Krishnadas told said that the bridge was the dream project of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. “It was YSR who had initiated the Vamsadhara Phase II project to irrigate at least two lakh acres in the district,” the Minister said. “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy is keen on fulfilling the dream of his father (YSR). He could not discuss the issue with Mr. Patnaik due to prolonged lockdown,” said Mr. Krishnadas. “We will also complete the inter-linking of the Vamsadhara and the Nagavali, and expand the Madduvalasa project soon,” the Minister said, and added that agriculture was the only assured economic activity for the people living in the backward region. “In the absence of rapid industrialisation in the district, we need to concentrate on irrigation projects to make agriculture a viable activity,” he added. Road network Accusing the TDP government of wasting crores of rupees on unwanted schemes and ignoring road network in the State, Mr. Krishnadas said the YSRCP government, on the contrary, could develop 1,042-km road network and construct four bridges at a cost of Rs. 532 crore in the last one year. “The government plans to spend Rs. 3,200 crore for improving road network in the rural areas. The Amaravati-Anantapur Express Highway will also be completed as planned earlier with an estimated cost of Rs. 20,000 crore,” he added. The Minister hoped that construction of the new Collectorate in Vizianagaram would be completed in a few months with the availability of manpower in the wake of the relaxation of lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-will-take-up-vamsadhara-water-row-with-naveen-soon-minister/article31770288.ece
07 June 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||Annavaram temple set to open for darshan from tomorrow||Sri Veera Venkata Satyanarayana Swami Vari Devasthanam authorities are gearing up to reopen the Annavaram temple on Monday (June 8). Devasthanam Executive Officer V. Trinadha Rao told The Hindu, “Only locals and temple staff will have ‘darshan’ till June 9. The devotees from outside will be allowed to have ‘darshan’ from June 10 (Wednesday).”  Slot registration “As many as 300 devotees per hour will be allowed to have ‘darshan’ from outside of the sanctum sanctorum,” said Mr. Trinadha Rao. The devotees below 10 years and above 65 years of age will not be allowed for ‘darshan.’ The authorities have also made it mandatory to register for time slot through online for ‘darshan’. Devotees are required to report at the temple half an hour before their slot timing. “Prasadam will not be available and Annadanam will not be offered for some days until further orders from the higher authorities of the Endowment Department,” said Mr. Trinadha Rao. Devotees should carry Aadhaar card and should not bring any eateries or food during their visit to the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/annavaram-temple-set-to-open-for-darshan-from-tomorrow/article31770752.ece
07 June 2020||STAFF REPORTERVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police rescue boy stuck in between two walls||In a swift operation, the police saved a six-year-old boy, Chatragada Niranjan, who accidentally slipped and fell in a groove between two walls, at Labour Colony in Bhavanipuram in the city on Saturday. The boy who was in the groove for about one-and-a-half-hour fainted due to breathing problem. But, his condition was safe, said Bhavanipuram Circle Inspector D.K. Mohan Reddy. Niranjan, son of Somaiah, fell in the five-foot-deep groove while playing around 4.30 p.m. Locals, who tried to save the boy alerted the police by calling ‘Dial 100’, at 5 p.m, Police rushed to the spot in five minutes. The police team led by sub-inspector Kavitasree, head constables Srinivas and Chalapathi and constable Pavan, planned to break the wall and began the operation immediately, as it was becoming dark. “The constables made a one-foot diametre hole to the wall and pulled out the boy. As Niranjan was completely trapped in between the walls, he was unable to move his head or any other part and underwent torture for about 90 minutes,” Ms. Kavitasree said. “Niranjan was stuffed in the groove, but was unhurt. We rescued the boy at 5.40 p.m. and handed over him to his parents. Had the boy spent some more time in the groove, his health condition would have deteriorated,” said Police Commissioner Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-rescue-boy-stuck-in-between-two-walls/article31770380.ece
07 June 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Many booked for spreading ‘false news’ on TTD||Tirumala police registered cases against individuals, administrators of news apps, and social media users allegedly for spreading fallacious information against the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD). The cases were registered based on a complaint lodged by TTD officials. Tirumala Two Town police, who had earlier booked a case against an individual for claiming that TTD member trustee Sudha Narayana Murthy resigned from her trusteeship, also registered a complaint against Tamil actor Sivakumar based on a complaint lodged by a person named Tamilmaniyan. “Mr. Sivakumar is spreading false information against the temple administration, and is urging the public not to visit Tirumala, on the grounds that anti-social activities are going on in the town,” Mr. Tamilmaniyan said in an email to the TTD. Perturbed at the gravity of the allegations in Mr. Tamilmaniyan’s email, TTD officials lodged a complaint with the police. A complaint was also lodged against Macharla Srinivasulu, Prashanth, and Mungara Sivaraju, administrators of ‘way2news’ app, and Tirupati Vaartha, for spreading false information that devotees will not be allowed for darshan at the temple till June 30. False information posted on a WhatsApp group called ‘Godavari News’ allegedly caused a lot of chaos and confusion among devotees, prompting the police to register a case under the A.P. Epidemic Diseases Act. A case was registered against a Facebook user who posted objectionable content on his page on May 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/many-booked-for-spreading-false-news-on-ttd/article31770746.ece
07 June 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spl. rituals end at Tirumala||The three-day annual ‘Jyestabhishekam’, which is also known as ‘abhidheyaka abhishekam’, concluded on a grand note at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here on Saturday. After special rituals in the morning, the golden armours (kavachams) were ceremoniously adorned to the deities in the evening, marking the end of the festival. TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spl-rituals-end-at-tirumala/article31770747.ece
07 June 2020||VEERULAPADU (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||1,000 litres of fuel seized, two held||Police conducted vehicle check-ups on Friday and intercepted two autorickhaws which were smuggling diesel and petrol in the district. The team led by Nandigama Rural Circle-Inspector Satish seized about 1,000 litres of diesel and fuel being transported illegally. Police suspect that the smugglers collected the fuel from tankers and some private companies at Kattubadipalem village in G. Konduru mandal. They took two persons into custody and a case has been registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1000-litres-of-fuel-seized/article31770730.ece
07 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Expedite hiring of ‘special’ teachers, govt. urged||Members of the ‘Special’ DSC 2019, under Inclusive Education for Disabled at Secondary Stage (IEDSS), have urged the State Government to take immediate measures for complete release of their examination results and appoint qualified candidates to the 860 vacant posts. In a statement, State president of the Special Teachers’ Association M. Veeraiah Naik said the government had issued a notification to fill the posts of school assistants with ‘special’ teachers in February 2019, after which the Department of Education conducted the examinations in June. However, the recruitment process was yet to begin even after a year and four months of the completion of the process of the verification of service certificates, he said. Mr. Naik said that the association had made many representations to Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh but it did not serve any purpose. When they approached the Commissioner of School Education, he expressed helplessness citing court litigation. The IEDSS move was initiated in 2009 with an aim to impart quality education to students with special needs in Classes IX and X. It was unfortunate that the vacant posts were not filled even in 2020, he said. Endless wait The candidates have been waiting endlessly for recruitment. Even though the court issue was resolved three months ago, nothing has been done so far to ensure justice to the 3,600 candidates left in the lurch, he added. There are 860 School Assistant (Special Teacher) posts in schools located in 664 mandals, created for the benefit of the hearing impaired, visually impaired and mentally challenged students. Mr. Naik urged authorities to declare complete results, announce the merit list and hand over appointment orders to the qualified candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/expedite-hiring-of-special-teachers-govt-urged/article31770372.ece
07 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Slot booking for pharmacy degree registrations soon||The Andhra Pradesh Pharmacy Council has said that online slot booking facility will be made available soon to candidates who have completed their degree in Pharmacy. Registrar Ramamurthy said talks were in progress with the National Science Centre officials and candidates would have to upload their certificates in online mode and mention them in details in their job applications. Mr. Ramamurthy said the registration process had to be stopped due to the lockdown but in emergency cases, candidates can directly approach for registration. The online slot booking facility may become available from June 10, Mr. Ramamurthy added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/slot-booking-for-pharmacy-degree-registrations/article31770729.ece
07 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NIA arrests ‘terror financier’||Sleuths of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested an alleged terror funding conspirator, Abdul Rehman Jabbar Sheik (53), for his role in the Visakhapatnam naval espionage racket on Saturday. Officers during searches on his house in Mumbai reportedly seized incriminating documents and digital equipment. Abdul Rehman’s wife, Shaista Qaiser, was arrested along with 13 others in the racket. The couple is facing charges on terror funding in the international racket which has links to Pakistan. Shaista was a Pakistan-born Indian national, according to the investigation agency. 11 sailors held In December, 2019, the Counter Intelligence police registered a case under UA (P) Act and Official Secrets Act. Later, the NIA took over the case and arrested 15 persons, including 11 sailors of the Navy who allegedly involved in the racket. On May 15 this year, the NIA officials arrested key conspirator in the case, Md. Haroon Haji Abdul Rehman Lakdawala (49) of Mumbai. Lakdawala visited Karachi on the pretext of trading on several occasions and reportedly met the handlers. Lakdawala was produced in the NIA Court in Vijayawada and is in judicial remand. Jabbar Sheik would be produced in the NIA Court, along with the evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nia-arrests-terror-financier/article31770745.ece
07 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 20 lakh worth liquor seized, 4 held||In a joint operation, officials of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and the Vijayawada Police on Saturday conducted raids and seized 5,162 liquor bottles imported from Punjab. The recovered stocks was worth about Rs. 20 lakh, said SEB Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Moka Sathi Babu. The officials arrested Veeranki Venkataramana of Manthena village, Kankipadu mandal, Kondapalli Anand, Sk. Mahaboob Subhani and Sk. Rafi, natives of Vijayawada. Explaining the modus operandi of the gang, Mr. Sathi Babu said Venkataramana, an agriculture labourer, joined hands to illegally transport liquor from Punjab. They deposited some amount in the account of a person of Punjab. The accused waylaid a maize-laden lorry and brought the stocks meant to be transported to Arunachal Pradesh. The stocks were hidden in a hay stack at Manthena village. Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP-Law and Order) V. Harshavardhan Raju said on a tip-off the teams seized the stocks. “The vehicle along with the seized stocks and the accused would be produced in the court,” the DCP said. Gutkha seized In a separate raid, the Commissioner’s Task Force police team led by Additional DCP K.V. Srinivas Rao, intercepted a van and seized gutkha products, valued about Rs.27 lakh. They arrested four persons in the case. The gang were transporting 87 bags of gutkha packets and five gunny bags of tobacco products from Bengaluru, to be sold to retailers at Tadepallugudem, Jangareddygudem, Nallajerla, Ravulapalem and other towns in West and East Godavari districts, said Police Commissioner Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-20-lakh-worth-liquor-seized-4-held/article31770378.ece
07 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||House pattas to be distributed on July 8||Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu said on Saturday that 30 lakh house ownership documents (pattas) would be distributed to the poor on July 8 and construction of 15 lakh houses would commence on August 26. Construction of all the 30 lakh houses would be completed in three years, he told the media here. A sum of Rs. 5,600 crore was earmarked for it, and the government was going ahead with the programme in spite of a severe financial crunch as Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy gave an assurance to that effect to economically weak sections. The government inherited a massive debt of Rs. 40,000 crore, and the lockdown had a devastating impact on the finances. It was estimated that the scheme required over 40,000 acres, for which 25,842 acres of government land was identified and the process of purchasing 16,000-plus acres of private land was under way. Principal Secretary (housing) Ajay Jain said the houses would be coming up in 16,000 ‘YSR Jagananna Colonies’, which were under development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/house-pattas-to-be-distributed-on-july-8/article31770742.ece
07 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 27 lakh confiscated on Telangana border||The Krishna district police recovered Rs. 27 lakh being transported in a car, at a check-post on Andhra Pradesh-Telangana border on Saturday. One person, who was transporting the unaccounted cash from Kothagudem to Guntur, was taken into custody. As he failed to produce any receipts, police seized the cash which would be handed over to Income Tax department, said Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-27-lakh-seized-on-telangana-border/article31770731.ece
07 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Restaurants, malls allowed to open from tomorrow||All shopping complexes, malls, restaurants and other establishments and religious places located outside containment zones will be allowed to open in the district from June 8, said District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz. Mr. Imtiaz said the managements should follow the standard operating procedure issued by the State and Central governments. He held a meeting with the representatives of all the establishments on Saturday. As per the guidelines, only people equivalent to half of their capacities should be allowed and persons aged below 10 and above 65 should not be allowed. Games and sports arenas will remain closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/restaurants-malls-allowed-to-open-from-tomorrow/article31770365.ece
07 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VIT-AP students make it to finals in hackathon||Four students from the Andhra Pradesh chapter of the Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) University have made it to the finals of a national online hackathon “Crack the COVID-19 Crisis”. The final results will be announced on June 8. The event is organised by the National Association of Software and Service Companies (NASSCOM), in collaboration with IBM, as part of its Futureskills initiative. The objective is to look for innovative solutions to solve the biggest challenge the country is facing-the pandemic COVI-19. As many as 26,478 students from over 500 institutes across 26 States and Union Territories participated in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vit-ap-students-make-it-to-finals-in-hackathon/article31770371.ece
07 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC sub-plan spending rises in 2019-20||The State government has spent approximately Rs. 11,206 crore under the SC sub-plan in 2019-20, 26% more than the expenditure incurred in 2018-19 (Rs. 8,889 crore), according to Principal Secretary (Tribal Welfare) M. Ravichandra. Addressing mediapersons on Saturday, Mr. Ravichandra said a major portion of the funds available under the sub-plan was spent on schemes related to the SCs in education, agriculture, industries and welfare sectors. A sum of nearly Rs. 247 crore was spent on Jagananna Vidya Deevena and Jagananna Vidya Vasathi schemes in April this year (2020-21). A total of Rs. 1,009 crore was spent on those schemes in 2019-20, including the dues which the previous government kept pending.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sc-sub-plan-spending-rises-in-2019-20/article31770740.ece
07 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SOPs issued for places of worship, malls||The State government has notified the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to be implemented in religious places / places of worship, hotels / restaurants, other hospitality services, and shopping malls from June 8 as per the guidelines issued by the Central government. The State government listed generic preventive measures, specific preventive measures for offices, measures to be taken on occurrence of cases, disinfection procedures in offices, etc. It was stated in Government Order Rt. No.288 issued by Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney on Friday that the Ministry of Home Affairs had issued orders under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, extending the lockdown in the containment zones up to June 30, and to reopen certain activities in a phased manner in the areas outside such zones. Subsequently, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare issued the SOPs to be followed from June 8 to arrest the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sops-issued-for-places-of-worship-malls/article31770741.ece
07 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New ANGRAU Vice-Chancellor||Y. Madhusudhan Reddy, Special Secretary of the Marketing Department, has been appointed as full additional in-charge Vice-Chancellor of Acharya N.G. Ranga Agricultural University. The department’s Special Chief Secretary Poonam Malakondaiah released orders to this effect on Saturday. The current Vice-Chancellor Damodar Naidu’s term ended on June 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-angrau-vice-chancellor/article31770739.ece
07 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Door-to-door surveillance on seasonal diseases from tomorrow||To tackle mosquito-borne diseases before the monsoon sets in, a door-to-door surveillance campaign with about 1,200 staff from ward secretariats and malaria department (urban wing) will kick-start from Monday, said Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana on Saturday. She said that the staff would create awareness about the seasonal diseases like malaria, dengue and chikungunya, mosquito breeding points and dos & don’ts during the coming monsoon season. To ensure that the surveillance is conducted more effectively, the civic body has introduced geo-tagging system in which the ward volunteers have been asked to scan code at every house through the app which is specifically designed for the purpose, she said addressing a press conference at the GVMC office here on Saturday. The Commissioner said that from the previous cases, it was observed that 70% of the cases were reported from stagnation of water in households. “The secretariat staff will visit houses at least once every seven days to check and alert the citizens whether they destroyed all such breeding points. Every ward will have a special officer to monitor the surveillance,” she said. Fines proposed Ms. Srijana said that private landowners should ensure that their vacant spaces are cleaned. If it is not done, the civic body would initially serve notices and then impose fines if the owners fail to respond. Similarly, private establishments should also maintain the surroundings clean, she said. The GVMC Commissioner said that if citizens are also found negligent in cleaning the mosquito breeding points over two or three times, a fine ranging from Rs. 500 to Rs. 1,500 will be imposed. There is responsibility also on citizens to destroy the breeding points because a dengue mosquito can travel at least 500 metres from the point and this can impact others’ health, she said. Spraying activities will be taken up in every ward. Oil balls are being procured to destroy breeding points in water tanks, she said. The Commissioner also appealed to the public to dedicate 10 minutes of their time in cleaning their surroundings every Sunday. Cases GVMC limits have witnessed about 416 malaria cases, 1,464 dengue cases and 42 chikungunya cases during the year 2018. In the year 2019, the number of malaria cases reported in the GVMC limits were 89, while the number of dengue cases were 827. A total of 27 chikungunya cases were reported the same year. For the year 2020 (till May), the GVMC has reported four malaria cases, 57 dengue cases and five chikungunya cases. Hotspots The Public Health department of the GVMC has identified 47 high risk areas for dengue based on previous cases. Similarly, 21 areas were identified as hotspots for malaria in the GVMC limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/door-to-door-surveillance-on-seasonal-diseases-from-tomorrow/article31770760.ece
07 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials on toes as 19 cases recorded in Vizag||As many as 19 new COVID-19 cases were reported from the district on Saturday, taking the tally to 164. The number of active cases in the district witnessed a sudden increase to 70. This is the biggest single-day spike so far the district has recorded, as against 17 on June 5. District administration is on its toes as 36 cases were reported in the last 48 hours. A day after 14 cases reported from Anakapalle, two more close contacts of the patients tested positive, taking the tally to 16 from that area. The Health Department officials conducted survey to identify people with symptoms or any health issues in the cluster containment area. Police errected barricades at all entry and exit points since containment zone has been declared from the Friday morning itself. Five persons, suspected contacts of previous cases from Kurmannapalem, tested positive. Three cases were reported from Duvvada, while one case was reported from Nakkapalle for the first time in the district. Apart from these, eight persons who came from other States, including a few by train, tested positive, according to officials. Nine patients who were undergoing treatment have been discharged after testing negative. With this, the total number of discharged patients is 93. One person from Chengalraopeta had died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-on-toes-as-19-cases-recorded-in-vizag/article31770764.ece
07 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU students vacate hostels||Chaos prevailed at a few hostels in Andhra University, as a number of students reached the campus to take back their luggage as the hostels are going to be turned into COVID-19 quarantine centres shortly. Many hostellers as well as parents were furious alleging that there was no proper information from the varsity. A few students were seen taking out belongings of their friends who were not able to come being residents of containment zones or from other districts. “No one has informed us neither did the department heads cared to call us. When we called one of our professors, he admitted that hostels are going to be turned into quarantine centres and asked us to take our luggage back,” said a student who had come to pick up luggage from Narsipatnam. AU officials could not be contacted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-students-vacate-hostels/article31770766.ece
07 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gas leak: HPC holds detailed discussions||The High-Power Committee constituted by the State government to inquire into the styrene monomer vapour leak in LG Polymers India (LGPI) held a detailed discussion with experts from various fields, here on Saturday. The committee is headed by Special Chief Secretary (Environment and Forests) Neerabh Kumar Prasad and comprises three members – Special Chief Secretary (Industries and Commerce) R. Karikal Valaven, Visakhapatnam district Collector V. Vinay Chand and City Police Commissioner R.K. Meena. The AP Pollution Control Board member-secretary Vivek Yadav is its member-convener. In the morning session, the HPC held an online discussion with the expert members nominated by the Union government – the Director of the Indian Institute of Petroleum Anjan Ray, the Director General of the Factory Advice Service and Labour Institutes R.K. Elangovan and the Regional Director of the Central Pollution Control Board Bharat Kumar Sharma. On behalf of the Director-General of the Central Institute of Plastics Engineering and Technology S.K. Nayak and Smita Mohanty, CIPET-Chennai, and Krishnan, CIPET-Ahmedabad, attended. The HPC elaborately discussed the interim report submitted by the expert committee nominated by them on various issues related to the cause of leak, tank design, monitoring systems, emergency response systems and other relevant technical issues. The three-member expert committee comprising V.S.R.K. Prasad, Director of the Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy, Bala Prasad, professor in the Department of Civil Environmental Engineering, Andhra University, and K.V. Rao, former professor in Department of Chemical Engineering, Andhra University, were present. Later, the HPC held discussions with the Director of Factories and experts from the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation in the presence of the expert committee, on issues related to the Factories Act 1948 and the Manufacture, Storage, Import of Hazardous Chemical Rules 1989. Further interactions The committee also had an interaction with Prof. Ch. Rama Chandra Murthy, former Principal of Andhra University College of Engineering, and Prof. P. Jagannadha Rao, who were part of the Joint Monitoring Committee constituted by the NGT. The committee examined the reports of technical experts and discussed the chemical reactions which led to the vapour leak and role of functionaries in the chemical plant. They also discussed the NEERI report and the reports from the APPCB and the impact of styrene on air, water and soil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gas-leak-hpc-holds-detailed-discussions/article31770744.ece
07 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP vows to oppose ‘move to shift’ horticulture centre to Pulivendula||The alleged shifting of horticulture research centre from Anakapalle to Pulivendula in Kadapa will be strongly opposed by the TDP and farmers of North Andhra, said former Minister and TDP leader Ayyanna Patrudu. Addressing the media here on Saturday, he said that the centre was opened by the then TDP government at Anakapalle and was closed by the YSRCP government. They are now trying to set up the same at Pulivendula, he said. He questioned the decision of the government to close the centre for the sake of opening it at Pulivendula. He demanded that the centre be continued in Anakapalle and its shifting will be opposed. “We are not against a centre coming up elsewhere, but why close an existing one,” he said. Coming down heavily on Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, he said, “Why is the Minister keeping quiet now. When he was MP of Anakapalle while in TDP, he welcomed the initiative of former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu in starting the centre. He knows that it benefited the farming community in North Andhra, but now he remains silent.” Giving credit for development of horticulture and agriculture in this part of the State to Mr. Naidu, he said that it was the former CM who started the centre in Anakapalle and also the floriculture centre at Chintapalli. “He then allotted Rs. 17 crore for the floriculture centre and today it grows apples. The YSRCP is bent on finishing the farming community with its policies,” he said. He said that it was Mr. Naidu who initiated the Babu Jagjeevana Ram Uttarandhra Sujala Sravanthi project with an allocation of about Rs. 2,400 crore. But today, there is no progress, he said. He said the funds, which were spent on painting government buildings, should have been utilised for construction of the project. He alleged that the suspended anaesthetist of Narsipatnam Area Hospital Sudhakar Rao was shifted to government hospital for mental care as per recommendation of the KGH. But now they are trying to cover it up saying that he had gone on his own. The doctors in the hospitals are under tremendous pressure, as the government is trying to make them sing to their tune under duress. He said there was nothing wrong if Dr. Sudhakar Rao met him, as many come to meet him. Former MLAs Peela Govind, Vangalapudi Anitha and Gavireddi Ramanaidu, and TDP SC cell president Putcha Vijaya Kumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-vows-to-oppose-move-to-shift-horticulture-centre-to-pulivendula/article31770769.ece
07 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Traffic hit as boulders fall on KK line||Goods train services on the Kothavalasa-Kirandul line were disrupted due to a boulder fall between Chimidapalli and Borraguhalu section, around 65 km from Kottavalasa in the early hours of Saturday. Restoration work is under progress and it will take at least one day to clear the debris. Three to five goods trains have been running in this section during the lockdown. These trains will be diverted to operate via Koraput-Rayagada-Vizianagaram route. Heavy rains are said to have caused the incident. On May 5 in the same area, a railway employee and a few workers had died and a number of workers were injured when boulders fell on them during track restoration work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/traffic-hit-as-boulders-fall-on-kk-line/article31770749.ece
07 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||6 men held in murder attempt case||Butchayyapeta police on Friday night arrested six persons, including a YSRCP leader and a village volunteer, on charges of attempting to murder another YSRCP leader and Visakha Dairy Director G. Satyanarayana and two others at Komallapudi on June 3. Police suspect that old rivalries and political disputes might be the reason for the attack. The arrested were identified as M. Chinnam Naidu, N. Ganesh, ward volunteer Moturi Govind, Bantu Bhaskar Rao, Gummadi Ganesh and Mekala Sathish, all belonging to Butchayyapeta region. According to the police, Chinnam Naidu had nursed a grudge against Satyanarayana over a land dispute. He did not like Satyanarayana joining the YSRCP and taking active part in the government programmes for the last couple of months. Recently, Chinnam Naidu sent his mediators to Satyanarayana and asked him not to contest the upcoming sarpanch elections to which the later rejected. Police said that the accused then allegedly hatched a plan to eliminate Satyanarayana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/6-men-held-in-murder-attempt-case/article31770761.ece
07 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea to put cap on COVID-19 test fee||Vizagapatam Chamber of Commerce and Industry senior member A.V. Monish Row has asked the State government to put a cap on fees being collected by private hospitals. Reacting to removal of cap per test from Rs. 4,500 by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Mr. Row, former president of the chamber, said in future more tests were required as the number of patients was increasing fast. He said the economy was linked to the health of people. Hence, they were concerned about the repercussions of collecting high fee by some hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-to-put-cap-on-covid-19-test-fee/article31770772.ece
07 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||900 kg ganja seized from a van at G.K Veedhi, one held||Officials from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) conducted raid and seized about 900 kg ganja from a van near Jerrela panchayat under G.K Veedhi police station limits on Saturday. According to sources, the SEB team found 900 kg dry ganja packed in 23 bags under tarpaulin cover. “We nabbed the lorry driver, who hails from East Godavari district,” said a senior official from the SEB Visakhapatnam (Rural).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/900-kg-ganja-seized-from-a-van-at-gk-veedhi-one-held/article31770762.ece
07 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU ranked fourth in academics and research||Andhra University has been ranked fourth by Natureindex ranking group in academics and research. Expressing happiness, Vice- Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy said that it was the effort of the teaching and supporting staff. IIT-Bhubaneswar and IIT Bombay has secured first and second ranks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-ranked-fourth-in-academics-and-research/article31770767.ece
07 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP trying to use Dr. Sudhakar issue for political mileage: YSRCP||YSR Congress Party leader and City Market Committee chairman Allampalli Rajababu on Saturday alleged that TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu and his party leaders were trying to use the issue relating to Dr. Sudhakar, suspended anaesthetist of Narsipatnam Area Hospital, to gain political mileage. Mr. Rajababu told media here that they were trying to influence Dalits to gain sympathy by projecting as if Dr. Sudhakar was being harassed by the government with an ulterior motive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-trying-to-use-dr-sudhakar-issue-for-political-mileage-ysrcp/article31770770.ece
07 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||INTUC seeks aid to migrant workers||INTUC State vice-president Neerukonda Ramachandra Rao on Saturday urged the Centre to give Rs. 10,000 per month per migrant worker to meet the loss of income suffered by them during the lockdown period. In a release, he said most of the migrant workers were not in a position to go to their native places for want of money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/intuc-seeks-aid-to-migrant-workers/article31770771.ece
07 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizianagaram surpasses Srikakulam in COVID count||Vizianagaram district on Saturday surpassed Srikakulam district in the number of positive COVID-19 cases. Five new cases were identified in Vizianagaram district on Saturday, taking the total count up to 37. Meanwhile, two fresh cases were reported in Srikakulam district, which now has a total of 33 cases. Almost all cases are related to returnees and their family members. Community transmission has not been reported till now, which is a major relief for authorities. The Srikakulam district administration has collected 55,728 samples of which 46,286 samples tested negative. Over 9,590 persons have been kept in quarantine centres. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas directed officials to take utmost care in the implementation of COVID-19 protocol from June 8 when further relaxations in the lockdown will come into force. The Vizianagaram district administration is also keen on the implementation of COVID-19 protocols with the number of returnees rising to 26,000 in the last few weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizianagaram-surpasses-srikakulam-in-covid-count/article31770756.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Respite from heat||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/respite-from-heat/article31770758.ece
07 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||TRS leaders don’t keep distances||Leaders of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi in Adilabad district have attracted criticism from common people as well as the conscientious among the party’s rank and file for throwing all caution to wind in ignoring the social distancing norm or wearing the mask. “This is more likely to endanger the lives of people when the spread of COVID-19 is taking serious proportions,” opined a party grass roots level leader from Gudihatnoor mandal on Saturday as he talked about an event involving Boath MLA Rathod Bapu Rao and several of his party colleagues. The incident in question was a party meeting-cum-felicitation programme for the Boath MLA held at Gudihatnoor Mandal Parishad President’s office which was also criticised by many for the choice of venue. Not many in the meeting were cautious to wear the mask, including the leader who was felicitated, and the seating arrangement left no scope for maintaining social distancing. “I was fined for not wearing the mask at the collectorate chowk,” recalled Thatipalli Hanumanthu, a carpenter from Subhashnagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-leaders-dont-keep-distances/article31770615.ece
07 June 2020||Bhongir,TELANGANA||Yadadri gates to be opened for devotees from tomorrow||The Yadagirigutta Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Devasthanam will resume darshan for devotees from Monday after keeping them out for nearly 75 days due to COVID-19 lockdown. The first day of the services, on a trial basis, will be for the Devasthanam’s retired and working employees and locals, who are mandated to carry a photocopy of their Aadhar. From June 9, the temple would be open for all devotees. Following Centre’s guidelines for opening of places of worship from June 8, temple officials have already painted the social distance boxes and sanitizer stands are being installed. Holding a review of the arrangements on Saturday, District Collector Anita Ramachandran said entry to devotees is strictly on submission of Aadhar photocopy, and wearing of a face mask and sanitisation at the entrance will be compulsory. Every devotee would be screened before entry and anyone showing symptoms would be sent to the nearest medical facility. Pregnant women, children and senior citizen are advised not to visit the temple, she said.  Arjita seva tickets Temple executive officer N. Geeta, later in a press release, said the regular rituals — archana, abhishekam, kalyanam and homam — will be limited to 20 persons through tickets. Vratham in four batches of 50 each can be organized. She added that offering of hair, prasad, placing of Shatari on the head, and accommodation facility will not be provided. Prasad, however, can be purchased over the counter by giving exact change. Vehicle pooja will be allowed. Following another review, of the devotee footfall and government instructions during the week, revised services and procedures would be announced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/yadadri-gates-to-be-opened-for-devotees-from-tomorrow/article31770614.ece
07 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Huge power bills leave households in shock||After suffering wage losses, salary cuts and increase in essential commodities rates during and after the lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic, the poor and middle-class households are in for another shocker – this time in the form of electricity bills, that too without any increase in the supply tariff. In spite of some consumers, both in the domestic and commercial categories, paying bills raised online based on a method devised by the power distribution companies (Discoms) and approved by the Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) in the absence of actual energy consumption data, the bills received by most of the consumers in the State after collection of the data this week left many of them shell-shocked! Irrespective of reasons such as increase in the consumption due to home-stay in the absence of functioning of work-places or work-from-home facility in case of some, the bills generated based on the actual consumption have prompted many to vent their anger though different channels of mass-media including the social media platforms. Poser to Discoms “Why didn’t they (Discoms) forewarn consumers about the possibility of huge bills in case of data collection at the end of lockdown period,” asks Ravikanth, a consumer in Habsiguda area whose average monthly consumption of energy is above 300 units during summer season and below 300 units during other seasons. With the imposition of lockdown from March 25 to prevent the spread of coronavirus, the two power distribution companies (Discoms) in the State were unable to collect the data on energy consumption due to the lockdown guidelines. “Except power supply and maintenance services, other non-emergency activities such as collection of meter-reading was not allowed,” says Chairman and Managing Director of Southern Discom (TSSPDCL) G. Raghuma Reddy. The meter-readers, who collect the energy consumption data of consumers by door-to-door visits, would generally visit households in the first two weeks of every month to collect data and generate bills, but they could not collect data in April and May due to lockdown. The Discoms devised a method to generate approximate bills online in April and May based on the last year’s consumption of a particular consumer to enable them collect actual data and issue bills by dividing the three months’ consumption equally and deducting the amount paid during the lockdown period. The method devised by Discoms and approved ERC is bane to some and boon to some other consumers, particularly to those whose consumption was less in March and high in April and May sine the three months’ average consumption would be on higher side and pushes the billing into a higher slab. For example, if household has consumed only 200 units in March and over 350 units each in April an May and the three months’ total consumption crosses 900 units, the consumer has to pay the bill in higher slab of tariff as well as higher customer charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/huge-power-bills-leave-households-in-shock/article31770623.ece
07 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR should quit to ensure fair probe into farmhouse issue: TPCC||Telangana Congress has demanded the resignation of IT and Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao to pave way for an impartial inquiry into his alleged farmhouse issue after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) issued notices for violation of GO 111. At a press conference here, TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, TPCC working presidents A. Revanth Reddy and Ponnam Prabhakar, former MP Konda Vishweshwer Reddy and former minister Shabbir Ali demanded that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao should at least change Mr. Rama Rao’s portfolio to ensure fair inquiry. Mr. Revanth Reddy said since the committee members, suggested by the NGT, fall under Municipal Administration Department now headed by Mr. Rama Rao, “You can’t expect the officers working under him to fairly investigate on the allegations against their boss. So he should resign at least till the probe is completed,” he said. He also claimed that TRS was silent after the NGT order while its leaders were quite enthusiastic to attack him after he ‘exposed’ the illegal constructions issue. He said even the police submission in the Court clearly stated that Mr. Rama Rao lives there and he can’t escape with excuses. Their silence itself is a reflection of the guilt, he claimed and challenged the Minister to issue a clarification. Mr. Uttam Reddy said it was unfortunate that the Municipal Administration Minister himself had violated the G.O. and it was better for him to resign. He said there was a demand from people in villages falling under G.O. 111 for changes but as long as it exists it should be implemented uniformly without any discrimination. Constructions of poor cannot be demolished while the rich continue to violate the law with impunity, the TPCC president felt. Mr. Vishweshwer Reddy said even during the lockdown several constructions of the poor were demolished in the areas falling under G.O.111 while the municipal officials did not take any action against the rich and influential.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-should-quit-to-ensure-fair-probe-into-farmhouse-issue-tpcc/article31770611.ece
07 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Officials told to ensure high survival rate of saplings||The Forest Department has set a target to plant 20 crore saplings outside the forests and 1.9 crore saplings inside the forest areas in the sixth phase of Haritha Haaram programme. In a video conference held by Forest Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy with Forest and Environment officials here on Saturday, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests R. Shobha said that so far 151 crore saplings had been planted outside forest areas and 30 crore saplings inside the forests. The Minister inquired about the survival rate of plants in the last five phases and said that every employee in the Forest Department should work with accountability and work towards goal of achieving 100 % survival rate. With over 80 days of lockdown, environment improved significantly and the Forest Department should work in a way to continue the good change, he said and suggested that green-coloured masks with the logo of Haritha Haaram be worn to spread the spirit of the afforestation programme. During this Haritha Haaram, one crore tamarind saplings should be planted so that in future Telangana would not have to import tamarind. PCCF Shobha said that as in the Panchayat Raj department, they were implementing guidelines in the Forest Department too that 85 % of saplings should survive and were making the respective forest officer and the staff responsible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/officials-told-to-ensure-high-survival-rate-of-saplings/article31770607.ece
07 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||A vilification campaign: KTR||Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao said the case filed against him by the Congress in the National Green Tribunal (NBT) is a deliberate personal vilification campaign against him. In a tweet, the Minister said that the campaign against him was based on utter false statements. “It remains a fact that I don’t own the property as clarified by me earlier. I will seek appropriate legal remedies by exposing falsehood of allegations,” the Minister said in the tweet. Mr. Rama Rao responded after the Telangana Congress leaders demanded his resignation to ensure a fair inquiry as per the NGT order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-vilification-campaign-ktr/article31770612.ece
07 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Power consumption in summer is always high’||The Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd (TSSPDCL) has assured the power consumers that the bills being generated based on actual data now are in tune with the method approved by the Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) have no scope for any mischief, irregularity or inflation. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, Chairman and Managing Director of TSSPDCL G. Raghuma Reddy said an average of 40% domestic consumers did not pay bill in March, April and May due to the lockdown conditions and the bills generated and issued now were based on the average of three months’ actual consumption. the complaints of consumers that the bills issued now were highly inflated, he said there was no truth in it since consumption during summer season would always be high compared to other seasons and this year it was much higher due to lockdown conditions with many people restricted to their homes. Giving last year’s example, the TSSPDCL-CMD said against the average consumption of 146 units a month by domestic consumers during March-May period against 107 units before with an increase of about 37%. On the payment of domestic bills he said it was 67% in March, 44% in April and 68% in May with an average of about 60% for the three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/power-consumption-in-summer-is-always-high/article31770624.ece
07 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Obstetricians seek PPE, swab collection centres||Gynecologists and obstetricians in government hospitals have suggested performing rapid antibody tests apart from RT-PCR test on pregnant women admitted to maternity hospitals. The specialist doctors said that the test, though not confirmatory, might help detect antibodies against coronavirus, indicating infection status of the patients. After sixteen doctors at Modern Government Maternity Hospital (MGMH), Petlaburj, tested positive for COVID-19, Health Minister Eatala Rajender and senior officials of the Health Department held a meeting with the specialists working in the government maternity facilities in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits on Friday. Precautions to prevent coronavirus among doctors and how to continue medical services in the face of rising cases among doctors were discussed at the meeting. Along with others, if any pregnant woman tests positive for coronavirus, she is sent to Gandhi Hospital. However, many asymptomatic pregnant women who don’t know about their infection status are admitted to MGMH and Niloufer Hospital among other facilities. Obstetricians said that without knowing the infection status of a pregnant woman that they are attending may lead to more COVID cases in coming weeks. To avoid contracting the infection, the specialists suggested that Personal Protective Equipment must be provided whenever they attend a suspected patient. “The suggestion of having swab sample collection centres at MGMH, Government Maternity Hospital, Sultan Bazaar, and other maternity facilities, was also put forth at the meeting. We will continue to attend pregnant women regardless of the extent to which coronavirus spreads,” an obstetrician. A doctor, who attends COVID-positive pregnant women at State-run hospitals, said that the Telangana government needs to plan what needs to be done if more specialists contract the infection or are quarantined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/obstetricians-seek-ppe-swab-collection-centres/article31770625.ece
07 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ACB traps RI, SI; searches on at tahsildar’s home||The Anti-Corruption Bureau on Saturday allegedly caught red handed a Shaikpet revenue inspector for accepting a Rs. 15 lakh bribe from a complainant and also arrested and a sub-inspector of police. The accused revenue inspector has been identified as Kandala Nagarjuna Reddy. He allegedly demanded Rs. 30 lakh bribe from one Syed Abdul Khalid, who is the complainant, for clearing all hurdles in connection with a 4,865 square yard land parcel in Banjara Hills, which his father bought in 1969. The ACB said that Shaikpet Tahsildar had filed two cases of encroachment against the complainant at the Banjara Hills Police Station. Upon investigation, it also came to light that sub-inspector of the Banjara Hills Police Station, A Ravinder, allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs. 3 lakh from Mr Khalid and accepted Rs. 1.5 lakh for closing the two cases. Meanwhile, searches were conducted at the home of Shaikpet tahsildar Ch Sujatha. Rs. 30 lakh in cash, gold and other valuables were allegedly found.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/acb-traps-ri-si-searches-on-at-tahsildars-home/article31770626.ece
07 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man held for harassing woman||The Rachakonda Cyber Crime Police apprehended a 23-year-old man for posting on social media derogatory and sexually explicit messages. The accused, Mothe Praveen Kumar, a resident of Boduppal, allegedly created Facebook accounts under false identities with the intention of harassing his victim in order to get sexual favours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-held-for-harassing-woman/article31770627.ece
07 June 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DT.,TELANGANA||Homoeopath’s campaign against coronavirus||A Homoeopath embarked on a massive journey creating awareness among the masses on coronavirus, distributing free medicine and pamphlets on good health practices here. Dr Ashok Parikipandla set out on a bike journey from Mahabubabad district with 30,000 pamphlets, placards and Arsenic Album, a medicine supposed to give immunity to people. In 43 days, he had covered 2,002 km in six districts across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/homoeopaths-campaign-against-coronavirus/article31770620.ece
07 June 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. tells hospitals to admit suspected COVID-19 patients||The Delhi government on Saturday ordered all hospitals to admit any patient exhibiting moderate or severe COVID-19 symptoms even if they do not have a report confirming infection. There have been complaints of COVID-19 suspected people being denied treatment by designated treatment facilities as well as non-COVID-19 hospitals. “All hospitals in Delhi are directed to ensure that no patient having COVID symptoms in moderate and severe category be denied admission on pretext that patient is not having COVID positive report,” read the order. “All such patients may be kept in COVID suspect patient area till the test report is received. If found positive, then she/he shall be kept in the COVID hospital or otherwise transferred to a non-COVID hospital for further management,” it added. Display charges The government also asked all private COVID-19 treatment facilities to “display charges… at conspicuous places in the hospital, especially in the holding area/reception area and adjacent to the billing desk/counter”. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had expressed disappointment over private hospitals denying admission to infected patients. “If a suspected patient goes to a hospital for treatment because of a shortage of breath and other issues, all hospitals deny admission and tell them to get tested first. How will he get tested? We are issuing an important order today, under which no suspected patient will be denied admission and treatment by any hospital,” he had said. He also warned hospitals of stern action if they indulge in “black marketing” of beds and added that medical professionals will be deployed in every private hospital to ensure patients are admitted and are aware of bed availability. “A few days ago, a person came to me and informed me that he was denied a bed by a private hospital, and after many requests, they charged him Rs. 2 lakh for admission. On a live TV program, an anchor called up a hospital saying that he needs a bed for an infected patient in his family. First, he was denied the availability of the bed, and later he was told to submit Rs. 8 lakh for the admission,” he said. “I am not saying that all private hospitals indulge in these type of practices. Private hospitals play an important role in the development of the health infrastructure of Delhi, and the people of Delhi salute this contribution of private hospitals. But certain private hospitals are indulging in malpractices such as black-marketing of beds,” he added.  The ‘Delhi Corona’ was launched on Tuesday to curb this practice, which was a result of inadequate information among the public on the availability of beds in hospitals, said Mr. Kejriwal. “But the app received major backlash for its intent to give out the information... Now the people know that if a hospital is denying a bed in case of an emergency, they must be lying as they can access the app and know how many beds are still vacant. Also, we are not updating the app ourselves. The hospitals are updating their beds status, and still lying about their availability to the people. It will take some time to burst the whole mafia behind this,” he added. “I want to warn these hospitals, you were established for the service of the people and not to earn money... if you indulge in malpractices, you will not be spared,” he said. ‘Govt.-hospitals nexus’ Meanwhile, the Delhi BJP told the Kejriwa-led government to take action against erring hospitals instead of making statements. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Kumar Gupta alleged the government was conniving with the owners of private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-tells-hospitals-to-admit-suspected-covid-19-patients/article31770558.ece
07 June 2020||New Delhi,||Woman shuttled to 5 hospitals but still failed to get a bed||When Samarth Thapa went to wake up his feverish 53-year-old mother around 8 p.m. on Friday, he found that she was having trouble breathing. He immediately tried to get her admitted to a hospital, but after eight hours of running around the city and approaching five different hospitals, Mr. Thapa could not find a bed for his mother. Mr. Thapa (28) contacted their family doctor, who advised them to take her to a hospital as soon as possible. “Everyone turned us away saying that she is a suspected COVID-19 case. Finally, we got her tested for the virus at the fifth hospital. While we were looking for immediate care, even they refused to admit my mother,” Mr. Thapa told The Hindu . ‘What do we do?’ The 53-year-old is currently at her house in Mayur Vihar Phase 1 awaiting results of her test, which was done on Friday evening. “I am worried. If an emergency happens at night, what will we do? Where will we go? I have no clue about what to do. No one is entertaining suspected cases,” he said. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal noted the plight of the family on Saturday and said that all hospitals will be directed to not deny treatment to suspected patients. After the family doctor’s advice, Mr. Thapa said he took his mother to Max Hospital in Vaishali at 9 a.m.  “There they checked her at a screening centre before the hospital’s emergency and said she is a suspected case and referred us to Max Hospital in Patparganj. They even gave us a letter. Her oxygen level was low,” he said. Mr. Thapa then reached Max Hospital in Patparganj at 10.30 a.m. “They said first we have to get tested and refused to admit her as she was a suspected case. We went to get the test done but the queue was long and there were 80-100 people. We needed immediate care, so we left from there.” He said they went to Delhi government-run G.B. Pant Hospital. “They also said she can be admitted only if she is positive.” By then it was around 1.30 p.m. “Her condition was also worsening.” He then went to Bhagat Chandra Hospital, which also refused entry. “Finally at 4.30 p.m. we reached Max Hospital, Saket. Here also they refused to treat her. But they screened her at the flu clinic and then tested her for COVID-19.” “We then got medicines for her through a doctor we know. She sent us prescription over WhatsApp,” he said. Max Hospital spokesperson said: “All beds for COVID-19 patients are fully occupied in all our hospitals in Delhi and Vaishali.”  Everyone turned us away saying that she is a suspected COVID-19 case. Finally, we got her tested for the virus at the fifth hospital  Samarth Thapa Patient’s son||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/woman-shuttled-to-5-hospitals-but-still-failed-to-get-a-bed/article31770562.ece
07 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||No help for man with COVID-19 to cremate father||A 38-year-old diabetic man who has tested positive for COVID-19 had to struggle for over five hours to take his father’s body for cremation, allegedly because all the helpline numbers he tried denied providing services on Saturday morning. Anupam Tripathi from Laxmi Nagar, works in the accounts department in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. He struggled to perform the last rites of his father Awadh Narayan Tripathi (85). His body was kept unattended from 7 a.m. to noon. The family was unsure if Awadh was COVID-19 positive because his test wasn’t conducted even though he showed symptoms. Anupam’s wife Diksha (37) said her husband had a fever on May 22 but got better within three days. However, he called a doctor that all the NDMC staff have been consulting. The doctor allegedly told Mr. Anupam that if he doesn’t have any symptoms, he doesn’t need to get tested. He still got tested at Max hospital. The reports arrived on June 1 and he was tested positive. Anupam has been living in a separate room since May 22 but on Saturday, when his father died, he was forced to leave the room and meet his family members. “My father-in-law was suffering from fever for four-five days. On Friday night, he ate dinner and slept but woke up at 4 a.m., complaining of feeling uneasy. He died at 7 a.m.,” Ms. Diksha said. The family said they called ‘102’ but got no response. “They asked us to call our relatives and take my father-in-law to the cremation ground. We also called on the Aarogya Setu toll-free number and they continued to give us numbers of doctors on which no one responded. All the numbers were unreachable,” Ms. Diksha alleged. The family said they also called the PCR after which the officials came but left without help. “They said there is nothing they can do,” she said. Subsequently, with the help of a friend, the family called a private ambulance service. “My husband along and his friend wore PPE kits and went to cremate my father-in-law,” she said. “We had also informed on the Aarogya Setu app that my husband is positive but no one came to paste the board or take our garbage separately,” she alleged. Ms. Diksha said, “ Is ghatna se sirf yahi pata chalta hai ki kisi ke ghar main kuch ho jaaye to vo tadap ke marr jaega lekin koi aaega nahin [This incident shows that if something happens to someone in their house, the person will die without help from anyone],” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-help-for-man-with-covid-19-to-cremate-father/article31770560.ece
07 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police inspector found dead in car||A 46-year-old Delhi Police inspector was found dead under mysterious circumstances in his car in north-west Delhi’s Keshavpuram on Saturday, the police said. An inquiry has been launched into the death, they said. Delhi Police Additional Public Relations Officer Anil Mittal said the officer was identified as Vishal Khanwalkar, who was posted in the Special Cell. A PCR call was received at 4.20 p.m. regarding a person lying unconscious inside a car at Rampura Main Road, the police said. “Assistant Commissioner of Police and Station House Officer along with other officers reached the spot and the man was identified,” Mr. Mittal said, adding that the car was parked in front of a shop on the main road. There were no external injuries on the body. The body has been taken for post-mortem to ascertain the cause of death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-inspector-found-dead-in-car/article31770561.ece
07 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||FIR against Sir Ganga Ram Hospital for violating rules||Delhi Police has registered an FIR against Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) for allegedly violating COVID-19 regulations. The FIR was lodged on the basis of a complaint by a Delhi Health Department official who alleged that the hospital was not using RT-PCR app while collecting COVID-19 samples, as per guidelines. “The CDMO-cum-mission director central has mentioned that Sir Ganga Ram Hospital is still not using RT-PCR app even till June 3, which is a clear violation of directions issued under Epidemic Disease Covid-19 Regulation 2020 Act [sic],” the FIR stated, adding that the case should be registered against the medical superintendent of SGRH. When contacted, the hospital spokesperson did not offer a comment. Private labs “Seven private labs and one National Centre for Disease Control lab were earlier this week asked not to collect samples themselves and do COVID testing, pending investigation; as they were not adhering to Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines,” a Delhi government official said. SGRH was one of these seven private labs. But the government has been collecting samples and sending them to these labs for testing. “We plan to continue sending the samples collected by the government to these labs for testing,” the official said, when asked about the decrease in number of tests in the city due to the eight labs not collecting samples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fir-against-sir-ganga-ram-hospital-for-violating-rules/article31770555.ece
07 June 2020||New Delhi,||1,320 new virus cases in Delhi||A total of 1,320 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 27,654. Also, 53 more deaths have been reported taking the total to 761. All the deaths did not happen in the past 24 hours. Of the total cases, 10,664 people have recovered and there are 16,229 active cases. As per the government, there are 4,412 (51%) vacant beds in hospitals. Meanwhile, the Delhi government has issued a guideline for “clinical management protocol for adult patients with confirmed COVID-19 infection”.   Restricted timings  Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, which used to run a 24-hour COVID-19 screening centre, has reduced its timings from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/1320-new-virus-cases-in-delhi/article31770556.ece
07 June 2020||Aligarh,||NSA invoked against four protesters||The Aligarh Police has invoked the stringent National Security Act against four people arrested in connection with anti-CAA protest in the city in February, officials said on Saturday. Aligarh SSP Muniraj G. said the NSA order was handed over to the four in jail on Friday night. The four have been identified as Imran, Anwar, Sabir and Faheemuddin. They are presently in jail and their bail application is pending before a sessions court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nsa-invoked-against-four-protesters/article31770565.ece
07 June 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Accused test positive, policemen quarantined||All personnel of the Jarada police station in Odisha’s Ganjam district were directed to go for mandatory quarantine on Saturday as two persons arrested by them were found to be COVID-19 positive. According to the Berhampur SP, the accused were presented in a court on June 4, which sent them in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/accused-test-positive-policemen-quarantined/article31770566.ece
07 June 2020||Bhopal,||Man ‘ends life’, blames police||The Dhar Police has line-attached three personnel after a 26-year-old man reportedly took his life at his house on Friday night alleging harassment by them for a bribe to let him off in a case. The deceased, Atul Jaiswal, was caught by the police along with a friend while illegally transporting 42 litres of alcohol in a vehicle at 1 p.m. on Friday, said district Superintendent of Police A.P. Singh. “They left the police station in the evening, and after reaching home the man ended his life around 9 p.m.,” he added. The man left behind a note, said Mr. Singh, at his house in Sanjay Nagar locality of Dhamnod area. “In the note he blamed the sub-inspector, who registered the case, for asking for money to let him off,” he added.  Distress helpline: 7389366696||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-ends-life-blames-police/article31770576.ece
07 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Settle farmers’ dues immediately’||The Leader of the Opposition and former Haryana Chief Minister, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, on Saturday accused the State government of tardy lifting of wheat from market yards and sought immediate payment of pending dues to farmers. “I urge the government to show a sense of urgency in lifting crops from market yards and making payments to the farmers. As of now, payment for 75,000 tonnes of mustard has not been made and Rs. 2,200 crore is still to be paid for wheat purchase. Besides, about 17 lakh tonnes of wheat has not been lifted from the markets,” alleged Mr. Hooda. He also alleged irregularities in the purchase of mustard. “The government should ensure that purchases are not made on paper and that every single grain of the farmer is purchased by the government.” The former Chief Minister said the government was closing the purchase process of wheat and other crops three weeks ahead of schedule, which was not acceptable amid the COVID-19 outbreak as it would add to the farmers’ woes. “The government should continue to purchase wheat, mustard, gram and cotton as not all farmers have been able to sell their produce,” said Mr. Hooda. ‘MSP not fair’ Mr. Hooda added that the recently announced minimum support price for various kharif crops by the Centre has left the farmers deeply disappointed as they were expecting a “fair and just increase” that would help them tide over the ongoing crisis. He also accused the BJP-JJP government being adamant on banning paddy cultivation in parts of the State, despite protests from farmers and Opposition parties. “The government is indirectly killing paddy farmers though its new ‘rice shoot policy’. It seems that the government wants to leave farmers with no other alternative but to irrigate their crops using tubewells, which will result in exploiting more groundwater, something the government ironically seeks to protect,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/settle-farmers-dues-immediately/article31770564.ece
07 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana to reopen places of worship, malls||The Haryana government has decided to allow the reopening of religious places, places of worship for public and shopping malls in a regulated-restricted manner from June 8, except in Gurugram and Faridabad districts. Apart from this, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services will be reopened with generic preventive measures across the State. 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. The timing of opening for all will remain between 9 a.m. and 8 p.m. so as to ensure the compliance of night curfew between 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Saturday. An official statement said, the Chief Minister has issued directions to regulate and restrict these activities by following the guidelines and instructions as issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs in view the prevailing conditions due to COVID-19 pandemic in Haryana. Restaurants in hotels will be allowed to operate with only 50% of the capacity. No buffet service will be allowed and no bars in the restaurants will be allowed. The statement added that shopping malls will open in all remaining districts except for Gurugram and Faridabad, subject to restrictions of social distancing, wearing of face masks etc. Children play areas and cinema halls inside shopping malls will remain closed, it added. Of the 3,952 positive cases in Haryana, Gurgaon alone accounted for over 1,692 and Faridabad 620. Gurgaon reported four deaths while Faridabad had 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haryana-to-reopen-places-of-worship-malls/article31770575.ece
07 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||SIT on liquor smuggling an eyewash, says AAP||A day after Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh announced the constitution of a Special Investigation Team to probe the illicit sale and smuggling of liquor during the lockdown period, the main Opposition party, Aam Aadmi Party, on Saturday termed the move an ‘eyewash’. Capt. Amarinder constituted an excise reforms group, aimed to break the nexus among producers, wholesalers and retailers. The 5-member group has been asked to submit its recommendations within 60 days, said an official spokesperson. Hitting out at the government, AAP MLA and Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said, “SIT was a well thought-out design to cover the government-sponsored liquor mafia as also to take the people for a ride. If the CM had been alive to the seriousness of the issue, he would have constituted a judicial commission under the HC.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sit-on-liquor-smuggling-an-eyewash-says-aap/article31770563.ece
07 June 2020||JAIPUR,||Hotels, malls to open from June 8 in Rajasthan||The Rajasthan government on Saturday permitted hotels, restaurants, clubs and shopping malls to operate from June 8 with some conditions, including adherence to the guidelines on preventive measures, during the fifth phase of the COVID-19 lockdown. The places of worship are not likely to open any time soon, as district-level committees were appointed to deliberate on the issue. SOP to be followed Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajeev Swarup said here that the hotels and hospitality services would be required to follow the standard operating procedure issued by the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare. The table seating arrangements in restaurants and clubs will ensure a distance of six feet and not more than two persons on a table. Mr. Swarup said the shopping malls would also be required to follow the Health Ministry’s SOP issued on June 4. The committees headed by Collectors were appointed in all districts to make a recommendation on reopening of the places of worship after Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot interacted with some religious leaders and trustees of institutions. Mr. Gehlot said since the threat of the virus had not yet subsided, the suggestions of saints and spiritual heads would be very important. The committees will examine the issues related to social distancing, sanitisation and health protocol at the places of worship and give recommendations in each district. Heads of all major religious places will be the members of these panels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hotels-malls-to-open-from-june-8-in-rajasthan/article31770574.ece
07 June 2020||Nagpur/Mumbai,||Proper use of coal mines can lower pollution: CM||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday inaugurated the Western Coalfields’ Adasa coal mine near Nagpur via video conferencing and stressed the need for proper utilisation of such mines with the focus on lowering pollution levels. Speaking after the inauguration, Mr. Thackeray said if the focus is kept on producing quality coal, then problems of shortage of power in the country will end. He rued that despite ranking fourth in the world, in terms of the number of coal mines, India is still importing coal. Two mines in Madhya Pradesh were also inaugurated simultaneously by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. The two underground mines in Sharda and Dhankasa have incurred a total capital expenditure of Rs. 849 crore. Union Ministers Nitin Gadkari and Pralhad Joshi also joined online. “Coal is very important for power generation. If focus is kept on production of quality coal, then problems of shortage of power in the country will end. Rural areas especially farmers will get uninterrupted and affordable electricity supply,” Mr. Thackeray said. He hoped that coal mines would ensure low pollution levels. “They should be environment friendly,” he said, adding that inaugurating this mine was an important step under ‘Mission Begin Again’. A coal mine, he added, should have a specific life span, and it should be ensured that it doesn’t harm the environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/proper-use-of-coal-mines-can-lower-pollution-cm/article31770572.ece
07 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Roads of 46 villages yet to be restored||Of the 900-odd villages in the 13 tehsils whose roads were blocked by felled trees and broken electricity poles during the Cyclone Nisarga, roads of 46 villages are yet to be restored. Raigad Collector and District Magistrate Nidhi Choudhari told The Hindu that the remaining roads would be restored by Sunday. “All main roads and headquarters were restored within 24 hours of the cyclone. The remaining roads which need restoration are from 46 internal villages,” she said. The Collector also released a WhatsApp helpline number — 8275152363 — on Saturday, in order to enable citizens to share photos and videos of fallen trees and blocked roads or streets. “We want people to report any fallen tree or blocked road to us on this number so that we can try to send help there as soon as possible,” Ms. Choudhari said. Currently, seven teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and three teams of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) are providing relief to cyclone-affected areas, especially Shrivardhan and Murud, which were the worst hit. Volunteers lend a hand The cyclone has affected lives of people from around 1,978 villages of which 128 on the shore faced the true brunt of nature. “We had also requested the villagers to come forward to join hands in helping clear the roads by helping the teams of NDRF and SDRF. A large number of volunteers have come forward in every tehsil,” Ms. Choudhari said. Meanwhile, the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) said electricity had been restored to over 5.5 lakh consumers in major areas of Alibaug, Pen, Karjat, Khalapur, Panvel and Uran. It also said work to restore power was under way in several other areas. Around six executive engineers, eight other rank engineers and 50 linemen from the MSEDCL’s Vashi and Thane circle have been working to restore electricity in Raigad. “We also have extra workers from a private agency that works for us on contract basis, helping in the restoration work,” Anil Kamble, chief public relations officer, MSEDCL, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/roads-of-46-villages-yet-to-be-restored/article31770568.ece
07 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Constable lauded for helping pregnant woman||The Raigad police have appreciated the efforts of a woman constable attached to their headquarters who, on the day of the cyclone, helped a pregnant woman from Vashi village. Arti Mandar Raut was posted at Shrivardhan for special duty on Wednesday when Cyclone Nisarga hit. Ms. Raut, a resident of Alibaug, was being driven to duty by her husband. When they got to know that the main roads to Shrivardhan were blocked due to tree felling, her husband, Mandar Raut, took a different route via Vashi village in Tala taluka. On the way, they spotted a few women asking for lift. However, since Ms. Raut had to report to duty, they initially drove ahead. Later, the constable realised it was her duty to help the distressed, and the husband-wife duo returned and offered help. “A woman had gone into labour and there was no help for her to reach the hospital in Mhasla. The other women said their houses were in bad shape. The rooftops had been blown away and being inside might not be safe for her. The boats were not functional and neither were roads clear so we decided to help them,” Ms. Raut said. She said the pregnant woman and two others got into the car while her husband came on his bike. While the woman’s husband took a shorter route to hospital, which involved carrying the bike over several fallen trees, Ms. Raut took a longer route where there were comparatively less blockades. “The bike could be lifted and carried over the fallen trees, hence, her husband decided to take the regular route and reach the hospital first to make the arrangements. The route we chose too had many electrical poles and trees fallen on the road and wherever required, we manually moved them aside,” Ms. Raut said. The two women who accompanied her helped clear the way and they reached the hospital within two hours. “I was in hurry to report to duty so after making sure the pregnant woman was with her husband, we left. Later we got to know that she had delivered safely,” Ms. Raut said. Anil Paraskar, Superintendent of Police, Raigad, said, “The department is proud of Ms. Raut. We have asked her to report to the headquarters on Monday as she is currently posted at Shrivardhan for cyclone duty. On Monday, we will award her a cash prize and certificate.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/constable-lauded-for-helping-pregnant-woman/article31770570.ece
07 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Former Delhi Police chief Ved Marwah passes away||Former Delhi Police Commissioner Ved Prakash Marwah, who also served as Governor of three States, died on Friday evening in Goa. He breathed his last at a private hospital in Mapusa town in North Goa district, said acting Director General of Police of Goa Jaspal Singh. Marwah was admitted to the hospital almost three weeks ago after he suffered a fall at his residence in Goa. He lived with his family in Siolim village. Marwah, 87, was the first UT-cadre IPS officer to serve as Delhi Police chief from 1985 to 1988 and was Director General of the National Security Guard from 1988 to 1990. He served as Governor of Manipur (1999-2003), Mizoram (2000-2001) and Jharkhand (2003-04) over the course of a long and distinguished career. He was also adviser to the Governor in Jammu and Kashmir and Bihar. Marwah had penned a book, Uncivil Wars: Pathology of Terrorism in India . Offering his condolences, former Delhi Police Commissioner B.S. Bassi said, “He was a fine leader. All those who have worked with him have learned a lot from him. He has contributed a lot to the Delhi police.” ‘Lost a legend’ Delhi Police also paid tributes to Marwah on Saturday. “A quintessential civil servant of soft demeanour yet steely resolve, soft-spoken yet hard taskmaster. A brilliant police officer and super administrator — in Ved Marwah Sir, we have lost a legend. #DelhiPolice salutes & bids adieu to one of its finest Police Commissioners,” it tweeted. Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi also condoled the demise of Marwah, recalling his “unwavering courage” which stood out during his career. “Shri Ved Marwah Ji will be remembered for his rich contributions to public life. His unwavering courage always stood out during his career as an IPS officer,” the Prime Minister tweeted. Marwah was an upright officer known for his integrity and competence, Mr. Naidu said. Taking to Facebook, Manipur Governor Najma Heptullah said, “Deeply saddened at the loss of the former Governor of Manipur.... My thoughts and prayers are with the family.” Jharkhand Governor Droupadi Murmu described him as a “visionary” and an “able administrator”.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/former-delhi-police-chief-ved-marwah-passes-away/article31770578.ece
07 June 2020||Palanpur (Gujarat),||Fake notes of over Rs. 7 lakh face value recovered||Fake currency notes of Rs. 7.68 lakh face value were recovered and two people were arrested in this connection at Palanpur in Banaskantha district of Gujarat, a police official said on Saturday. The duo was arrested late on Friday night based on a tip-off. “Palanpur’s Special Operations Group (SOG) team arrested two people and recovered 384 fake currency notes of Rs. 2,000 denomination from them,” the official said. The accused, Hamir Patel and Rama Patel, were passing through Palanpur on their way to Deesa in two separate four-wheelers. After being tipped off, the police arrested them from Charotar village, around 10 km from Palanpur, an SOG official said. A bag full of fake notes as recovered from one of the vehicles, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fake-notes-of-over-rs-7-lakh-face-value-recovered/article31770571.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||A hashtag that turned into a rights movement||The death of 46-year-old African American George Floyd choking under the knee of a white police officer in Minneapolis on May 25 triggered waves of protests that continue to wash over the U.S. Floyd was pinned down for eight minutes and 46 seconds. “I can’t breathe,” he said several times and called out for his mother before falling silent. The fresh round of protests also brought back to the street as well as social networks the Black Lives Matter (BLM), a movement for racial justice that many thought had begun to ebb after its dramatic rise since 2013.  The beginning The election of Barack Obama as President had raised hopes among the African Americans in 2008, but racism continued to fester. The 36 million blacks in the U.S. are mostly descendants of around 400,000 African slaves brought to land by British colonisers. Started to control slave riots, racism is foundational to policing in the U.S. In July 2013, three Black organisers, Alicia Garza, Patrice Cullors and Opal Tomett, were discussing on Facebook the acquittal of a man who killed Trayvon Martin, a 17-year old black teenager in Florida. “Our Lives Matter, Black Lives Matter,” Ms. Garza wrote on Facebook. Ms. Cullors replied: “#BlackLivesMatter”. Ms. Tometi joined in and the hashtag spread its digital wing. BLM radically differs from the earlier avatars of black mobilisation that cloaked as civil rights or faith-inspired. All three founders are women, Ms. Garza and Ms. Cullors identify as queer. They say their motto is also to touch black people who are marginalised by African American politics itself. The BLM website says its “mission is to eradicate white supremacy and build local power to intervene in violence inflicted on black communities by the state and vigilantes”. True to the digital era, it is a loose non-hierarchical network that swings into physical mobilisation in response to situations. Ms. Tometi told the New Yorker in an interview this week: “We want a divestment from the police and an investment in black communities. We are demanding immediate relief for our communities. We want community control.” BLM identifies itself as a human rights movement more than a civil rights one. The movement germinated in July 2013, and the shooting death of Michael Brown, an 18-year-old African American boy in Ferguson, Missouri, in August of 2014 led to the first street protest under its banner. It then spread to other cities. “No justice, No peace,” the protesters said. Earlier the same year, Eric Garner, who was selling single cigarettes in New York was put in a chokehold by a police officer until he died. From its initial appearance in 2013 to until May 2018, #BlackLivesMatter was used almost 30 million times and was one of the most used hashtags on Twitter. White supremacists and several Republican politicians have opposed the movement, and counter hashtags and bumper stickers — “All Lives Matter” and “Blue Lives Matter” — were launched. In a country as methodical as the U.S., there is no data on policing at the federal level. The Washington Post began to catalogue deaths by police shooting since 2015 and it turned out to be twice as much as the FBI’s count. In 2019, the police killed 1,004 people — 376 of them white, 236, black. African Americans are 13% of the population, but they are a quarter of those who die in police shootings. Only in 127 cases, the officers were known to have body cameras. Chauvin had 18 complaints against him but never faced action — police rarely face the consequence. Tool of the system But then, police officers are merely tools of a law enforcement system that is accused of being biased against the poor and the African Americans. Though the standard reporting on police violence against the blacks currently centres on President Donald Trump’s apparent pivot to white prejudices and claims of being a tough leader, things were no better in the past. A 1994 Federal Crime Bill championed by Bill Clinton accelerated mass incarceration, writes Udi Ofer of the American Civil Liberties Union. The 1996 Democratic Party Platform “bragged about instituting the death penalty for nearly 60 more crimes, and even encouraged the prosecution of young people as adults. This platform remained largely in place until 12 years later.” Sociologist Alex S. Vitale, in his 2017 book, The End of Policing, argues that policing in the country expanded over a 40-year period. More funds, technology, fear in society and criminalisation of poverty brought police deeper into society and aggravated the problems that they are incapable of solving. In most cases involving police shootings, the jury is required to address only a narrow question — did the officer fear for his life at that exact moment that he fired. While Democrats largely responded positively to the BLM movement, Republican response was harsh. One Senator called the movement an incitement of violence against the police. Former FBI chief James Comey speculated that BLM had a restraining effect on policing and crimes were going up. During the 2016 election, BLM activists forced Democratic aspirants to make commitments on addressing these issues, but the party establishment always played a balancing act. Senator Amy Klobuchar, a presidential aspirant who stepped aside in support of Joe Biden, could not or did not bring charges in any of the 30 cases of people killed by police under her jurisdiction as a County Attorney in Minneapolis. The 2016 election of Mr. Trump started a decline of BLM’s popularity. There were a lot of things that contributed to this, including a reduction on police killing. In 2005, the police killed 305 African-Americans, 27% of them unarmed. Last year, it dropped to 260, 11% of them unarmed. Many decided to turn their attention to other progressive causes, targeting Mr. Trump. Floyd’s death has spurred the movement back into action.  In focus  The movement germinated in 2013 and hit the streets after Michael Brown’s killing in Ferguson in 2014   It’s a loose network without a hierarchy that swings into physical mobilisation in response to situations  From 2013 to May 2018, #BlackLives- Matter was used almost 30 mn times and was one of the most used hashtags on Twitter    The BLM website says its ‘mission is to eradicate white supremacy and build local power to intervene in violence inflicted on black communities by the state and vigilantes’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/a-hashtag-that-turned-into-a-rights-movement/article31770259.ece
07 June 2020||Rio de Janeiro,||Brazil could quit WHO, warns Bolsonaro||Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro has threatened to pull out of the World Health Organization (WHO) over “ideological bias,” as his counterpart Donald Trump said the U.S. economy was recovering from the COVID-19 pandemic while Europe slowly reopens its borders. From Africa to Europe to Asia, governments are focused on reviving economies ravaged by weeks of restrictions to contain the virus that has killed almost 4,00,000 people worldwide since it emerged in China late last year. European countries that are among the hardest hit are steadily reopening with the infection rates slowing even as Latin America is battered by the epidemic, especially Brazil which now has the world’s third-highest number of virus deaths. Trial of drug Fuelling the debate raging around the pandemic, its origins and the best way to respond, Mr. Bolsonaro criticized the World Health Organization for suspending clinical trials of the drug hydroxychloroquine for COVID-19 — a decision it reversed this week — and threatened to follow in Mr. Trump’s footsteps by quitting. “I’m telling you right now, the United States left the WHO, and we’re studying that, in the future. Either the WHO works without ideological bias, or we leave, too,” the far-right leader told journalists. Dubbed the “Tropical Trump,” Mr. Bolsonaro has followed the U.S. President in his handling of the pandemic, downplaying its severity, attacking stay-at-home measures and touting the purported effects of hydroxychloroquine against COVID-19. The WHO had suspended trials of hydroxychloroquine after major studies raised concerns about its safety and effectiveness — irking Mr. Trump, who even took the drug himself as a preventive measure. Most of the authors of the studies that appeared in The Lancet and the New England Journal of Medicine retracted their work, saying they could no longer vouch for their data because the firm that supplied it refused to be audited. But a new study from Oxford University said on Friday that hydroxychloroquine showed “no beneficial effect” in treating COVID-19. The WHO also changed its advice on face masks, saying that “in light of evolving evidence” they should be worn in places where the virus is widespread and physical distancing is difficult. The new coronavirus has killed almost 3,96,000 people and infected 6.7 million globally, the world’s worst health crisis in more than a century. At its early peak, the pandemic forced half of humanity into some form of lockdown and risked tipping economies into the deepest recession since the Great Depression of the 1930s. In the U.S. — the hardest-hit country, with 1,09,000 dead and nearly 1.9 million infections — Mr. Trump also said the economy was bouncing back. “We had the greatest economy in the history of the world. And that strength let us get through this horrible pandemic, largely through, I think we’re doing really well,” he told reporters. In Europe, badly-hit countries slowly continued on a path toward a post-pandemic normal, also seeking to revive key tourist sectors in time for the summer season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/brazil-could-quit-who-warns-bolsonaro/article31770266.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||In the eye of the HCQ storm||Until May, Surgisphere Corporation was a quotidian company in the world of medical services. Its forte was data analytics, particularly, as its website claims, in its use of art and artificial intelligence tools to help physicians and medical researchers use patient data related to a wide variety of conditions. Once COVID-19 struck and upended the world economy, the singular focus of countries became all-things medical — diagnostics, reagents, vaccines and drugs. Scientists everywhere started to dust out their bottom cabinets for drugs, made for other purposes, that might have some role in inhibiting the virus. Thus began the meteoric rise of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), an anti-malarial and used in the treatment of lupus and rheumatoid arthritis. It was promoted by U.S. President Donald Trump and quite happily endorsed by Indian pharmaceutical companies too — they being the largest manufacturers of the drug. While several studies started to appear showing that HCQ didn’t measurably improve clinical outcomes in patients, the decisive blow was dealt in a May 21 study published online in the reputed Lancet . “Hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine with or without a macrolide for treatment of COVID-19: a multinational registry analysis”  was published by Indian-origin cardiologist Dr. Mandeep Mehra of Harvard Medical School; Dr. Frank Ruschitzka, University of Zurich; and Dr. Amit Patel, University of Utah. It also included, as a co-author, Dr. Sapan Desai, the founder of the Chicago-based Surgisphere. The study was premised on health indicators from about 96,000 patients — an astoundingly large data set — spanning 671 hospitals and six continents and concluded that the medicine didn’t improve mortality in COVID-19 patients and was linked to cardiac arrhythmia. Based on this, the World Health Organization announced a pause on the use of HCQ in its solidarity trial, pending a safety review and following suit, several governments in Europe too stopped the use of HCQ in trials. Within days, however, questions started to emerge from scientists around the globe on the statistical inferences made. More seriously, there were questions on the data set. Mortality rates attributed to countries seemed higher than what was available in public records, health records from COVID-19 patients in Africa seemed disproportionate and it seemed impossible for researchers to scrutinise records from individual hospitals. Questions on data Peter Ellis, chief data scientist at the Australia-based Nous Group, penned an expose that accused Surgisphere of fabricating data. He argued that Surgisphere’s database couldn’t have been put together in two months, given that it can take years for electronic health records to be compiled into a machine-learning format. Moreover, the data involved was the personal health records of thousands and getting ethical approvals across continents for such private details would be globally controversial. Investigations by the Guardian Australia and an interview by The Scientist of Mr. Desai showed that no hospital, which was supposedly part of Mr. Desai’s database, was willing to confirm their association for the HCQ study. Mr. Ellis and the Guardian also reported that the LinkedIn profiles of Surgisphere’s employees showed none of them with the demonstrated expertise of dealing with troves of patient records and clinical data. For its part, Surgisphere’s website claims to be a “physician-led public service organisation”. Founded in 2008, it claimed to have “amassed data” on over 240 million patient encounters. The HCQ study was not funded by any drug company, private or public donor, or political organisation, it noted in a statement after the controversy broke out. The authors of the Lancet study, some of whom were also authors of a study that linked COVID-19, cardiovascular disease and the role of certain cardiac drugs in the New England Journal of Medicine , retracted their papers, saying that Surgisphere wasn’t able to provide the source data for analysis to independent reviewers, citing “client-confidentiality agreements”. A day before, the WHO had lifted its ‘pause’. The Scientist reported that Mr. Desai is named in multiple medical malpractice lawsuits in the U.S.. His firm appeared once to be in the business of selling medical textbooks and publishing a journal, Surgical Radiology . In his interview to the publication, Mr. Desai said he’d be considering an independent audit of the HCQ study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-the-eye-of-the-hcq-storm/article31770255.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||The spymaster-turned-PM||When Mustafa al-Kadhimi was picked to head Iraq’s National Intelligence Service in 2016, the country was in a very bad shape. Just two years ago, the Islamic State had captured swathes of Iraq in the north and north-west, including Mosul, the second largest city. Protests were raging in Baghdad and southern cities, demanding better public services and an end to corruption. Iran was tightening its grip over the government in Baghdad through Shia militia groups. Mr. Kadhimi, a journalist and a rights campaigner, did not have any experience in spycraft. Prime Minister Haider Abadi chose him because he had worked as a successful political mediator between Iraq’s fractious political parties during several crises. Defeat of IS As Iraq’s spymaster, Mr. Kadhimi played a key role in the defeat of the IS. He cultivated strong ties with the U.S. and Iran, both important players in Iraq and are opposed to each other. Iraqi troops, helped by the U.S., Iran-backed Shia militias and Kurdish paramilitaries, recaptured the lost cities, from Fallujah to Mosul, from the IS. Mr. Kadhimi’s relative success as Iraq’s war-time spy chief and pragmatism may have influenced President Barham Salih’s decision in April to nominate him as Prime Minister. Iraq is never free of crises. If security threats were looming large when Mr. Kadhimi was appointed the intelligence chief, the country was going through political instability and prolonged protests when he was picked for the premier’s job. Prime Minister Adel Abdul Mahd resigned in late November amid violent protests. President Salih nominated two politicians to head the government after Mr. Mahd’s resignation, but both failed to win Parliament’s approval. Then the President turned to Mr. Kadhimi, who he has known for years. “We just appointed... the head of intelligence of the country. But this gentleman that has just been appointed is a former journalist, a human rights activist, and he's quite, quite well-known in the human rights circle,” President Salih said then in an interview. He was acceptable to both the Americans and the Iranians. Last month, he won the parliamentary approval with the votes of the Fateh Coalition, which is made up of parties that have close ties with Iran. Born Mustafa Abdellatif Mshatat in 1967, a year before the “July Revolution” that brought the Ba’athists to power, he grew up in the “Arab socialist” Baghdad. In 1985, when Saddan Hussein was at the pinnacle of his power, Mr. Kadhimi fled the country to Iran. He was critical of Hussein’s Baathist dictatorship and, like many other critical voices during that time, he eventually moved to Europe, where he worked as a journalist. Mr. Kadhimi came back to Iraq in 2003, after a U.S.-led invasion toppled the Saddam regime. The Ba’ath party would be outlawed and Iraq would fall into a cycle of sectarian violence. Mr. Kadhimi co-founded the Iraqi Media Network in the post-war country. He served as the executive director of the Iraq Memory Foundation, which is involved in documenting the crimes committed during the Saddam era. He was also an editor and columnist at the Iraq section of Al Monitor , a website focussed on West Asia. But his life took a drastic turn in 2016 when Prime Minister Abadi appointed him as the intelligence chief. Daunting challenges As Prime Minister, Mr. Kadhimi is facing daunting challenges. Protests refuse to die down despite the brutal crackdown by the authorities. Iraq has got caught in the conflict between Iran and the U.S. After the U.S. assassinated Iranian General Qassem Suleimani in January in Baghdad, Iraqi MPs passed a resolution in Parliament demanding the ouster of U.S. troops from the country. The collapse of oil prices have hit the economy badly. Moreover, the COVID-19 outbreak has brought the economy to a virtual standstill and unleashed a major healthcare crisis. Mr. Kadhimi has signalled that he would reach out to the protesters, in sharp contrast with his predecessors. But to placate the protesters, who are agitating against corruption, the rule of the elite, foreign intervention and joblessness, Mr. Kadhimi has to fix a lot of systemic problems today’s Iraq faces. He should also strike a delicate balance between the U.S. and Iran. The U.S. would push him to turn against the pro-Iran militias, while Iran would nudge him to oust the American troops from the country. Prime Minister Kadhimi is in an unenviable position.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/the-spymaster-turned-pm/article31770257.ece
07 June 2020||Beijing,||China’s new code aims to curb land grab||Farmers in China have faced forced evictions and illicit land grabs for decades — sources of social unrest that the government is finally trying to address in a major shake-up of its property law. Millions of hectares of rural land were taken away from farmers in the past three decades and given to developers as China raced to urbanise, often with little or no compensation in return. “Land disputes trigger half of an estimated 1,00,000 social protests in China every year, making them the second leading cause for public unrest after labour disputes,” Ni Yulan, a lawyer who advocates for property rights of low-income families in Beijing, said. Ms. Ni has been jailed twice for her advocacy and is paralysed from the waist down, a result she says of beatings received during her detention. China’s first-ever civil code approved by Parliament focuses on giving judges greater independence and curbing the influence of local officials, but the judiciary is still ultimately answerable to the Communist Party. The guidelines have narrowed the interpretation of “public interest” to prevent abusive land grabs. It also makes it mandatory for local governments to make public announcements on “all acts taken by the state in relation to private property”, thus making land transactions more transparent. No punishment But it does not stipulate any punishments for those illegally expropriating land or the rights of individual farmers to collective land, making it harder for families to seek compensation. The wide-ranging legislative package will come into effect on January 1. Local governments have taken away land from 1,00,000 to 5,00,000 farmers every year between 2005 to 2015 in violation of national land-use laws, according to a study by Qiao Shitong, a property and urban law professor at the University of Hong Kong. In China, land can only be owned by the state or collective organisations. Private individuals or businesses can only buy the right to use land for up to 70 years. The civil code — for the first time — clarifies what will happen once a home owner’s 70-year usage rights expire. The law affirms that land-use rights for residential homes will be automatically renewed after expiration but does not say whether owners need to pay for renewals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-new-code-aims-to-curb-land-grab/article31770268.ece
07 June 2020||Paris,||French forces kill al-Qaeda’s Algeria leader||France said its forces have killed the leader of al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, in a blow to the group behind a string of deadly attacks across the troubled Sahel region. Abdelmalek Droukdel was killed on Thursday in northern Mali near the Algerian border, where the group has bases from which it has carried out attacks and abductions of Westerners in the sub-Saharan Sahel zone, Defence Minister Florence Parly said on Friday. “Many close associates” of the Algerian — who commanded several affiliate jihadist groups across the lawless region — were also “neutralised”, she added. Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) emerged from a group started in the late 1990s by radical Algerian Islamists, who in 2007 pledged allegiance to Osama Bin Laden’s Al-Qaeda network. The group has claimed responsibility for numerous attacks on troops and civilians across the Sahel, including a 2016 attack on an upmarket hotel and restaurant in Burkina Faso, which killed 30 people, mainly Westerners. The death of Droukdel — once regarded as Algeria’s enemy number one — could leave AQIM in disarray, French military sources suggested. 5,000 troops in region France has deployed more than 5,000 troops to combat jihadist groups in the region — a largely lawless expanse stretching over Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali, Mauritania and Niger, where drugs and arms flow through porous borders. Northern Mali is the site of frequent clashes between rival armed groups, as well as a haven for jihadist activity. In 2012, key cities fell under the control of jihadist groups linked to al-Qaeda, who exploited an ethnic Tuareg-led rebel uprising, leading to a French-led military intervention. According to the UN, Droukdel was an explosives expert and manufactured devices that killed hundreds of civilians in attacks on public places. He was sentenced to death in Algeria in 2013 for his involvement in the bombings of a government building and offices of the UN’s refugee committee in Algiers that killed 26 people and wounded 177. The U.S. said it had provided intelligence to help track down Droukdel, who was killed in Talhandak, northwest of the town of Tessalit. “U.S. Africa Command was able to assist with intelligence and... support to fix the target,” spokesman Colonel Chris Karns told CNN. Droukdel’s death is a symbolic coup for the French, a military source said. The Counter Terrorism Project website said Droukdel has been described as charismatic but ruthless, ready to eliminate members of AQIM who rejected his instructions or ideological positions. Born in 1971 in a poor neighbourhood of Algiers, Droukdel — also known as Abou Moussaab Abdelouadoud — took part in the founding in Algeria of the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat (GSPC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/french-forces-kill-al-qaedas-algeria-leader/article31770270.ece
07 June 2020||Washington,||Joe Biden formally clinches Democratic nomination||Joe Biden has formally clinched the Democratic presidential nomination, setting him up for a bruising challenge to President Donald Trump that will play out against the unprecedented backdrop of a pandemic, economic collapse and civil unrest. “It was an honour to compete alongside one of the most talented groups of candidates the Democratic party has ever fielded,” Mr. Biden said in a statement on Friday night, “and I am proud to say that we are going into this general election a united party.” Delegate math The former Vice-President has effectively been his party’s leader since his last challenger in the Democratic primary, Bernie Sanders, ended his campaign in April. But Mr. Biden pulled together the 1,991 delegates needed to become the nominee on Friday after seven States and the District of Columbia held presidential primaries on Tuesday. Mr. Biden reached the threshold three days after the primaries because several States, overwhelmed by huge increases in mail ballots, took days to tabulate results. Mr. Biden now has 1,995 delegates, with contests still to come in eight States and three U.S. territories. “This is a difficult time in America’s history,” Mr. Biden said on Friday night. “And Donald Trump’s angry, divisive politics is no answer. The country is crying out for leadership. Leadership that can unite us. Leadership that can bring us together.” Mr. Biden spent 36 years in the Senate before becoming Barack Obama’s Vice-President. This is Mr. Biden’s third bid for the presidency and his success in capturing the Democratic nomination was driven by strong support from black voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/joe-biden-formally-clinches-democratic-nomination/article31770278.ece
07 June 2020||Seoul,||N. Korea threatens South over anti-regime leaflets||North Korea has threatened to close a liaison office with the South as officials seethe over anti-Pyongyang leaflets sent across the border, saying further steps were also in the pipeline to make Seoul “suffer”. The warning is the second in two days of possible retaliation over Seoul’s failure to stop North Korean defectors dropping information from hot-air balloons criticising the regime’s human rights record and nuclear ambitions. On Thursday, Kim Yo-jong, the sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, threatened to scrap a military agreement signed with Seoul and pull the plug on other inter-Korean projects. “As the first thing, we will definitely withdraw the idling North-South joint liaison office,” a spokesman for the North’s United Front Department, said on Friday.  An official with the South’s presidential office has said the leaflet campaign does “more harm than good”. Operations at the liaison office have already been suspended because of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/n-korea-threatens-south-over-anti-regime-leaflets/article31770275.ece
07 June 2020||Tehran,||‘We must be prepared to live with the virus for a long time’||President Hassan Rouhani warned Iranians on Saturday to prepare to live with the novel coronavirus “for a long time”, as the country gradually rolls back restrictions imposed to curb the outbreak. People should not assume that “this disease will be eliminated in 15 days or a month: we must therefore follow the instructions for a long time,” Mr. Rouhani said during a weekly meeting of the coronavirus taskforce. “We must end all gatherings, be it marriage, mourning, or family visits, until told otherwise by the Health Minister,” he added. Authorities have progressively lifted restrictions imposed to tackle the virus, and activity has almost returned to normal in most of the country’s 31 provinces. The rising trajectory of infection figures since a low in early May and the lack of observance of physical distancing measures have authorities worried. According to Mr. Rouhani, there is no “second path” for Iran and economic activity across the country must continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/we-must-be-prepared-to-live-with-the-virus-for-a-long-time/article31770273.ece
07 June 2020||Jakarta,||Jakarta, June 6, 2020 (AFP) -||Four soldiers were killed and five others were injured after a helicopter crashed during a training exercise on Indonesia’s Java island on Saturday, an army official said. The men were in the middle of a flying lesson when the MI-17 helicopter crashed and caught fire in central Java province.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/jakarta-june-6-2020-afp/article31770271.ece
07 June 2020||Colombo,||Colombo, June 6, 2020 (AFP) -||Sri Lanka’s virus-battered tourism industry can reopen for foreign guests from August but under strict guidelines, including multiple coronavirus tests during their stay, officials said on Saturday. The Tourism Ministry said travellers will be able to visit from August 1, but they must carry a COVID-19 free certificate issued not earlier than 72 hours before boarding.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/colombo-june-6-2020-afp/article31770276.ece
07 June 2020||Mumbai,||Bank loans contract again as business remains moribund||Business activity failed to pick up even as the country has started to gradually exit from the lockdown as was evident from bank loans contracting for the fourth straight week, latest data released by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) showed. Bank credit contracted by Rs. 28,683 crore for the fortnight ended May 22, the data showed. Deposits also shrank by Rs. 19,843 crore after surging by a massive Rs. 1.27 lakh crore in the previous fortnight. In the current financial year, so far, the contraction in bank credit has been Rs. 1.48 lakh crore while deposits have shown growth of Rs. 2.63 lakh crore. Loan demand remained weak despite the RBI reducing interest rates sharply since the lockdown was imposed. At end March, the RBI reduced the repo rate by 75 basis points (bps), and then again by 40 bps on May 22. The repo rate now stands at 4%. The central bank has hinted that more rate cuts could be coming as RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das emphasised on the need for going ‘full throttle’ to revive consumption and investment. Credit demand may rise Bankers expect credit demand to pick up in the coming days as more borrowers avail themselves of the Centre’s full credit guarantee scheme through which Rs. 3 lakh crore will be extended, mainly to micro, small and medium enterprises. They also said while loans have been sanctioned under the scheme from the beginning of this month, borrowers are yet to avail of the full disbursement as they wait for more economic activity to resume along with more unlocking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bank-loans-contract-again-as-business-remains-moribund/article31770248.ece
07 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Franklin Templeton MF files plea against stay on e-voting||Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund has filed a petition before the Gujarat High Court against the stay order on the e-voting process issued by the court last week. The fund house moved the court on Friday with a plea to allow it to go ahead with the e-voting scheduled from June 9-11. A spokesperson for the fund house confirmed the development. “We would like to confirm that we are in the process of seeking appropriate relief from the court in the interest of the unit holders,” said a spokesperson. Last week, while hearing a petition filed by three entities who had invested a total of Rs. 6.55 crore in the Franklin Templeton schemes, Justice Gita Gopi issued a notice to the fund house while staying the e-voting announced by the entity on May 28. In April, the fund house abruptly wound six debt schemes that, at the time of closure, had assets under management (AUM) of about Rs. 26,000 crore stating it was forced to do so due to an illiquid market for low- rated instruments. The stay order assumes significance since it was the first step in getting the unit holders’ nod to proceed with winding up of the schemes. As part of the e-voting process, the fund house had given unit holders two options to proceed with the monetisation of the assets. They could either authorise the trustees along with the fund house to monetise the assets or vote for Deloitte to undertake the process. The court stayed e-voting after the petitioners sought relief stating the entity did not follow rules properly before winding up the schemes. They said the trustees had to get unit holders consent and repay the money before winding up a scheme but Franklin Templeton did not follow any such process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/franklin-templeton-mf-files-plea-against-stay-on-e-voting/article31770240.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||‘India facing demand recession’||Social distancing is going to be the new norm. This will boost the demand for passenger cars, especially in the second half of FY21. We have to be patient and prudent till normalcy is restored, says T.T. Srinivasaraghavan , MD, Sundaram Finance Ltd. (SFL), in an interview. Edited excerpts  The impact of COVID-19 can be felt in all sectors, and financial services is no exception. How is SFL handling the situation? The answer actually lies within your question. There are virtually no exceptions. Other than those who are manufacturing PPEs, sanitisers and other COVID-related stuff, everybody is more or less in the same boat. Business has come to a complete standstill and demand for trucks and cars has been virtually non-existent since the lockdown began. We just have to be patient and wait for better days. SFL Q4 profit has fallen after several quarters... Typically, most retail borrowers and small transport operators bring their accounts up-to-date at the year end, with a view to keeping their credit history relatively clean and start the new financial year on a clean slate. The lockdown essentially affected the recovery of dues from delinquent accounts, resulting in a higher credit cost during the quarter. This explains the drop in net profit for the quarter. When will economic activity pick up? Unfortunately, I don’t have a crystal ball, so I cannot really give you a meaningful answer to that. With the lockdown continuing through May, the first quarter looks pretty dismal. However, as businesses reopen in June and people begin to rebuild their livelihoods, we should see a resumption in economic activity, albeit in a muted fashion. Rural India has thus far been relatively unaffected by the pandemic and we pray that it stays that way. A bountiful harvest followed by efficient procurement, the recently announced increase in Minimum Support Price and the prospect of a normal monsoon are all extremely positive for the agricultural sector and will, hopefully, lead to higher rural consumption. The other major driver of economic revival is, of course, infrastructure investment and the government’s moves in this regard will be keenly watched. The Centre had announced a stimulus package with a focus on NBFCs as well. Will it boost growth? The stimulus packages announced by the government are indeed steps in the right direction and have been welcomed by the industry. However, the problem we are facing today is a demand recession. Given the heightened uncertainty surrounding the pandemic and its aftermath, buying a car or a truck is unlikely to be a priority for most people. It would therefore be too simplistic to link the stimulus packages to an automatic boost to growth. How different is the recent package from the previous ones by the Centre / RBI? The earlier attempts to channelise funding to non-banking finance companies, (NBFCs), especially the small and medium ones, were not too successful given the risk aversion of banks, in general. The recent measures are, therefore, specifically targeted towards the smaller NBFCs and those with lower credit ratings and should be welcomed. The crucial test, as always, is in the actual implementation of the schemes. Auto sector has been down for almost 18 months. What are the steps that can boost CV and PV sales? CV sales have been on a downward curve since October 2018. A number of factors ranging from a sluggish economy to revised axle load norms have brought us here. The switchover to BS-VI norms could not have come at a worse time. Unfortunately, there is no silver bullet that can boost CV sales; it can only happen with a revival in economic activity, improvement in movement of goods and increased investments in infrastructure. There are those who believe that with social distancing set to become the norm, demand for ‘personal transport’ could see a surge. This might boost car sales.   It would be too simplistic to link stimulus packages with an automatic boost to growth||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-facing-demand-recession/article31770252.ece
07 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Poultry farm prices at pre-lockdown levels||Having suffered an estimated loss of Rs. 20,000 crore in three months on account of fake news linking chickens with COVID-19, the poultry industry is limping back to normalcy with demand slowly picking up post partial lifting of lockdown. With demand far exceeding supply, farm gate prices of poultry have risen up to Rs. 120 a kg compared with the Rs. 72 per kg in January and the Rs. 5 or Rs. 10 per kg in March and April when the industry bore the maximum brunt. Egg prices had also crashed from Rs. 48 to Rs. 24 per dozen. Financially, the farmers are in dire straits with the mounting losses and are unsure about the future demand, making them vulnerable to market forces. “Though the prices have gone up due to sudden demand, this rate is unsustainable. There was a loss of 110% and now the profit is only 30%,” said P.G. Pedgaonkar, GM, Venkateshwara Hatcheries. He said with the industry’s working capital having almost vanished due to the Rs. 20,000-crore loss, the need of the hour is infusion of working capital. Ramdas Kambale, senior vice-president, Vetphage Pharmaceuticals Pvt. Ltd. said,“Since poultry is a low-margin commodity product, it takes over 10 production cycles to recover the losses. The government must provide subsidies to the poultry sector, extend interest-free working capital and help procure raw material at cheaper rate.” According to Krishna Chandra Sahoo, global product manager, Vetphage Pharma, “Currently valued at Rs. 1 trillion, the industry employs over five million farmers and indirectly supports millions of maize and soya farmers, medicines and vaccines manufacturers all of which contribute to the GDP.” He said since the poultry industry in India relies mostly on private butcher shops, most medium and small level poultry businesses don’t have the capital for storage units wherein culled chicken can be preserved for seven-eight months at sub-zero temperatures. “This is why the government must actively help farmers who cannot look after their chicken any longer, by offering subsidised rates for fodder as well as storage space to preserve culled chicken which will cut down the losses significantly,” Dr. Sahoo added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/poultry-farm-prices-at-pre-lockdown-levels/article31770246.ece
07 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Reliance Jio net debt plummets to Rs. 21,900 cr.||Reliance Jio’s net debt has fallen to Rs. 21,900 crore from its peak of Rs. 2.17 lakh crore, with global investors pumping funds over the last six weeks, for equity stake in its parent Jio Platforms Ltd., which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Reliance Industries Limited. Investors such as Facebook, Silver Lake, Vista, General Atlantic, KKR and Mubadala have invested over Rs. 92,000 crore in Jio Platforms, conferring an enterprise value of Rs. 5.2 lakh crore. As in the case of the earlier deals, Jio Platforms is expected to retain 10% of the funds and transfer the rest to its parent company, which could subsequently use the funds for deleveraging its own balance sheet. “RJio’s net debt would reduce to Rs. 21,900 crore from a peak of Rs. 2.17 lakh crore before the InvIT formation. “... 10% of Mubadala’s investment of Rs. 9,094 crore would flow to Jio Platforms and the rest would go to the parent,” said Motilal Oswal Research in a note to clients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reliance-jio-net-debt-plummets-to-rs-21900-cr/article31770242.ece
07 June 2020||COIMBATORE,||Suspend import of rubber: UPASI||Rubber plantations, located mainly in Kerala and open since April, are struggling to sell the commodity as COVID-19 and the nationwide lockdown have shrunk demand for natural rubber. The United Planters’ Association of Southern India (UPASI) has sought suspension of natural rubber (NR) imports for two years and a levy of safeguard duty on imports for three years when the suspension is revoked. This would give time for the local industry to recover. The natural rubber sector provides livelihood to 1.3 million growers. There has been a steep fall in prices in the domestic market for the last eight years and current prices are far below the cost of production. This is because of a surge in imports from southeast Asia. “The present situation calls for an immediate moratorium of NR imports for a minimum period of two years,” said AL. RM. Nagappan, chairman, UPASI. M.P. Cherian, chairman of the rubber sub-committee of UPASI, said the prices fell sharply during the lockdown. While the production cost is about Rs. 170 per kg, the current domestic price for sheet rubber is approximately Rs. 120 a kg. The price of imported rubber, which attracts 25% duty, is at least Rs. 10 lower.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/suspend-import-of-rubber-upasi/article31770244.ece
07 June 2020||New Delhi,||Vedanta Q4 net loss at Rs. 12,521 crore||Diversified natural resources firm Vedanta on Saturday reported consolidated net loss of Rs. 12,521 crore for the quarter ended March 31, 2020, on the exceptional loss of Rs. 17,132 crore, primarily due to impairment of assets in the oil and gas, copper and iron ore businesses. The firm had posted net profit of Rs. 2,615 crore in the year-ago period, Vedanta said in a filing with the BSE. Consolidated income dropped to Rs. 20,382 crore, over Rs. 25,096 crore a year earlier. “The COVID pandemic hit us in the last quarter of the year. We have taken a proactive approach to... ensuring optimum operations during these difficult times,” said Vedanta CEO Sunil Duggal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vedanta-q4-net-loss-at-rs-12521-crore/article31770249.ece
07 June 2020||Chennai,||Carborundum Universal Q4 net at Rs. 62 cr.||Abrasives manufacturer Carborundum Universal Ltd. on Saturday said it had clocked a standalone net profit of Rs. 62.41 crore for the January-March 2020. The company had reported a net profit of Rs. 49.25 crore a year earlier. For the full year ended March 31, 2020, the net profit of the company grew to Rs. 191.32 crore from Rs. 166.09 crore registered a year ago. Total income for the quarter was Rs. 387.40 crore against Rs. 467.69 crore registered a year earlier. For the year ended March 31, 2020, standalone total income slipped to Rs. 1,698.52 crore from Rs. 1,809.14 crore. The board declared a final dividend of Rs. 2.75 a share for the year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/carborundum-universal-q4-net-at-rs-62-cr/article31770250.ece
07 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Karnataka Bank reports Rs. 285-cr. fraud||Private sector lender Karnataka Bank has reported to the RBI that it has been defrauded of more than Rs. 285 crore consequent to loans to four entities, including DHFL, gone bad. A total of Rs. 285.52 crore has been reported as fraud wherein the bank was one of the consortium lenders during 2009 to 2014 to Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd. (DHFL), Religare Finvest, Fedders Electric and Engineering Ltd. and Leel Electricals Ltd, Karnataka Bank said. The maximum is owed by DHFL at Rs. 180.13 crore, followed by Religare Finvest Rs. 43.44 crore, Fedders Electric Rs. 41.30 crore and Leel Electricals Rs. 20.65 crore, the bank said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/karnataka-bank-reports-rs-285-cr-fraud/article31770253.ece
07 June 2020||Berlin,||Bayern marches on||Bayern Munich came from a goal down to ease past host Bayer Leverkusen 4-2 on Saturday and remain on course to win the Bundesliga title with four games remaining. Lucas Alario fired in after 10 minutes as Leverkusen scored with the first chance of the game. But Bayern recovered from the early shock and Kingsley Coman curled in the equaliser in the 27th minute before the visitor struck twice in three minutes to turn the game around.  The results: Bayer Leverkusen 2 (Alario 9, Wirtz 89) lost to Bayern Munich 4 (Coman 27, Goretzka 42, Gnabry 45, Lewandowski 66); Leipzig 1 (Schick 27) drew with Paderborn 1 (Strohdiek 90+2); Frankfurt 0 lost to Mainz 05 2 (Niakhate 43, Malong 77); Dusseldorf 2 (Hennings 5, 77-pen) drew with Hoffenheim 2 (Dabbur 16, Zuber 61); Friday: Freiburg 1 (Petersen 58) bt Monchengladbach 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bayern-marches-on/article31770383.ece
07 June 2020||Chennai,||Train with short-term goals: Ramji||With the pandemic-enforced pause in sporting activity keeping athletes locked down for close to three months, their transition to competitive action will have to be carefully planned, said John Gloster and Ramji Srinivasan, both of whom have worked with the Indian cricket team. In a webinar organised by Dr. Dayal Foundation, Ramji, the strength and conditioning coach when India won the 2011 World Cup, spoke about how sportspersons need to train with short-term goals despite there being no clarity on when active competition might resume. Traumatic “The lockdown can be a traumatic thing, as people don’t know what they are training for. It is like shooting in the dark, so it is important to have weekly and daily goals,” said Ramji. Gloster, the physiotherapist of the Indian team from 2005-08, added that it is important for an athlete to find the right balance between the physical and mental aspects. “This is a time for athletes to address areas where they are not strong and focus on things for which they don’t have time usually. Another key area is to get the nutrition right. A lot of injuries are often triggered by poor nutrition.”  The Australian also said that players could use this period “to think about retirement in a nice way and build skills to prepare for their post-career days”. Gloster, who has been a part of Rajasthan Royals since 2008, said that the team must use this time to identify their culture and work towards that. “For example, we as a team are focused on being the fastest unit in the IPL, as speed is the foundation of the modern game.” R. Sreenivasan, motivational speaker and life coach, and former India bowler S. Sreesanth were a part of the panel as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/train-with-short-term-goals-ramji/article31770465.ece
07 June 2020||BENGALURU,||New challenge awaits Rohan Bopanna||Rohan Bopanna’s first foray into tennis administration could not have come at a tougher time. The 2017 French Open mixed doubles champion was elected a vice-president of the Karnataka State Lawn Tennis Association in February, just before COVID-19 started raging. Since then, tennis has come to a standstill, with tournaments cancelled worldwide. As governing bodies slowly start picking up the pieces, Bopanna will have his hands full, but he remains upbeat and hopes to be the “players’ voice”. “The offer was something very new from a federation because not many have active players in administrative roles,” said Bopanna of his decision to take the plunge. “Having a player on board gives a different perspective — be it in running a tournament, talking to sponsors, government etc. I really hope to make a change.” Immediate concern Of immediate concern will be the need to revive tennis activity. Paucity of tournaments has been a long-standing feature of Indian tennis. Last year, India hosted just two Challengers for men and six $25k ITF Futures events for women. With travel restrictions expected to be in place for a while, home tournaments may hold the key. “It’s high time we start a domestic circuit,” Bopanna said. “Even a weekend tournament will open up opportunities in the current scenario. In the long-term it will help youngsters grow up with competition without travelling countries.” “Indian players are great at practise, but aren't exposed to competition and problem solving from an early age. We want to change that. We have the ATP Bengaluru Open, the hub. We have to build around it with a bunch of local tournaments.” It would be ideal for competitive action to resume by mid-July, Bopanna felt. “Players are slowly starting to practise and we need to provide some tournaments for them to ease back. At least by mid-July we should look to have one or two tournaments. It should start at the State-level. It has to be bottom-up. Maharashtra is doing great, hosting multiple AITA events, Futures, Challengers alongside Tata Open ATP 250. We can all learn from them and incorporate the good things.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-challenge-awaits-rohan-bopanna/article31770410.ece
07 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indian swimmers at a loss: Meenakshi||Even as swimmers around the world, from North America to Europe to the rest of Asia are back in the pool, Indian swimmers are anxiously waiting for the green signal. The chlorination of water pools is said to inactivate the novel coronavirus and reduce risk of transmission. Also, the practice world over has been to make swimmers wear their swimming costumes before they reach the pool. They are also expected to shower at home before and after swims and avoid the use of facilities at the pool. “For the first time we have eight swimmers who have achieved B-qualification for the Olympics. But while those of other countries are back in the water since May, we are at a loss,” said long-distance swimmer Meenakshi Pahuja, who has covered many lakes and channels around the world. Meenakshi pointed out that elite swimmers eyeing the A-qualification for the Tokyo Olympics require time in the pool to get back their rhythm and reach their potential. It would take quite a while to improve their timings even by a fraction of a second. “If the normal allowance is for 80 swimmers in an Olympic size 50-metre pool, we can have one third capacity to ensure distancing norms,” said Meenakshi. In fact, SAI has categorised canoeing, sailing, rowing, etc. in the D-category of the SOP for resumption of sports activity, but has banned swimming activity until now. Swimming Federation of India has submitted a proposal and is awaiting a response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-swimmers-at-a-loss-meenakshi/article31770536.ece
07 June 2020||Belgrade,||US Open: Djokovic worried by hygiene restrictions||World No. 1 Novak Djokovic described the strict hygiene restrictions under which the US Open is likely to be played as “extreme” and a cap on support teams as “really impossible” on Friday. As doubts grow over whether or not the Grand Slam event can go ahead as scheduled in New York, the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak in the United States, Djokovic admitted the demands of organisers could create severe strain. “Just yesterday I had a telephone conversation with the leaders of world tennis, there were talks about the continuation of the season, mostly about the US Open due in late August, but it is not known whether it will be held,” the 33-year-old Serb told Prva TV television and quoted by Blic online daily. “The rules that they told us that we would have to respect to be there, to play at all, they are extreme.” Djokovic, champion at the US Open in 2011, 2015 and 2018, described planned limits on player entourages as “really impossible”. “We would not have access to Manhattan, we would have to sleep in hotels at the airport, to be tested twice or three times per week. Also, we could bring one person to the club which is really impossible. “I mean, you need your coach, then a fitness trainer, then a physiotherapist. All their suggestions are really rigorous but I can understand that due to financial reasons, due to already existing contracts, organisers (want the event to be) held. We will see what will happen.” Nadal’s fears Djokovic was speaking a day after World No. 2 Rafael Nadal had expressed similar reservations over the US Open, the main draw for which starts on August 31. Nadal, who won a fourth US Open in 2019, said that if the New York showpiece was being staged this week, he would not play. “We cannot resume until the situation is completely safe and fair in terms of health in that all players, wherever they come from, can travel and play tournaments in safe conditions,” Nadal told reporters in a video conference call. “If you told me to play the US Open today, I would say 'no'. “In a few months, I don't know. I hope so. We have to wait for people to return to normal life. And when it does, wait to see how the virus evolves.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovics-concern/article31770411.ece
07 June 2020||KOLKATA,||Some practices, habits will be reset: Mateu||The COVID-19 pandemic will definitely reset some practices and habits that have been associated with football, feels the former ATK winger and midfielder Jofre Mateu. In an interview arranged by Sony Sports Network, the Spaniard, who played an important role in ATK wining the inaugural ISL in 2014, said restarting competitions should be the primary objective with audience being secondary. “We do not know long the pandemic is going to last. Till we reach the stage of normalcy we need to reset some of our earlier habits. When you are having a match behind closed doors, you need to ensure the players get into that reset mode to make the game better and safe,” Mateu said, hinting at restrictions on spitting and excessive talking on the pitch.   “Packed galleries give you the emotion to perform better sometimes. But pressure also can be high at times that it brings down your performance. Empty stands are surely going to have an influence as a charged-up environment certainly infuses a different kind of a flow in a player.” When asked if closed-door games will continue for some time, Mateu said health should remain the primary concern. “They are talking about opening the stadiums with limited audience from the next season, but the most important thing now is health. I am really happy that they have resumed the competition (LaLiga), which should be the primary objective. Talking about the ISL he said, “taking precautions should be foremost in the minds of the organiser. You determine the conditions according to the situation in the country. It is always proper to progress step-by-step.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/some-practices-habits-will-be-reset-mateu/article31770532.ece
07 June 2020||KOLKATA,||Arun Lal conducts class for Jharkhand coaches||The Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) on Saturday helped the Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) in holding an online class as Bengal head coach Arun Lal guided the coaches and trainers of the neighbouring State. Several age-group coaches and trainers attended the session along with JSCA secretary Sanjay Sahay. “It was about coaching tactics, handling of talents, understanding team dynamics and many other things about the game. “They were very keen to know how to handle what and I tried to give them my perspective with my experience,” said Lal. “It was a good interactive session and such sessions give you different perspectives that help you in future,” he added. The JSCA had sent a formal request to have Lal as an expert faculty for a digital class of JSCA coaches and trainers. The CAB readily agreed and arranged for the class.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arun-lal-conducts-class-for-jharkhand-coaches/article31770534.ece
07 June 2020||TIRUCHI,||Making the right moves even in uncertain times||For septuagenarian R. Anantharam, who has been a chess arbiter for around four decades, the COVID-19 lockdown has caused the lengthiest break from officiating tournaments. He has stayed close to the game through chess portals though, while taking a welcome break from extensive travel. “I now spend at least five to six hours a day playing and solving chess puzzles online,” said the International Arbiter (A Grade). Hailing from Sivakasi, the retired chemistry professor of Ayya Nadar Janaki Ammal College, sees parallels between teaching and being an arbiter. “As in college, I use anecdotes while handling classes for arbiters to keep them engaged,” said Anantharam, who has officiated tournaments in nearly 35 countries. “I am told about my strict demeanour, be it in classroom or tournament. But, at other times my jovial nature has been well liked by the students and players.” A voracious reader of chess-related books, Anantharam interacts a lot with other arbiters and analyses the case studies, to fortify knowledge. A member of the FIDE Arbiters’ Commission, he appreciates the recent interest evinced by many players to become arbiters. “It is a healthy sign for improving the standard further. Their exposure as players will stand them in good stead to handle tricky situations while officiating tournaments,” added Anantharam, who was the chief arbiter thrice for World juniors, besides once each for World youth Olympiad, World school, and World team championship for visually challenged. He also readily acknowledged the utility of software professionals becoming arbiters owing to their proficiency in technology. All along, Anantharam has not missed out on extending free training in chess as also Chemistry to needy students. “It gives me immense satisfaction.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/making-the-right-moves-even-in-uncertain-times/article31770506.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Anand returns home||Five-time world chess champion Viswanathan Anand returned to the city on Saturday evening after spending a week in quarantine at a hotel in Bengaluru. Anand, who was in Germany for more than 100 days, can relax now that he is back home, but can’t venture out of his room — the health authorities’ guidelines prescribe another seven days of home quarantine. Home quarantine “Yes. Anand is fine. We are happy and relieved that he is here,” Aruna Anand, the chess genius’ wife, told The Hindu . “Now this is the last part of the quarantine — at home, we need to follow all the instructions by the health authorities. We are doing it in the strictest possible manner for everybody’s safety.” Aruna said Anand had locked himself in his room. “In fact, when the car came, we stood at the gate of the building and he waved at us. We watched him go inside his room and shut himself. “We have aged people (Anand’s father and my mother at home) and my nine-year-old son Akhil. It is important that he stays separate so that nobody’s health is compromised,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anand-returns-home/article31770385.ece
07 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||HCA defers final decision on all cricketing matters||The Apex Council meeting of Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA), which was held at the Rajiv Gandhi Stadium here on Saturday, deferred to take any final decision on all cricketing matters till the BCCI gives specific directions on resumption of activities and also wait for the State Government to come out with clear guidelines on re-opening the stadia. The meeting, chaired by president Mohd. Azharuddin, also took a decision in principle not to pursue the idea of having the next AGM through a video conference, as thought a few days ago. “The Council members unanimously felt that it is not viable to hold the AGM via any social media app and it has to be held in person. “So, we will wait for more clarity on the Government orders in opening up the stadia and take a final call on when it can be scheduled,” a senior member of the Apex Council told The Hindu . With the unlikely possibility of the cricketing season starting in the immediate future, all issues, including naming of any selection panels and other key subjects were also kept in abeyance. “Only the accounts for the month of April were passed,” said the official, after the meeting was attended by all the nine members of the council including two players’ representatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hca-defers-final-decision-on-all-cricketing-matters/article31770596.ece
07 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Hamza Koya passes away||The novel coronavirus claimed its first victim in Indian sport on Saturday. E. Hamza Koya, who played for Maharashtra in the Santosh Trophy football championship for five years and made his presence felt in the highly competitive Mumbai football league for a decade, died at a hospital in northern Kerala at the age of 61. Koya had left his hometown of Parappanangady for Mumbai back in the ’70s. He played for several top clubs in the Mumbai league and made the city his home. He also set up a human resources company there. After Mumbai emerged as the epicentre of the pandemic’s outbreak in India, Koya, along with his family, drove down to Kerala a fortnight ago. He is survived by wife Laila, a former Western Railway volleyball player, and son Lihaz, who has kept goal for the junior Indian football team. Koya was a formidable defender and was respected even by his rivals in the Mumbai league, said former India player Premnath Philip. “We had played together for Maharashtra,” he told The Hindu . “Both of us played as wing-backs.” Premnath had also played against Koya. “I was playing for Tata Sports Club in the Mumbai league those days, while he represented Orkay Mills,” he recalled. “He had also played for many other clubs in Mumbai.” Those clubs included Western Railway, Union Bank, RCF and Tata Sports Club. “Koya was a talented defender and, with some luck, could have played for India,” said Premnath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hamza-koya-passes-away/article31770387.ece
07 June 2020||New Delhi,||WC qualifier: India to host Qatar on Oct. 8||The Indian football team’s postponed 2022 FIFA World Cup qualifying round game against Asian champion Qatar at home was on Friday rescheduled to October 8 as the continental body proposed new dates for the matches. India then takes on Bangladesh away on November 12 and hosts Afghanistan on November 17. The Asian Football Confederation (AFC), in consultation with FIFA, announced the proposed match dates. India is already out of contention for the World Cup, but can still make it to the Asian Cup.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wc-qualifier-india-to-host-qatar-on-oct-8/article31770388.ece
07 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kapil Dev, Kartik Murali in golf fund-raiser||In what could be the first post-lockdown golf event, former all-rounder Kapil Dev and Gaganjeet Bhullar will challenge Shubhankar Sharma and former left-arm spinner Kartik Murali in an exhibition match at the Delhi Golf Club course here on July 11. First of its kind Shubhankar, a two-time winner on the European Tour, and Bhullar, winner of one European title and nine more on the Asian Tour, will have two former cricketers as partners in the first event of its kind. Kapil and left-hander Kartik take their golf very seriously and are regulars at several Pro-Am events during the season. The 18-hole Covid Relief Exhibition Golf Match, supported by Magic Bus, aims to raise funds for those hit hard by the pandemic. The Chennai-based Dilip Thomas, well-known golf administrator, is the lead donor for this fund-raiser. For his contribution to Indian golf, including the support extended to over 50 professional golfers, Thomas was bestowed the ‘Lifetime Achievement Award’ at the 2019 Golf Industry Association (GIA) Awards Nite.  Kapil and Bhullar will challenge Kartik and Shubhankar in the 18-hole Covid Relief Exhibition match||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kapil-dev-kartik-murali-in-golf-fund-raiser/article31770391.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Connect with players, Solskjaer tells coaches||Manchester United was on a 10-game unbeaten run, scoring 28 goals across competitions, when all global sporting activity was suspended due to the coronavirus outbreak. That form and the return of several players from injury, including Paul Pogba, has manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer eagerly looking forward to the return of the Premier League. While the conditions will not be the same as before — matches will be held behind closed doors and teams can make five substitutions from an increased bench strength (nine) — the Norwegian believes that his side knows what to expect. "The last game we played (vs LASK in the Europa League) was behind closed doors. We have a good impression of playing in front of no fans," he said in a conversation with the Shiv Nadar Foundation. "Our boys have started training, the mood is very good and everyone is raring to go." With the game growing in popularity in India, the 47-year-old had some advice to budding coaches in the country. "These days there are many tools, there’s technology to manage sessions. But it’s the interaction, how you communicate with players, that matter," Solskjaer said. Be prepared "Something that’s easy for you will not be so for the players. You have to challenge them on the right level all the time, both technically and tactically. Football is evolving very quickly now. Be prepared, know your players.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/connect-with-players-solskjaer-tells-coaches/article31770408.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,||SDAT players can use Nehru Stadium for fitness||In a welcome development, Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu has given permission to those sportspersons belonging to its scheme — Elite, Mission International Medal Scheme (MIMS) & Champions Development — to train at the Nehru Stadium and Nehru B ground from June 8 (Monday). However, there has been no clarity yet on Standard Operating Procedures and the request by top sportspersons to train in their respective academies their with coaches. “Chennai Corporation has given permission for training. As per the guidelines of the Central and Tamil Nadu Governments, players are requested to avail of the facilities for fitness only. This was done based on the recommendation of SDAT’s Member Secretary (MS). Players should send in a mail to MS,” said an official. In all probability, from June 15, National and International sportspersons not belonging to SDAT’s scheme can start practising at the venues mentioned. Depending on the situation, permission will be granted to state-level players for fitness only at a later date. In case the number of players is more, different time slots will be given to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sdat-players-can-use-nehru-stadium-for-fitness/article31770466.ece
07 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Former CFA vice-president Balasamy passes away||A. Balasamy (82), former vice-president of the Chennai Football Association and assistant secretary of Madras United Club, passed away here on Saturday. He was a long-standing member of the Madras Race Club. Balasamy first played for Don Bosco Oratory (Broadway) (now Don Bosco Youth Centre) in the MFA league.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-cfa-vice-president-balasamy-passes-away/article31770463.ece
07 June 2020||KOLKATA,||BFI involves parents too||The Boxing Federation of India (BFI) on Saturday took the rare step of involving parents of junior boxers in the e-Pathshala programme. More than 500 boxers and their parents participated in the ongoing Khelo India initiative. “Our young boxers are lucky because we never had the best boxing practices coming to our doors. With parents also taking part, the boxers have a strong backing in their pursuit of the sport,” said Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju. Videos BFI president Ajay Singh said videos on technical aspects of boxing would be uploaded on the web. “We would be putting up these videos on platforms like Bookmyshow.com for every young athlete to access and pick up nuances of the sport," said Ajay Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfi-involves-parents-too/article31770533.ece
07 June 2020||Brussels,||‘It’s 2021 or never for Tokyo Games’||High-ranking Olympic official Pierre-Olivier Beckers on Saturday made it clear that the delayed Tokyo Olympics “will be held in 2021 or not at all”. The Belgian was reiterating the stance put forward by Japan and International Olympic Committee chief Thomas Bach that next year was the last chance to hold the Games, postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic. “Today everyone is sure that they will start on July 23, 2021,” he told Belgian newspaper L'Avenir . “We are convinced that the Games will take place in 2021 or they won't take place. “It's unthinkable to keep such a project on the go for any longer considering the enormous costs and all the thousands of people involved.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-2021-or-never-for-tokyo-games/article31770389.ece
07 June 2020||Kolkata,||Poaching doubled during lockdown, says wildlife trade monitoring group||A recent report by TRAFFIC, a leading wildlife trade monitoring network, has recorded a significant increase in poaching in India during the over two month lockdown period.  Indian wildlife amidst the COVID-19 crisis: An analysis of status of poaching and illegal wildlife trade, released earlier this week, points out that reports of poaching for consumption and local trade have more than doubled during the lockdown. It, however, mentions that there was no evidence of stockpiling of wildlife products for future trade. Six-week period The researchers analysed media reports of poaching incidents in a six-week period before the lockdown (February 10 to March 22) with those from six weeks during the lockdown (March 23 to May 3). Based on this, the report said: “Reported poaching incidences rose from 35 to 88.” The report, however, added that it remains unknown how reporting rates in the media have changed because of the lockdown. The biggest increase in reported poaching was related to ungulates, where the percentage jumped from 22% of total reported cases during pre-lockdown to 44%, during the lockdown period. “Since these species are targeted mainly for meat (for self-consumption or for local trade), the increase is presumably due to those poaching for self-consumption or those who are trying to compensate their loss of income by making quick money through poaching,” the report stated. The second group of animals where there was a marked increase was ‘small mammals’, including hares, porcupines, pangolins, giant squirrels, civets, monkeys and smaller wild cats. Cases against this group rose from 17% to 25%. Interestingly, there was a slight decrease in the incidence of bird-related seizures, which dropped from 14% to 7%. There was less reporting of poaching and illegal trade in tortoises and freshwater turtles, with almost no seizures of these species during the period. Even though there are reports about pangolins being linked to the COVID-19 crisis, the report states that the animal was targeted in various parts of the country. “Live pangolins Manis spp. and their scales were seized from poachers in Uttarakhand, Karnataka and Odisha,” the study noted. Saket Badola, head of TRAFFIC’s India office and author of the report, said more than doubling of reported poaching cases, mainly of ungulates and small wild animals for meat, is doubtless placing additional burdens on wildlife law enforcement agencies. “Therefore, it is imperative that these agencies are supported adequately and in a timely manner so they can control the situation” noted Mr. Badola. More arrests The report also pointed out that 222 persons were arrested for poaching-related cases during the lockdown as compared to 85 suspects during the pre-lockdown phase. The outcome of this study indicates that “despite efforts by law enforcement agencies, wild animal populations in India are being subjected to additional threats during the lockdown period”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/poaching-doubled-during-lockdown-says-wildlife-trade-monitoring-group/article31770382.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 07:50 IST,||Sudoku - June 7, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-7-2020/article31770837.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Behind the smoke||When Witness Kashmir 1986-2016 , a book of photographs shot in Kashmir by nine local photographers and edited by documentary filmmaker Sanjay Kak, was published in 2017, one of the mild criticisms it faced was the absence of women photographers in the compilation. Subsequently, lens-women from Kashmir have been very much in the news for some fearless documentary photography. In April, the well-known photojournalist, 26-year-old Masrat Zahra, was arrested under the draconian UAPA, leading to an international furore. Now, with three Kashmiri photographers who work for Associated Press in Jammu and Kashmir bagging the 2020 Pulitzer Prize for feature photography last month, it is clear that ‘conflict photography’ has touched new heights in a region that has been under a severe ‘total lockdown’ for over nine months now. Sanna Irshad Mattoo(Instagram: sanna.irshad.mattoo)belongs to this new and intrepid band of photojournalists who are working under challenging circumstances in Kashmir, where they are viewed suspiciously by both the agencies of the state as well as the local population. Here are some images captured by her from the May 19 incident at Nawakadal in Srinagar, in which the government claimed the death of two Hizbul militants and injuries to four security personnel. Over a dozen houses in the area were reduced to ashes and rubble in the ensuing fires, while scores of residents were rendered homeless in the middle of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/behind-the-smoke/article31770163.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Running in the community||Not so long ago, Dalit women farmers in Telangana used to face hunger and deprivation. Today, they have contributed foodgrains for pandemic relief. Farmers on the Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border have been sending organic produce to Bengaluru even during the lockdown. And Adivasi villages in central India are using community funds to take care of migrant workers who have returned home. These inspiring stories show the potential of empowered rural communities to cope with crisis. And they expose the tragedy of a path of ‘development’ and governance that has not recognised or, worse, taken away the extraordinary agency of ordinary villagers to manage their lives. Take Chandramma, who grows 40 varieties of crops, chemical free, on her rainfed plot in Bidakanne village in the Medak district of Telangana. “I have enough food to last through the lockdown and beyond,” she says during a Vikalp Varta webinar. Chandramma and thousands of Dalit farmers like her contributed 20,000 kg of foodgrains to Medak district’s COVID-19 relief measures. And they provide 1,000 glasses of nutritious millet porridge daily to health, municipality and police workers in Zaheerabad town nearby. They are part of the Deccan Development Society, whose women’s sanghas are active in 75 villages in Telengana, and have helped thousands of women from a casteist, patriarchal society to revive dry land, millet-centred farming and thus gain control over land, seeds, water and knowledge. Having achieved anna swaraj (food sovereignty) and self-sufficiency, the women are now feeding others. Enough and more Further south, a self-help group in Gumalapuram village of Tamil Nadu’s Dharmapuri district sends fresh organic produce to Bengaluru, 50 km away. A community-supported farming initiative started in 2017 with help from Navadarshanam, an organisation that promotes ecologically sustainable living, the SHG helps local organic farmers plan and put together a weekly box of vegetables, fruits and groceries for urban customers. Their revenues have increased 10-20 times and the strategy has helped them circumvent the problem millions of their counterparts faced during the lockdown: distress sales at low prices. These are just some of the stories emerging from villages across India, where communities that have mobilised themselves are showing just how well they can cope with and overcome a crisis like the unprecedented one brought on by the pandemic and lockdown. Does the Prime Minister know about these stories when he suddenly begins to stress on the need for self-reliance? If he does, he ignores them, for his government pursues MoUs with foreign companies, dilutes laws protecting labour and environmental rights, puts heavy tax burdens on handicrafts, and continues to forcibly acquire land, forest, and other resources so vital to the rural economy, only to hand them over to corporations. Dozens of rural communities demonstrate the enormous livelihood potential of rural, small-scale industries. India’s crafts employ 150-200 million people, second only to agriculture. Government policies have severely disabled them, but in places like Kutch, design innovations and improved local supply and production chains have revived handloom weaving to such an extent that youth are coming back into it, a form of reverse migration. In Kuthambakkam village near Chennai, small-scale industries like grain processing or manufacturing of solar fan-bulb kits have helped families avoid urban migration. Kuthambakkam’s former sarpanch Elango Rangaswamy has, in fact, come up with a solar-powered process of disinfectant manufacturing, which he says can be set up cheaply in any village to generate jobs. Averting crisis The pandemic has, in fact, thrown into relief just how self-reliant rural communities really are. In Kunariya village in Kutch, Gujarat, sarpanch Suresh Chhanga was able to set up a crisis management team, use social media to raise awareness about the pandemic, and organise a full health survey. The villagers ensured that 316 needy families received all basic necessities with the help of panchayat funds and local donations. When I phoned Chhanga, he excitedly recounted how the village keeps its children busy. “We realised that they are stuck at home, bored or even sometimes facing the aggression of anxious adults, so the panchayat has encouraged elders to teach them whatever special skills they had — music, crafts, cooking, traditional technologies, gardening.” All this became possible because Chhanga has enabled Kunariya villagers to achieve greater participation in local governance. He has helped build bridges between villagers and government authorities, and ensured that schemes and laws such as MGNREGA and the National Food Security Act are implemented, budgets kept transparent, and women’s voices strengthened. Now they are figuring out how to produce over 200 items of consumption locally, rather than spend Rs. 40 lakh a month buying them from outside. In Tamil Nadu, the largely tribal village of Sittilingi in the hilly Dharmapuri district mobilised itself as soon as Kerala announced the first COVID-19 case in January. Panchayat president Madheswari, a former nurse, called for an urgent meeting with government departments and with Tribal Health Initiative (THI), a civil society institution. The village went into disaster control mode, using public announcements to spread awareness, initiating physical distancing, mask-wearing and public sanitation, and isolating returning migrants. Local tailors were asked to stitch masks in bulk. Revive and refresh These stories demonstrate what self-reliance really means — the revitalising of rural livelihoods. Note that I am talking about livelihoods, not jobs — about occupations linked to everyday life, social relations, and culture, providing body and soul with satisfaction. Industrialising the economy, with its soul-deadening assembly-line jobs, is not the solution. Returning lands and livelihoods to villagers rather than forcing villagers into cities is key. In eastern Maharashtra, after two centuries of centralised control by the Forest Department, where revenues from the sale of forest produce like bamboo were mostly cornered by contractors and the government, villages are now able to do their own harvesting under the community rights granted by the Forest Rights Act of 2006. This has been crucial in securing access to nutritional forest foods, medicinal plants, and culturally and spiritually important sites. Sustainable harvesting of forest produce has generated substantial income for these villages, part of which has been ploughed into community funds. In settlements like Rahu in Amravati district, Kukdale and Salhe in Gadchiroli district, it’s these funds that are helping returning migrant labourers or local landless people. Gadchiroli has also seen the remarkable mobilisation of 90 villages into a Mahagram Sabha, instilling confidence to move towards greater self-rule and economic self-reliance, and to resist mining. These stories, of village-level self-sufficiency in food, livelihoods, water, energy, sanitation, housing, and other basic needs, tell us of the urgent need to move towards localisation as an alternative to economic globalisation, which, as the pandemic exposed, abandoned its workforce when production stopped. The stories tell us that clusters of settlements can be self-reliant in basic needs, significantly reducing distress migration and urban crowding. They tell us that communities can govern themselves, while making the state accountable. Achieving this requires, of course, the dismantling of patriarchy, casteism, and other forms of discrimination, but it can be done through mobilisation, critical external facilitation, and sensitive education. If the Indian state is really interested in self-reliance, it needs to support dignified rural livelihoods in agriculture, animal husbandry, forestry, fisheries, crafts, and small manufacturing at the village level. It has to help set up producer-consumer links by eliminating exploitative middlemen; stop pandering to large corporations; eliminate GST and other burdens on handmade production; and ensure minimum support prices for primary sector products. The government’s present policies are, by and large, the complete opposite, and there is little in the recently announced stimulus package that points to any fundamental shift. Given this, it is left to communities themselves, with help from civil society and some sensitive State governments, to use the COVID-19 crisis as an incredible opportunity to move towards equity and sustainability. The author is with Kalpavriksh in Pune.  In eastern Maharashtra, after two centuries of centralised control by the Forest Department, villages are now able to do their own harvesting under the community rights granted by the Forest Rights Act of 2006||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/running-in-the-community/article31770195.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||100% handmade needs 101% support||Picture this. You pick up a shiny metal lamp from a government handicraft emporium. You want an authentic handmade artifact for your home. You also want to support the few families who still use the lost-wax casting process. What you don’t know is that you might have actually acquired a fake. Our education is indifferent to the skills that have made India famous but left its practitioners impoverished. There are few to applaud traditional knowledge systems in this age of hyper modernity. The national economic indices don’t recognise the contributions of the millions who make up the so-called unorganised sector. During the pandemic, therefore, there are few relief packages for artists and artisans who, unlike frontline COVID-19 warriors protecting our bodies, remain the guardians of our soul. Lives unnoticed Your brass lamp, with its lustrous patina of a bronze original, is manufactured in Moradabad or Aligarh. Churned out as assembly line duplicates from rubber moulds, there is little evidence of these lamps ever having been touched by dexterous fingers conditioned by tradition. Old Moradabad was once famous for its ‘Kaseras’ and ‘Chiteras’, who made chitai or repoussé and meenakari or enamelling into an art form. Today, it is a warren of tiny one-room tenements that double up as industrial units, circumventing factory laws, stealing electricity from domestic meters, and turning homes into factories. Children with soot-covered faces and tired eyes hold up gleaming candelabras and beer tumblers for foreign buyers. New Moradabad starts on the highway leading to the inner town. Large factories and export houses line the road, supplying to the home décor trade. Their orders are cancelled, but they may well be the first to qualify for relief. Even though machine-made masquerades as handmade and siphons off official subsidies for handicrafts, relief measures must address everyone in need. So, who does India consider as its hard-hit craftspeople and how do we identify vulnerable skills? Tragically, only a fraction of those who make the products that line the stalls of urban haats or fill the shelves of emporia and boutiques qualify. The rest exist as numbers in officially recognised clusters, their aesthetic merit bolstered with misdirected interventions and subsidies. Hundreds more are referred to rather derogatorily as ‘languishing’, and more ‘assistance’ is pumped in with little effect. But millions live unnoticed at the bottom of the pyramid in thousands of villages, providing ubiquitous services as a part of their families’ inherited skills or caste occupation. These include potters, cobblers, metalsmiths, carpenters, basket-weavers, rope-makers, broom-makers, and more. Outside of any mapping and rarely the beneficiaries of any government schemes, they include vast numbers of women, children and itinerants. Swanky new definition Between what leaders say and what they leave out, millions of lives stay suspended in poverty. The Centre has announced a ‘Fund of Funds’ to incentivise growth for MSMEs (Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises), but the upper end of this omnibus sector might soon tweak official classification to suit its agenda. The new MSME definition has a swanky message: revise the limit of investment in machinery or equipment and introduce a ‘turnover’ criterion. The government is, in fact, saying ‘no need to stay small to avail benefits’. Who in this rejig will understand that handmade as a carbon-friendly enterprise must remain small to thrive? In our excitement with this newfound support for MSMEs, let us not blur small cottage-based livelihoods with government terminology. Mud homes cannot install machines to qualify for equity or loans. In the crores of rupees promised last week to the informal sector, immediate attention must be given to clear these ambiguities in classifications. ‘Handmade’ is a much-abused tag, with different meanings for different people. It no longer implies the use of skilled hands, informed by an agile mind and subtle function, motivated by a tradition that moves the spirit. Machines are rapidly being configured to make anything that was earlier made by hands alone. Then came powerlooms, each not just displacing the hands of six weavers but also their sense of making and being. Bleeding heart boutiques Many handcrafted ‘khadi’ or cottage industry enterprises with their fancy boutiques make a bleeding-heart pretence of helping the poor, of promoting traditional livelihoods and heritage, and with debatable claims of fair trade. In fact, several hide exploitative work conditions and polluting processes. We need to be cautious in the post-COVID-19 scenario when a lot of money is earmarked for small enterprises. ‘Handmade’ must be appropriately distinguished and positioned. The shrinking cultural contexts that are marginalising millions of skilled workers require that, simultaneously with relief efforts, MSMEs are also provided with sensitive design help and new markets, both local and global. Technology is inevitable, as is new material. Anodised aluminium wires, colourful plastic tubes, telephone cables, all sorts of waste get reprocessed into unprecedented incarnations, creating new ‘handmade’ items. Materials and processes will continue to augment creative vocabularies, blurring the borders between handmade and machine-made, merging traditional with modern. Now, more than ever, the purely handmade will have to be made distinct from part-handmade and full machine-made, with new muscular classifications. Legal safeguards, reservations, subsidies and trade unions will all need new teeth if ‘handmade’ is to survive. Rare but real Pure handmade textiles, for instance, can only thrive when they offer something that machines cannot. The evolved aesthetic and functional sensibilities that match the individual’s warp of hand skill with the weft of personal insight can only survive when appreciated and recognised. A conscious consumer must first learn to distinguish the real from the fake. Artistic weaves with natural dyes, handmade block prints, asymmetrical loom embroidery and interlays, unique double ‘ikats’, hand-spun organic cottons of fine counts, wild exotic silks, all these can thus far only be hand-created by the most dexterous. These constitute an exclusive range of products that are for the few, by the few, and, so far, also sold only through the few. Rarefied? Perhaps, but nevertheless important milestones for the future of what will remain worthy of being called handmade. Machines will wipe out everything the hand cannot make better. I say better and not cheaper because the future of handmade — as anywhere in the world — is not going to be cheap. Each form of manufacture must be re-classified according to its own carbon footprint. Until the ecological impact of every product begins to reflect on its price, machine-made manufacture will continue to rule. Handmade is best understood when it is measured with the impact that manufacture has on soil, soul and society. Promoting this unique Indian concept of pehchan , or recognition, will be a huge challenge; but it can be done. Historically, the modernisation process aspires to substitute hard labour with technology. So, government policies must be reappraised ensuring that handmade goods stay one step ahead of automated produce, and that copyright issues or G.I. protection for vulnerable community knowledge are addressed immediately. We need many more design activists willing to work in villages and small units, taking it up as a challenge and leading artisans towards quality products. Finally, I believe a few thousand crores must be pumped into creating a system for identifying, certifying and promoting 100% handmade goods. It has the potential to generate millions of decentralised livelihoods and earn billions in untapped revenue. More pertinently, in a post-pandemic world, it can create a sustainable movement for slow manufacture, slow clothing and a slow lifestyle. The scenographer/ designer is founder-chairman of Asian Heritage Foundation and a Padma Bhushan.  Handmade is best understood when it is measured with the impact that manufacture has on soil, soul and society||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/100-handmade-needs-101-support/article31770223.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||From the hipster’s oven||If anything, the lockdown has engendered and sustained one social media phenomenon. And that is a huge volume of home baking, with the oven dragged into use both here in India and across the pandemic-ridden world with almost militant fervour. Just key in the catchphrases ‘banana bread’ or ‘chocolate chip cookies’ into any of your social media account feed searches and the ensuing results will boggle your mind. But there is one bakery item in particular that singularly gobbles up a mighty chunk of the proverbial baking pie. Sourdough bread. Covering dozens of pages and a gazillion hashtags on everything from Instagram to Pinterest, it would appear as though every Tom, Dick and Hariharan along with their next-door neighbour has secured a place on the sourdough bread bandwagon. So, what exactly is sourdough bread? And more importantly, why is it so darn popular these days? Characterised by a nutty aroma, this tangy-tasting, highly porous, artisanal bread has a crusty surface and is made using natural yeast. All it takes is plain flour, water and a little salt to make a loaf of the bread. This, as opposed to commercial white bread, which has as many as 20 ingredients, including hard-to-digest additives and dough conditioners. But what makes sourdough extra special is that it is most likely the first form of leavened bread ever created. Like most great inventions, sourdough bread was probably discovered by accident over 4,000 years ago by the ancient Egyptians. There is even written evidence of sourdough from hieroglyphs found in the pyramids, showing people making beer and bread at the same time in a sort of crossover fermentation. Nifty starters With no need for commercially produced yeast — an almost impossible product to procure in a lockdown — you just require a starter in lieu. A ‘living organism’ if you will, that is simply made from a mixture of water and flour. Microbes from the environment colonise the flour-water slurry, producing gut-friendly, lactic acid-generating bacteria and wild yeast that aids in leavening. Interestingly, even here in India, there has been a tradition of sourdough bread making. In Crumbs! , her well-researched book on bread baking, food author and consultant Saee Koranne-Khandekar talks of a Himachali iteration of sourdough and even one made by Maharashtra’s Pathare Prabhu community, who use a starter called gonda made from chana dal , water and milk. “We (Indians) have an almost instinctive understanding of gluten strengths and dough consistencies. (Stiff dough for poori, loose for chapati, etc.) We also understand wild cultures that exist in our environment, thanks to all the curd setting and the idli/ dosa batter and kanji-making,” says Koranne-Khandekar. “Sourdough bread has gained popularity because of its delightful taste. Moreover, it is a great substitute for other breads made with commercial yeast. The lockdown has encouraged people to opt for healthier options and sourdough, therefore, has become a huge social media trend,” says Amar Dwivedi, Executive Chef at Grand Mercure Gandhinagar. There is, however, more method to the apparent sourdough bread madness. In Cooked , his seminal book on all things food, American author Michael Pollan says that “…freshly baked bread is the ultimate olfactory synecdoche for hominess.” Making a strong case for the curative powers of aromatherapy on mood by way of freshly baked goodies, a 2016 study published in The Journal of Positive Psychology found that when young adults took part in an olfactory sense-heightening activity such as baking, they felt happier and more creative over the following days. Truly aromatherapy for the depressed soul! Therapeutic activity That is exactly why 24-year-old Gurugram resident and chef Akanksha Dean decided to swap her stove top for the oven and give baking bread a whirl. “Out of work as a chef-manager at a café, I suddenly found so much free time on hand that I decided to get into baking bread, which I find so therapeutic and depression-ridding,” says Dean, who even launched a new lockdown-themed baking page on Instagram for her creations. “I particularly love the idea of sourdough bread, which is perfect these days as the starter is the sum of just two ingredients that everyone has in their pantry.” Speaking of the sourdough starter, it has become so ‘legit’ that in Silicon Valley, hipster coders are now blogging about the fermentation graphs of their sourdough starters. In fact, in August last year, Seamus Blackley, one of the co-creators of the Xbox and self-professed ‘bread nerd’, resurrected a sourdough starter dating back to ancient Egypt that was made from residual yeast scraped from the insides of broken bits of pharaonic pottery. Closer home, one such aficionado is Shivam Bhatia from Bengaluru, who has been nurturing his sourdough starter for the last three weeks. “The last time I took care of anything similar was when I was a teenager in the late 1990s, when the craze of owning a virtual pet like the Japanese egg-shaped Tamagotchi was all the rage,” says the 38-year-old VFX company owner. “Lockdown has given me the impetus and time to concentrate on the regular feedings that my starter needs.” But if Bhatia were to ever shift base to New York or Belgium, he would find that tending to his starter need not be a solo pursuit. Enter the sourdough starter ‘hotel’, where one can leave their starters at a hotel where it will be tended to with regular feedings if you’re travelling or indisposed. For a small fee, of course. Authentic experience Sourdough Inn in Brooklyn, New York, is one such “hotel for your sourdough, helping busy Brooklyn hipsters stay connected with the authentic bread experience”. The inn, which was started by Danish-born Internet entrepreneur Mathias Jakobsen, also offers a three-week, $60, intensive ‘training and rehabilitation’ course, where your neglected starter can be brought back to life. Jakobsen himself was inspired by something radical that was taking place on the other side of the Atlantic. The Puratos Sourdough Library in St. Vith, Belgium not only tends to around 125 heirloom sourdough starter samples, but also develops, researches and preserves the biodiversity of different starters for the future. But, just as sourdough dethroned banana bread in the baking trend wars, there seems to be another usurper slowly nipping at sourdough’s crusty surface. And no, we are not speaking of the commercially produced, nutritionally challenged sourdough imposter that social media has comically dubbed ‘sourfaux bread’. Proving true the rather ephemeral nature of social media trends, the newest lockdown baking blitzkrieg comes to us in the form of ‘focaccia art’, where bakers are channelling their inner Van Doughs and going all out to deck slabs of the classic Italian flat bread with rustic pastoral scenes created using fresh herbs and vegetables. Any takers? The Mumbai-based writer and restaurant reviewer is passionate about food, travel and luxury, not necessarily in that order.  Seamus Blackley, a co-creator of the Xbox, resurrected a sourdough starter dating back to ancient Egypt, made from residual yeast scraped from the insides of broken bits of pharaonic pottery||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/from-the-hipsters-oven/article31770165.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Chill in the neighbourhood||Nepal-India relations are often romanticised as one of ‘roti-beti’ (food and marriage), but Sudheer Sharma’s fast-paced account of contemporary Nepali politics shows that it has been defined more by Indian bureaucracy and spies. He weaves in his experience as a reporter and a leading editor of Nepal to show that India was involved in the political transition of Nepal from monarchy to constitutional democracy, but that the transition did not fulfil India’s expectations. Complicated strands In lucid prose, Sharma presents the complex history of communism and monarchy in Nepal, and explains the India link in a gripping chapter titled ‘Delhi Agreement – II’. The author reveals how the Maoist insurgency of Nepal was brought to an end through dialogue among the key Nepali leaders, Girija Prasad Koirala and Pushpa Kamal Dahal “Prachanda”. The two stalwarts of Nepali politics met in Gurgaon. Baburam Bhattarai, Krishna Prasad Mahara, leaders of seven political parties representing various political groups of Nepal, and representatives of the Manmohan Singh government were the other participants at these meetings held in the summer of 2005. It was a difficult dialogue as the Maoists had not yet stopped the decade-long insurgency as they negotiated for a future mainstreaming of the movement. A ceasefire followed the massacre of soldiers in Pili and after months of meetings, the landmark twelve-point understanding was reached. The understanding aimed at creating a constitutional republic in Nepal had to contend with Nepal’s Durbaris, the Maoist challengers, the Janjatis or ancient communities like Tharus and Magars, while fulfilling the democratic aspiration of the Madhesis of the plains. Both Koirala, who led the seven-party combine, and Prachanda, the leader of the Maoist side, made crucial concessions to take Nepal to the next phase. Sharma claims that working behind the scenes were former head of Research and Analysis Wing Hormis Tharakan, Prakash Karat and Sitaram Yechury of the CPI(M) and Devi Prasad Tripathi of the Nationalist Congress party. At that time, Tharakan was the member of the National Security Advisory Board. With the Left Front extending support to the Manmohan Singh government at the Centre, the involvement of Karat-Yechury indicated the government’s direct involvement with Nepal’s political truce. The political situation changed in India with the advent of the Narendra Modi government even as Nepal remained on track to adopt the constitution. The main problem at this stage appeared to be that the post-monarchy Nepali democratic leaders, despite the revolutionary features of their movement, wanted Nepal’s traditional centre of power to remain Kathmandu-centric. The Indian stakeholders increasingly pushed for an identity-based criterion to give more rights to the people of the plains of Nepal. Kathmandu suspected that through the Madhesi assertion, India wanted to ensure a permanent grip over Kathmandu. As the final touches were being given to the constitution, India was shocked to find that the leaders who had been aided by it earlier were not interested in implementing Delhi’s demands. Epic meeting Sharma brings out the stunning differences between the Nepali and Indian side at an epic meeting that was held by current foreign minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali with his counterpart S. Jaishankar, then foreign secretary, on September 16, 2015. Gyawali had arrived as the emissary of Nepal to inform India about the decision to adopt the constitution. Jaishankar and Gyawali were joined by National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and midway through the discussion the Indian foreign secretary received a phone call that the Constitutent Assembly had passed the constitution. “What is the use of talking anymore,” Jaishankar is quoted as saying at this moment by Sharma. Jaishankar rushed to Kathmandu to stop the constitution from getting adopted as India argued it had not addressed the aspiration of the Madhesis who have greater social and cultural similarities with Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. ‘India’s revenge’ Jaishankar’s failure to stop the constitution spilled into the crippling blockade that Nepal termed as India’s revenge. India maintained throughout this period that it was not responsible for the blockade as it was imposed by Madhesi protesters. But Nepal blamed Delhi for the hardship that the common people faced because of the harsh move. Nepal today is shaped by the traumatic experience of the months-long blockade. The government of K.P. Sharma Oli, seemingly egged on by its ‘northern neighbour’, is determined to keep Nepal from ever returning to the grip of bureaucrats of South Block. The charges against leading Indian officials for playing a role in creating this reversal can only be refuted by them personally but till that time, Sharma’s book is a must-read to understand India-Nepal ties.  The Nepal Nexus: An Inside Account of the Maoists, the Durbar and New Delhi Sudheer Sharma Penguin/Viking  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/chill-in-the-neighbourhood/article31770210.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Where women dare||This is Aruna Chakravarti’s 15th book; two of her earlier novels, Jorasanko and Daughters of Jorasanko, were bestsellers, acclaimed by critics and readers alike. I mention these two because in writing them, Chakravarti could rely on facts for authenticity. In writing Suralakshmi Villa , however, she has no such protective milieu which she can turn to; she has had to create a milieu for herself and use it to sustain her narrative. As one reads the book, it becomes clear that this is a chronicle rather than a story of one or two people; Chakravarti uses a style and structure that she has used for her previous novels as well. But the task Chakravarti has set for herself here is harder because the chronicle she develops is set in two different worlds. One is the world of an affluent Calcutta family of the late 1920s — the family of Rai Bahadur Indranath Choudhury, an ICS officer who holds an important post in the colonial bureaucracy of British India. The other is of the impoverished but not destitute family of Moin-ud-din, a small farmer in the village of Hasanpur, in Bengal’s Malda district. Third daughters Chakravarti lets the social and economic worlds the families occupy develop and reveal themselves as integral parts of her narrative rather than outline them impersonally. She carefully picks out protagonists from both families: Suralakshmi is Indranath Choudhury’s third daughter, who is given the freedom to study medicine by her parents. She specialises in gynaecology and obstetrics, later practising in Delhi, where the family has moved as the Rai Bahadur’s job requires him to be in the capital. Over time, he has acquired some land in the outskirts of Delhi, where he has built five houses, one for each of his daughters. Moin-ud-din rules his family with a degree of brutality that is perhaps usual for the times: he exercises rigid, cruel control over his brood of children, especially his daughters. Here too Chakravarti’s focus is on the third daughter, Eid-ul-wara, or Eidun, as she is called by everyone in her family and the village. Vivid detail These two women are linked through a series of events, even though one might not think there would be anything to link a well-known married doctor with a little son to a slip of a girl, much younger and barely literate. But linked they are by circumstances, and that is one of the major threads in the novel that Chakravarti develops so skilfully. The author brings the different social worlds to life in vivid detail. Creating a world of entitlement, affluence and rigid social norms set in the 1920s and later might have been easy enough since so much archival material is available on this milieu. But what about that obscure corner of the earth, Hasanpur? The merciless exploitation of women there coupled with rare moments of childish happiness the women win for themselves is captured well. If one has to carp, I would say that while Suralakshmi’s character is strongly drawn, her reasons for acting as she does are not entirely convincing. But this too can be accepted. The character I found difficult to comprehend is Eidun. She says little about herself to her mother or to Suralakshmi, whom she adores. Perhaps Chakravarti deliberately wants to give her an air of mystery. Like Chakravarti’s earlier novels, this one too is a riveting read. The writer is a former civil servant and author.  Suralakshmi Villa Aruna Chakravarti  Picador India  Rs. 650    The merciless exploitation of women coupled with rare moments of childish happiness the women win for themselves is captured well||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/where-women-dare/article31770197.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Year of bugs and bugbears||Despite my advanced spiritual attainments, when I decided not to go for mahasamadhi on December 31, 2019, I hadn’t anticipated that 2020 would be so stressful. First, there were the anti-CAA protests and road blockades. Then came the communal riots in north-east Delhi. And then, the COVID-19 pandemic and the national lockdown. Then we heard about the carnage on the economic front: our GDP shrinking like linen trousers, businesses collapsing like dominoes, employers wielding the axe like Jack Nicholson in The Shining . On cue And then, when you thought we’d hit rock bottom, the Chinese decided to come and squat on our land in Ladakh. A rude thing to do, if you ask me. Then came Cyclone Amphan, destroying everything in its path except man’s inhumanity to man — the only department where India continues to outshine every other country. Then the police in J&K busted a major spy operation run by a Pakistani pigeon. The pigeon, whose passport gave away its Pakistani nationality, had illegally crossed the Line of Control into India. It underwent a thorough interrogation at the hands of our intelligence officials, who managed to ‘turn’ it and send it back to Pakistan as a double agent. Soon after the pigeon was despatched, a monkey in Meerut ran away with a bunch of coronavirus test samples, sparking fears of a rapid spread of infections. Public health officials in Meerut were forced to hijack a Shramik Special train to chase the monkey and retrieve the coronavirus samples. But the media started spreading fake news that the trains had lost their way. The trains hadn’t lost their way — it was the media that lost its way, and turned into vultures that, in turn, morphed into Prophets of Doom. The hunt for the delinquent monkey had barely started when Donald Trump got into the act, declaring war on Twitter. And then, as if on cue, a huge army of locusts invaded India — from Pakistan, where else? For those who don’t know what locusts are — they are basically a kind of grasshopper. But unlike the lonely, harmless insect in your garden, these are grasshoppers that have the judiciary, media, election commission, police, bureaucracy, intelligence agencies, armed forces, big business, and a vast militia of majoritarian lumpen elements backing them. In other words, the locusts are unstoppable. And they’re threatening to eat up our crops and finish off our food supply, including rice, wheat and mango pickle. In Delhi, where I’m stuck — by the way, people no longer live in Delhi, they’re merely stuck there — the wife woke me up at five in the morning to shut all the doors and windows so that the locusts don’t get in. The same night, after we had sealed every potential opening in the house, and were sitting down for dinner, the dining table began to shake like an Ouija board. We rushed out in our pyjamas and in banians with holes in them. It was an earthquake, 4.6 on the Richter scale. Stronger than Hulk It’s only June, and we’ve already had riots, pandemic, earthquake, cyclone, locusts, Trump, and China. There are still six months left of this unique year when, for the first time in history, humans are trapped indoors while murderous microbes roam free. What can a sane and rational individual do in such circumstances, except curl up on the sofa with Nachos and Netflix? That’s what I’ve been trying to do. But Kattabomman wouldn’t let me. It’s not his fault though. In our house, everyone has a screen to disappear into, except for Kattabomman. Which means, he has no option but to pile on to someone else’s screen. Between me and the wife, temperamentally, I am more like India — I don’t react harshly to intrusions. So Kattabomman feels emboldened to trespass the Line of Parental Control, clamber up my shoulder, and perch on my head when I’m watching something on the phone. It’s not long before his queries start: “Papa, why are Uncle and Aunty taking off all their clothes? Are they going for bath now? Papa, what is Uncle doing to Aunty’s face?” I quickly minimise the screen before things between Uncle and Aunty escalate any further. From Altered Carbon , I switch over to a cartoon show, confounding every algorithm that’s been tracking my content consumption patterns. The cartoon is about locusts, Kattabomman’s current preoccupation. He’s worried locusts might come and eat his chilli plant, which he’s been watering diligently. “Papa,” he says. “Is coronavirus very strong?” “Of course.” “Is it stronger than Hulk?” “Yep.” “Stronger than locust?” “Possibly.” “I have an idea, Papa.” “Really?” It’s the first time I’m hearing him use the word ‘idea’. “If we make coronavirus fight with locust, it will kill the locust.” “Not a bad idea,” I say. “But coronavirus and locust won’t fight each other.” “Why?” he says. “Are they friends?” “No, they are not friends,” I say. “But they aren’t stupid like humans either.”  It’s only June, and we’ve already had riots, pandemic, earthquake, cyclone, locusts, Trump, and China||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/year-of-bugs-and-bugbears/article31770226.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||A gentleman named mugger||Pond Deva is the opposite of the 1999 horror film Lake Placid in every way. The difference isn’t in size alone but also in the temperament of the resident crocodiles. Women bathe, children play, and men fish in the pond with impunity as the reptiles mind their own business. (See Life on the Water ’s Edge on February 18, 2017) When Anirudh Vasava first arrived in the Charotar, central Gujarat, all he knew about the reptiles came from wildlife documentaries that showcased toothy, ill-tempered beasts, a few shades better than the fictional beast from the horror movie. Watching the real-life scenes of harmony between people and these aquatic predators, he was perplexed. “Are they really crocodiles?” he wondered. “Has this species forgotten its true nature?” Change of plan After studying large carnivores like tigers, Vasava had returned to his home state hoping to work on a species at odds with humans. He thought perhaps he’d study wolves, but when naturalist Vishal Mistry related stories of crocodiles living in village ponds, he changed his plans. Mistry became his field assistant. “Even if you don’t know anything about tigers, you can still like them,” Vasava says. “But crocs are ugly and fearsome.” They took some getting used to. He observed the reptiles from a distance for a year while chatting with villagers about their aquatic neighbours. With time, their nonchalance rubbed off on him. When Vasava’s confidence grew, he wasn’t that afraid of approaching crocodiles to collect data. One took umbrage and chased him. Instead of blaming it, he rationalised that he had violated its personal space. He grew to appreciate and even like them. Mistry and Vasava rushed to a village on being summoned. “I slept with the crocodile,” said the caller, laughing uproariously. Sometime during the night, an eight-foot crocodile had crept into his house, where it rested unnoticed by anyone until the morning. “The only difference was I was on the bed and the mugger below it.” In the Charotar, mother crocodiles often dig their nest holes at the mouth of their burrows on the edge of the ponds. Vasava and his team peer inside the lairs before checking on the status of nests since protective females are known to charge. Some villagers use this behaviour for their own ends. Once, the researchers discovered a large box containing an assortment of bottles filled with booze. A bootlegger had found the perfect hiding spot for his contraband. Not really sleeping To dispel myths, Vasava is making a documentary film about the life of crocs in these villages. To get a shot of one slipping into the pond, he and his filmmaker friend sat on the other bank and waited for hours. It seemed to be deep in slumber. Then when they looked away for a moment, it slid into the water. “This didn’t happen just once but several times,” he says. “You think it lies there doing nothing. But it’s observing everything. Who is coming, at what time, what are they doing.” Finally, they managed to get the simple shot. “It may contradict what others believe, but a mugger crocodile is a gentleman,” says Vasava. Trusting one another What explains this docility? The best guess is the villagers’ long tradition of leaving them alone made the reptiles trust them. Counting these reptiles is a necessarily night-time venture, an exercise that causes Vasava and his team to quake in their boots. Pond Deva has its own beast of horror, and it’s not a crocodile. The creature hates torchlights, which the researchers cannot avoid. If a light beam falls on it, the monster rises out of the water and charges, churning and splashing water and aquatic weeds. “Jalpado!” one of the team members screams and the others run for their lives. Even the crocs stay out its way. Jalpado, the furious, ill-tempered beast, is a feral bull water buffalo. Pond Deva with its laid-back crocodiles and a monstrous Jalpado is unlikely to ever be a hit horror film.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-gentleman-named-mugger/article31770237.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Growing together: the Eagle, the Elephant and the Dragon||In March 1960, as relations between India and China deteriorated both in their capitals and at the boundary between them, United States Senator John F. Kennedy, who would soon be elected President, gave a lecture on “the battle” between India and China that had “gripped the attention of all Asia,” (University of New Hampshire, March 7, 1960). A year before that, Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru had decided to give refuge to the Dalai Lama who had fled Tibet. The situation at the Line of Actual Control was tense, as officials tried to resolve a major skirmish in the ‘Western Sector’ (Ladakh and Aksai Chin), that had broken out despite the understanding between Nehru and Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai. In contrast, U.S.-India ties were being strengthened, and U.S. President Dwight Eisenhower and Nehru had just held an unprecedented joint rally at Delhi’s Ramlila Maidan (December 1959). Power struggle “The real battle is not the flare-up over Chinese troop movements around disputed boundaries — or the projected conferences between [Zhou Enlai] and Premier Nehru,” Kennedy said, “[It] is the struggle between India and China for the economic and political leadership of the East, for the respect of all Asia, for the opportunity to demonstrate whose way of life is the better,” he added, comparing “India’s route” of “human dignity and individual freedom” against the “regimented controls and ruthless denial of human rights” of Red China, saying that the U.S. wanted India to “win that race” between them.  The rest, including the 1962 war, and subsequently, the disillusionment in Washington with New Delhi’s push for strategic autonomy over a more aligned position with the U.S., as well as the U.S.’s considered reopening of ties with China through the 1970s, are all part of a history superbly recounted in Tanvi Madan’s Fateful Triangle: How China Shaped US-India Relations during the Cold War . Host of resources The author has woven together a host of resources into a story that bears retelling, particularly with the current situation between the U.S., India and China running a not-dissimilar course 60 years later. Events of the past month, where despite the seriousness of the clashes between Indian and Chinese troops at the LAC in Ladakh and Sikkim, New Delhi has rebuffed an offer of mediation from Washington, and invoked the agreements between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping as the basis of resolving their differences, make this book a particularly timely read. Madan concludes early in the book that a U.S.-India partnership to tackle the challenge from China is “neither inevitable nor impossible”, and suggests that the key to a sustainable partnership between the three is to “manage expectations” of each other better than they did in the second half of the last century. Avoiding mistakes In Shifting Superpowers: The New and Emerging Relationship between the US, China and India , journalist Martin Sieff had also pointed out that the reality of this century, when India and China’s economic growth will reverse the U.S.’s predominance of the triangle, requires that policymakers “learn from and avoid the many mistakes of their predecessors” in Washington, Beijing and Delhi. Madan spells out another part of the unspoken narrative: that the triangle between the U.S.-India-China has always been distended with pulls from two other critical points: the relationship of each of those countries with Russia and Pakistan. By going beyond the bilateral, Madan has further enriched the understanding of the past that still guides India’s future.  Fateful Triangle: How China Shaped US-India Relations during the Cold War Tanvi Madan Penguin Random House India  Rs. 799||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/growing-together-the-eagle-the-elephant-and-the-dragon/article31770214.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1On June 7, 1941, chemists Archer John Porter Martin and Richard L.M. Synge gave the first demonstration of a technique for the separation of a mixture by passing it in solution or suspension through a medium in which the components moved at different rates at a meeting of the Biochemical Society held at the National Institute for Medical Research, Hampstead. What is this technique which gets its name because the separations are displayed as a number of coloured bands or spots? 2This is a rare case of a colour named after an already existing item. Before this word was introduced in to the English language, this colour was referred to as ‘Geoluhread’ meaning yellowish red. Since this was quite a mouthful, people started referring to it by the name of a ripe fruit which had that colour. What is the colour and what is the fruit? 3This is a specific type of writing device which is used to draw attention to sections of text by marking them with a bright but translucent colour. Usually these are made with pyranine dye which gives the most commonly used colour. This particular fluorescent colour is preferred because after use, when the original text is photocopied it does not leave a shadow. What writing device is this and what is this common colour? 4The Mercdes Benz racing team is known as the ‘_____’ arrows supposedly because of an incident in 1934. They had a race car ready in its standard white livery but was deemed overweight. In the rush to reduce weight, the team stripped all the lead-based paint of the bodywork and the car raced in its original aluminium frame, eventually winning the race. By what name is the team known, thanks to this apparently remarkable story? 5The fat that is found under the skin only allows certain light waves to penetrate skin all the way. This is the reason that a particular entity in your body has a certain colour when you see it even though it is a totally different colour actually. What interesting phenomenon is this? 6Earlier practitioners of this field would wear white which emphasised cleanliness (some still do). In the mid 20th century, they shifted various shades of green or blue because it was opposite on the colour spectrum to the colour they keep seeing because of the nature of work they did. This had two effects— it reduced the amount of headaches in these people and it made cleaning and washing easier. Who are these people and what colour were they seeing a lot of which caused the headaches? 7This highly prized colour was originally made by grinding the metamorphic rock, lapis lazuli, into a powder. It was used to dazzling effect by the Renaissance painters. Since it was used to depict the robes of the Virgin Mary, it attained a holy value. People mistakenly think the name refers to the colour of the geographic entity it shares the colour with. The name actually means ‘beyond’ that geographical entity, referring to the fact that it was imported from Asia. What colour is this? 8There is a waterfall in Antarctica stemming from a source which sunlight cannot reach and completely lacks oxygen. It is very rich in iron, so when the water is finally exposed to air as it flows out of the glacier, it rusts. This colours the water vividly making the glacier look like it suffered a horrific injury, giving the walls a gory name. What is the name of the falls which shares the name with another liquid that also gets its characteristic colour due to iron? 9These specialist devices use green phosphor because the human eye can differentiate more shades of green than any other colour, allowing for greater differentiation of objects in the picture. This is the reason that these devices (usually used by the military) have their trademark spooky green characteristic. What device is this you might have seen in spy movies? 10Hydrangea is a genus of plants that usually has white flowers. In certain species the flowers can either be blue to purple or pink to red petals. This completely depends on the soil it is planted in. If I told you that this follows the same principle and colour system as a commonly used test in chemistry, what factor of the soil influences the colours of these flowers? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article31770228.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||The warrior cats||“Come quickly! Come and see,” called out my wife from our terrace. We stood watching a crouched bundle of tight-knit muscles and mesmerising green eyes, clothed in a jet-black coat. She named it “17 Div”, at which we both exploded in joyous laughter. Somewhat perplexed, 17 Div wisely chose to mewl tentatively and won our hearts. For both of us, his assigned name brought very happy memories of 1963 when from an Army encampment on a hilltop near Gangtok, I would witness rich streaks of multiple tints across the sky above Kanchenjunga at dawn and dusk and share with her the charms of Sikkim through a letter daily. Embossed on the upper right corner of the letter paper used to be a jaunty, black cat, whiskered and spine-arched into a hemisphere as is the wont of these felines in moments of affection and aggression. A tradition The Army has traditionally chosen animals and birds of our rich wilderness as emblems of its divisions: elephant, eagle, ibex, cockerel, tiger and so on. When Brigadier John Smyth was ordered in 1940 to raise an Infantry Division from scratch at Secunderabad, he settled for black cat as the emblem. Jackie Smyth led 10 volunteers of the 15 Ludhiana Sikhs in France during the First World War and emerged as the sole survivor from the suicidal mission. In 1963, I was the lowliest Staff Officer in 17 Division Headquarters and my job was to accompany the General Officer Commanding to the outposts. We would be on dirt tracks three days each week; in the bargain, I would pick up fresh material for letter writing. Shortly, our marriage was arranged for the last week of December. One of our precious possessions is the wedding gift, a circular silver salver engraved with the cat emblem as also the signatures of all my 14 colleagues. It had to be the umbilical context when 16 years later, I was given command of a Brigade of the Black Cats whose operational writ encompassed the upper half of north Sikkim! About a decade earlier, I had chanced upon the reprint of a 1960s best-seller The Only Enemy , autobiography of John Smyth which at last provided me a clue that the credit for the emblem belonged to Francis, the General’s wife. And our story comes full circle whenever 17 Div mewls outside my wife’s window for a meal. Hope this text carries to Jackie and his cats up in Valhalla. naturefan3@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-warrior-cats/article31770189.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Kids at play||Today’s deal is from a major National event not long ago. West was 16-year-old Finn Kolesnik and East was Harrison Luba, 15. South was a well-known American expert. The East-West bidding would not meet with universal approval, and South certainly didn’t like it, but it led to a wonderful result for East-West. South played low from dummy on the opening trump lead, as would we all. East’s nine forced declarer’s jack. South tried a diamond to dummy’s 10. East won with his ace and shifted to the 10 of spades. Declarer might have done a little better to duck this, but he was trying to do a lot better, which probably needed a defensive slip from these “kids.” There was no slip. South won the spade shift with his ace and led the jack of diamonds. West won with his king and led the king of hearts, knocking out South’s ace. A club to the king lost to East’s ace and East reverted to spades. West won and drew all of South’s remaining trumps and then ran the rest of the tricks with his spades. They held declarer to two trump tricks and the ace of spades — down four for 1100 points! South, gentleman that he is, warmly congratulated the boys for their excellent play.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/kids-at-play/article31770231.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||The golden rule of life||In the autumn of 1969, British Asians were forced to leave Kenya, their home, because of new laws which excluded them from working there. Most of them came to Britain as refugees and some were put up in an old Air Force camp about an hour’s drive from our home. The TV visuals of women in saris, holding their children in one hand and little suitcases and small bags in the other, touched my mother deeply. One day after I returned from school, she had me rolling out pastry for her special mutton puffs. Over the next few days, we made a few hundreds and on Saturday morning, set off to the camp. On seeing us on the other side of the fence, the caretakers of the camp stopped us. “You are not allowed to go outside the gates,” one of them scolded us. He thought we were immigrants from the camp who had wandered outside. Mum had a hard time telling them that we actually lived in England legally and that she was a teacher in a local school. Once this was established, she told them that we had come to visit with Indian food for the people in the camp. “Well, why on earth would you do this?” was their first reaction. Mum’s golden rule of life was always, “Put yourself in someone else’s position. How would you feel? What would you want most? Then do it.” These immigrant people were generously and kindly given bland English food and she knew just what they would miss and want. So she set about doing it, roping me as her assistant. We were welcomed by the immigrants warmly that first day and they ate the puffs with great relish. We came back every Saturday for weeks, bringing dhal, chicken, fish and vegetable curries, and more and more of the mutton and vegetable puffs. Sitting beside my dying mother, I recalled and shared this memory with her. I wondered if anyone remembered the kindness of the Indian woman who visited every weekend with so much love and home-cooked food. “What did you learn from that time,” she asked me. “The golden rule of life,” I said, “and to make mutton puffs.” ushajesudasan@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-golden-rule-of-life/article31770187.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||What’s in a name?||Respected Madam/Sir,  On Friday Mrs. Mathrubootham came and said, “Old man do you remember or not?” I said, “Kamalam, whether you are Kamalam Mathrubootham or Derek O’Brien? This is married life not Bournvita quiz contest. Please ask straightforward questions.” She said, “Okay,” and left the living room and no more talks till next day. On Saturday Mrs. Mathrubootham suddenly came into living room during climax of superhit film The Longest Day again acting as if quizmaster. “Hello, today are you remembering?” I said, “Oh my god Kamalam, just tell me what you want me to remember and immediately I will remember no?” She said, “Car insurance is ending in one week. Last month itself you promised. Don’t forget.” I said, “Kamalam, promise means promise. Within one week, car will have new insurance. Otherwise you change my name to anything, I will sign on bonded paper.” She started laughing hahahahahahah like Yamaha diesel generator. How many years we are married now? If each time you break promise and change your name means whole India not enough names are there. I have to use names like Sodium and Potassium and Cambodia. Please do less talks and more work. One week is left. Sunday morning I am relaxing after breakfast and reading 1980s issue of Reader’s Digest , when without warning Mrs. M is entering living room like bathroom scene in superhit film Psycho . One moment I am reading nicely, next moment one lady in sari is standing 2 cm away. I said, “Kamalam, my god, one day you will give me heart attack.” She said, “If you get heart attack I will be happy,” then she put one more loud laugh and asked where are documents. I said, “What documents, whether you are wife or income tax raid?” “Where are car insurance documents, only three days left!” I said, “Kamalam, I have already started process, it will be complete in 24 hours. Please have patience.” She put one look and went off. Monday morning she did not say anything. Whole day I thought she will come, she will come, but total silence. I read many Reader’s Digest . Tuesday morning I woke up and thought my god within 24 hours I have to purchase car insurance but when I opened website, mind is going here and there, and I spent whole afternoon watching Hunt for Red October . After film I went to website and started giving all details for insurance. Suddenly one kajabuja sound and computer did samadhi. I thought my god total humiliation. For two hours I am running around like anything then finally I called Mohammed Usman and said, “Brother, please renew car insurance for me? I will pay you later. Please do urgently otherwise Kamalam will explode like Pokhran.” He said, brother leave it in my hands. Wednesday morning breakfast Mrs. Mathrubootham is looking at me but not saying anything. I said, “What is the matter, Kamalam? if you are thinking about car insurance it’s done. Mohammed Usman is doing for me. Two minutes later Mohammed Usman called and said, “Sorry Mathrubootham some technical issue, I forgot to book car insurance. Is it too late? Can I do some help now?” I said, “Mohammed Usman you can do one help.” He said, “Brother, for you anything.” I said, rascal you find one new name for me and please register with government office. Yours in exasperation, J. Marilynmonroe||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/whats-in-a-name/article31770239.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||On a ghostly trail||Ghosts unsettle what we know, observes Catherine Belsey in Tales of the Troubled Dead, a fine reading of ghost stories in the western cultural context. But are ghosts still relevant, in the time of science? Belsey explores the contexts of ghost stories, their evolution in the English-speaking world and textual narratives. She delves on the manner in which ghosts and spectres are portrayed, and the environment in which they thrive, and explains why ghosts keep re-merging in several formats in history. Fireside tradition Her starting point of inquiry is Shakespeare’s portrayal of the King’s ghost in Hamlet . Shakespeare drew on the fireside tradition for his ghost, while gothic narratives drew on Shakespeare, but the link with the fireside was never lost, as she argues. Was it possible to have too much rationality as the Enlightenment thought delivered radical challenge to credulity and superstition? Apparently there was. Despite the claim that humans are essentially thinking beings and the powerful grip of science and reason, the dim phantoms of the unconscious continued to thrive. When the Royal Society was founded in 1660 to promote the value of empirical science, Joseph Glanvill and his colleagues were dedicating themselves to assembling ghost stories in defence of the supernatural. Narrating the supernatural, as the author argues, is “a recognition of the lure of the unknown.” In search of phantoms Theoretically, all writing is haunted. To quote Belsey: “(W)hile so many authors are ghostwriters, all writing is haunted by earlier written works, the textual past returning in the present.” Loaded with perceptive insights and sharp wit, the 10 chapters are prefaced with a prelude and closed with a coda. Keeping our doors of perception open in search of the phantoms that exist only in the mind she lets us rediscover the unresolved tensions of belief and orthodoxy that range across centuries. Apparitions in the western narratives have had several apparels, and their expressions and speech several manifestations over the centuries. Nevertheless there have been many common threads for their appearances; revenge and sexual intrigues are among those. However, as Belsey argues, communication and the struggle to reach out have been the major factors that motivate ghosts to surface. In debates, Belsey notes the use of ghost metaphors despite the growth and influence of rational science. Returning to Derrida’s Spectres of Marx , Belsey observes, that past ideas, hovering uncertainly between life and death, return to exert an influence on the present. “They are always there, spectres even if they do not exist — there to be questioned, learned from, challenged as well as called into account.” The dead are entitled to tell their stories, but it can be just as crucial to create a different future in the light of the information they bring. When the King’s ghost appears in Hamlet initially it slinks away without uttering a word. Eventually when challenged and asked the right question it expresses unsavoury truths. Either way the point is to engage with our own fears and fancies whether in the light of day or night. It might not bring a revelation but it could afford a space for reckoning. Belsey’s book is a delightful read and the insights it affords the inquisitive reader are bound to be unlimited. The entire book is an instance of haunted writing. The reviewer is an academic and writer.  Tales of the Troubled Dead: Ghost Stories in Cultural History Catherine Belsey Edinburgh University Press  Rs. 1,660||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/on-a-ghostly-trail/article31770212.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Gone Away: An Indian Journal||Dom Moraes  Speaking Tiger Rs. 294 (Kindle) An unconventional travelogue, this covers three months of Dom Moraes’ life spent in the subcontinent at the time of the Chinese incursions on the Tibetan border in 1959. In that time, he had an interview with Nehru and spent an hour with the Dalai Lama in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/gone-away-an-indian-journal/article31770216.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Jinnah: A Life||Yasser Latif Hamdani  Pan Macmillan Rs. 650 This volume focuses on the life and career of Muhammad Ali Jinnah who started his political career in the Congress as a staunch Indian nationalist. Later, because of the circumstances he became the reason for the creation of a separate state for Muslims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/jinnah-a-life/article31770218.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Humankind: A Hopeful History||Rutger Bregman  Bloomsbury Rs. 308 (Kindle) By thinking the worst of others, do we bring out the worst in our politics and economics too? Bregman argues that it is realistic, as well as revolutionary, to assume that people are good and that the instinct to cooperate rather than compete has an evolutionary basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/humankind-a-hopeful-history/article31770220.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3103||Across 1 When making comeback, some overuse botox? Certainly (2,2,4) 5 At first, servant can help out and pull something, heavily (6) 10 Salve composed of lithium, lead, aluminium and teensiest bit of magnesium (3,4) 11 In Channel Isles, traces of some old ruined cutter (7) 12 Extremely palatable sauce that’s often seen in starters? (5) 13 Pop star into opium losing head, addled, becoming less clear (7,2) 14 The seminar is about an artist (5,7) 18 Old author ashen? Mr Sheen will refresh (7,5) 21 Passage ceded regularly in own sweet time (9) 23 Affair, maybe – often unethical romance, primarily? (5) 24 American state that’s next to Russia (7) 25 Actor who’s started to honk a bit? (7) 26 Watching the old getting home, for example, to give accommodation (6) 27 Sound, sounded sound (8) Down 1 Plath poem recited, Chomp with Part of Mouth (6) 2 Reportedly purchase permit to get around city (6) 3 For starters, Scrubs, Oz, American Dad! are revolutionary kind of TV (4,5) 4 Derby cameramen drunk at solemn occasion (11,3) 6 Prickly sorts, front of cast at start of play (5) 7 Survive ... hold on ... no hint of recovery ... then this? (4,4) 8 Instances of fabrication producing hats (4,4) 9 Dimmer sun might rise ... after this? (9,5) 15 A small island’s in these empty Australian waters! (6,3) 16 Top Tory supports Article delivering seat of power to Europeans (3,5) 17 Either of two writers to be annoying online, unblocked for the most part (8) 19 Where prince said he could be seen running (with no hint of running) (6) 20 Either of two pilots River Island’s taken on (6) 22 Nothing good published about The Observer perhaps (5)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3103/article31770234.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Angry nation||As a wave of protests against police brutality and racism swept the U.S. in response to the killing of an African-American man named George Floyd by a Minneapolis police officer, police forces responded with indiscriminate violence and more deaths ensued, fanning the flames. Riots and looting led to some States deploying the National Guard. President Trump called the protesters “thugs” and threatened to send in the military.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/angry-nation/article31770167.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Promising drug||India approved the drug remdesivir, manufactured by the U.S.-based Gilead Sciences, as an emergency treatment for COVID-19. It is authorised for treatment of suspected or confirmed adult patients, and children hospitalised with severe disease. Administered intravenously in hospital, a five-dose course of the drug proved to have moderate benefits in clinical trials, and is approved by the FDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/promising-drug/article31770169.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Death wind||Cyclone Nisarga, a severe cyclonic storm from the Arabian Sea, struck India’s west coast, making landfall in Maharashtra’s Raigad district. At least two people in the State were killed, hundreds of trees uprooted and infrastructure damaged. Maharashtra, Gujarat, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, and Daman and Diu were put on high alert, with over 1 lakh people — including some 150 COVID-19 patients — evacuated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/death-wind/article31770171.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Come to England||With Hong Kong’s freedoms imperilled by a Chinese security law that will criminalise dissent, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson extended an offer — applicable if China does impose the law — to issue extended visas and an eventual path to British citizenship for the roughly 3.5 lakh British National (Overseas) passport holders in the city, as well as some 25 lakh people eligible to apply for the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/come-to-england/article31770173.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Face off||Hundreds of Facebook employees, mostly working from home, staged a ‘virtual walkout’ and at least two resigned when the company refused to act against a post by U.S. President Donald Trump where he said, “When the looting starts, the shooting starts,” a racially loaded sentence first used by a U.S. police chief in 1967. Twitter affixed a warning toTrump’s tweet, but Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg refused to remove or flag the post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/face-off/article31770175.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Final frontier||SpaceX, Elon Musk’s space venture, made history when it successfully carried out its first ever crewed mission. Its Dragon craft took two NASA astronauts, Bob Behnken and Doug Hurley, to the International Space Station in a 19-hour voyage. This was the first U.S.-based orbital launch of astronauts since NASA retired its own shuttle fleet in 2011 — and the world’s first orbital launch of astronauts on a commercial vessel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/final-frontier/article31770177.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||App pulled||An app called ‘Remove China Apps’, which claimed to scan, list and uninstall ‘Chinese apps’ from Android phones, was taken down by Google from Play Store. The app, which was downloaded five million times, takes advantage of anti-China sentiments spurred by the border dispute, but it cannot, of course, remove the often China-made phones themselves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/app-pulled/article31770179.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Back to the future||After a massive dip during the lockdown, air pollution in China has now surged back to pre-COVID-19 levels, driven largely by industrial activity and coal consumption. During the lockdown, both NO2 and PM2.5 levels dropped by over a third, but climbed back as restrictions were eased, data from the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air showed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/back-to-the-future/article31770181.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||On the brink||Scientists found that over 500 species of terrestrial animals were likely to go extinct in the next two decades, signalling an acceleration of the earth’s sixth wave of mass wildlife extinction. The animals on the brink included the Sumatran rhino and the Española giant tortoise. “When humanity exterminates populations and species... it is sawing off the limb on which it is sitting,” warned the scientists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/on-the-brink/article31770183.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Ghosts of Harvard||Francesca Serritella  Random House $11.94 (Kindle price) Cadence Archer arrives in Harvard’s campus to understand why her brother, Eric, a genius with paranoid schizophrenia, took his life there. As Cady struggles under the enormous pressure at Harvard, she investigates her brother’s final year, armed with a notebook of Eric’s cryptic scribblings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/ghosts-of-harvard/article31770199.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||The Imperfects||Amy Meyerson  Park Row $32.33 Estranged siblings Beck, Ashley and Jake find themselves under one roof for the first time in years when the eccentric matriarch, Helen, passes away. They find a secret inheritance hidden among her possessions — the Florentine Diamond that went missing a century ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-imperfects/article31770201.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||The Library of Legends||Janie Chang  William Morrow $5.25 (Kindle price) China, 1937. When the Japanese bomb Nanking, Hu Lian and her classmates are ordered to flee. Lian and her friends walk to China’s western provinces, dogged by hunger and cold. The group has been entrusted with a 500-year-old collection of myths known as the Library of Legends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-library-of-legends/article31770203.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||The Water Keeper||Charles Martin  Thomas Nelson $14.87 (Kindle price) Murphy Shepherd lives alone on an island, tending the grounds of a church with no parishioners. As he mourns the loss of his mentor and finds himself drawn to a beautiful woman he had rescued, Murphy is pulled into the dark and dangerous world of modern-day slavery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-water-keeper/article31770205.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Raya: Krishnadevaraya of Vijayanagara||Srinivas Reddy  Juggernaut Rs. 599 In 1509, Krishnadevaraya, a prince from humble origins, ascended the throne of Vijayanagara. In the course of his 20-year reign, he won every single battle he fought and unified the whole of south India. The Deccan of his time was a cosmopolitan place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/raya-krishnadevaraya-of-vijayanagara/article31770207.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||CCMB finds cheaper, more effective RT-PCR method to test COVID-19 samples||Increased tracing, testing and isolation of people with novel coronavirus infection is an effective way to contain the virus spread. Currently, the preferred protocol for testing uses the RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction) test. This protocol does, however, take time and is expensive. With the steeply rising number of infected persons, there is a need for a reliable test that would give results quickly and also be less expensive. Researchers from the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, have studied such a method, also using RT-PCR but with dry swabs, bypassing the RNA isolation stage, which they find consumes less time and is less expensive. They also suggest a variant method which apparently shows a higher efficiency that the conventional one. The results have been posted in bioRxiv and medRxiv preprint servers. Preprints are yet to be peer-reviewed and published in scientific journals. In the usual method of testing, nasal swabs collected from a person are placed in a viral transport medium (VTM). From this, a part of the liquid is taken, the viral RNA is extracted and RT-PCR test is carried out. The remainder is stored. It is the step of isolating the RNA that takes time and is expensive. So, the authors have proposed an alternative method. Dry swabs Instead of placing the nasal swabs in the VTM, they are put in a Tris-EDTA (TE) buffer solution, protected by ice. “Virus in dry swabs can stay for several days at 4 degree [ice temperature]. For longer storage, it can be kept in minus 80 degree,... it [dry swab] is much more suitable than VTM, and testing can be delayed, if necessary,” says Rakesh Mishra from CCMB, and one of the authors of the preprint. He adds that handling and transporting dry swabs is safer and more convenient. A small part of the dry swab-TE extract was taken in a new vial and heated to 98 degree C. This destroyed the protective wall of the virus particles, releasing its RNA and this was sent for the RT-PCR test. In all, 40 patients were put through both testing protocols (heated TE without RNA extraction and current standard method). While 22 tested positive and 18 negative in the new method, the standard method yielded 23 positives and 17 negatives. The researchers found that the new protocol of using dry swab-TE extract for RT-PCR was at par with the standard method. However, the standard method is known to have a problem of false negatives. To address this, the researchers took the dry swabs-TE extract, extracted RNA from it and studied the samples. In this variant method, they found that a few samples that were consistently negative in both methods now showed a positive result. So out of 40 samples they now had 28 positives and 12 negatives. This result was reproduced on testing multiple times. They surmise that this is because of low viral load, which was picked up in the new variant method. Handy improvisation “This is an improvised method, makes the COVID-19 testing rapid and less expensive. Both are welcome considering limited availability of reagents for VTM and RNA isolation,” says L.S. Shashidhara, from Ashoka University, Delhi, who was not involved in the research. “This is a good development as we need to increase the number of tests considerably across India. More and more new labs are being enrolled as testing centres and large numbers of people are being trained in RT-PCR-based testing. Fewer the number of steps, fewer would be the errors,” he adds. Further study is needed to see if the samples collected and stored in TE can be used for culturing of the virus for any future studies and full sequencing of the viral genomes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/ccmb-finds-cheaper-more-effective-rt-pcr-method-to-test-covid-19-samples/article31770346.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Prevalence of diabetes among women high in southern India||Researchers have identified a bunch of districts in India that have the maximum prevalence for diabetes among women. At least 50 of the 640 districts studied have high prevalence of diabetes — greater than one in 10 — among women aged 35-49 years. Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha have districts with the highest prevalence. The results were published in the Journal of Diabetes & Metabolic Disorders.  While Cuttack in Odisha has the highest prevalence of 20%, 14 districts in Tamil Nadu — the maximum among all States — have high prevalence, prompting the researchers to classify them as ‘hotspots’. In all, 254 districts have a “very high level” (greater than 10.7%) of diabetes burden, and 130 have a moderately high (8.7-10.6%) burden. The burden is higher in the southern and eastern parts of the country and lowest in central India. The researchers sourced data from the National Family Health Survey-4 (2015-16) as it provides district-level health indicators for women. Demographic details of 2,35,056 women from 36 States/Union Territories were analysed for gleaning disease spread and analysing relationship among disease and socio-economic category, location, number of children, obesity and hypertension among others. This was also the first NHS survey to collected blood glucose levels in men and women thus helping determine diabetes. Factors at play “Results portray that prevalence of diabetes among women in their late reproductive ages is highest among those with two or fewer children ever born, who are educated, belonging to economically prosperous households, living in urban areas and hence enjoying changing lifestyle... increased access to high energy (refined and processed) food and development,” the authors Shrikant Singh, Parul Puri and S.V. Subramanian note. Parul Puri and Shrikant Singh are at the International Institute for Population Sciences, Mumbai, and S.V.Subramanian is at Harvard University, Boston, U.S. Previous studies of the incidence of diabetes in men and women in India have thrown up mixed results with some finding greater evidence of the disease in women, in North India, and others reporting men in South India as more susceptible. However, a skewed gender ratio as well unequal access to medical care has led to the disease being under-reported in women, says a 2014 article in the Indian Journal of Endocrinology and Metabolism.  Mortality and women The study focused on women who were approaching menopause, which was also a period when the risk of obesity, hypertension rose as well as complications from late pregnancy, Ms. Puri told The Hindu. It also provided a greater perspective on why mortality from diabetes is higher among women. Knowing this will help design programmes and interventions to lower community-based prevalence of diabetes, especially among women in their late reproductive ages. Previous work had found that diabetes-related mortality is higher among women in India. According to Ms. Puri, the prevalence of diabetes among women in India didn’t substantially differ from that of men. Rise of diabetes The number of people with diabetes in India increased from 26·0 million in 1990 to 65 million in 2016. The prevalence of diabetes in adults aged 20 years or older in India increased from 5·5% in 1990 to 7·7% in 2016. The prevalence in 2016 was highest in Tamil Nadu and Kerala, according to the Global Burden of Disease Study, 2018. The authors also point to the higher levels of diabetes in the southern and eastern parts of India as being linked to diets of “rice-meat-and-fish” and a higher intake of “sweets and snacks” that were rich in trans-fats. These however weren't explanatory, the authors note. “Being a cross-sectional survey, we found correlations not causation,” Ms. Puri added.  The study focused on women who were approaching menopause, which was also when the risk of obesity, hypertension rose Parul Puri IIPS, Mumbai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/prevalence-of-diabetes-among-women-high-in-southern-india/article31770340.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Ventilators can heal but also harm||Ventilators are not easy to understand, this is true even for most doctors. Only a relatively small percentage of people who work in ICUs are able to disentangle, de-mystify and decipher these complex machines. Now, we find ourselves on our knees before a disease that takes away our fundamental ability to draw breath. The seemingly logical solution appears to be the creation and use of more ventilators. Unfortunately, it is not that simple. If the breathing process is compromised, it most often leads to the failure of every other organ system, making the ventilator the undisputed hero of the piece. A ventilator is able to force air into the lungs so that breathing in is no longer the person’s responsibility. This sounds deceptively simple. The nose and the mouth draw in air. The windpipe or the trachea directs the air into passages called the bronchi. These tubes pass through our lungs and divide further into tiny bronchioles that end in balloon-shaped pockets called alveoli, of which the average human has about three million. Blood vessels called capillaries surround the alveoli. It is here that oxygen enters the bloodstream. By simply drawing in air, we call into being a silent orchestral dance that can be felt if we place our palms upon our heaving chests. Even the best artificial ventilators fall far short of duplicating this rhythm and flow. Safety factors But even if the ventilator is not a completely refined one, isn’t it better than nothing? An artificial ventilator that is not exactly graded or calibrated can become a killing machine. The altered pressure changes can damage the lungs. Ventilators can only drive air into the lungs. They cannot fulfil the equally vital task of transferring oxygen into the blood, should the lungs be too damaged to do so. In the present situation, first, everyone with a breathing difficulty from COVID-19 does not automatically require a ventilator. Second, they may not even be good candidates for ventilation because, in a large number of people with serious COVID-19, the lungs seem to be too badly damaged to recover. . Third, the general condition of the person determines whether there is a reasonable chance for him or her to come out of it alive and well. This is not to say that ventilation is not a viable option in some cases. Chances of survival Unfortunately, however, evidence thus far indicates that in general, the chances of survival after ventilation are not good. A published study based on the experience in 12 New York hospitals showed that only 11.9% of 320 patients survived, in whom ventilators were used and the treatment had come to a logical conclusion (discharge or death of the patient). That result spanned all age groups. In the elderly, particularly among those with specific associated diseases , the chances of survival are even poorer. Symptoms and their experience vary widely across populations, and all this talk of ventilation is applicable only to the minority – those with severe infection, particularly, the elderly and those with other serious concurrent illnesses. To understand what is best for a patient an evaluation is necessary. The process is called triage. It is recommended that the attending team and the triage team are separate from one another. On May 19, the World Health Assembly passed a resolution that palliative care should be made available to all people with COVID19. This would mean being mindful of suffering irrespective of disease status and making a concentrated effort to alleviate it as far as possible. It would involve adequate treatment of pain as well as other distressing symptoms. This would be bolstered by appropriate emotional support. Honest information compassionately given forms the cornerstone of such practice. Those with reasonable chances of survival are ear-marked to receive care in intensive care units with ventilators when necessary. Such ventilators should not be hastily put-together contraptions, but those that are able to mimic air flow in the lungs as near normal as possible. Enough sedation is given to them so that the ventilator is tolerated and stress minimised. Those with next-to-no chances of survival and their families would be counselled about the gravity of the situation and assisted in making an informed choice whether to go for aggressive intensive care with a ventilator or to forgo it while continuing to receive comfort care with compassion. Palliative care By providing palliative care to those with COVID-19 we shall be reducing the quantum of suffering. Following the advice of World Health Assembly to provide access to palliative care would necessitate basic online training to all doctors and nurses treating COVID-19, and access to essential palliative care drugs including controlled medicines. Will we square up to the task? (The author is the Chairman of Pallium India and Director, Trivandrum Institute of Palliative Sciences )  An artificial ventilator that is not exactly graded or calibrated can become a killing machine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/ventilators-can-heal-but-also-harm/article31770338.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Serotonin triggers desert locust swarms||During the last 10 days, there has been a host of analytical articles in the press about the latest locust swarming from the Rajasthan/Gujarat desert region, all the way into Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, causing extensive damage to the crops. These articles have also pointed out how India (and indeed Pakistan as well) has been handling this plague since centuries, indeed even since the Mahabharata times (recall how Karna challenged the Pandava’s army: “we will pounce on you, as — shalabasana — a swarm of locusts). The British colonial government had set up Locust Warning Organizations (LWOs) since the early 1900s at Jodhpur and Karachi in the Indian subcontinent. After Independence, the Union Ministry of Agriculture has continued and improved upon the LWOs, one with administrative affairs at Faridabad, near New Delhi, and another LWO at Jodhpur, Rajasthan, where the technical aspects are handled along with local branches in the region. They use the technique of aerial spray of insecticides (using drones these days), as well as spraying by land-based workers in the field. And they are doing a good job of it. Locust control The Agriculture Ministry uses a site called <vikaspedia.in>, which gives considerable details of the problem of locust control and plant protection, and the current methods of handling them. The Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage, at the Ministry has a site, <ppqs.gov.in>, which details the contingency plan for desert locust invasions, outbreaks and upsurges. The locust problem is not confined to India alone, but most of Africa, West Asia, Iran and even parts of Australia. The Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO, this is a part of the United Nations, and based in Rome, Italy) co-ordinates and helps these nations with advice and funds in combating this plague. The informative document from FAO, called the Locust Environmental Booklet, gives an update on the situation and methods of handling locust swarms. And an excellent update (available online) on ‘locust swarm and its management’ has been published on May 29 by the ICRISAT Development Centre (IDC) of the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), based in Hyderabad. By and large, “detect the swarm and kill it as it moves” has been the method, and countries across the world are using it. We certainly need better and more innovative methods to fight this plaque and win over it. How locusts form swarms This however raises the important scientific question of how and why locusts collect together by the thousands in order to make a swarm. Insect biologists have long since known that the locust is by nature a recluse and a singleton, not mixing with others in the same group, Yet, when the harvest season arrives, these singletons team up with others as an army of swarms to attack plants for food. What is the mystery? What is the biological mechanism by which this sociological transformation comes about? If we know this mechanism, there can be novel ways of stopping this group rampage. Stephen Rogers of Cambridge University, U.K. (and University of Sydney, Australia) is an acknowledged world expert in the study of how and why such swarms come about. In one of his papers, way back in 2003, he showed that when solitary locusts happen to come near each other (looking for food) and happen to touch each other, this tactile stimulation, even just in a little area of the back limbs, causes their behaviour to change. This mechanical stimulation affects a couple of nerves in the animal’s body, their behaviour changes, leading to their coming together. And if more locusts come nearby, the crowding starts, and what was once a simple looking insect becomes larger in size and shape, and its colour and morphology changes. In the next paper, his group showed substantial changes in some molecules that modulate the central nervous system of the locust, the most important among them being serotonin, which regulates mood and social behaviour. And putting all these together, they came out with a publication in Science in 2009 <https://science.sciencemag.org/content/323/5914/627>, that serotonin is indeed responsible for swarm formation. In this paper, they did a lab experiment wherein they placed locusts in a container one by one, and as the numbers increased, the coming together triggered mechanical (touch) and neurochemical (serotonin) stimulations to make crowding (‘gregarisation’) occur within a few hours! Interestingly, when they started adding substances that inhibit the production of serotonin (for instance, molecules such as 5HT or AMTP), the crowding was significantly less. (For a comprehensive summary of this work, I recommend his 2014 article in the book: “New Frontiers in Social Neuroscience”, downloadable free at <Researchgate.net>. Stopping swarms Now, here is a potential way of stopping swarms from forming! Can we work with the LWOs in Jodhpur and other places, spray serotonin inhibitor molecules as the swarm begins to form? Rogers had indeed hinted this in his Science paper. Is this possible or a quixotic idea? Let the experts tell us. It is well worth a try. Finally, the insecticides (mainly malathion) sprayed on the swarms need to be looked at for side-effects. Though many studies have cleared it as not very harmful, we need to work on biopesticides which would be environmentally and animal/human health-friendly, using natural and animal products of India. dbala@lvpei.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/serotonin-triggers-desert-locust-swarms/article31770336.ece
07 June 2020||New Delhi,||Tremble after the tremors||Since May 15, the National Center for Seismology has recorded seven small earthquakes, ranging from 1.8 to 4.5 on the Richter scale, with epicentres at Faridabad, Rohtak and New Delhi. The spate of tremors — the most recent one occurring last Wednesday (June 3) — has fuelled speculation about the possibility of a bigger earthquake in this region. The experts have discredited  this theory but warned that the region — situated close to the ‘most active fault line on earth’ — would be at risk in the event of a widely anticipated ‘great’ Himalayan earthquake. Misinterpreted threat The Director of Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, Kalachand Sain, was recently quoted in a news article saying, “There is consistent seismic activity happening in the NCR and can trigger a major earthquake in Delhi.” But he told The Hindu that his words were misinterpreted. In fact, he clarified he meant quite the opposite and the recent earthquakes were a sign that “the region was unlikely to have a greater earthquake”. Earthquakes in this region were due to “release of stress” accumulated from the movement of the Indian tectonic plate and its collision with the Eurasian tectonic plate, Dr. Sain explained. Consequently, the recent tremors would have diffused the accumulated stress, reducing the risk of a more serious earthquake, he added. Vineet Gahalaut, former director of National Center for Seismology, too dismissed the fears of a devastating earthquake.  “There is something called background seismicity level, which continues over a region over time and that is normal for it. Such tremors have been occurring in this region for the last 40-50 years. That would be a cause for concern only if they occurred in regions where tectonic plates met,” he said. Only larger faults and larger systems trigger bigger earthquakes, explained Kusala Rajendran of Centre for Earth Sciences at Indian Institute of Science in Bangalore. “That is why you have great earthquakes only along the plate boundaries such as the Sumatra plate boundary [near Indonesia], Andaman plate boundary or Himalaya and California,” she said, while reiterating that Delhi had a history of only small tremors. Not risk-free Concerns about the risk of a major earthquake in Delhi, however, may not be unfounded. “An earthquake of 5.5 to 6 magnitude can never be ruled out anywhere,” said Dr. Rajendran, citing the instance of the 1993 earthquake in Latur, Maharashtra. At that time, the area fell under zone 1 of the country’s seismic zonal maps, which was the category with least risk. With a magnitude of 6.2 on the Richter scale, the earthquake left thousands dead. The same can’t be ruled out here, she said. “Though there are pockets of localised seismicity in Delhi, that is not new… As a seismologist who has been working on earthquakes for a long time, my feeling is that the real fear for Delhi is from the Himalayas,” said Dr. Rajendran, adding that it is very close to the most active fault line in the world. Several researchers have hypothesised the probability of a great earthquake, something of the magnitude of eight and above, striking the Himalayan region. Based on historical, archaeological and geological data, Dr. Rajendran said that such an event has not taken place in the area for at least a 1,000 years. Others peg it at 500 years. This, along with GPS-based modelling of the speed of movement of the Indian plate, suggests that an earthquake is due, she said, and added: “That means it can happen any time.” Impact on Delhi “Even a strong earthquake in the Himalayan belt [as experienced in the recent past] may pose a threat to Delhi-NCR,” said Dr. Sain. He based this on the fact that this region is only 150-odd km from the active Himalayan seismic belt. Also, the “large sediment thickness (loose soil) in the Ganga Alluvial Plains” to the north of Delhi tends to amplify the impact of earthquakes. Given the presence of high-rises in the area, large number of buildings and a dense population, he said, it was imperative to strictly impose building codes as a precautionary measure. Dr. Rajendran pointed to an earthquake in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district in March 1999, measuring 6.5 on the Richter scale, which caused damage to some buildings in Patparganj in Delhi, 280 km from the epicentre. She also raised concerns over the vulnerability of buildings in Delhi-NCR  and whether the authorities had taken steps to make them secure. Drawing parallels with an earthquake that took place in 1803 near Garhwal  in  Uttarakhand  and reportedly led to the toppling of a minaret of the Qutub Minar in Delhi, Dr. Gahalaut said that we need to be concerned about the consequences of a Himalayan earthquake on cities such as Delhi, Kanpur, Lucknow, Banaras and others in the Indo-Gangetic plains. He opined that the NCR would not be able to withstand such an earthquake, given the unplanned manner in which building constructions are carried out. However, there is no definite answer to when a massive earthquake would occur. “At any time,” Dr. Rajendran said. The first paper saying that an earthquake can take place in the Himalayan region came out in 1981. “So already 30 years have passed,” she said. Thus, while some of the speculation are baseless, Delhi-NCR is not entirely invulnerable to earthquakes either.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tremble-after-the-tremors/article31770546.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Gross Value Added numbers and the economy||The story so far: The National Statistical Office (NSO), on May 29, released its provisional estimates of national income for the financial year 2019-20. As per the NSO, real GDP (Gross Domestic Product) in the full fiscal year was estimated to have expanded by 4.2% from a year earlier, the slowest pace of growth in 11 years. And GDP growth for the January-March quarter was pegged at 3.1%. The release also detailed the estimates of the Gross Value Added, or GVA, at basic prices for the four quarters of 2019 as well as the comparable quarterly data for the two preceding years. Interestingly, the GVA numbers for the first three quarters revealed significant revisions from what the NSO had shared back in February, when it had announced estimates for the third quarter. While initial estimates are routinely revised based on the updated availability of information, the extent of these revisions has come into focus since they point to a sharper and more widespread slowdown in economic activity over the course of the last financial year than had been previously revealed. What is Gross Value Added (GVA)? In 2015, in the wake of a comprehensive review of its approach to GDP measurement, India opted to make major changes to its compilation of national accounts and bring the whole process into conformity with the United Nations System of National Accounts (SNA) of 2008. As per the SNA, gross value added, is defined as the value of output minus the value of intermediate consumption and is a measure of the contribution to GDP made by an individual producer, industry or sector. At its simplest it gives the rupee value of goods and services produced in the economy after deducting the cost of inputs and raw materials used. GVA can be described as the main entry on the income side of the nation’s accounting balance sheet, and from an economics perspective represents the supply side. While India had been measuring GVA earlier, it had done so using ‘factor cost’ and GDP at ‘factor cost’ was the main parameter for measuring the country’s overall economic output till the new methodology was adopted. In the new series, in which the base year was shifted to 2011-12 from the earlier 2004-05, GVA at basic prices became the primary measure of output across the economy’s various sectors and when added to net taxes on products amounts to the GDP. As part of the data on GVA, the NSO provides both quarterly and annual estimates of output — measured by the gross value added — by economic activity. The sectoral classification provides data on eight broad categories that span the gamut of goods produced and services provided in the economy. These are: 1) Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing; 2) Mining and Quarrying; 3) Manufacturing; 4) Electricity, Gas, Water Supply and other Utility Services; 5) Construction; 6) Trade, Hotels, Transport, Communication and Services related to Broadcasting; 7) Financial, Real Estate and Professional Services; 8) Public Administration, Defence and other Services. Why are the latest GVA numbers attracting attention? In February, the NSO announced estimates of national income and expenditure for the fiscal third quarter along with its second advance estimates of GDP for 2019-20. Those estimates had pegged year-on-year GVA growth rates in the first three quarters at 5.4%, 4.8% and 4.5%, respectively. The February estimates also suggested that manufacturing, construction, electricity and utility services and the trade, hotels and transport (another services category) sectors apart, the other four sectors were faring at about the same level or better than the comparable year earlier periods. However, last month’s estimates saw significant downward revisions in the GVA data pertaining to the first three quarters for five of the eight sectors, dragging down the Q1, Q2 and Q3 GVA growth rates to 4.8%, 4.3% and 3.5%. The revisions, combined with a lacklustre performance in the fourth quarter, including a sharp weakening in momentum at two of the largest services sectors ultimately lowered the overall annual GVA growth estimate for 2019-20 by as much as 1 percentage point to 3.9%, from the 4.9% forecast in February. A closer look at some of the sectoral revisions point to a deeper weakness in the service sectors than had been previously factored in. Take Trade, Hotels, Transport, Communications and Services related to Broadcasting. As a sector it contributes almost 20% to GVA and is the largest GVA component after the other major services category, Financial, Real Estate and Professional Services. While in February Q1, Q2 and Q3 growth for the sector was estimated at 5.7%, 5.8% and 5.9%, respectively, in the latest estimates they have been cut to 3.5%, 4.1% and 4.3%, respectively. Similarly, the growth estimates for the largest services sector, which contributes almost one-fourth of the overall GVA, too have been reduced sharply. Q1, Q2 and Q3 growth has been cut from 6.9%, 7.1% and 7.3%, respectively to 6%, 6% and 3.3%, respectively. The revisions, however, show two other key sectors in a more positive light. Agriculture’s growth for the first three quarters has been marginally increased while Public Administration too as a category has had its numbers boosted for the second and third quarters. The latter sector’s Q1, Q2 and Q3 growth have been revised from 8.7%, 10.1% and 9.7%, respectively, to 7.7%, 10.9% and 10.9%. How relevant is the GVA data given that headline growth always refers to GDP? The GVA data is crucial to understand how the various sectors of the real economy are performing. The output or domestic product is essentially a measure of GVA combined with net taxes. While GDP can be and is also computed as the sum total of the various expenditures incurred in the economy including private consumption spending, government consumption spending and gross fixed capital formation or investment spending, these reflect essentially on the demand conditions in the economy. From a policymaker’s perspective it is therefore vital to have the GVA data to be able to make policy interventions, where needed. Also, from a global data standards and uniformity perspective, GVA is an integral and necessary parameter in measuring a nation’s economic performance, and any country which seeks to attract capital and investment from overseas does need to conform to the global best practices in national income accounting. What are the drawbacks in using GVA to measure economic growth? As with all economic statistics, the accuracy of GVA as a measure of overall national output is heavily dependent on the sourcing of data and the fidelity of the various data sources in capturing the vast labyrinth of activities that constitute a nation’s economic life. To that extent, GVA is as susceptible to vulnerabilities from the use of inappropriate or flawed methodologies as any other measure. In a June 2019 research paper titled ‘India’s GDP Mis-estimation: Likelihood, Magnitudes, Mechanisms, and Implications,’ former Chief Economic Adviser Arvind Subramanian of Harvard University and the Peterson Institute for International Economics posited that the change in methodology and data sources when India switched its base year to 2011-12 had led to a significant overestimation of growth. Specifically, he argued that the value based approach instead of the earlier volume based tack in GVA estimation had affected the measurement of the formal manufacturing sector and thus distorted the outcome. The paper triggered much debate and prompted the Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation to assert in a response that the Ministry’s GDP estimates were based on “accepted procedures, methodologies and available data and objectively measure the contribution of various sectors in the economy”.  The GVA data is crucial to understand how the various sectors of the real economy are performing. The output or domestic product is essentially a measure of GVA combined with net taxes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gross-value-added-numbers-and-the-economy/article31770261.ece
07 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fraud of Rs. 57 lakh detected in JNU||A central expenditure audit team has detected a fraud of Rs. 57 lakh by over 100 officials of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), in claiming leave travel concession and reimbursement of phone bills during the 2017-18 period.  Executive Council While the varsity did not respond to queries pertaining to the same, a senior official, who did not wish to be named, said that the matter was put forth before the Executive Council (EC) meeting. “The EC is apprised of the matter and is looking into it. As per the EC decision, the defaulters will be asked to pay,” the official said. Following the audit, the Director General of Audit (Central Expenditure) had also recommended suspending the varsity employees involved in the alleged fraud on the basis of fictitious bills. The matter came to light following an RTI query filed by Kota-based activist Sujeet Swami seeking details of complete audit and inspection reports of JNU and Jamia Millia Islamia for 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20. In the 2017-18 audit report for JNU, the DGCAE found that 34 JNU officials had availed their LTCs on the basis of fraudulent bills while 70 employees had claimed phone reimbursements worth Rs. 5.05 lakh, despite not being entitled to them.  (With PTI inputs)   The Executive Council is apprised of the matter and is looking into it. As per its decision, the defaulters will be asked to pay Senior JNU official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fraud-of-rs-57-lakh-detected-in-jnu/article31770544.ece
07 June 2020||June 07 2020 00:00 IST,||Tracking Google||The story so far: A proposed class action lawsuit filed against Google on Tuesday alleges that the Internet search giant tracks and collects browsing data “no matter what” steps users take to safeguard their privacy. The plaintiffs, Chasom Brown, Maria Nguyen and William Byatt, have filed the lawsuit on behalf of “millions of individuals” (Google users in the U.S.) at the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. They allege Google has violated the federal wiretap law as well as a California privacy law. What, according to the plaintiffs, is wrong with what Google is doing? The plaintiffs allege that Google tracks, collects, and identifies the browsing data of even those users who browse the Web privately via, say, the Incognito mode. Google, they claim, “accomplishes its surreptitious tracking” through near ubiquitous tools such as Google Analytics, Google Ad Manager, and other plug-ins. Google Analytics and other tools are implemented only when their code is embedded into the code of existing websites. The petitioners reckon “over 70% of online websites and publishers on the internet” employ Google Analytics. The point of Brown and others is, when a user accesses websites that employ these Google tools, Google automatically gets information about the user’s IP address, URL of the site, and many, many more details. “Google designed its Analytics code such that when it is run, Google causes the user’s browser to send his or her personal information to Google and its servers in California,” the petitioners say in the lawsuit. And, they say, it doesn’t matter if a user is on private viewing mode. That’s not all. They also allege that Google has been misrepresenting its data collection practices. What does the lawsuit say about the misrepresentation? The petitioners charge Google with giving false assurances about the ability of users to control what they share with the search engine. They say that users not only don’t know that Google is collecting information even when they are in a private view mode but also have no means to avoid its scrutiny. How, according to the petitioners, do the actions of Google violate the provisions of the Federal Wiretap Act and privacy laws of California? The Federal Wiretap Act disallows any intentional interception of any wire, oral, or electronic communication. The petitioners have invoked this Act, saying the following: “Google’s actions in intercepting and tracking user communications while they were browsing the internet using a browser while in ‘private browsing mode’ was intentional. On information and belief, Google is aware that it is intercepting communications in these circumstances and has taken no remedial action.” They have also contended that the acts of Google violate the California Invasion of Privacy Act, which prohibits intentional tapping of communication. Further, they say, the right to privacy has also been violated. What has Google’s response been? Reuters has reported Google spokesperson Jose Castaneda as saying that the company will defend itself against the claims. He has been cited as saying, “As we clearly state each time you open a new incognito tab, websites might be able to collect information about your browsing activity.” The petitioners also use the example of the recent Arizona v. Google case to bolster their arguments. What is the case about and how is it relevant? This case against Google was filed by Arizona Attorney General Mark Brnovich in May. The allegation was one of privacy violation by Google, the specific charge being that the company was tracking user location even when the user had turned off location tracking. Brnovich had tweeted on May 28: “Today we filed a consumer fraud lawsuit against Google for deceptive and unfair practices used to obtain users’ location data, which Google then exploits for its lucrative advertising business.” Petitioners Brown and others referred to this case while elaborating on the “passive data collection practices employed by Android, Google applications (e.g., Chrome and Maps), Google Home, and other Google applications and services ....” Has Google been sued in the past for wiretapping law violations? Yes. One of the long-running cases ended last year when Google agreed to a $13 million settlement. The allegation was its “Street View mapping project captured data from private Wi-Fi networks,” according to a Bloomberg report. Later, media reports suggested that some nine States were against this settlement as it contributed to massive privacy violation. In 2016, it reportedly settled a case where it was accused of “surreptitiously scanning Gmail messages for advertising revenues”. It was reported then that it had agreed to stop the practice. Last year, it was fighting a similar case, as per reports.  The petitioners claim Google’s actions in tracking user communications as they were browsing the Internet using a ‘private browsing mode’ were intentional. A Google spokesperson says the company will defend itself against the claims||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tracking-google/article31770263.ece
07 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police submit chargesheet in Rahul Solanki murder case||The Delhi police on Saturday submitted chargesheet against seven persons in the murder case of Rahul Solanki during the north-east riots. The police said that the accused have been chargesheeted under sections of rioting, murder, outraging religious feelings, promoting enmity between different groups, theft, mischief causing damage, mischief by fire, criminal conspiracy, and under the Arms Act. Rahul, 27, had stepped out to buy milk when he was shot dead near his house on February 24 under Dayalpur jurisdiction. His family took him to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital where he was declared brought dead. 7 accused identified The police said that some CCTV footages were obtained and mobile data was analysed. “On the basis of CCTV footages, oral evidences and other technical evidences, including call detail records (CDR), some of the accused were identified and seven accused persons have been arrested,” the police said in a statement. The police said that among the seven, one Salman had been arrested. “He fired towards the Hindu community people standing near Shiv Vihar Tiraha. The 0.32 m pistol used by Salman has been recovered. It is a good quality semi-automatic countrymade pistol,” they said. The police said that the spot where Rahul was killed was near Anil Sweets where one Dilbar Negi was murdered on the same day. Sources said that 78 chargesheets were filed as on Friday in which 410 persons were chargesheeted — 205 each from Hindu and Muslim community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-submit-chargesheet-in-rahul-solanki-murder-case/article31770540.ece
07 June 2020||New Delhi,||Follow national guidelines for COVID-19 tests, suggests IMA||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Saturday said that the country should follow “one nation one guidelines” for COVID-19 testing and care. “Multiple orders and actions at the State and district levels which do not conform to the national guidelines are proving to be disastrous to the doctors, nurses, and healthcare workers as well as the containment of the epidemic,” the IMA said. According to a May 18 Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guideline, direct and high-risk contacts of a COVID-19 positive person, who are asymptomatic, can be tested for the virus. But the Delhi government earlier this week issued a guideline that direct and high-risk contacts of a COVID-19 positive person with diabetics, hypertension, cancer and senior citizens can be tested. The Delhi government omitted “asymptomatic” people in its guideline for testing. A private lab owner said that there are several asymptomatic persons coming in for testing and many of them need COVID-19 test results before getting medical procedures like chemotherapy, dialysis etc. “We are complying by the national guidelines,” said the lab owner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/follow-national-guidelines-for-covid-19-tests-suggests-ima/article31770539.ece
07 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Constable who died after illness tests positive||Two days after a Delhi Police constable passed away in a city hospital, his test report showed he was COVID-19 positive. This is the fourth COVID-19 death in the police force. The COVID-19 report of constable Rahul was received on Friday evening and he was cremated on Saturday at Punjabi Bagh crematorium, his father said. Rahul passed away on Wednesday at Safdarjung Hospital and his body was kept in the mortuary as the report was awaited. The constable was posted in the HAX Branch of North-East district and resided in Mandoli with his family. He was from Uttar Pradesh’s Aligarh district. The police said that Rahul was on medical leave since November 2019 and had been undergoing treatment for lung ailments for the last six months in different hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/constable-who-died-after-illness-tests-positive/article31770538.ece
07 June 2020||New Delhi,||Act against illegal groundwater extraction at Mayapuri: NGT tells DJB||Following a plea seeking action against illegal extraction of groundwater at Mayapuri for commercial purposes, the National Green Tribunal has directed the Delhi Jal Board to take remedial action of closing the borewells and also assess recovery of compensation from the violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/act-against-illegal-groundwater-extraction-at-mayapuri-ngt-tells-djb/article31770542.ece
