18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||India will protect every inch of its territory, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said India would “firmly protect every inch of the country’s land and its self-respect,” a day after the Army announced 20 soldiers were killed by Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley of Ladakh on Monday. His comments came as a defence source told The Hindu that the situation in eastern Ladakh was now “calm but tense”, with four critically injured soldiers “stable” but some soldiers were still unaccounted for after fierce clashes with Chinese troops. Also, in the light of the unprecedented incident, the Army is said to have revised the rules of engagement along the Line of Actual Control. “Four personnel critically injured are now stable. In addition, 18 injured in Leh military hospital are also now stable,” the source said. Another 58 personnel with minor injuries should be joining work within a few days. Several soldiers are still unaccounted for and a few could still be in the custody of Chinese troops on the ground. There was no word from the Chinese side about the dead and injured on its side following the clashes that began on Monday and extended into the night. Promising that the “supreme sacrifice” of the martyrs would not go in vain, the Prime Minister said, “We have always worked closely with our neighbours in a cooperative and friendly manner... Whenever there have been differences of opinion, we have always tried to ensure that those differences never turned into a dispute,” he said in opening remarks to the Chief Ministers at a virtual COVID-19 conference. ‘We never provoke’ “We never provoke anyone, but we do not compromise with the integrity and sovereignty of our country. Whenever it was needed, we have demonstrated our strength, proving our capabilities in protecting and defending the integrity and sovereignty of the country. India wants peace. But on provocation, India will give a befitting reply,” he said. The Prime Minister’s official Twitter handle also announced that Mr. Modi has called an all-party meeting for Friday to “discuss the situation in the India-China border areas”. The leaders of political parties would take part in this virtual meeting, a tweet said. In a tweet, President Ram Nath Kovind said all those who laid down their lives in Galwan Valley had “upheld the best traditions” of the Indian forces. “Their valour will be eternally etched in the memory of the nation. My deepest condolences to their families,” he said. Sonia seeks explanation Congress president Sonia Gandhi asked the Prime Minister to tell the nation how Chinese troops could “occupy” Indian territory. In a video message, Ms. Gandhi said the martyrdom of the Indian soldiers had shaken up the entire country’s inner conscience and expressed her party’s solidarity with the armed forces and the government. Earlier, in a separate video, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said “enough is enough” and asked why was the Prime Minister “silent and hiding”. The Congress president, however, assured the government of her party’s support. “For the past one-and-a-half months, Chinese troops have infiltrated into Indian territory in Ladakh. When there is so much outrage in the country over this, the Prime Minister should come forward and tell the truth to the nation,” Ms. Gandhi added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-will-protect-every-inch-of-its-territory-says-pm/article31856028.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, China to ease tension, de-escalate||India and China on Wednesday agreed not to escalate matters along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), following a conversation between External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi. Stark differences, however, remained in how both sides described the unprecedented events of June 15, and the clash that claimed the lives of at least 20 Indian soldiers in the worst violence along the border since 1967. Following the call, it was agreed that both sides would deal with the situation in a “responsible manner” and “neither side would take any action to escalate matters and instead, ensure peace and tranquillity as per bilateral agreements and protocols,” the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) quoted Mr. Jaishankar as saying. A statement issued by China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) in Beijing said both sides agreed “to cool down the situation”. “The two sides agreed to deal fairly with the serious events caused by the conflict in the Galwan Valley, jointly abide by the consensus reached at the military-level meetings of the two sides, cool down the situation on the ground as soon as possible, and maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas in accordance with the agreement reached so far between the two countries,” said the statement. The two statements also underlined serious differences remain over what happened on June 15. The MEA said Mr. Jaishankar “conveyed the protest of the Government of India in the strongest terms” and “underlined that this unprecedented development will have a serious impact on the bilateral relationship”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-china-to-ease-tension-de-escalate/article31856030.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Loss of soldiers painful, says Rajnath Singh||The loss of soldiers in the Galwan Valley is deeply disturbing and painful, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Wednesday. “Our soldiers have displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army,” Mr. Singh said on Twitter. “The nation will never forget their bravery and sacrifice.”page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/loss-of-soldiers-painful-says-rajnath-singh/article31856022.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Over three lakh migrants have left Bengaluru||The exodus of migrant workers to their home towns continues, with officials recording a rise in demand for berths on Shramik Special trains over the last two days. As of Wednesday, SWR had operated 240 trains from across Karnataka, of which 207 departed from Bengaluru carrying over 3 lakh people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-three-lakh-migrants-have-left-bengaluru/article31856069.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Infrastructure will be ramped up to treat cases’||As the number of COVID-19 cases increases in the State, the government is planning to double the treatment capability. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has said the government plans to increase infrastructure capability to treat 2 lakh people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/infrastructure-will-be-ramped-up-to-treat-cases/article31856070.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,||SC clears the way for SSLC exam from June 25||The legal challenge against conducting SSLC exam from June 25 has been cleared as the Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a special leave petition which had challenged the May 27 judgment of the High Court of Karnataka in allowing the State to conduct the exam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-clears-the-way-for-sslc-exam-from-june-25/article31856071.ece
18 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. Cong. chief released from jail in buses case||Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu on Wednesday stepped out of jail almost a month after being booked and arrested for allegedly sending a faulty list of buses to the BJP-led State government to ply migrant workers home. The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday granted bail to the MLA who was in jail since May 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-cong-chief-released-from-jail-in-buses-case/article31856207.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Why shoot messenger, SC asks Delhi govt.||The Supreme Court slammed the Delhi government for choosing to “shoot messengers, doctors and paramedics” who brought the dismal truth about its COVID-19 hospitals to light, rather than making an effort to “redeem itself”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/why-shoot-messenger-sc-asks-delhi-govt/article31856205.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Satyendar Jain, Atishi test COVID-19 positive||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain and AAP legislator Atishi tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. One member each of media teams of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia have also tested positive. Other members of the teams are now being tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/satyendar-jain-atishi-test-covid-19-positive/article31856206.ece
18 June 2020||Mumbai,||CM seeks nod for drugs with positive outcome||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to sanction the use of specific drugs and treatments, which have shown positive outcomes, on COVID-19 patients. The CM also appealed to the Centre to draw up a uniform strategy to conduct university exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-seeks-nod-for-drugs-with-positive-outcome/article31856415.ece
18 June 2020||Mumbai,||‘Pvt. hospitals can’t take asymptomatic patients’||Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said no asymptomatic COVID-19 patient will be admitted to private hospitals and asked all hospitals in Mumbai to operationalise the total capacity of beds, without giving any excuses. He also appealed to people to use only government ambulances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pvt-hospitals-cant-take-asymptomatic-patients/article31856416.ece
18 June 2020||Pune,||3,307 cases take State’s tally past 1.15 lakh||Maharashtra reported another 3,307 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the State’s total tally to 1,16,752 cases. As many as 114 more deaths pushed the State’s death toll to 5,651.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3307-cases-take-states-tally-past-115-lakh/article31856417.ece
18 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Private secretary in CM’s office dies||A senior private secretary in the Chief Minister’s Office, who tested positive for COVID-19 and was undergoing treatment at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, died in the early hours of Wednesday. The Chief Minister commended his services during the State’s fight against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/private-secretary-in-cms-office-dies/article31856117.ece
18 June 2020||Chennai,||Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 tally tops 50,000-mark||Recording an all-time high of 2,174 new COVID-19 cases, Tamil Nadu’s overall tally breached the 50,000-mark on Wednesday. The State reported 48 more deaths, taking the toll to 576, while 842 persons were discharged from hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadus-covid-19-tally-tops-50000-mark/article31856115.ece
18 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Air passengers coming to Chennai must have e-pass||Passengers flying into Chennai are required to have e-pass and will have to undergo home quarantine. Those who have not taken an e-pass before boarding the flight can get them at the airport. Those wishing to travel further will have to mention the final destination in the e-pass application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/air-passengers-coming-to-chennai-must-have-e-pass/article31856116.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka records 106 inter-State travel cases||Kerala reported more recoveries than new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. Two deaths were reported in Andhra Pradesh. In Kerala, while 75 more persons tested COVID-19 positive, 90 left the hospital after recovery. The number of active cases Statewide was 1,351. Of the new cases, all except three were imported cases of infection. While 53 came from abroad and 19 from other parts of the country tested positive, three acquired the infection through local transmission. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that all interventions by the State were effective, because containment strategies were based on social distancing, universal mask wearing, reverse quarantine and containing local transmission. He hoped that the State could continue to implement strategies effectively and hold the third stage disease transmission at manageable levels. Since the outbreak began, 2,697 persons tested positive, while 1,324 recovered. 351 positive in A.P. In Andhra Pradesh, 351 persons tested positive in 24 hours until Wednesday, taking total cases to 7,071. The State had tested 5,98,474 people in all. Of these, 3,641 were discharged (128 of them new cases). The active cases stood at 3,340 while 90 persons died, two over the past 24-hour period. Among the fresh set of 351 positives, 275 were locals, 50 from other States and 26 recently returned from a foreign country. Of the total 7,071 positive cases, 5,555 people were from the 13 districts of the State, 1,253 of them from other States and the remaining 263 are foreign returnees. Similarly, the 3,340 active cases included 2,559 from the State, 562 of them from other States and 219 foreign returnees. Among the 3,641 people discharged so far, 2,906 were from different parts of the State, 691 from other States and 44 foreign returnees. T.N. tally crosses 50,000 Recording an all-time high of 2,174 new cases of coronavirus disease (COVID-19), Tamil Nadu’s overall tally of cases breached the 50,000-mark on Wednesday. The State reported 48 more deaths, taking its toll to 576, while another 842 persons were discharged from hospitals. As the single-day case count crossed the 2,000-mark for the first time in the State, the total number of positive cases climbed to 50,193. Of the fresh cases that included 805 women and two transgender persons, Chennai, accounted for 1,276 cases. With this, the city’s tally crossed the 35,000-mark. Till date, a total of 27,624 persons were discharged from hospitals in the State, while the active cases stood at 21,990. Wednesday also saw a significant increase in the number of samples tested. The bulletin pointed out that for the first time, the sample testing for COVID-19 crossed 25,000, and stood at 25,463 for the last 24-hour period. A total of 7,73,707 samples were tested so far in the State.  A total of 80 persons who had returned from abroad and other States to Tamil Nadu tested positive for COVID-19. This included 38 persons who had returned from Maharashtra.  (With inputs from Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-records-106-inter-state-travel-cases/article31855989.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Four critically injured soldiers stable||Two days after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in clashes with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh, the situation remains calm but tense. The condition of four critically injured soldiers is stable and some soldiers are still unaccounted for. In the light of the unprecedented incident, the Army has revised the rules of engagement along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), defence sources said. “Four personnel critically injured are now stable. In addition, 18 injured in Leh military hospital are also now stable,” sources said. Another 58 personnel with minor injuries should join work within a few days, they said. Some soldiers are still unaccounted for and, according to reports, are believed to have been taken into custody by Chinese troops. A round of Major General-level talks held on the ground in Galwan ended in a stalemate, sources said. The earlier rules of engagement were no pointing of weapons, no encircling and no blocking, among others. They were in tune with the 1996 agreement between the two countries, which imposes limits on the employment of force, military equipment including aircraft and troop build-up close to the LAC. “Earlier confidence-building measures precluded offensive overtures. Now it has been conveyed that no more defensive body language,” sources said. “We always followed them but they [the Chinese] swayed.” Commenting on the ground situation, sources said, “India is prepared to resolve the situation through discussions and there can be no compromise on India’s territorial integrity.” The clash occurred as both sides were “de-escalating” from the Galwan area as per the consensus reached to defuse the tension that began in early May. On Tuesday, the Army initially declared three fatalities, but by late evening the death toll went up to 20 as several died of extreme temperature conditions. The two sides have since disengaged from the area, the Army had stated. Details emerging According to details emerging of the events that led to the clash, Col. B. Santosh Babu, Commanding Officer of 16 Bihar, and a small group of unarmed soldiers were overseeing the pull-back of Chinese troops, as agreed earlier, when they were attacked by Chinese troops armed with rods and stones. As Col. Babu and the two soldiers were attacked, the other soldiers joined in, but were vastly outnumbered, and the scuffle continued. Some soldiers are believed to have been swept away in the Galwan river, a reason for their exposure to sub-zero temperatures as mentioned by the Army. “Rescue at that altitude and during that time is extremely challenging,” the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-critically-injured-soldiers-stable/article31855991.ece
18 June 2020||IMPHAL,||MLAs pull out of Manipur govt.||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led coalition government in Manipur received a setback with nine Ministers and MLAs withdrawing support on Wednesday night. They include three lawmakers of the BJP, who have reportedly joined the Congress. Deputy Chief Minister Y. Joykumar, one of the four MLAs of the regional National People’s Party (NPP), said all lawmakers of his party have withdrawn support. Two independent MLAs have also withdrawn support to the Nongthombam Biren government, he added. No-confidence motion “We will move a no-confidence motion against the Chief Minister and try to form an alternative Ministry,” Mr. Joykumar told presspersons on Wednesday night, adding that the resignation letters have been submitted to the Chief Minister’s Office. The coalition had been facing rough weather for a long time. Mr. Joykumar and another Minister, T. Bishwajit of the BJP, were stripped of their portfolios on the ground that there had been an overdraft of more than Rs. 250 crore. The Chief Minister restored Mr. Bishwajit’s portfolios. He returned all but the key Finance portfolio to Mr. Joykumar, wresting them back again, except for Civil Aviation. Health Minister L. Jayenta, also from NPP, said he had been complaining about the shoestring budget for the departments he had been entrusted with. The Congress, which had won 28 seats in the 2017 State polls, claimed it now has 31 MLAs in the 60-member House with an effective strength of 59 after the disqualification of former Forest Minister Thounaojam Shyamkumar. He had won the 2017 election on a Congress ticket but “defected” to the BJP. Seven more Congress MLAs who had been supporting the BJP-led coalition are also facing the disqualification process. The final hearing is on June 22. Many Ministers and MLAs are reported to be camping in an undisclosed location with the parties involved in the political drama apprehending horse-trading. Until Mr. Shyamkumar’s disqualification, the BJP-led coalition had 40 MLAs in the Assembly. The BJP had won 21 seats in the 2017 State polls, while main rival Congress had won 28. The majority mark in the House is 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mlas-pull-out-of-manipur-govt/article31856010.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBSE to decide on exams by June 23||The Central Board of Secondary Education will decide the fate of its pending Class 10 and 12 Board examinations by June 23. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has extended its deadline for students to decide whether to write examinations or not to June 24, and will specify its alternative assessment option by June 22. At a Supreme Court hearing on a petition by parents to cancel the examination due to the COVID-19 pandemic on Wednesday, CBSE counsel Rupesh Kumar informed the court that the Board is “in the process of taking appropriate decision with regard to the subject matter of this petition very shortly.” According to the court’s order, the CBSE counsel asked for a “short adjournment awaiting that decision and to apprise the court of the same on the next date.” June 23 has been set as the next date of hearing. State governments weighed in on the debate on Wednesday. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia wrote to Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank urging that the CBSE examinations be cancelled, while the Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court that it had the power to completely prevent the ICSE examination from being held in the State in view of increasing infections. July schedule CBSE, ICSE and ISC examinations are scheduled for the first two weeks of July. “When the examination was postponed in March, there were only a few hundred COVID cases. Now when there are expected to be five lakh cases by July, why does the CBSE want to endanger students’ lives?” asked Rishi Malhotra, the Supreme Court advocate representing a group of parents in the petition against CBSE exams. He also noted that exams have already been cancelled for students in 250 CBSE schools outside India. The CISCE, which had announced on Monday that it would give students an option to write their pending examination or accept alternative assessment using pre-Board examination results, internal assessment and performance in the papers already completed, faced a barrage of objections by parents in the Bombay High Court hearing on Wednesday. Parents’ objection “Parents told the court that pre-Boards are often more difficult and graded more harshly than the Boards, vary from school to school, and are given a miss by some students. It is an unfair choice,” said advocate Arvind Tiwari, who filed the petition to cancel the exam. “The court has given the council time till June 22 to specify the methodology for alternative assessment so that parents can make an informed choice. We feel that exams should be cancelled for all students and internal assessments should be used for grading, not pre-Boards.” Parents also complained that some schools were coercing students to select the examination option against their will. On Wednesday evening, CISCE CEO Gerry Arathoon issued a circular noting that such complaints had been received and warning that action would be taken against schools found coercing students. “This conduct by the schools is against the spirit and the intention of the CISCE decision,” he said. “Schools are requested not to impose and/or influence the choice of the candidates.” The CISCE circular also extended the last date for students to choose whether to write the examination from June 22 to noon on June 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-to-decide-on-exams-by-june-23/article31856021.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Direct States to pay salaries to doctors: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday gave the Centre a day to issue an order to ensure that the States pay their doctors and healthcare workers full salaries, provide them with appropriate accommodation and implement quarantine guidelines uniformly among medical staffers and doctors regardless of the nature of their exposure to COVID-19 patients. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan took exception to how quarantine had been done away for all medical workers, except for those in the high-risk category. “Have you done away with quarantine? Doctors are only quarantined if they are in high-risk exposure,” Justice Bhushan asked the government, represented by Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta. Any medical worker, whether in personal protective equipment or not, who came into contact with a COVID-19 patient should be quarantined for a week initially, the court said. Senior advocate K.V. Vishwanathan, for petitioner Dr. Arushi Jain, said that in most cases, medical staffers had their aged parents staying with them. Lack of separate and appropriate accommodation for healthcare workers meant many of them went back home and exposed senior citizens to the danger of contracting the virus. Mr. Vishwanathan said many States were not paying healthcare workers on time. Mr. Mehta acknowledged that there had been some “aberration” in the provision of alternative accommodation to medical staffers. Mr. Vishwanathan referred to the Centre’s affidavit which said public health was a State subject. Hence, the court should hold the States accountable for payment of salaries of healthcare workers and finding them suitable accommodation. However, the Bench did not agree with his suggestion to issue a directive to the States; instead, it asked the Centre to issue the order by June 18. Ms. Jain has questioned the Centre’s new Standard Operating Procedure, issued on May 15, which ended the 14-day mandatory quarantine for healthcare workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/direct-states-to-pay-salaries-to-doctors-sc/article31856004.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM CARES: Court seeks govt. reply||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought a response from the government to a plea that contributions made to the PM CARES Fund to fight COVID-19 should be transferred entirely to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan asked the government to respond to a petition by the Centre for Public Interest Litigation that future contributions and grants by individuals and institutions for the COVID-19 battle should be credited to the NDRF and not the PM CARES Fund. The NDRF should be used in the fight against the virus. “lssue a writ, order or direction to the Union of lndia to utilise NDRF for providing assistance in the fight against COVID-19 in compliance with Section 46 of the Disaster Management Act, all the contributions/grants from individuals and institutions shall be credited to the NDRF... All the fund collected in the PM CARES Fund till date may be directed to be transferred to the NDRF,” the NGO’s petition said. National Plan It also asked the court to direct the government to frame a National Plan to deal with pandemic. “The latest National Plan uploaded on the website of the National Disaster Management Authority is of the year 2019. It does not comprehensively deal with the situation arising out of the current pandemic and has no measures like lockdown, containment zones, social distancing, etc,” the petition, represented by senior advocate Dushyant Dave and advocate Prashant Bhushan, said. The plea said the part of the current National Plan which dealt with ‘Biological and Public Health Emergencies’ did not mention any of the measures that could be taken to control the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-cares-court-seeks-govt-reply/article31856013.ece
18 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assessment of OIL well blowout impact begins||A team of The Energy and Research Institute (TERI) and an accredited private agency have begun assessing the impact on the environment around the Baghjan natural gas well that caught fire after a blowout, Oil India Limited (OIL) officials said on Wednesday. The well in eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district adjoins the sensitive Maguri-Motapung wetland and is close to the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park that houses some wild horses. It underwent a blowout – uncontrolled escape of gas at tremendous velocity – on May 27 and has been burning since bursting into flames on June 9. “A preliminary assessment by TERI team is in progress at the site for studying air quality and noise level. Bioremediation of sludge is being done using a technology developed in-house by our research and development wing,” an OIL spokesperson said, adding that air and water quality, noise level and lower explosive limit of gas were being regularly monitored at Baghjan. Bioremediation is the cleaning of polluted sites through naturally occurring or introduced microorganisms for breaking down environmental pollutants. While a team from the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-North East Institute of Science and Technology has been studying the reported tremors in the area, scientists from Assam Agricultural University assessed the impact on vegetation. Heat shields OIL also updated the efforts to kill the well fire before capping the blowout. Certain steps such as erection of heat shield have been completed while a second set of equipment was awaited from the Rajahmundry operations of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited. Some fire-fighting equipment from Rajahmundry has already reached Baghjan. Nine truckloads of material from an Army base in north-central Assam for constructing a Bailey bridge across a pond near the affected well were also being awaited. The bridge is essential for accessing the well strategically, OIL officials said. Local pressure groups have continued to disrupt OIL’s operations across eastern Assam. This has resulted in a total production loss of 6,132 metric tonnes of crude oil and 7.97 million metric standard cubic metres of natural gas, officials of the exploration major said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assessment-of-oil-well-blowout-impact-begins/article31856209.ece
18 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala may cap COVID-19 test rates in private sector||The Kerala government may cap the fee for COVID-19 testing in the State’s private sector following the example of Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday that the government had taken cognisance of the highly variable testing rates in the private sector following the recommendation of the expert committee guiding the government on COVID-19 containment strategies. The Centre had earlier fixed the ceiling of RT-PCR  tests at Rs. 4,500. Last month, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had removed this price cap and had said that State governments can fix the rates. The private sector (only two labs in Kerala have been approved by the ICMR for doing the RT-PCR tests) is currently charging Rs. 4,500 for the test. Recently, Tamil Nadu had capped the price of COVID-19 tests in the private sector at Rs. 3,500 while Maharashtra had capped it at Rs. 2,800 for swab collection and testing and Rs. 2,200 for testing alone if swabs had already been taken. The Qualified Medical Practitioners’ and Hospitals’ Association had submitted to the government that either the samples from private hospitals should be tested for free in government labs or that the COVID-19 test charges of Rs. 4,500 should be included in the Karunya or Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-may-cap-covid-19-test-rates-in-private-sector/article31856330.ece
18 June 2020||SURYAPET,||Suryapet readies for Colonel Babu’s final journey||Colonel Bikkumalla Santosh Babu, Commanding Officer of 16th Bihar Regiment, who was killed in the face-off with the Chinese troops at the Galwan Valley on Monday, will be laid to rest at his family-owned agricultural land at Kesaram in Telangana on Thursday. Army officials have inspected the half-acre site along with District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy. “In full adherence to military procedures, the funeral will also be according to COVID-19 regulations. About 50 Army officials and 50 relatives will be present,” Mr. Reddy said. Superintendent of Police R. Bhaskaran said social distance boxes had been painted from the street corner to the officer’s residence for visitors who would be allowed to pay respects from the time the body arrives here for the six-km final journey on Thursday. The State government representative and Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy, who is the local legislator, reviewed the arrangements. Municipal Commissioner P. Ramanjula Reddy appealed to businessmen, shopkeepers and commercial centres en route to voluntarily close down their establishments as a mark of respect to Col. Babu. Apart from leaders from the State, official sources said a few officials from the Centre, including Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy, were likely to attend. A Major-rank officer of the Indian Army with 50 of his men will conduct the final ceremony. An olive-green Army vehicle decorated with leaves and marigold, with the Colonel’s poster atop it, has been kept ready at the District Police office for the funeral procession scheduled for 7.45 a.m. Condolences pour in Condolences poured in for the Bikkumalla family from across political parties. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, also an ex-serviceman, called on the family and offered his condolences. He handed over a letter of condolence from Congress Parliamentary Party leader Sonia Gandhi to the Colonel’s father, Upender. Kishan Reddy’s promise From the Bharatiya Janata Party, State leader Sankineni Venkateswara Rao arranged communication with Mr. Kishan Reddy, who assured all support and care to the family. CPI(M) leaders Julakanti Ranga Reddy and Mallu Nagarjuna Reddy met the family to assure their support. Earlier, Telangana Rashtra Samithi leaders, along with Mr. Jagadish Reddy, called on the family, as did CPI leader Narayana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/suryapet-readies-for-colonel-babus-final-journey/article31855968.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Why shoot the messenger, SC asks Delhi govt.||The Supreme Court slammed the Delhi government for choosing to “shoot messengers, doctors and paramedics” who brought the dismal truth about its COVID-19 hospitals to light, rather than making an effort to “redeem itself”. “Doctors, paramedics are warriors. The fight against this pandemic is like a war. They need support. But you are only interested in filing FIRs. Solution is not threatening doctors. We will not permit that to happen...” Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, one of the judges on the Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, told those appearing for the Delhi government. Justice Kaul referred to the suspension of an employee who shot a video about the “deplorable state of affairs” in LNJP Hospital, including the piling up of the COVID-19 dead. “The person who shot the video has been suspended,” Justice Kaul remarked orally. “You do not want the truth to come out,” Justice M.R. Shah interjected. “You are shooting messengers, doctors and paramedics,” Justice Kaul said. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, for the Delhi government, agreed there was no point in shooting the messenger. “We are very focussed on remedial measures for patient care, disposal of dead bodies and salaries... Our emphasis is on remedial measures... in capacity-building,” Mr. Jain assured the court. ‘File affidavit’ The court, however, was not satisfied with the government’s response and asked it to file a fresh affidavit by June 19 detailing the corrective steps taken, including withdrawal of FIRs against whistleblowers. “We do not appreciate your approach both before and after our issuance of notice to you,” Justice Kaul said. The hearing is based on the suo motu cognisance taken by the top court on the treatment meted out to COVID-19 patients and the bodies of those who lost the battle with the virus. The court referred to several media reports, especially on the Delhi government-run LNJP Hospital, on the lack of infrastructure. “The State on whom the duty lies to take care of health of its citizens cannot abdicate its responsibility of ensuring that all hospitals including government hospitals take care of COVID-19 patients,” the court had observed in its previous order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-shoot-the-messenger-sc-asks-delhi-govt/article31856016.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||No benefit from RBI’s loan moratorium scheme: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said there were few takers for the Reserve Bank of India’s loan moratorium scheme during the lockdown because people know there was hardly any benefit arising out of it. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, who had met Finance Ministry and RBI officials, explained that the moratorium during a pandemic lockdown could not be construed as a “waiver”. “What I am supposed to pay today, I have to pay tomorrow,” he said. ‘An irony’ “So you are saying you are actually doing a favour by deferring payment. It is an irony that thousands of crores have been defaulted on NPA [non-performing assets] accounts... You should be interested in helping them [borrowers], a pandemic is not a normal situation. No penalty should be charged here,” Justice S.K. Kaul, on the Bench, told Mr. Mehta. A complete waiver of deferred loan interests would have a “serious cascading effect” on the financial interests of the depositors, the Solicitor-General replied. The court has been consistently questioning the RBI and the government whether the deferment of loan interest would lead to charging of interest on interest once the freeze was lifted after August 31. Senior advocate Harish Salve, for the Indian Banks’ Association, intervened and pointed out that the whole case was “premature”. “We are still in the tunnel. We do not know when we will come out of this tunnel. Today we don’t even know where and when this is going to end... European experts says it may be 2022. When we say no interest should be charged during this [moratorium] period, it will hit the banks hard. Today, nobody can say when they will get their revenue back... Some companies are running on 70%, revenue for the hospitality sector is zero, the airline sector is zero. So, let us see,” Mr. Salve submitted. ‘Wait till August’ He said the court should wait till August-end to assess liabilities after getting a clearer picture of the turn of events. Meanwhile, the moratorium would continue. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, for the State Bank of India, said depositors, including senior citizens, should not suffer owing to the moratorium. Banks should be solvent to pay them compound interest on their deposits. “If you want deferment of your loan interest, you have to pay the price for deferment,” he said. Justice Kaul, speaking for Bench, said the court did not want any harm to depositors. The court said its proceedings were focused on one question: whether the moratorium would eventually lead to payment of interest on interest deferred for six months. “Will you be able to bear the burden if there is no interest on interest charged,” it asked the banks. Mr. Salve responded that banks had their own schemes to provide benefits to such sectors as agriculture and business. They might also have to create new schemes. He pleaded that the case be adjourned till August-end so that banks could collate details and place them on record. “Let us wait for three months. Everybody will know by then what the priorities... We can’t have mass bankruptcy,” Mr. Salve submitted. Legal framework Senior advocate K.V. Vishwanathan, appearing for one of the parties, said there is a legal framework on the release and repayment of loans under the Disaster Management Act. “Some restructuring of loans may be required, but we cannot lose three months. Somebody will have to start working now, or there will be a complete negation of whatever benefits the law allows citizens during such unprecedented times,” he said. The cour posted the case for further hearing in the first week of August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-benefit-from-rbis-loan-moratorium-scheme-sc/article31856019.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Get ready for Unlock 2, Modi tells CMs during virtual meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday indicated that the lockdowns of the kind that India underwent between April and May were unlikely to be repeated. He asked the Chief Ministers of 14 States and the Lieutenant-Governor of a Union Territory to prepare for Unlock 2, following the graded opening of economic activities under Unlock 1 since June 1. He made these remarks in the second part of his two-day video-conference with the Chief Ministers and the Lieutenant-Governors on COVID-19. “We need to fight against rumours of lockdown since the country is now in the phase of unlocking. We need to think about Phase-II of Unlock and how to minimise harm to our people,” Mr. Modi said. In his opening remarks, he said that while the country was in a vastly better position now with regard to testing of samples, supply of personal protective equipment and quarantine, there was a need to utilise the testing capacity to the full and make sure that whoever contracted the disease had appropriate quarantine and isolation facilities. “Our priority should be increasing health infrastructure,” he said. Mr. Modi noted that with the reduction in restrictions, indicators of economic performance were showing signs of revival. The Chief Ministers of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat, Bihar, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana, and the Lieutenant-Governor of Jammu and Kashmir took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/get-ready-for-unlock-2-modi-tells-cms-during-virtual-meet/article31856007.ece
18 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Coaching centre turns hunger saviour for students||A large number of students stranded in the city during COVID-19 lockdown period would have gone hungry had it not been for the philanthropic initiative by a coaching institute, which provided them one meal a day. The coaching centre, La Excellence, preparing students for Civil Services examination, provided afternoon meals to about 250 students residing in and around Ashok Nagar, where the institute is located. The surroundings of Ashok Nagar are hub of hundreds of candidates from all over the State and outside, preparing for Civil Services and other competitive examinations. Majority of them stayed in shared rooms and did not have any provision to cook. On normal days, they depend on tiffin centres and messes close by for food. “The lockdown was so sudden that many students remained stuck in the city, even after a large number had left for their home towns and villages. For 20 to 30 days, we too were not aware of their predicament. But a batch of 20 students, part of our R&D wing, shared their sorry plight with us,” said Paladugu Rambabu, director, La Excellence. Dr. Rambabu forged a tie-up with GoBhaarati Foundation, so that they supply meals on cost to cost basis. “Through our YouTube channel, we invited students in the need to send us messages, and got huge response. Starting with 120 meals, we were soon serving 250 students,” he said. Simple meals such as vegetable rice and curd rice were served, neatly packaged taking all precautions. Faculty too pitched in, and funds were also raised through Milaap crowd funding platform. The charity ended only after restrictions on take away food were removed. “We faced difficulty during the last 10 days when government had put a brake on food distribution. However, chief secretary Somesh Kumar helped us by tying us up with an NGO which delivered food,” Dr. Rambabu said. As the food was not sufficient, the institute supplemented it with various kinds of fruits from his own orchard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coaching-centre-turns-hunger-saviour-for-students/article31856274.ece
18 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||GHMC chief: avenue plantation inside private properties||GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar has instructed officials to explore the possibility of taking up avenue plantation inside the compound walls of private properties, where the road width is narrow. During a meeting with zonal commissioners and deputy commissioners on implementation of Haritha Haaram in GHMC limits on Wednesday, he suggested that such plantation may be taken up in consultation with the owner of the property. He said avenue plantation should be taken up on both sides of the 9,300 kilometres of GHMC road length in sixth phase of Haritha Haaram programme. Directing the officials to finalise the ward wise action plan after discussion with the respective corporators, the Commissioner has asked them to rope in services of 30,000 employees from all wings of GHMC in plantation work and maintenance of the plants. One officer for each location will be appointed to look after plantation activity, fencing, watering of the saplings, and their growth. Mr. Lokesh Kumar has instructed the CRMP agencies to plant both sides of the 709 kilometres of road length under their maintenance, and also the central medians. HMRL should take up plantation along Metro Rail route and its medians. Green cover should be developed all along the compound walls of grave yards, and open areas and lay outs should be planted in Miyawaki Model followed in Yadadri. As per the model, a total of 40,000 saplings of different sizes are planted thickly in different rows in one hectare of land. This aids faster growth of plants. He suggested bio fencing for layouts and along nalas, both sides of Musi river, and lake bunds. A total of 50 lakh saplings are aimed to be planted within GHMC limits this time round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ghmc-chief-avenue-plantation-inside-private-properties/article31856275.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC takes note of sufferings of nurses||The Supreme Court on Wednesday took serious note of the sufferings of medical nurses who are made to continuously work, especially in COVID-19 wards, without respite or least regard for their safety by managements of private hospitals in Maharashtra and Delhi. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan sought a response from the Central government after advocate V.K. Biju, representing the 3.8-lakh strong United Nurses Association, highlighted the “tortures” suffered by professional nurses who place their lives on the line without pay, rest or salary. Mental depression Many nurses suffer from mental depression caused by the extreme hardships they are facing at work now, the petition said. Mr. Biju, making his submissions to the virtual court Bench, pointed to how States and private hospitals have circumvented the law and the Supreme Court’s own directions, especially an April 8 order. The court had on April 8 directed the government to take steps to protect the lives of health care workers, who are the corona warriors, by ensuring that they are adequately provided PPE kits, appropriate accommodation and salaries. Nurses are made to work continuously for five days without any quarantine facilities even after direct contact with the COVID patients, the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-takes-note-of-sufferings-of-nurses/article31855984.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Loss of soldiers disturbing: Rajnath||The loss of soldiers in Galwan is deeply disturbing and painful, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Wednesday, two days after 20 soldiers, including a Colonel, were killed in clashes with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh. In the morning, Mr. Singh reviewed the Ladakh situation at a meeting in South Block with the Chief of the Defence Staff (CDS) and the three Services chiefs. “Our soldiers have displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army,” Mr. Singh said on Twitter. “The nation will never forget their bravery and sacrifice. My heart goes out to the families of the fallen soldiers. The nation stands shoulder to shoulder with them in this difficult hour...” he said.  Army sources said wreath-laying was held in Leh and the mortal remains of all the personnel would be taken to their respective places. The next of kin of the 17 soldiers too have been informed. “[Chief of the Army Staff] Gen MM Naravane and all ranks salute the supreme sacrifice of our valiant soldiers at Galwan,” the Army said on Twitter. “We offer deepest condolences to the families and stand strong in our resolve towards protecting the sovereignty and integrity of our country”, the Army said. adding, “Their sacrifices will not go in vain.”  The nation will never forget their bravery and sacrifice Rajnath Singh Defence Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/loss-of-soldiers-disturbing-rajnath/article31855993.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||With China, India will have to be atmanirbhar||The death of 20 Indian soldiers at the hands of Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh on the night of June 15-16 is the most serious national security crisis the country has faced since the Kargil War in 1999. Not only has the incident dealt a body blow to a carefully crafted bilateral relationship that moved on in other areas such as trade and business while managing boundary differences, it will also have a bearing on strategic choices India will have to make in the days ahead. From early reports, it would appear that the Chinese side is downplaying any dead or wounded that it might have suffered in the worst boundary clashes since 1967 — the country’s system allows it do so — India’s doesn’t. In an editorial, the state-controlled Global Times wrote that China, by not giving out the number of their dead and wounded, intended to “avoid comparing and preventing confrontational sentiments from escalating”. Strategic choices It would indicate the Chinese might believe that they have come up on top in this round but probably underestimate the hard strategic choices that India will have to make in the days, weeks, months and years ahead. While a clear strategic direction from the top leadership in India has to come, the fact is that the Army has to and must retain the positions India has held along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China over the years. The Army cannot pass the buck on this one. It has to hold firm on the ground and must be provided all the resources to do so. The Galwan valley incident is a game changer at a time when the buzzword on the India-China front has been the “spirit of Wuhan” — a term coined after Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping met for an informal meeting — to address their differences. Form cannot replace content in bilateral relationships. This is a message that should go out loud and clear to the highest levels of leadership in India — Galwan has superseded Wuhan. Over the years, India has participated in Russia-India-China (RIC) meetings at the level of Foreign Minister, it has embraced Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa (BRICS) and even joined the Beijing-led Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) as a full member. At the same time, the Modi government has revived and reinforced the “quad” — consultations between India, the United States, Japan and Australia — that have irritated China and possibly raised its security antennae. One of the first choices the Modi government might exercise could be to jettison the RIC, BRICS and SCO formats that have failed as confidence-building measures between India and China in a multilateral format. India’s heart is not in these consultations in any case – they have continued as a hangover from the past. In a sense, the Chinese might have forced India’s hand to go for a more formal embrace of the West by moving away from these formats, which essentially yield bland joint statements whose salience ends soon after they are issued. Equally, India will have to evaluate objectively the impact of the August 2019 decision to dilute Article 370. On August 6, a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said, “Recently, the Indian side has continued to damage China’s territorial sovereignty by unilaterally modifying the form of domestic law. This practice is unacceptable and will not have any effect.” “China has always opposed the Indian side’s entry of the Chinese territory in the western section of the Sino-Indian border into the administrative jurisdiction of India,” she added. Clearly, New Delhi should have taken the statements more seriously. New levers During the Kargil War, Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee rejected demands to use air power across the Line of Control (LoC) while Indian soldiers fought tenaciously to reclaim the lost heights. In the post-Galwan dynamic, India will have to discover new levers to pressure China. During Kargil, Pakistan was not only cleared from Indian territory but also ended up in an international isolation ward. China is in a different position altogether. All the international powers courted by India are locked in transactional trade relations with China. They will ask for restraint and dialogue. Nothing more. India will have to be atmanirbhar .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/with-china-india-will-have-to-be-atmanirbhar/article31855998.ece
18 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State may opt for antigen detection test||The State may opt for the new rapid viral antigen detection test for COVID-19 newly approved by the ICMR. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the expert committee advising the government on COVID-19 had recommended the introduction of this new testing modality. Earlier in the week, the ICMR, following an independent two-site evaluation, approved a point-of-care, rapid viral antigen detection kit, which can help in the early detection of COVID-19. While PCR tests look for evidence of viral genetic material, antigen tests look for fragments of viral surface proteins as a marker for active infection. Standard Q COVID 19 Ag detection kit, developed by South-Korea based SD Biosensor, is the only available viral antigen detection kit in the country. The test results will be available within 15 minutes and can be read easily on a test strip. The test uses a nasopharyngeal swab. According to ICMR, while a negative result obtained through this test should be re-confirmed using RT-PCR, a positive test can be considered as a true positive and needs no reconfirmation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/state-may-opt-for-antigen-detection-test/article31856331.ece
18 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||If it was fake news, why didn’t you initiate action, asks HC||Expressing concern over the police denying or dismissing allegations made in a batch of PIL petitions involving “police excesses during lockdown”, the Telangana High Court asked why the police were not acting against those making charges “without basis”. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy referred to a specific instance of a news story published by The Hindu, with the headline ‘Police, not judges, award punishment’, on May 10. The report stated that some youngsters accused of involvement in a clash had been compelled to volunteer for moving barricades at the Wadapally check-post in Miryalaguda. In a counter-affidavit, the Nalgonda police said the report was false. Hearing PIL petitions on “police excesses” during lockdown, the bench said if the police believed the news was fake, they could have initiated action against the newspaper by summoning the reporter concerned. The daily would have to make a public apology if the report was wrong, the bench said. The police should file the statements of the witnesses they had recorded in the case to substantiate their claims. Did any police officer speak to the reporter who filed the report?, the bench sought to know. Attack on scribe In another PIL petition, which referred to police attack on Chief of Bureau of The Hindu M. Ravi Reddy, the bench said the police stated that the victim had denied the allegation. But where was the statement of Mr. Reddy recorded by the police, the CJ asked. That would be crucial to ascertain facts and decide the veracity of the incident, the bench said. The police were welcome to reject any charges made against them but that should be backed by evidence and documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/if-it-was-fake-news-why-didnt-you-initiate-action-hc-asks-police/article31856295.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,||SC clears way for SSLC exam from June 25||The legal challenge against conducting SSLC examination from June 25 has been cleared as the Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a special leave petition, which had challenged the May 27 judgment of the High Court of Karnataka in allowing the State government to conduct the exam. “We are in agreement with the High Court of Karnataka that the writ petition filed for cancellation of SSLC examination for the academic session 2019-20 did not warrant interference,” said a Bench of Justices, L. Nageswara Rao, Krishna Murari and S. Ravindra Bhat, while declining to entertain a petition filed by Rajshree of Maratha Mandal, Belagavi. “The High Court issued several directions pertaining to the steps to be taken by the government for conducting the examination scheduled from June 25. Even students who would not be able to take the examination have been protected,” the apex court observed in its order. ‘Conscious about safety’ A Division Bench of the High Court, on a PIL petition filed by Lokesh M., Prashanth U.T., and Pruthveesh M.K. had held that Standard Operating Procedure issued for the conduct of SSLC exam shows that the government and the Board were conscious about the safety of children appearing for the exam. However, the High Court had directed the government to take additional measures like providing public transport, sending messages to students/parents on option available to appear for second round of exam to be held in September, and to ensure that the academic year of students appearing for second round/supplementary exam is not lost. However, in the petition filed before the Supreme Court, the petitioner had contended that the government’s decision was in violation of minor’s right to life when the country is affected by COVID-19 and the High Court had not properly appreciated the contentions on risk to life of children in forcing them to appear for the exam in the present scenario.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-clears-way-for-sslc-exam-from-june-25/article31855975.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||India will protect every inch of its territory: PM||The United Nations called on India and China “to exercise maximum restraint”. “We are concerned about reports of violence and deaths at the Line of Actual Control between India and China,” U.N. associate spokesperson Eri Kaneko said. “We take positive note of reports that the two countries have engaged to de-escalate the situation.” Russia’s call Russia said it was concerned about the clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers. “Certainly, we are watching with great attention what is happening on the Chinese-Indian border. We believe that this is a very alarming report,” Russian Presidential Spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters in Moscow. “But we consider that the two countries are capable of taking necessary steps to prevent such situations in the future and to ensure that there is predictability and stability in the region and that this is a safe region for nations, first of all, China and India,” Russian news agency Tass quoted Mr. Peskov as saying. Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Russia welcomed contacts between the two nations. ( With inputs from PTI )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-will-protect-every-inch-of-its-territory-pm/article31855982.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||India, China agree to ensure peace||Monday’s clash was reported to have been triggered by a dispute over the disengagement process that had been agreed to on June 6. The Indian Minister said Chinese forces continued building activities in the Indian side of the LAC in violation of the agreement reached at the Corps Commander talks on June 6, and attacked Indian soldiers in a planned manner. He told Mr. Wang the Chinese forces went back on a commitment despite continuing dialogue throughout last week. “The Chinese side sought to erect a structure in the Galwan Valley on our side of the LAC,” he said. “While this became a source of dispute, the Chinese side took pre-meditated and planned action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties.” In Beijing, the Chinese Foreign Minister accused India of “deliberately provoking” the clash and “openly breaking the consensus” of June 6. “Once the situation in the Galwan Valley had calmed down, the Indian front-line troops crossed the LAC again, and deliberately provoked and violently attacked the officers and soldiers who negotiated on the spot, leading to fierce physical clashes, resulting in casualties. This dangerous act of the Indian Army seriously violated the agreement reached between the two countries on the border issue and seriously violated the basic norms of international relations,” he said. The MFA said he conveyed China’s “strong protest” and “demanded that the Indian side conduct a thorough investigation, severely punish those responsible for the incident, strictly control the frontline troops, and immediately stop all provocative actions to ensure that such incidents cannot occur again.” He also called on both sides to “strengthen the communication and coordination on the proper handling of the border situation through the existing channels such as the meeting mechanism between the special representatives of the Sino-Indian border and the meeting mechanism of the border defence force, so as to jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border area”. On Wednesday, China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian declined to provide details of Chinese casualties from Monday’s clash, although reports have confirmed that there were casualties on both sides. Asked about China’s casualties, Mr. Zhao said, “I have stated that the Chinese and Indian border troops are now jointly dealing with relevant matters on the ground. I have nothing to add at the moment.” Asked about the likelihood of further escalation, he said, “From the Chinese side, we do not wish to see more clashes.” China was unlikely to confirm the number of dead and injured, said M. Taylor Fravel, an expert on the Chinese military at MIT. “I can think of no armed conflict involving China where it has released casualty figures publicly at the time of the conflict,” he said. “Usually, they are published years or decades later,” he noted on Twitter, pointing out that casualties from the 1962 were only revealed for the first time in an internal history published in 1994. On Wednesday, both the People’s Daily , the Communist Party’s official mouthpiece, and the PLA Daily , the Army’s official paper, made no mention of the clash, although it marked the first combat casualties for the PLA possibly since a 1989 clash with Vietnam. The clash was, however, discussed widely on Chinese social media. On the Twitter equivalent Sina Weibo, the China-India border clash topic had 1.05 billion views and 1,10,000 comments as of Wednesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-agree-to-ensure-peace/article31855986.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM calls all-party meeting on June 19 to discuss Ladakh crisis||A day after the Army confirmed the death of its 20 soldiers in a face-off with Chinese troops in east Ladakh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday called an all-party meet on Friday to discuss the situation. The virtual meeting will involve presidents of all major political parties. While Mr. Modi has not yet commented on the casualties or the incident, he had a meeting with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Chief of the Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat as well as National Security Adviser Ajit Doval till late evening yesterday. The all-party meet decision follows a heavy criticism of the government by the Opposition for its silence. In a video message, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said, “Two days after 20 of our soldiers lost their lives in Ladakh, and China invaded our territory, where is our Prime Minister hiding? Please come out of hiding, we are all with you in this crisis, the whole country is backing you.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-calls-all-party-meeting-on-june-19-to-discuss-ladakh-crisis/article31855995.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre told to chalk out plan on ambulances||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the government to explain how it plans to meet the increasing demand for ambulances due to the surge in COVID-19 cases. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan also urged the Centre and States to devise a mechanism to protect patients from being fleeced by private ambulance services. “You must have a cap on these exorbitant rates that ambulances are charging,” Justice M.R. Shah, on the Bench, addressed the government side. In a hearing on a petition filed by the NGO, Earth, the court issued notice to the Centre, the National Disaster Management Authority, the National Executive Committee of the Home Ministry’s Disaster Management Division and States including Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. ‘Centralised system’ The petition sought a “centralised system” or operation centres in every district for availing ambulance services and booking hospital admissions. It also asked the authorities to release advisories on the use of PPE kits, ventilators and Oxygen cylinders in ambulances. The court agreed to hear the case after two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-told-to-chalk-out-plan-on-ambulances/article31856017.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nepalese Army Chief visits Kalapani border||Nepal’s Army Chief General Purna Chandra Thapa on Wednesday began a visit of the westernmost border outpost of the forces in the Sudurpaschim Pradesh near the disputed Kalapani region. This is the General’s first visit to the area after the border dispute erupted with India in May. Nepal set up a new outpost at Chharung manned by the Nepal Armed Police Force last month after India inaugurated the Darchula-Lipulekh link road on May 8. Cautious distance General Thapa, who has maintained a cautious distance from the dispute so far, was accompanied by I-G of the Nepal Armed Police Force Shailendra Khanal. Official sources in Kathmandu said both were on a visit to the frontier. He is expected to stop at the Nepal army base camp at Ghanti Bazaar and inspect a temporary base camp near the border. The visit comes a day before the Upper House of Nepal’s Parliament will pass the Second Constitution Amendment 2077 to legalise the new political map which depicts the Kalapani region as part of their territory. The region is known for the strategic Lipulekh pass that connects India with China’s Tibet Autonomous Region and has special significance in view of the tension between Indian and Chinese forces at the Galwan Valley of Ladakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nepalese-army-chief-visits-kalapani-border/article31856002.ece
18 June 2020||Chennai,||India sees massive spike||India on Wednesday recorded a massive spike of 13,191 new COVID-19 cases and 341 fatalities, according to the State Health Departments. The overall tally rose to 3,67,120 cases, including 1,60,855 active ones, and 12,262 deaths. A total of 1,94,003 persons have recovered so far. According to the ICMR, 1,63,187 samples were tested on Wednesday, up from 1,54,935 the previous day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-sees-massive-spike/article31856005.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Mother of all mantras||The Kanchi Varadaraja temple has a vimana, which is called Punyakoti vimana. When you perform a good deed, you acquire some punya. If you do the same good deed in the vicinity of the Punyakoti vimana, then the punya you acquire gets multiplied by a crore. In other words, instead of just one punya accruing to you, a crore punyas come to you! So, visiting temples is a simple option for those who have not learnt mantras, said Velukkudi Krishnan in a discourse. We must learn to respect four things, namely the Vedas, the angas of the Vedas, dharma Sastras, and the Puranas. One reason for Vedic recitation to be organised in homes is that the very sound of the Vedic mantras has a good effect on everyone present, and also makes the dwelling place auspicious. We are purified by mantras. At the end of a yaga, purnahuti is offered. Purnahuti means offering oblations with fire to the deities. The smoke of the fire is sacred. In Pancharatra Raksha, Vedanta Desika says that if one recites the Gayatri mantra, he gets whatever benefits one gets through purnahuti. The Gayatri is the mother of all Vedic mantras. It is the essence of the Vedas. We must learn mantras through an Acharya. Seeking their feet guarantees moksha to us. Once, when Vaishnava Acharya Nampillai was about to give a discourse on Thiruvaimozhi, he noticed a lady seated where his sishyas should have been. The lady said that if she had to leave, then Nampillai would have to give her the place she sought. Nampillai asked her to write down the place she wanted to be in. She wrote ‘Sri Vaikuntha,’ and handed the palm leaf to Nampillai. He affixed his signature, guaranteeing her what she wanted. The next minute, the lady died and attained moksha. Such is the power of an Acharya’s word.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mother-of-all-mantras/article31856011.ece
18 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Do not charge more school fee: panel||The Kerala State Child Rights Commission has said that educational institutions should not charge fee more than that of last year. Parents should be allowed to pay fee monthly or in three to four instalments. Commission member Fr. Philip Parakatt asked the General Education Secretary to issue an order urgently, taking into account the financial difficulties experienced by the public owing to COVID-19. The commission was suo motu taking up a case in the wake of media reports. Many schools had increased the annual fee or directed that the fee be paid in lumpsum at the start of the school year. This could lead to mental distress among parents and students or disrupt some students’ education, the commission said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/do-not-charge-more-school-fee-panel/article31856328.ece
18 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Tainted tahsildar’s husband found dead||Tainted Shaikpet Mandal Revenue Officer Ch Sujatha’s husband Ajay Kumar was found dead near his sister’s house in Hyderabad on Wednesday morning. He was 46. Police said Ajay committed suicide by jumping from the terrace of a five-storey residential building at Chikkadpally where his sister lives. The incident took place around 7.20 a.m. He was an assistant professor of political science in Osmania University. On June 8, the ACB had arrested Sujatha in connection with a corruption complaint linked to over 4,865 square yards of land on Road No.14 of Banjara Hills. The ACB had raided Sujatha’s house in Gandhi Nagar, and had found gold jewellery and Rs. 30 lakh. Since his wife’s arrest, Ajay had been living at his sister’s place. His relatives told the police that he had been depressed and had sent a ‘good-bye’ message to a few friends and family. “He was disturbed as ACB officials called him for questioning,” a senior police officer said, quoting the victim’s family. He is survived by wife and a son. Chikkadpally police registered a case under Section 174 (suspicious death) of Cr.PC and the body was sent to Osmania General Hospital for autopsy. Bail for MRO Meanwhile , the ACB special court granted the MRO bail for 21 days. Before Sujatha’s arrest, ACB officials had arrested Revenue Inspector Nagarjuna Reddy, while accepting a bribe of Rs. 15 lakh from complainant Syed Abdul Khalid, and Banjara Hills SI A. Ravindra Naik for demanding Rs. 3 lakh from Khalid and accepting half of it.  (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: +91 40662 02000 or 6666 1117)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tainted-shaikpet-tahsildars-husband-found-dead-in-city/article31856297.ece
18 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||COVID-19-free status must to board flights||From June 20, Kerala will give operational clearance only to flights consisting entirely of passengers with medical testimonials proving that they are COVID-19-free. The policy applies to the Vande Bharat Mission and chartered flights equally, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said at his customary COVID-19 news briefing here on Wednesday. However, the State would accord no-objection certificates to special flights comprising wholly of passengers who had tested positive at the port of departure. Kerala would receive them with open arms and treat them in State-run or commandeered facilities, Mr. Vijayan said. High chance for infection The State has asked the Centre not to allow infected persons to travel cooped up alongside other passengers in the closed and air-conditioned environment of aeroplanes. The risk of transmission was much higher in aircraft cabins than on trains or buses. Moreover, there could be pregnant women, children, the aged and sick persons on board general flights. Mr. Vijayan said Kerala could not discount the threat of community transmission from asymptomatic persons. The government had given consent to a private airline to operate 300 flights to Kerala from the Gulf on the ground that the company would test passengers at the point of departure before allowing them on board. Other airlines and chartered flight operators should follow suit. More than 2 lakh expatriates are scheduled to arrive in Kerala soon. The impending influx of Keralites from epidemic-ravaged regions could upend the delicate balance if the State dropped its guard. Some nations were reluctant to test persons who were not overtly symptomatic. Test results were often delayed. Indian embassies should set up facilities to test passengers. If the PCR test was difficult and expensive, the embassies should conduct the speedier and cheaper Truenat Beta CoV. Submission in HC Meanwhile, the government submitted before the Kerala High Court that the State would insist on COVID-19 test for those returning by chartered flights from the Gulf. This is because there is every possibility of transmission of disease during their travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-free-status-must-to-board-flights/article31855976.ece
18 June 2020||New Delhi,||Sonia promises support to Army, govt.||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to tell the nation how Chinese troops could ‘occupy’ Indian territory, why did India lose 20 brave martyrs and his government’s ‘thinking and strategy’ to resolve the dispute. In a video message, Ms Gandhi said ‘the martyrdom of our soldiers on the Ladakh border has shaken up the entire country’s inner conscience’. She expressed her party’s solidarity with the armed forces and the government. Earlier, in a video, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said ‘enough is enough’ and asked why the Prime Minister was ‘silent and hiding’. Ms. Gandhi assured her party’s support to the government, and urged the Prime Minister to inform the nation what happened in Ladakh. “We want to assure that in this time of crisis, the Congress party is fully behind our Army, their families and the government. I firmly believe that in these challenging times, the country will face the enemy as one”. Several Opposition leaders, including former Law Minister Ashwani Kumar, CPI general Secretary D. Raja and Bahujan Samaj Party leader Danish Ali welcomed Mr. Modi’s call for an all-party meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonia-promises-support-to-army-govt/article31855996.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chinese firm in the fray for RRTS project||The Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry on Wednesday said the tender for the Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) project was yet to be finalised and that rules did not permit any discrimination, in response to news reports about a Chinese firm being selected and demands emerging that it be rejected. The Ministry’s statement comes amid tensions between India and China following the deaths of 20 Indian Army personnel in clashes with the Chinese in Ladakh earlier this week. “It is clarified that this is an Asian Development Bank funded package for design and construction of 5.6 km tunnel through tunnel boring machine and one RRTS station. Bids were invited on November 9, 2019, technical bids were opened on March 16, 2020,” the Ministry statement said. Five bids were received for the project of the National Capital Region Transport Corporation. The bidders were SKEC (Korea)+Tata, STEC (China), L&T (India), Afcons (India) and GulermakAgir (Turkey). STEC had the lowest bid when the financial bids were opened on June 12. “The tender is under process and yet to be finalised. Please note that the ADB/World Bank/multi-lateral procurement guidelines do not allow discrimination among firms/countries,” the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinese-firm-in-the-fray-for-rrts-project/article31856014.ece
18 June 2020||WARANGAL URBAN,||Teachers call for protest||The Telangana All Private Teachers Association (TAPTA) has called for a series of protests, demanding financial assistance from the State government in view of lockdown. Association president Chanderlal Naik said they were planning to sit in on protest at their respective homes, undertake one-day silent protest and take out a candle light rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/teachers-call-for-protest/article31856277.ece
18 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Death registrations see sharp decline||The Greater Chennai Corporation’s (GCC) data on the total number of deaths registered during the pandemic shows a decline in the past few months. According to the data, the number of deaths registered in the 426 sq. km under the GCC had seen a 20% drop in May as compared to the same month last year. The Corporation registered 4,532 deaths in May this year. In the same month last year, the civic body registered 5,739 deaths. The deaths registered in May 2018 added up to 5,146. Experts said one reason for the decline could be the failure to register deaths by sanitary inspectors. During the pandemic, sanitary inspectors have been busy tracing contacts of COVID-19 patients and accepting bodies at more than 500 hospitals in the city. Fully occupied As per the rules of registration of births and deaths, the sanitary inspectors have to reach the hospital for the management to hand over bodies in the presence of relatives. As a consequence of COVID-19, sanitary inspectors have been unable to register many of the deaths in the city within the stipulated time of 21 days. The civic body has registered just 840 deaths in the first two weeks of June. The number of deaths registered in June last year stood at 6,184. The city recorded 5,130 deaths in the same period in 2018. The number of deaths registered in the city in April too dipped from 4,888 last year to 3,754 this year. The number of death registrations in April 2018 numbered 4,789. Similarly, death registrations in March reduced from 5,394 last year to 4,703 this year. The deaths registered in March 2018 added up to 5,161. Ahead of the pandemic, the civic body registered a 3% increase in the number of deaths in February. The number went up from 5,088 in February 2019 to 5,240. Residents have demanded the government to appoint an additional sanitary inspector exclusively in each of the 200 wards of Chennai for registration of birth and death, to provide accurate data on deaths for analysis during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/death-registrations-see-sharp-decline/article31856121.ece
18 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. case count surpasses 50,000||Tamil Nadu recorded an all-time high of 2,174 fresh cases of COVID-19 in a single day on Wednesday, taking its overall tally beyond the 50,000-mark. With 48 more fatalities, the State’s death toll reached 576, while 842 persons were discharged from hospitals. The daily case tally crossed the 2,000-mark for the first time in the State. The total number of positive cases climbed to 50,193*. Of the fresh cases, which included 805 women and two transpersons, Chennai accounted for 1,276 infections. With this, the city’s overall tally crossed the 35,000-mark. A total of 27,624 persons have been discharged from hospitals across the State till date, while the number of active cases stands at 21,990. Wednesday also saw a significant increase in the number of samples tested. The government bulletin pointed out that for the first time, the daily figure had crossed 25,000, as 25,463 samples were tested over the last 24 hours. A total of 7,73,707 samples have been tested in the State so far. Among the 48 persons (38 in government hospitals and 10 in private hospitals) who succumbed to the infection, three were in their 20s. A 21-year-old man with anaplastic ependymoma was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on June 6. He died on June 14 due to factors including cardiopulmonary arrest, septic shock, COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. A 24-year-old man with post-nephrectomy status was admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on June 13, and died on Tuesday due to factors including uremic encephalopathy. A 25-year-old man with newly diagnosed diabetes died at RGGGH on Tuesday due to factors including cardiopulmonary arrest, COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. A 30-year-old man with Down Syndrome was admitted to RGGGH on June 12. He suffered from atrophic left kidney, chronic kidney disease and hypokalemic quadriparesis and tested positive for COVID-19 the next day. He died on June 16 due to factors including cardiopulmonary arrest. Thirty-eight of the deceased had co-morbidities. The Health department included the death of a 41-year-old man at a private hospital in Chengalpattu that had occurred on June 3 in Wednesday’s bulletin. The number of indigenous COVID-19 cases continued to increase in many districts across the State. Chengalpattu added 162 cases, taking its tally to 3,271. The total number of cases climbed to 2,037 in Tiruvallur, which recorded 90 new infections. There were 68 cases in Ranipet, 63 in Cuddalore, 61 in Kancheepuram, 47 in Tiruvannamalai and 43 in Thoothukudi. Madurai reported 27 cases, while Villupuram had 18 cases. A total of 80 persons who had returned from abroad and other States to Tamil Nadu tested positive for COVID-19. This included 38 persons who had returned from Maharashtra.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-case-count-surpasses-50000/article31856151.ece
18 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Curbs irk T. Nagar residents||Residents of Motilal Street in T. Nagar are worried as the next lockdown nears. They have not been able to go out for the past three days. The street was barricaded seven days ago. For four days, they were asked to sign a register before leaving the street. But three days ago, the restrictions were tightened. Although essentials like milk and water tankers have been allowed, residents are anxious if even these will be stopped. “A young man near my house used to drop his father at the T. Nagar bus terminus. He was asked to sign the register while entering and exiting the street. But three days ago, they would not allow him,” said Vanjula Narasimhan, a resident. The senior citizen said she used to get medicines at her doorstep through an app. I may need medicines in 10 days. I don’t know if they will permit the supplier to deliver,” she said. Motilal Street was blocked after three persons tested positive for SARS CoV-2. Several shops on the street re-opened after the lockdown norms were relaxed. V.S. Jayaraman, another resident, wondered if water suppliers would be allowed. At first, only the entry from Dandapani Street was blocked but three days ago the Usman Road entrance of the street too was shut. On the other side of South Usman Road, a shop owner tried to isolate some of his employees after they tested positive for SARS CoV-2. But the move was dropped following strong objections from the people, said B. Kannan, secretary of the T. Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/curbs-irk-t-nagar-residents/article31856123.ece
18 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Consumers flock to shops||With residents getting prepared for a 12-day lockdown from Thursday midnight, shops and markets in several areas in the city saw crowds on Wednesday. ATMs and banks had long queues with people wanting to withdraw cash. In areas such as Triplicane and Mylapore, the traditional markets were crowded. One could see large number of people at grocery shops. Suresh Kumar, a resident of Mylapore, said that he wanted to stock up for two weeks as he did not want to step out of the house after Thursday. He said that he had purchased milk powder so that he would not have to step out to purchase milk. Valarmathi Saravanan, a resident of Vyasarpadi, said she had bought rice and a few other provisions so that she would be able to manage during the long lockdown. S. Raja, proprietor of Sri Murugan Departmental Store at Kottivakkam, said: “People are coming in for purchasing. I would say that apart from the routine customers, the crowd increased by 30-40% today. The first lockdown was a surprise. Now people have understood how things function,” he said. P. Dinesh Ramanathan, who runs Sri Bramasakthi Store on Sivaprakasam Street, Pondy Bazaar, said that people had been walking in but not like what it was during the first lockdown. “But yes, they are buying in huge quantities for the next two weeks. We did not see long queues in front of our shops but the counters have been busy throughout the day with people walking in,” he said. A. M. Vikramaraja, president, Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaipu, said the lockdown was a welcome move since it would help reduce numbers of COVID-19 in the city. “We have suggested an even more stringent lockdown where not a single shop would be open. That would keep people in their homes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consumers-flock-to-shops/article31856125.ece
18 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State govt. chalks out extensive plan for complete lockdown||Ahead of the ‘complete lockdown’ in Chennai and parts of Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu districts, the Tamil Nadu government has chalked out an extensive implementation mechanism to make the most of the 12-day window in its fight against COVID-19. Fortifying Chennai City Police limits with multi-layer checks, controlling internal movement with barricades at critical locations, geo-fencing of home isolated patients and quarantine contacts, use of CCTVs and Aarogya Setu or teleconsultation with police for tracking and more fever clinics are among the major features of mechanism. A senior official told The Hindu, “We are focussing on two things – controlling the movement of people going to or coming from Chennai, and restricting movement of people within their respective areas in Chennai.” Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam chalked out the extensive plan, which was communicated to the Greater Chennai Corporation’s Special Nodal Officer and Special Coordinator, the GCC Commissioner, the District Collectors of Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur, the Director General of Police and the Chennai Police Commissioner. He underscored the importance of streamlining testing and patient management, effective contact tracing, quarantine and containment area management and ensuring the smooth supply of essentials to quarantine houses and in containment areas to make the lockdown a success. “The public should be made aware that mask use is compulsory, and any violation is punishable with a fine,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-govt-chalks-out-extensive-plan-for-complete-lockdown/article31856148.ece
18 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More COVID-19 tests the better for Chennai, say experts||Is Chennai testing adequately for COVID-19? Since COVID-19 cases started to rise in May, the number of day-wise samples tested in the city has turned into a bone of contention. While the Health Department maintains that it was testing adequately in Chennai and has been increasing the number of samples, public health experts are advocating increased testing. With no daily testing numbers available for the city, there remains a lack of clarity. On May 18, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar told The Hindu that a total of 84,160 samples were tested in Chennai till May 17. The next update came three weeks later. This time, the Health Department’s official bulletin put the total number of samples tested in Chennai at 1,21,950 as on June 7. More than a week later, on June 15, the Minister told a media briefing that a total of 1,85,000 samples were tested in the city till then. 5,000-5,300 samples a day So how much is Chennai testing every day? A health official said they were testing around 5,000 to 5,300 samples a day, and were increasing the samples daily. “So far, a total of 1,98,882 samples have been tested in the city. When we include Wednesday’s samples that would be running, we would have crossed two lakh. There are plans to increase the testing figures in Chennai,” J. Radhakrishnan, Health Secretary, said. The idea, he said, was to make it organic by using the fever camps to identify persons with fever, cough, respiratory symptoms. “We want to use the fever clinics for alerting persons with co-morbidities and test them apart from the numbers coming out of contact tracing. Instead of a target-based approach, we want to ensure that apart from persons availing tests in private facilities, we use public facilities to ramp it up based on a focussed approach,” he said. Another official pointed out that in terms of comparison, Chennai’s testing numbers were better than Mumbai and Delhi. “But the tests need to be increased by another 30%,” he added. Public health experts say the more samples, the better. “The testing numbers continue to be very low in Chennai. Despite insisting on increasing the testing for the last 45 days, nothing has happened. In April, the testing was adequate for the city but it has not been scaled-up from the start of May to mid-June. Unless infections are detected, it cannot be slowed down,” an epidemiologist said. If testing was adequately done in the first two weeks of May, the cases would have come down when lockdown restrictions were eased, the expert said adding that 10,000 samples should be tested per day in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-tests-the-better-for-chennai-say-experts/article31856154.ece
18 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Airport takes steps for better crowd control||After complaints of poor adherence to physical distancing norms at the airport, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has taken steps for better crowd management inside and outside the terminal. AAI officials said that they have placed 500 foot-shaped floor markers, both inside and outside the terminal, where people queue up. In addition, they have also installed queue managers outside the departure hall. Constant monitoring “We are also constantly monitoring if passengers maintain physical distancing when they wait to enter the terminal. This is where it was quite tough. Now, after these measures, crowd management is better. But we fervently request passengers to stand one metre apart. It is, after all, for their safety,” an official said. Slow process Though only about 55-60 flights are operated in a day, queues are slow moving, as each passenger’s ticket and Aarogya Setu status need to be checked, after which they go through thermal screening to enter the airport, the “The checking has to be meticulous as safety of all the passengers is important. “Hopefully, passengers will cooperate with us,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/airport-takes-steps-for-better-crowd-control/article31856138.ece
18 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Control centre set up at State police headquarters||In view of the steady rise in COVID-19 infections among police personnel and their family members, the Tamil Nadu police has established a round-the-clock ‘Health Care Control Centre’ for uniformed personnel, ministerial staff and their family members at its headquarters. In a note to senior police officers across the State, Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy said the nominated liaison officers in all cities/districts should update information if and when police personnel, ministerial staff or their family members test positive for COVID-19, and share details of hospitals and COVID-19 care centres. A portal has been created to update the details online — www.ppts.tncovid19.org Mr. Tripathy directed officers to ensure that proper care and medical attention is provided to those infected with COVID-19. “Kindly pay personal attention, in the interest of the welfare of our personnel,” he said in the note. A couple of months ago, the State police created a ‘healthy standby force’ by allowing 25% of its staff — around 25,000 personnel – in different ranks to stay at home. Last month, the State government announced that all categories of officials belonging to the departments of Health & Family Welfare, Revenue & Disaster Management and Police, and sanitary and conservancy workers of rural/urban local bodies engaged in disease prevention work, as well as departments directly involved in COVID-19 prevention and case identification, quarantine and treatment activities, would be provided free treatment if they are confirmed as COVID-19-positive and need hospital-based treatment in government or private institutions. It was also announced that they would be provided an ex gratia of Rs. 2 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/control-centre-set-up-at-state-police-headquarters/article31856144.ece
18 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Offers of arranging e-pass flood social media||With the e-pass applications of a large number of residents in the city and neighbouring districts being repeatedly rejected, some travel operators have taken to social media and message-sharing platforms offering to arrange for e-passes and travel to any destination within the State. Many such advertisements by touts have flooded social media and are being circulated since the lockdown began. “I found a post on Facebook by a travel agent claiming to get e-pass and a car from Kovilpatti to Chennai. When I enquired, the person said the travel cost for one person worked out to Rs. 15,000,” said M. Ramanujam, a resident of Madipakkam. One cab operator from north Chennai, who had advertised that he could help get an e-pass and a car on a message-sharing platform, said the tout he knew had contacts in the Collector’s offices and they paid them a good amount to get the pass cleared. After the COVID-19 outbreak, it has become mandatory to get an e-pass from the government to travel between districts and States. Earlier, nonresidenttamil.org was the portal meant for the registration of persons intending to enter or leave the State. But the State government has operationalised another portal, http://tnepass.tnega.org, for obtaining e-pass. According to sources from the TNeGA, till date they had received 25.6 lakh applications in the individual category and over 10 lakh have been provided passes. The remaining have been rejected. In the industry category, they received close to 3.86 lakh applications and 1.6 lakh had been approved. An official said that people may get arrested at the border for carrying a fake pass. “The process of applying for e-pass is simple.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/offers-of-arranging-e-pass-flood-social-media/article31856133.ece
18 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||At virtual meeting with Modi, Palaniswami reiterates plea for funds||During a videoconference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami reiterated the Tamil Nadu government’s request for funds under various accounts to help the State fight COVID-19. He also urged the Centre to expedite clearances to facilitate foreign investment into the State. According to an official press release, Mr. Palaniswami reiterated his requests to the Centre for the sanctioning of Rs. 3,000 crore to the State to boost medical equipment and the release of the second tranche of funds under the National Health Mission. “We have already submitted the Utilisation Certificate for the first instalment,” he noted. Mr. Palaniswami insisted that Tamil Nadu should be allocated a special grant of Rs. 9,000 crore for combating COVID-19 and its effects on the State’s economy, and urged the Centre to release the GST compensation for March at the earliest. The CM requested that 50% of the grants for urban and rural local bodies recommended by the 2020-21 Finance Commission be released. He reiterated that the Ways and Means limit of the States, which had been increased by 30% by the Reserve Bank of India, should be doubled, and the advances availed by the States in the fiscal year 2020-21 should be made interest-free. “I also request an immediate ad-hoc grant of Rs. 1,000 crore from NDRF to fight the pandemic,” he added. Elaborating on the steps being taken by the Tamil Nadu government to fight COVID-19, Mr. Palaniswami said the State was continuing with the strategy of “aggressive, targeted testing”. “There are only 20,706 active cases in the State as on date,” he said. “Chennai city and its suburbs continue to face a challenging situation due to high population density,” he said. The CM also requested an additional allocation of foodgrain and pulses free of cost to all cardholders, including non-priority household beneficiaries, under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana. Referring to the proposed externally-aided projects in the COVID-19 scenario, the CM urged the PM to instruct SIDBI to provide at least Rs. 1,000 crore as refinance facility to the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation Limited from the RBI’s special packages to revive MSMEs in Tamil Nadu. “I request you to announce a relief package to ease the immediate burden on the power sector, which will help distressed Discoms. I request you to instruct the Ministry concerned to remove the requirements for power sector reform and also allow greater latitude to States in implementing the reform agenda,” he said. Border issue Referring to the “unpleasant developments” on the border, the CM told the PM, “We stand united with you at this hour.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/at-virtual-meeting-with-modi-palaniswami-reiterates-plea-for-funds/article31856145.ece
18 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. allows more essential services||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday allowed limited functioning of banks, prepaid taxis and autorickshaws and IT/ITES services, among others, subject to conditions, during the ‘complete lockdown’ in Chennai and parts of its neighbouring districts from June 19 to 30. Previously, banks had been permitted to function with 33% staff only on June 29 and 30. Besides, if workers are staying within the premises of industries, they need not undergo RT-PCR testing. Headquarters of banks and financial institutions are permitted to function with minimal staff. “From June 20 to June 26 [in addition to June 29 and 30], the bank branches with minimal staff may function from 10 am and 2 pm for cash transactions relating to distributors and retail dealers of essential items viz., petroleum products and LPG. No direct services to the public are permitted,” a G.O. issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam said. Vehicles carrying LPG cylinders would also be allowed. A senior official told The Hindu that certain doubts persisted even after a G.O. regarding the complete lockdown was issued and hence this G.O. was issued on Wednesday. Prepaid autorickshaws, taxis and private vehicles would be permitted to ferry passengers from railway stations and airports,. “For this purpose, the e-pass issued to the passengers by the TNeGA would suffice,” the G.O clarified. “E-passes will be issued by the Industries Department to the managerial and supervisory categories of the Industries for movement in and out of Greater Chennai Police Commissionerate areas and other areas enforcing lockdown to their industrial units. These E-passes will be valid for the entire period of lockdown. These E-passes should be used properly.” Seaports would be permitted to handle cargo for essential commodities, medical equipment and other medical services with minimal staff. LPG/petroleum tankers, trucks carrying LPG cylinders, lubricants and other petroleum products carrying such essential items will be permitted without hindrance, it said. Further, LPG cylinder delivery personnel, attendants in petrol pumps, drivers transporting petroleum & petroleum products and contract labour working in oil companies will be permitted to travel from their home to work spots during the lockdown period provided they carry their ID Cards/ authorization letter given by the oil companies and gas agencies. Vehicles for milk distribution and drinking water supply will be permitted, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-allows-more-essential-services/article31856153.ece
18 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thiru Vi Ka Nagar team shows the way||Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, zone 6 of the Greater Chennai Corporation, has managed to slide down in terms of numbers of COVID-19 cases as compared to other zones. It now stands at the sixth as against the top slot in the initial days of the pandemic. Keeping micro-level management as their mantra, the team led by IAS officer A. Arun Thamburaj, was the first in the city to barricade houses with positive cases and ensure a volunteer helped the family with supplies. “When we started working there in May, we found that people were going to work from containment streets. We immediately put a stop to that by barricading the homes,” said an official. WhatsApp groups of officials of all line departments were formed at the ward level. And that helped in meeting the needs of residents. The teams would speak to COVID-19 patients and their neighbours and created awareness about prevention. The team members spent time with the patients and their families on phone and ensure that everything was well. “Everything from water supply to basic needs are ensured to such homes, ” said an animator in the team that keeps track.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thiru-vi-ka-nagar-team-shows-the-way/article31856126.ece
18 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Inspector dies of COVID-19; first victim among police||An Inspector of Police died of COVID-19 on Wednesday without responding to treatment at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. S. Balamurali, 47, Law and Order Inspector of Mambalam station under T. Nagar Police district, tested positive in the first week of June and died on Wednesday. He is survived by his wife and two children. The officer is the first such victim in the police force. Over 600 personnel have tested positive for COVID-19. Of them, over 250 have been discharged and have rejoined duty. Mr. Balamurali, a native of Vellore district, completed B.E in Electronics and Communication, but chose to join the police in 2000, against the wish of his father, who was also a police officer. A senior officer recalled, “He was one of the finest officers in the force. He was a teetotaller and very sincere. His line of investigation was always perfect.” The inspector tested positive for the virus early in June and was admitted to RGGGH. After his health condition showed improvement, he was shifted to the quarantine centre at the IIT Madras campus. Last Friday, his condition deteriorated and he was shifted back to RGGGH. City Police Commissioner A.K.Viswanathan personally made arrangements for purchasing costly drugs to suppress inflammation and improve breathing, sources said. The body of the police officer was buried at the Kannamapet burial ground. Mr. Viswanathan and other officials paid tributes to the deceased. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami called up his family and expressed his condolences. He also announced that a family member would be provided with a government job based on qualifications.  S. Balamurali, a Law and Order Inspector, tested positive in the first week of June||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspector-dies-of-covid-19-first-victim-among-police/article31856152.ece
18 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Online classes will create inequalities among students: Stalin||The ruling AIADMK government must realise that online schooling for nearly 1.31 crore students in the State will create inequalities and cause mental agony and inferiority complexes among students, said DMK president M.K. Stalin, adding that it should therefore not allow online classes to be held. Mr. Stalin said that unlike regular schooling, where children are on an equal platform, online learning would lead to inequalities. With inadequate internet and hardware infrastructure, less privileged students would suffer, he said in a statement. “Of the 1.31 crore students, 60% live in rural areas. Those living in villages do not have internet facilities, broadband, wi-fi, smartphones, computers or laptops. As per a National Sample Survey Office report, in 2017-18, only 4.4% houses in villages and 23.4% houses in urban areas had computers; 14.9% people in rural areas and 42% urban dwellers had internet connections; only 11% people had laptops and 24% had smartphones,” he said. Lack of infrastructure Online learning would be a drawback, especially for rural students and poor students in urban areas, as they lack basic infrastructure, he said. The government should take inputs from students and parents from all schools on the infrastructure drawbacks for online learning, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-classes-will-create-inequalities-among-students-says-stalin/article31856136.ece
18 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||E-pass, quarantine must for air passengers to Chennai||On an average, about 3,500 passengers fly down into Chennai from different parts of the country. While all of them are required to have e-pass, they will now also have to undergo home quarantine, even if found asymptomatic. All air passengers who have to enter the city need to apply for the TN e-pass through the portalhttps://tnepass.tnega. org/#/user/passin advance. “For those wishing to travel further, say to Vellore or Tiruvannamalai after they land in Chennai, they will have to mention the final destination in the e-pass application,” said an official. For those who have not taken an e-pass before boarding the flight, the State government has set up counters near the arrival hall to get one. “Only then the passenger will be allowed to exit the airport. This will be checked intensively,” said an official. Passengers from other States reaching Chennai on domestic flights will have to undergo a mandatory temperature check. “If asymptomatic, they will be sent for 14 days of home quarantine. However, if they don’t have a house in Chennai, they will be put on institutional quarantine. If they are from nearby districts, they can travel further after obtaining the e-pass,” said an official. All passengers coming by flights from Maharashtra, Delhi and Gujarat have to undergo COVID-19 test. However, this process was yet to begin at the airport, sources said. All international passengers, coming through the Vande Bharat flights, have to undergo COVID-19 test and then be on institutional quarantine for seven days. Institutional can mean either a free facility offered by the government or a paid one (the passenger pays) in one of the hotels in the city.  For those who have not taken an e-pass before boarding the flight, the State government has set up counters near the arrival hall to get one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-pass-quarantine-must-for-air-passengers-reaching-chennai/article31856132.ece
18 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Water tanks planned in containment zones||The Local Administration department has directed the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board to install more plastic water tanks in containment zones where piped water supply to individual homes was not available. Local Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, responding to a question about complaints from patients about shortage of drinking water in government hospitals during the summer time, denied that there was any water shortage throughout the city. Mr. Velumani was interacting with mediapersons along with Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar at Amma Maaligai in Ripon Buildings on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-tanks-planned-in-containment-zones/article31856127.ece
18 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. denies issuing poor quality PPEs||The State government on Wednesday stoutly denied the charge of issuing poor quality Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits to government doctors, paramedical staff and all other front-line workers in the ongoing fight against COVID-19. Justices R. Subbiah and Krishnan Ramasamy of the Madras High Court were told that all deaths of government doctors and paramedical staff could not be attributed to duty in COVID-19 wards and that they could have got infected elsewhere. The judges were told that over 2.07 lakh PPE kits were provided to healthcare providers and the material used in them was strictly in accordance with specifications of National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). In an affidavit filed in response to a public interest litigation petition by advocate S. Jimraj Milton, the government said the NCDC published the specifications in its newsletter titled Communicable Diseases Alert. The judges adjourned the case to Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-denies-issuing-poor-quality-ppes/article31856129.ece
18 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Police warn motorists||The city traffic police have warned of stringent action against motorists travelling without reason or passes during the ‘complete’ lockdown which will be implemented from Friday. “Police personnel will take stringent action against these people, their vehicles will be seized. If any motorist is found having a fake pass, action will be taken under the Criminal Procedure Code,” said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-warn-motorists/article31856143.ece
18 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Staff member of CM’s office who tested positive dies||A senior private secretary in the Chief Minister's Office (CMO), who had tested positive for COVID-19 and was undergoing treatment at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), died in the wee hours of Wednesday. Condoling B.J. Damodharan’s death, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said he was hospitalised “due to illness”, but subsequently died. A senior government official confirmed to The Hindu that Mr. Damodharan had tested positive for COVID-19. The Chief Minister commended his service during the State’s fight against COVID-19. Mr. Palaniswami announced that a family member of the deceased would be provided with a government job. He also spoke to Mr. Damodharan’s relatives on the phone and expressed condolences over his demise. Initially negative Sources at the Secretariat said that the private secretary had initially tested negative for COVID-19 when his samples were taken by the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital, Omandurar Estate, earlier this month. “But eventually, he developed fever and other COVID symptoms, and was taken to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital for treatment,” a source added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/staff-member-of-cms-office-who-tested-positive-dies/article31856146.ece
18 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘States alone can cap pvt. hospital fees’||Only State governments can take decisions on providing treatment free of cost to COVID-19 patients in private hospitals or capping the charges that can be collected by such hospitals, the Centre has told the Madras High Court. Justices R. Subbiah and Krishnan Ramasamy were told that the Centre primarily provides “overall technical handholding” to the States and Union Territories on COVID-19 management, besides issuing guidelines to help them contain the spread of the pandemic. “Public health and hospitals being a State subject, the matter of private hospitals and regulation of treatment cost charged by these hospitals come under the domain of the State government. Tamil Nadu is therefore to apprise the court on the matter,” it said. “Guidelines/notifications regarding the capping of charges are to be issued at their (State government’s) end,” an affidavit filed on behalf of the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry read. The affidavit was filed in response to a PIL petition filed by advocate S. Jimraj Milton, seeking a direction to the government to bear the charges for COVID-19 treatment at private hospitals, since government hospitals were not equipped to treat all patients. T.N. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, in a separate counter-affidavit, submitted that the State government had issued orders for inclusion of treatment and testing for COVID-19 under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. “A majority of the public will be covered under CMCHIS,” he said, urging the court to dismiss the PIL petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/states-alone-can-cap-pvt-hospital-fees/article31856149.ece
18 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. move||Various agencies of the State and Central governments have collaborated to source Vigabatrin, an essential drug from foreign countries, for the benefit of persons with disabilities, during the COVID-19 lockdown in the country. Vigabatrin 500mg tablet, used regularly for control of infantile seizures/epilepsy, and its short supply was flagged through newspaper reports and also by parents of persons with disabilities. Tamil Nadu government wrote to the Centre and Indian embassies in different countries to source this drug, an official release stated. “While the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation was able to source the medicine from Hong Kong and Dubai, the department for welfare of the differently-abled persons with the help of Air India Express made arrangements for the timely delivery of the first batch of these essential rare drugs,” it said. The Department of Welfare of the Differently Abled has procured 3,400 tablets worth Rs. 8 lakh. Regional Passport Officer in Chennai P.K. Ashok Babu handed over the first batch of the medicine to Minister for Social Welfare V. Saroja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-sources-drug-for-differently-abled-persons-from-abroad/article31856134.ece
18 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Farmers seek fair compensation for lands to be acquired for Pilloor III project||Farmers, whose lands the district administration will acquire for implementing the Pilloor III drinking water supply project for the city, demanded fair and immediate compensation at a public hearing the district administration held along with the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage (TWAD) Board and Coimbatore Corporation in Thekkampatty, near Mettupalayam, on Wednesday. The administration has proposed acquiring 120 acre in Mettupalayam and Coimbatore North taluks to hand it over to the Board, which will implement the project at Rs. 978.61 crore for the Corporation. The project includes Rs. 105 crore to be paid as compensation to the 170-odd farmers. The farmers wanted compensation at the earliest as they were apprehensive of delay seen in other projects that saw land acquisition, said T. Pandurangan, president of the coordination committee of farmers of 23 villages near Thekkampatty. “Be it land acquisition for the Bharathiar University or other drinking water projects, the State government was yet to compensate the farmers who had parted with their lands. Pilloor III should not join the list of such projects.” He also sought acquisition of the all the lands of farmers if what they were left with was negligible compared to what was acquired – a demand that several other participants at the hearing also echoed. This was necessary because many of the farmers who would lose their lands were small and marginal tillers. T. Venugopal of the Tamil Nadu Vivasayeegal Sangam (farmers’ association) said the district administration should ensure that the project did not pave way for more wild animals entering farms. “That the TWAD Board had proposed construction of a road along the pipeline had use, the farmers, worried because the animals would walk through the road, into farms. With the farmers already facing regular destruction of crops, it was imperative that a preventive measure was taken.” N. Sasikumar, a farmer of Dasampalayam, complemented Mr. Venugopal saying that the district administration should ensure that the trenches were effective enough to deter the animals from venturing into villages. Residents from Thekampatty and Marudhur villages who spoke said they wanted the TWAD Board to give them a share of the water to be tapped from River Bhavani and taken to the city because the two villages faced acute water shortage. That they were wayside villages should add weight to the demand, he added. District Revenue Officer D. Ramaduraimurugan said the State government had proposed paying Rs. 6.62 lakh an acre under the old system of calculating value of land to be acquired and Rs. 9.93 lakh an acre under the new system. Collector K. Rajamani assured the participants that the district administration would look into all their grievances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-seek-fair-compensation-for-lands-to-be-acquired-for-pilloor-iii-project/article31856157.ece
18 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Warnings issued to nine brick kilns coming up in Thadagam valley||Assistant director of Department of Geology and Mining and Coimbatore north tahsildar issued warnings to at least nine new brick kilns, construction works of which were reportedly under way in Thadagam valley. Activists alleged that the works of setting up the new brick kilns started when petitions against illegal operations of brick kilns were pending at the Madras High Court. S. Ganesh, an activist, from Thadgam alleged that works for setting up nine new brick kilns were under way in Thadagam valley during the lockdown period.  The Hindu had reported on June 8 that three new brick kilns were coming up in 24 Veepandi and Nanjundapuram village panchayats in Thadagam valley. Sources with the district administration said that the action was taken after activists from Thdagam valley questioned construction of new brick kilns even as cases against the functioning of 180-odd such units were under the consideration of the court. “We were told from various authorities that action against illegally operated brick kilns was not taken because petitions filed against them in Madras High Court were still pending. But the same authorities were silent when at least nine new brick kilns were coming up in Thadagam valley. How can the Government allow new brick kilns when they cite wait for an order from High Court as reason for not taking action against existing ones,” asked Mr. Ganesh. Mr. Ganesh and farmer- turned-activist T.M.S. Rajendran had questioned the operations of brick kilns in Nanjundapuram, Chinna Thadagam, Veerapandi, Pannimadai and Somaiyampalayam village panchayats of Thadagam valley. A senior official from district administration said that Assistant Director of Geology and Mining and tahsildar of Coimbatore north were instructed to check construction of new brick kilns. However, the official did not disclose what action was taken against the new brick kilns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/warnings-issued-to-nine-brick-kilns-coming-up-in-thadagam-valley/article31856162.ece
18 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Injured leopard dies||A female leopard that was rescued from a barbed wire fence of a private land near Sirumugai in Coimbatore on Sunday, died without responding to treatment on Wednesday. According to a statement issued by the Coimbatore Forest Division, the condition of the leopard deteriorated around 5.45 p.m. on Wednesday and it died at 6.10 p.m. in a Forest Department facility at Mettupalayam. Autopsy would be performed on Thursday morning, the statement added. The Forest Department and veterinarians were mooting to shift the animal to Vandalur Zoo in Chennai for advanced treatment and care. The carnivore, aged around 18 months, was rescued from the barbed wire fence of a private land at Mothepalayam village near Sirumugai on Sunday.  Injury The leopard had a deep wound on its body close to forelimbs, reportedly after it got ensnared in a metal wire somewhere else a few days ago, before getting entrapped in the barbed wire fence of the private land, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/injured-leopard-dies/article31856177.ece
18 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||NTC workers stage protest demanding wages||Leaders of trade unions, Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan, and the management of National Textile Corporation (NTC) are expected to meet Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani on Thursday regarding payment of wages to NTC workers. The workers staged a protest on Tuesday and again on Wednesday. AITUC leader M. Arumugam said the workers and unions demanded payment of full wages for April and the issue was discussed in the presence of the Collector. The union agreed then for 50 % wages for May. The NTC mill workers usually get their salary in the first week of the month. This month, they have not got the salary so far. “We continue to demand 50 % wages for May and full wages for April. Today, we held talks with the management and plan to meet the Collector tomorrow. The NTC management says there is financial crunch as there is no sale of yarn or cloth,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ntc-workers-stage-protest-demanding-wages/article31856164.ece
18 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Free online classes for students||Online coaching institute AhaGuru announced the introduction of mathematics and English programmes for school students in its mobile application, which can be accessed for free of cost. Director of AhaGuru S. Gomathi said in a release that this initiative would help underprivileged children to continue their learning online as schools remain closed to curb the spread of COVID-19. Those interested shall download the application in their smartphones or register atwww.ahaguru.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-online-classes-for-students/article31856163.ece
18 June 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||61 test positive in Cuddalore||The surge in positive cases in Cuddalore district continued with 61 more people testing positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. Of the 61 new cases, 32 returned to the district from Chennai while two returned from Chengalpattu district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/61-test-positive-in-cuddalore/article31856141.ece
18 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Petrol price hike hits daily wage earners||The hike in fuel prices, particularly petrol price that touched Rs. 80.90 a litre on Wednesday, has come in as a shock for common people and the daily wage earners who were forced to spend a substantial portion of their earnings towards fuel cost. After three months of lockdown, industries and commercial establishments resumed their business while construction activities also resumed with minimum workers. Daily wage earners, who depend mostly on public transportation for commuting, face challenges in reaching their work place as less than 50% buses are operated. “Since adequate buses were not available to reach the workplace, I have to ply in my two-wheeler spending at least Rs. 60 a day for fuel”, said T. Vadivel, involved in construction of Aval Poondurai, who spends Rs. 400 a week for fuel. “Our wages have been reduced now and spending too much on fuel cost is affecting us”, he said. On May 1, the price of petrol was Rs. 72.84 a litre while it was Rs. 76.02 a litre on June 1. “We have to spend an additional Rs. 10 per litre now when compared to the price before lockdown”, said S. Muthu, an electrician from Modakurichi. With the frequency of buses and connectivity in each route is less, most of the workers reach their workplace, both in villages and in the city, by two-wheelers. “Earlier, our bus fare was Rs. 20 to Rs. 30 a day, but now for petrol we spend Rs. 60 to Rs. 80 a day”, said a conservancy worker P. Latha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petrol-price-hike-hits-daily-wage-earners/article31856155.ece
18 June 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Hogenakkal out of bounds for tourists||As a precautionary measure to prevent spread of COVID-19, Hogenakkal, the once crowded tourist spot, remains shut for tourists for the third straight month. In its wake, the pandemic has left behind a trail of uncertainty over livelihood for the chain of small and allied businesses that depended on the ever-flowing tourists for survival. Madhammal from Uttamalai in Hogenakkal has been selling fresh fish since the partial lifting of the lockdown. “I used to cook fish meals for tourists, earned Rs. 700 to Rs. 800 for meals for five people. It could be any number of meals and we cooked for orders. Now, that is gone. So we sell fresh fish. Every now and then, there will be a stray buyer from the local village,” she says. Saroja, like Madhammal is waiting for the return of the normal. But, she queries if it will be any time soon. “I see raw fish. Feed my family with the rations(from PDS). But that is not enough,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hogenakkal-out-of-bounds-for-tourists/article31856159.ece
18 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Thoppur hospital gives alternative treatment||Asymptomatic COVID-19 patients who have been admitted to Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine in Thoppur are being provided Siddha and Homeopathic treatment along with allopathic treatment for cure. Treatment Coordinator for COVID-19 at Government Rajaji Hospital, K. Senthil said the Thoppur facility had treated 30 patients till date. There were 16 active cases at the hospital. “Asymptomatic cases who test positive at GRH are being shifted to decongest it,” he said. Dr. Senthil said patients who were admitted to the Thoppur hospital must be below 50 years and must not have any comorbidities. They must also be without symptoms. “In case they are seen developing any symptoms, there are labs that can take tests. They can also be transferred back to the GRH in an ambulance,” he said. A source from the hospital said the State government had also appointed Siddha and Naturopathy doctors there. Two doctors were on duty for each shift as there are only a few patients now. The doctor said they were trying alternative methods of healing to get optimal results. “We will utilise the skills of the alternative medicine doctors too. Patients are taught breathing exercises and given kabasura kudineer, a herbal concoction to boost their immunity,” he said. Dr. Senthil said there were plans to increase the bed strength 150 to 200 to accommodate more patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thoppur-hospital-gives-alternative-treatment/article31856403.ece
18 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Many still not wearing masks in Madurai, says Minister||Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju on Wednesday pointed out that many people on the streets were not wearing masks as mandated. “People on the roads are not wearing masks. It is their responsibility to ensure that the spread of COVID-19 is contained,” he told journalists while inspecting kudimaramathu work at Madakulam tank. He said that the Opposition’s claims of having low testing rates in Madurai are false. “The DMK and its allies are saying we need a minimum of 3,000 tests. Currently, we have been taking around 1,500 samples and testing all those who are entering the district at the borders. We are taking the aspect of tracing contacts seriously too,” he said. When asked if the State government was looking to fudge the number of COVID-19 deaths in Madurai and those who had tested positive, the Minister said the State government did not stand to gain much in the process, as the keeping numbers hushed will lead to greater spread. “I acknowledge that there has been a rise in the number of cases but it is purely because of people travelling into the district. We are promoting hand-washing, sanitising and wearing of masks but people must cooperate too,” he said. Referring to another issue, he said efforts were being made to ensure that channels to large tanks like Madakulam and Nilaiyur are free of encroachments. “We are de-silting the tanks and the inlet and outlet channels to ensure that farmers have a good season,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-still-not-wearing-masks-in-madurai-says-minister/article31856400.ece
18 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Habeas corpus plea for missing fishermen||A fishermen welfare association has filed a habeas corpus petition before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Centre and the State to rescue three fishermen who went missing off Rameshwaram coast on Monday. Four fishermen – Malarvannan, Rajini Baskar, Anand and Sesu – went missing after they ventured into the sea. On Tuesday, Sesu was rescued by Pudukottai fishermen mid-sea. In the petition, Sahaya Denis Reejan, representing Tamil Nadu Meenavar Urimai Padukappu Iyyakam, said in order to rescue the others the Centre and the State must use helicopters and high-speed vessels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/habeas-corpus-plea-for-missing-fishermen/article31856410.ece
18 June 2020||MADURAI/THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Two deaths at GRH; Madurai’s tally up by 27||Two COVID-19 patients – one from Madurai and the other from Dindigul – died at Madurai Government Rajaji Hospital on Wednesday. A 68-year-old patient was admitted to the hospital on Monday, and on Tuesday he tested positive and died of respiratory failure. This was the first death of a person with no comorbidities in Madurai. The death toll in Madurai is six, according to State medical bulletin. The 63-year-old man from Dindigul tested positive on June 14. The patient, who had ischemic heart disease, bronchial asthma, leukemia and systemic hypertension, died of respiratory failure. With this, Dindigul’s death toll rose to three. The total number of cases rose to 493 in Madurai, where 27 persons, including four frontline workers, tested positive. The fresh cases were from Thiruppalai, B. Mallapuram, Vilangudi, Sellur, Kalai Nagar, Arasaradi, S. Alangulam, Thuvariman, Jothimanickam, Kamarajapuram, Munichalai, Kochadai, Tirupparakundram, Ellis Nagar, Sathya Sai Nagar, Solai Alagupuram, K.K. Nagar, Paravai, Pasumpon Marudhu Pandiyar Nagar, Madakulam, Andalpuram, Kamarajar Salai, Keelapanangadi and Vasantha Nagar. Only three of the fresh cases had travelled from Chennai. After a lull, the number of positive cases in Thoothukudi district spiked on Wednesday. The district’s tally went up by 50 to stand at 487. Forty-three of the fresh cases were indigenous. Tirunelveli district recorded 15 new cases, including 11 indigenous, and the second death. A 62-year-old woman from Parappadi, reportedly a diabetic, died at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. Kanniyakumari recorded nine new cases that took its tally to 130. Tenkasi reported five indigenous cases that took the total count to 162. Ramanathapuram district recorded 38 new cases – 33 from Chennai, two from New Delhi, one each from Andhra Pradesh and Coimbatore and one indigenous. The district’s tally rose to 194. In Dindigul district, 15 persons tested positive, taking the total count to 249. The fresh cases were reported from Dindigul (a sanitary inspector), Palani, Sanarpatti, Idayakottai and Chinnalapatti. In Theni, three fresh cases were reported from Forest Road, Theni and Kondamanaickenpatti. The patients included two boys – one aged 15 and the other 14. Sivaganga recorded 10 fresh cases and all of them had travel history. Even as two Health Inspectors from Virudhunagar district who were on deputation to Chennai tested positive, the number of positive cases came down by 20 after 22 patients were cross-notified to other districts. The district’s tally came down to 168. The district has reported one death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-deaths-at-grh-madurais-tally-up-by-27/article31856405.ece
18 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Vehicle checks intensified on U.T. border||Following the Cabinet decision to tighten restrictions on entry of people from Chennai as a measure to contain the spread of COVID-19, the territorial police on Wednesday intensified vehicle checks on border areas. Several vehicles coming from Chennai and neighbouring districts were not allowed entry as strict enforcement were in place due to spike in the number of COVID-19 cases in Puducherry. According to a senior police officer, “even people with e-pass from Chennai were not permitted entry. Only those coming for medical emergency, with prior appointment at hospitals and government officials were allowed entry.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicle-checks-intensified-on-ut-border/article31856135.ece
18 June 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Man hacked to death||A history-sheeter was murdered by a gang at Aranthangi on Tuesday. According to sources, two persons allegedly attacked ‘Idi’ Mani alias Manikandan, 31, of L.N. Puram with sickle and other deadly weapons when he was chatting with friends on L.N. Puram Road. The duo also attacked his friend, Sathish Kumar of Koothadivayal. Manikandan received injuries and died on the spot. Sathish Kumar was admitted to Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital. Aranthangi police are on the look out for S. Kulam Mohideen and Alavudeen of Sannathivayal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-hacked-to-death/article31856478.ece
18 June 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Body of soldier reaches Madurai airport, to be laid to rest today||The body of Indian Army soldier K. Palani reached Madurai airport late on Wednesday night by a special military flight. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan, Madurai Collector T.G. Vinay, Commissioner of Police (Madurai City) Davidson Devasirvatham, Inspector General of Police (south zone) K.P. Shanmuga Rajeswaran, Deputy Inspector General of Police (Madurai Range) Annie Vijaya, Superintendent of Police (Madurai) Manivannan, and Tiruvadanai MLA S. Karunaas placed wreaths on the body. The body was later taken by road to Kadukalur, the native village of the soldier, in Ramanathapuram district, officials said. Meanwhile, hundreds of people visited the village to pay their last respects to the soldier since Wednesday evening. The jawan was killed in a “violent face-off between Indian and Chinese armies” in Galwan Valley in Ladakh on Monday. The Union government had made arrangements to transport the mortal remains of the jawan from Ladakh to his native village via Madurai by a military flight, officials here said. Collector K.. Veera Raghava Rao and other officials visited the house of the soldier in Ramanathapuram and consoled the family members. State gesture The Collector said the State government would give a cheque for Rs. 20 lakh to the family and a job to the legal heir. Many in Kadukalur recalled Palani as a man who always helped others. “He was a big motivation to many youths in our village to join the Army. His own brother Idhayakani, is an example. He is serving in the Indian Army in Rajasthan,” a relative, Kamal, said. The younger brother of Palani said that he had last seen his brother almost 18 months ago, but was in touch with him over the phone frequently. The last time, I spoke with him was on his wedding day (June 6), Idhayakani said. The body is expected to be laid to rest with military honours on Thursday, officials added.  He was a big motivation to many youths to join the Army, and his brother Idhayakani serves in Rajasthan A relative||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-of-soldier-reaches-madurai-airport-to-be-laid-to-rest-today/article31856395.ece
18 June 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Man dies in gadget explosion||A 50-year-old man died on the spot while three others were injured after an electronic gadget exploded at his house at Panamarathupatti on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as V. Mani of Thumbalpatti. Police said the victim found the gadget, which could be a transistor, near his house on Tuesday. Since the gadget was not functioning, he decided to charge it. On Wednesday, the gadget exploded and he died on the spot. His granddaughter S. Sourubia (12) suffered serious injuries and was admitted to a private hospital where she is said to critical. Two other relatives, G. Vasantha Kumar (37) and P. Natesan (65), were admitted to the hospital. A case is yet to be registered||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-in-gadget-explosion/article31856173.ece
18 June 2020||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Suspended||Four forest officials – a Range Officer, Forester, Forest Guard and a Forest Watcher – attached to Saptur Forest Range under the Grizzled Squirrel Wildlife Sanctuary, Srivilliputtur, were placed under suspension on Monday after it was found that they had suppressed the information about the death of an elephant and burned its carcass inside the forest. According to official sources, Wildlife Warden P. Mohammed Shabab ordered their suspension after information about the incident, said to have happened in May, reached him. After an initial enquiry proved that the officials were involved in suppression of information, they were placed under suspension. Official sources said the incident happened in Mallapuram beat, deep inside the forest where the height of mountain ranges was around 900 metres. “Since the incident happened deep inside the forest, the information did not come out immediately. The forest there is thick and sometimes it takes hours to trek deep into it,” Mr. Shabab said. A detailed inquiry by an official of the rank of Assistant Conservator of Forest had been ordered, he said. When asked about the cause of the death of the elephant, he said it would be known only after the inquiry. The sanctuary, spanning 485 sq km of the Western Ghats in Virudhunagar and Madurai districts, is home to elephants, tigers, leopards, sloth bears and deer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-carcass-burned-inside-srivilliputtur-forest/article31856409.ece
18 June 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Two bears caged on a single day||Forest personnel of Kadayam range captured two stray bears within a gap of 17 hours on Tuesday at two places and translocated them in the Kalakkad - Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve’s jungles beyond Papanasam. After villagers alerted the forest officials about sighting of a bear in the agricultural fields, a team led by Range Officer C. Nellainayagam visited Mudhaliyarpatti near Kadayam. The foresters laid a cage with jack fruit, a favourite of bears and fixed surveillance cameras to monitor its movement. Subsequently, a seven-year-old female bear was caged around 4 a.m. on Tuesday and it was released deep inside the reserve in the morning after a check by veterinarians. Again, around 9.10 p.m., an eight-year-old female bear was trapped at Bungalow Kudiyiruppu, also near Kadayam. After Deputy Director of KMTR’s Ambasamudram Division Kommu Omkaram checked the animal along with veterinarians Manoharan and Muthukrishnan and ecologist Sritheran, the animal was taken to Koviltheri beat beyond Mundanthurai where it was released.  No injury “The animal was healthy and did not have any injury. Since Koviltheri beat has a decent bear population and good water sources, the animal was translocated as per protocol and released around 8.30 a.m. on Wednesday,” Mr. Omkaram said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-bears-caged-on-a-single-day/article31856399.ece
18 June 2020||THANJAVUR/tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Sprawling Kallaperambur lake to be rejuvenated||The 640-acre Kallaperambur lake near Thanjavur is all set to get a new lease of life under kudimaramathu . The lake can hold around 42 million cubic feet of water. Desilting and reconstruction of four out of eight sluices will be carried out at a cost of Rs. 92 lakh. Around 2,600 acres of fields in Kallaperambur and surrounding villages will benefit from the lake, which receives water from the Vennar through Anandacauvery canal. A group of local residents approached the State government to take up rejuvenation of the lake under kudimaramathu after the scheme was announced in 2017. A water users association was floated and it succeeded in mobilising the mandatory 10% contribution from the people to take up work under the scheme. Last year, the association, floated by a youth group, was permitted to clear wild growth and strengthen the 3,218-metre-long lake bund with Rs. 8 lakh mobilised from the people under the scheme. Additional funds was also generated by the group, sources said. Meanwhile, a revised estimate has been prepared after sorting out “issues” impeding execution of the work. On Wednesday, Agriculture Minister R. Doraikkannu inaugurated the work in the presence of Collector M. Govinda Rao. Tiruvarur Collector T. Anand on Thursday said 35 km of desilting work was yet to be completed under the Chief Ministers’ Special Desilting Scheme in the district. 106 works A total of 106 works at a cost of Rs. 22 crore was taken up this year under CMSDS to clear weeds and desilt 1,244 km of waterways. Work was completed up to 1,209 km. Mr. Anand on Thursday inspected Thirukalar drain canal, desilted at a cost of Rs. 40 lakh, at Kandhaparicharu in Alangadu village (Rs. 25 lakh), Ovanur Drain Canal at Melaperumalai village in Thiruthuraipoondi taluk (Rs. 15 lakh) and Koraiyaru at Kudithangi in Koothanallur taluk (Rs. 26 lakh).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sprawling-kallaperambur-lake-to-be-rejuvenated/article31856477.ece
18 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||65 more cases in central region||Sixty-five fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in the central region on Wednesday. Cases clocked double digits in Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Thanjavur districts. The maximum number of cases was reported in Tiruvarur (15), followed by Nagapattinam (13). Thanjavur reported 12, Pudukottai nine and Karur and Tiruchi eight cases each. No fresh cases were reported in Ariyalur and Perambalur districts. Nagapattinam Of the thirteen cases in Nagapattinam district, 10 were returnees from Chennai and Kancheepuram districts. They were admitted to government hospitals in Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai. Three reportedly contracted the virus from the contacts of Chennai returnees. They were under treatment at the government hospital in Cuddalore. Tiruchi There were thirteen cases, including Personal Assistant to the Dairy Development Minister, in Tiruchi district. Three patients were from Kannudayanpatti near Manapparai. Ramalinga Nagar, Varaganeri, Karumandapam and Chathiram in Tiruchi city accounted for a case each. All of them were under treatment at K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital. Eleven patients were discharged from the hospital after recovery.  Pudukottai In Pudukottai district, out of nine who tested positive, three were from Ponnamaravathy, two from Pudukottai and one each from Aranthangi, Magalipatti, K.V. Kottai and Karambakudi. They reportedly contracted the virus from Chennai. All of them were under treatment at Ranees Government Hospital in Pudukottai.  Karur Of the eight patients who tested positive in Karur district, three were from a same family in Muthuladampatti. Two hailed from Pallapatti and belonged to the same family. Two patients of the same family from Mavadiyan Koil Street in Karur also tested positive. They had returned to Karur after staying in Tiruchi for a week. Another person from Kendhapodikarai Street was reported to have contracted the virus from her husband, who had returned from New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/65-more-cases-in-central-region/article31856480.ece
18 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Humanitarian gesture towards birds, animals hit by lockdown||Moved by the plight of birds and small animals left hungry in the wake of the lockdown, city resident M. Raja has been feeding them with specially cooked food and millets as a humanitarian gesture. “The closure of restaurants due to the lockdown has hit urban fauna the most. I felt bad to see so many birds circling around their usual spots, looking for food in vain in the hot sun, so I decided to try and feed them myself,” Mr. Raja told The Hindu . He has continued to feed the birds even after local eateries reopened for business with new safety procedures last week. A lecturer in Department of Tamil at the Government Arts and Science College, Lalgudi, Mr. Raja resides in an apartment in Tiruchi’s Cantonment area. He scatters nearly a kilogram of millets daily in the morning and places a small quantity of cooked rice and vegetables in the afternoon on a section of his building’s rooftop terrace. Buckets of water for a refreshing dip and sip are added bonuses. “There’s a lot of excitement among the birds when I scatter the millets on the terrace,” said Mr. Raja. “I feel they alert their other feathered friends as well, and come down to savour the grains. Of late, I have even noticed squirrels snacking on the biscuits that I add to the mix.” Mr. Raja said he had also become a novice birdwatcher in the process. “I have noticed ‘Seven Sisters’ (Jungle Babblers), bulbuls and mynahs and crows dropping in during different times of the day. I think most of these birds were used to foraging in the eateries dotting the Court and Cantonment neighbourhoods before the lockdown,” he said. He admits to getting strange looks from people when he goes shopping for 15-20 kilos of millets. “Some have even asked me outright why I’m buying so much, especially during lockdown,” Mr. Raja said with a laugh. He has bought over 60 kg of millets for the birds since March. Mr. Raja cleans and washes the feeding area regularly to avoid inconveniencing the other residents of his apartment complex. “I find it really relaxing to see these birds, as they seem to chatter and enjoy the meals. There’s so much more unity in the animal kingdom than among human beings,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/humanitarian-gesture-towards-birds-animals-hit-by-lockdown/article31856474.ece
18 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Demolition of Puthur market in Tiruchi begins||The Tiruchi Corporation has begun demolition of Puthur market in the city. A commercial complex will come up in its place under Smart City Mission. On Tuesday, workers began demolishing a portion of the market housing vegetable shops. Puthur market, which includes vegetable and fish outlets, has been catering to residents in Puthur, Thennur, Woraiyur, Thillai Nagar and residential colonies along Vayalur Road. Over the years, the market became congested. The amenities were inadequate and there were complaints about poor hygiene at the fish market. Hence, a new fish market, with retail and wholesale shops, was sanctioned at an estimate of Rs. 3.32 crore. However, shifting of fish vendors at Puthur market to the new 1.25-acre site at Kasivilangi has been delayed due to litigation. But the Corporation has decided to merge the vegetable outlets with the Woraiyur market. Eighty-six additional shops were constructed recently to accommodate the vegetable traders from Puthur market. “The vegetable market will be shifted once the Woraiyur market is reopened after the lockdown restrictions are lifted,” an officer of Tiruchi Corporation told The Hindu . Corporation sources say a new commercial complex will be built once the Puthur market is fully demolished. The new complex will have about 10,250 sq. mt. of built-up space on ground plus three floors. Besides retail shops, a multi-purpose hall and a food court has also been planned. The complex, which will be built at a cost of Rs. 20.20 crore under Smart City Mission, will also house a parking lot in the basement with a capacity to accommodate about 50 cars and 125 two-wheelers. Petition submitted Meanwhile, a section of traders submitted a petition to the Corporation on Wednesday stating that the demolition of Puthur market raised a question mark over their livelihood and sought alternative arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demolition-of-puthur-market-in-tiruchi-begins/article31856486.ece
18 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Industrial units hopeful as defence corridor project stirs to life||There is hope in the air for battered fabrication industries, many of which are sick or turning into non-performing assets, in the region. The Centre has taken further steps in implementation of defence corridor projects in Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh this year. Earlier, industry bodies had urged the State government to play a pro-active role in early fructification of the project envisaging five nodes — Chennai, Coimbatore, Hosur, Salem, Tiruchi — in Tamil Nadu. Hence, the Centre appointed a consultant in March for preparation of policy and detailed project report for the defence corridors. Incentives to private players and foreign companies are provided under the policies. Industry watchers in the State say the project in Uttar Pradesh with nodes in six locations — Agra, Aligarh, Chitrakoot, Jhansi, Kanpur, Lucknow — has made better progress, with Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. (HAL) committing capital investment of Rs. 1,200 crore over a period of five years in its units at Lucknow, Kanpur, Korwa and Naini. Till date, six consultation meeting of stakeholders each in Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu were organized across its various nodes. Ordnance Factory Board, Defence Public Sector Undertakings and private industries have announced investments of approximately Rs. 3,700 crore for Uttar Pradesh and Rs. 3,100 crore for Tamil Nadu. The Centre’s idea behind establishing the defence corridors is to catalyse indigenous production of defence and aerospace-related items, thereby reducing imports and promoting exports. The government intends to attain self-reliance in defence, generate direct/indirect employment opportunities and bring about growth of private domestic manufacturers, micro, small and medium enterprises and start-ups. Earlier this year, a roadmap for defence industries cooperation between India and South Korea was exchanged in a bilateral meeting. The roadmap lists a number of possible areas of cooperation in land systems, naval systems, aero systems, guided weapon systems, including research and development cooperation, collaboration regarding testing, certification and quality assurance. The roadmap aims to facilitate defence industries in participation and collaboration on ‘Make in India’ initiatives of the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industrial-units-hopeful-as-defence-corridor-project-stirs-to-life/article31856472.ece
18 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Solar plant commissioned at Tiruchi Head Post Office||A solar power plant was formally commissioned at Tiruchi Head Post Office on Wednesday. The 50KW solar power plant was established as part of the Go Green initiative of the Department of Posts. With the commissioning of the plant, power bill of the Head Post Office is expected to reduce by half. The plant was commissioned by Sumathi Ravichandran, Postmaster General, Central Postal Region, Tamil Nadu Circle, in the presence of A. Thomas Lourduraj, Director, Postal Services, Central Postal Region, R. Ganapathi Swaminathan, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Tiruchi Division, and P. Michaelraj, Assistant Director (Mails), and Senior Postmaster, Tiruchi HPO, according to a press release. A modernised bulk processing centre, which facilitates exclusive packaging and postal services for bulk customers and exporters, was also inaugurated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/solar-plant-commissioned-at-tiruchi-head-post-office/article31856483.ece
18 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Expats arrive in special flights from Middle East||Hundred and eighty-eight Indians arrived at the Tiruchi International Airport from Dubai by a Fly Dubai evacuation flight on Wednesday afternoon. Earlier on Tuesday night, 171 passengers arrived here from Muscat by an IndiGo flight. All passengers were screened by medical teams and swab samples lifted from them before they were sent to their districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expats-arrive-in-special-flights-from-middle-east/article31856484.ece
18 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Congress stages protest||Condemning the killing of 20 Indian army personnel, including a lieutenant, by the People’s Liberation Army at Ladakh, Congress cadres staged a protest and raised slogans against Chinese President Xi Jinping atop the party’s district headquarters office at Kokkirakulam near the Collectorate on Wednesday. They were led by the party’s Tirunelveli city district president Sankarapandian. China had violated the convention and unlawfully occupied the grasslands being used by nomads of Ladakh for grazing their cattle. the PLA had unleashed attack on the army personnel patrolling along Indian territory, with iron clubs and rocks and mercilessly killed 20 of them, including havildar Palani from Ramanathapuram district. “The Indian government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which often get involved in empty rhetoric against Pakistan, should give a befitting reply to China, which will alone be a fitting tribute to the martyrs,” said Mr. Sankarapandian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-stages-protest/article31856396.ece
18 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||HM held for getting e-pass through fake medical records||The Kovilpatti West police have arrested a school headmaster for obtaining e-pass with fake medical report to bring people from Chennai. Police said K. Amalraj, 47, of Rajiv Nagar in Kovilpatti obtained an e-pass to go to Chennai after he submitted medical records saying that he had to undergo medical tests in the State capital for a disease. As he went to Chennai on June 5, a person from Manjanaickenpatti near Kovilpatti accompanied Amalraj to Sriperumpudur in Kancheepuram district. While returning to Kovilpatti on June 7, he brought two persons from Ashok Nagar in Chennai to Mayilodai near Kovilpatti. On getting information about the drama orchestrated by the teacher, Kovilpatti Tahsildar Manikandan and his subordinates conducted an inquiry. Based on his complaint, the police arrested Amalraj under Sections 188 (disobedience to an order duly promulgated by the public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act. Upon being detained, blood and swab samples were collected from Amalraj for COVID – 19 test and search is on to nab those who travelled with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hm-held-for-getting-e-pass-through-fake-medical-records/article31856397.ece
18 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Woman seeks help to bring husband back from Malaysia||A woman petitioned District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Wednesday requesting to rescue her husband who is stuck in Malaysia as his visa has expired. T. Vijaya from Madathukulam Block said in her petition that her husband R.N. Thangavel went to Malaysia from Tiruchi International Airport on March 12 for a religious tour. Following the spread of COVID-19 across the world, Malaysia announced a lockdown in March. Mr. Thangavel had informed his family that he could not come back home soon. In April, he had told them that his 30-day visa period had expired and the Malaysian immigration authorities conducted an inquiry with him. However, on May 3, he called his family and said that the authorities have picked him up for interrogation, after which the family received no calls from him, according to the petition. “For the last 45 days, there is no information about my husband,” Ms. Vijaya said. The petition was also addressed to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Inspector General of Police (West Zone) K. Periaiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-seeks-help-to-bring-husband-back-from-malaysia/article31856176.ece
18 June 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Sexually harassed teen dies of burns at hospital||A 15-year-old girl succumbed to burn injuries after undergoing treatment for about six days at the Government Vellore Medical College Hospital (GVMCH) at Adukkamparai. She sustained 90% burns. The girl set herself on fire after three men, including a minor, filmed her while she was taking bath and harassed her. They also threatened to release the video on social media. Maadhar Sammelanam on Wednesday submitted a petition at the Superintendent of Police office seeking departmental action against the police personnel who dealt with the girl's case. In the petition, they said the girl was assaulted by one of the accused in January 2020. Those with suicidal thoughts may contact the State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s Suicide Helpline 044-24640050 for assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sexually-harassed-teen-dies-of-burns-at-hospital/article31856142.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||31 persons test positive in Coimbatore||As many as 31 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. Those tested positive included 11 contacts of a 28-year-old man from R.G. Pudur, near Chinniyampalayam, who died of suspected symptoms of COVID-19 on Sunday. However, the Health Department is yet to announce whether the man who returned from Chennai died of COVID-19. Those tested positive for the disease included eight persons, who came to Coimbatore airport from Chennai on an IndiGo flight and two persons, who came to Coimbatore on train. Of the total patients, three tested positive after they sought treatment in a private hospital. Seven discharged from hospital On Wednesday, seven persons who recovered from COVID-19 got discharged from Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. Those recovered included a 25-year-old woman who gave birth to a baby recently and a transgender. Hospital sources said that they were yet to conduct a test for the newborn.  Udhagamandalam One more person has tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris, bringing the total number of active cases in the district to eight. Collector J. Innocent Divya said that the latest person to test positive, a female resident of Aravankadu near Coonoor, had a travel history to Karur district. On Monday, three persons, including one from Kulisholai near Udhagamandalam tested positive. Four of the primary contacts of the persons from Kulisholai, too, tested positive on Tuesday. The Collector appealed to the people to avoid unnecessarily traveling to other districts unless it was for essential work. She said that the district administration was receiving information of social events being organised, and that action would be taken against those organising mass gatherings for social functions. The Collector added that cases were being registered against people found on the streets without masks. She appealed to the local residents to share information about persons who might be entering the district without alerting local authorities, adding that one case in Bikkatty near Manjoor, was detected after local residents alerted the district administration about a person entering the district by hitch-hiking on vegetable trucks and by walk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/31-persons-test-positive-in-coimbatore/article31856172.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||11 each test positive for COVID-19 in Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri||A total of 11 persons, including two sanitation inspectors from Hosur have tested positive for COVID-19 here on Wednesday. Of them, three are family members of the deceased ex-serviceman from Chettipalli, who died of the disease on Sunday. Six others are contacts and family members of other infected persons currently under treatment. One of the persons who tested positive is a 24-year-old pregnant woman. The two sanitation inspectors of Hosur Corporation were returnees from Chennai. On the other hand, seven persons, including two seven-year-old children were discharged from the COVID-19 ward at the government headquarters hospital on Wednesday. In Dharmapuri, 11 fresh positive cases were recorded to include a one-and-a-half-year-old infant on Wednesday. Most of the positive persons were returnees from Chennai, while two others had returned from Bengaluru. 25 test positive in Salem A total of 25 persons tested positive in Salem district on Wednesday. A bulletin said that 16 positive cases were reported within the district while nine cases were persons who had come from outside the district. Of the total 256 cases reported in the district so far, 193 were discharged, while 63 persons were undergoing treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital. In Namakkal district, two persons tested positive on Wednesday taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 92. Currently, 10 persons are undergoing treatment at the District Headquarters and Hospital. In Erode district, no cases were reported on Wednesday and the total number of positive cases in the district is 73 with one person undergoing treatment at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-each-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-krishnagiri-dharmapuri/article31856169.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||As Cauvery begins flow, police on alert||With Cauvery water released from Mettur dam for irrigation, police are taking precautionary measures along the river course in Tiruchi and Karur districts to prevent drowning incidents. They have identified 43 dangerous spots — 34 in Tiruchi and nine in Karur — along the river and installed caution boards. The dangerous spots identified in Tiruchi district include Mukkombu Nadukkarai, Palur, Amoor, Gunaseelam, Panaiyapuram, Uthamarseeli, Santhapalayam, Ayyampalayam, Evoor, Keelakaraikaadu, Manamedu, Unniyur, Sriramasamuthiram, Natham, Karaikadu, Umaiyalpuram, Sevanthalingapuram, Srinivasanallur and Varadharajapuram. Locations in Karur district include Nerur, Thirumukkudalur, Sevandhipalayam and Atchamapuram. A release issued by the office of the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, noted an increase in water flow in the Cauvery to 18,000 cusecs. Police personnel deployed at stations situated along the river are being sent on patrol. Volunteers, who know swimming, will be deployed at the locations to carry out rescue missions. Further, warnings are being conveyed through the public address system regarding the increased water flow. A 10-member team, headed by a sub-inspector, is in a state of readiness in every sub-division to carry out rescue operations. Thirty-three persons drowned in the Cauvery in Tiruchi district from 2017 to June 15 this year, while 28 drowning deaths were reported in Karur district during the same period.  Warning sign  34 locations in Tiruchi district and nine in Karur identified as dangerous Special police team formed in every sub-division Volunteers deployed to carry out rescue missions Caution boards installed at the spots  61 drowned in Tiruchi and Karur since 2017||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-cauvery-begins-flow-police-on-alert/article31856481.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation shuts mill, turns workers’ quarters into quarantine zone||Coimbatore Corporation on Wednesday shut a mill and turned into a quarantined area the workers’ quarters in R.G. Pudur, near Chinniampalayam, after two workers tested positive. According to sources, a kin of the two workers had tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. The kin, an employee of a transport company, stayed with his mother, and his brother lived next door in the quarters. The brother and mother of the person are employees of the mill. The Corporation, therefore, had to shut the mill and seal off the workers’ quarters with 26 houses. On Wednesday, the Corporation lifted samples from all the 250 mill workers, the sources added. The Corporation also carried disinfection measures in the area and in other parts of the city where people had tested positive and returned from abroad, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-shuts-mill-turns-workers-quarters-into-quarantine-zone/article31856175.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Make use of crop insurance scheme, farmers told||The district administration has asked farmers to make use of the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojna (Prime Minister Crop Insurance Scheme) to protect their crops. In a release, it said in the scheme in operation since 2016-17 farmers could insure their crops for the crops declared block-wise. For the current kharif season, the administration had declared paddy, maize, corn, cotton, toor dal, urad dal, green gram, horse gram, groundnut and sesame as agriculture crops to be cultivated and banana, turmeric, tapioca, brinjal, tomato, and onion as horticulture crops to be cultivated. The farmers cultivating the crops could pay the premium amount to insure their crops, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/make-use-of-crop-insurance-scheme-farmers-told/article31856165.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four additional check-posts set up in Namakkal district||The district administration has created four additional check-posts and repositioned three to prevent entry of persons from Chennai and from other zones without e-pass. Addressing mediapersons at the Collectorate here on Wednesday, Collector K. Megraj said that with stringent norms laid down for issue of e-pass, many persons prefer to enter the district through side roads and also in two-wheelers through narrow lanes. “All the local bodies were asked to identify such pathways and ensure that those are closed properly”, he said. The Collector said that four additional check-posts were created while were repositioned in the district to prevent entry of persons without e-pass. He warned that cases would be registered against such violators and they would be arrested. The Collector said that one person, who violated the entry norms was caught and was kept under quarantine. A case was registered and he would be arrested after the end of his quarantine period, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-additional-check-posts-set-up-in-namakkal-district/article31856167.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man alleges police assault, takes poison||A 37-year-old man, P. Murugan, consumed a pesticide after he was reportedly beaten up by a policeman at A. Mukkulam police station near here on Wednesday. There was an enquiry at the police station over a scuffle between two brothers, Krishnan, 55, and Subramanian, 60, of Sinthanendal over usage of water from a common farm well. Krishnan’s brother-in-law Murugan had reportedly told the police that the enquiry was biased and in favour of Subramanian. Following a quarrel, it is said that Murugan was beaten up. Murugan who went back home consumed a pesticide. He was admitted to Government Medical College Hospital in Virudhunagar. Tiruchuli DSP R.K. Sasidhar said that there was personal motive between Murugan and the constable concerned. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline ‘104.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-alleges-police-assault-takes-poison/article31856401.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Coimbatore  Due to maintenance works at Tatabad sub-station, there will be no power supply on June 20 from 9 a.m to 4 p.m in the following areas: Mettupalayam Road, Alagesan Road (part), Narayanaguru Road, Saibaba Colony, Home Science College, Forest College, NSR Road (part), Central Theatre, D.B. Road, Flower Market, Patel Road, Kaleeswara Nagar, Sellappa Gounder Street, CSW Mills, Rangai Gounder Street, Sukrawarpet, Marakkadai, Theppakula Maidanam, Ramnagar, Avinashi Road, Gandhipuram, Siddhapudur, Balasundaram Road, Race Course, Circuit House, Air Force Administrative College, Tatabad, Alagappa Chettiar Street, 100 Feet Road, Alamu Nagar, Sivananda Colony, Hudco, Pudiyavar Nagar (part), Avarampalayam (part), Bharathi Park 1,2, Bharathi Park Cross 1,2,3 and Raja Annamalai Road.  Erode  In view of works to be taken up to remove electric poles at Thirunagar Colony, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. on June 18 at E.V.K. Sampath Road, Moolapattarai, Thirunagar Colony, Rajajipuram, Mill Street, Gandhipuram 1,2 and 3 Streets, Kannaiyan Street, Subbaiyan Street, Marapalayam Road, Kuyilaan Thoppu, Karungalpalayam and Cauvery Road||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article31856161.ece
18 June 2020||BALLARI,KARNATAKA||Ballari records second COVID-19 death||Ballari reported its second COVID-19 death on Wednesday with the passing away of a 62-year-old male. The patient (P-7,724) was brought dead to the hospital on Tuesday, and he tested positive on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the district recorded 29 new cases. Of the total 279 positive cases, 55 have recovered and there are 222 active cases, of which six have been admitted in ICU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ballari-records-second-covid-19-death/article31856244.ece
18 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Water level in Krishna, tributaries rises||Heavy rain and increased release of water from Maharashtra have led to a rise in water level in the Krishna and its tributaries in Belagavi district. Officials said that over 26,000 cusecs of water was released from Maharashtra into the Doodh Ganga and Ved Ganga reservoirs. This led to the submergence of bridge-cum-barrages in Karadaga, Mallikawad and Akkol villages. However, movement of vehicles was not affected as there were alternative routes. Water levels increased in the east-flowing Malaprabha too. The inflow into the Naviluteertha dam increased to around 5,000 cusecs on Wednesday, the officials said. Revenue officials have alerted farmers in the low-lying areas and on the river banks to move to high altitude areas. One NDRF team and two SDRF teams are already deployed in Chikkodi and Belagavi taluks. They have trained around 200 local police and Fire and Emergency Services personnel in rescue operations. The Chikkodi Assistant Commissioner has urged the State government to allocate 20 boats for rescue operations, if the need arises. Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said that water will be released from the Hidkal dam into the Ghataprabha river course and also the Left Bank and Right Bank canals, to ensure drinking water supply in towns and villages on the river banks. Around 3 tmcft of water will be released into the two canals and one tmcft will be released into the river course, he said. Water release would be stopped on June 23, he said. Around 6.5 tmcft of water is impounded in the dam now and the inflow from Maharashtra is likely to increase water levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-level-in-krishna-tributaries-rises/article31856246.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress picks B.K. Hariprasad, Naseer Ahmed for Council polls||In a surprise decision, the All-India Congress Committee (AICC) has fielded its general secretary B.K. Hariprasad and incumbent MLC Naseer Ahmed as candidates for elections to the Legislative Council from the Assembly, scheduled for June 29. Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi cleared both names on Wednesday. The Congress had denied Mr.Hariprasad re-nomination to the Rajya Sabha. His term as MP will come to an end on June 25. Veteran leader M. Mallikarjun Kharge was fielded in the just-concluded Rajya Sabha polls and was elected unopposed. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president-designate D.K. Shivakumar is said to have favoured the candidature of Mr. Hariprasad, while Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah backed his loyalist Mr. Ahmed. Mr. Ahmed’s term as MLC will end on June 30, sources in the party said. With 68 MLAs, the Congress can ensure victory for two candidates. Sources in the party said Mr. Hariprasad had not even sought ticket to contest in the elections, but the party fielded him apparently to counter another OBC leader. Mr. Ahmed was given ticket under the minority quota. Mr. Hariprasad contested the Lok Sabha elections in 1999 and 2019 from Bengaluru South and lost both times to the BJP candidate. In 1999, he lost to former Union Minister Ananth Kumar, while in 2019 he was defeated by Tejasvi Surya. He was the candidate of the united opposition for the post of Deputy Chairman of the Rajya Sabha and lost to Harivansh Narayan Singh of the NDA. Murmurs of discontent The selection of these candidates has not gone well with a section in the party, according to sources. Many young and senior leaders have questioned the criteria adopted for their selection. A Congress functionary questioned Mr. Hariprasad’s contributions to the party. Another senior leader alleged that Mr. Ahmed had worked for the defeat of former Union Minister K.H. Muniyappa in Kolar constituency in the 2019 elections. Then, a section of leaders had demanded his suspension from the party.  Why they were chosen  Sources in the Congress said Hariprasad had not even sought ticket to contest in the Legislative Council elections, but the party fielded him apparently to counter another OBC leader. Naseer Ahmed was given ticket under the minority quota||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-picks-bk-hariprasad-naseer-ahmed-for-council-polls/article31856110.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Infrastructure will be ramped up to treat 2 lakh positive cases: CM||As the number of COVID-19 positive cases has increased in the State, the government is planning to double the current capability to treat patients. While currently the daily growth rate of COVID-19 positive cases stands at 3.6%, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday said that the State government plans to increase the infrastructure capability in the State to treat 2 lakh positive persons from the current one lakh people. His announcement came during the interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a videoconference where Mr. Yediyurappa provided details on steps taken in Karnataka to minimise the spread of COVID-19. According to a release from the Chief Minister’s Office, Mr. Yediyurappa informed that 673 fever clinics that have established across the State has helped prevent spread of the contagion in hospitals. State is working at improving infrastructure capability to treat 2 lakh COVID-19 positives, he added. He said that the health survey in the State has covered 1.5 crore families out of the total 1.68 crore families, and vulnerable people have been identified. Besides, he pointed out that the State’s capability for testing has been increased to 15,000 samples per day, and currently 7,500 tests for every one million population are being conducted. He informed the Prime Minister that 1.6% of those tested are positive, and the tele ICU facility is being used by experts to guide and monitor doctors in different parts of the State treating COVID-19 patients. CMO sources said that Mr. Yediyurappa also informed the Prime Minister that the State was ready to open up further and was awaiting Central guidelines on these. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, according to the release, gave a demonstration on the steps taken and the technology deployed to control the spread of the pandemic and training programmes that have been taken up at the panchayat levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/infrastructure-will-be-ramped-up-to-treat-2-lakh-positive-cases-cm/article31856089.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||British Council Library to be only online||Sixty years after its inception atop Koshy’s cafe on St. Marks Road, British Council Library in Bengaluru, which later moved to Kasturba Cross Road, has shut its doors. It will now be available only online. Earlier this week, British Council announced that five of their eight libraries in India will be made exclusively digital. It informed library members that its physical libraries in Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Chandigarh, Hyderabad and Pune “will now become fully online services”. The library will be converted into a centre to conduct International English Language Testing System (IELTS) tests and other United Kingdom examinations operated by BC Examinations and English Services India Pvt Ltd. It isn’t the end of the library, technically. British Council has said, “We will be launching the mobile app version of the digital library at the end of June for both Android and iOS platforms.” But perhaps as S. Narayanan, 67, a retired English professor, says, “It wouldn’t be the same as reading a book.” He was a member of the library from 1984 to 2011. “You get a sense of joy when you search for a book and find it. Sometimes, you end up discovering new books that are interesting.” Narayanan recalls the time when he’d visit the library when it was above Koshy’s. “The library used to be open on Sundays. So, I used to go there from Yelahanka, meet my friends over coffee and snacks at Koshy’s. I really miss the experience.” According to Santosh Koshy, a third generation owner of Koshy’s, there were many like Narayanan. “My grandfather facilitated the British Council library to be set up above the cafe. A lot of our customers used to visit the library or vice versa.” He recalls Prince Charles’ visit to the library in 1991. “Only a few people were allowed to meet him. My dad could go in. And, the rest of us, who waited outside, shook hands with [Prince Charles] outside.” Writer C.K. Meena, who used to visit the library in her college days (late 70s), says it largely comprised books for studying rather than light reading. “Journals, foreign papers… I used to go there for literature books. I even had a copy of a Shakespeare folio with the old English spellings. But once literature books decreased drastically, I stopped going there.” Now, British Council’s online library will have thousands of ebooks, audio books, magazines, journals, movies, music among other things. But many from professor Narayanan’s generation will miss the serendipity of stumbling upon a new book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/british-council-library-to-be-only-online/article31856082.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Racing against time: Drain widening work in HSR Layout is far from complete||Flooding in the upmarket residential colony of HSR Layout is a recurring problem every monsoon. This year may be no different as the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has at least three ongoing drain projects, many not even half done, raising concerns of flooding during a heavy spell of rain. The delay in completion of work is attributed to the complete break for over two months during the COVID-19 lockdown. The layout, developed by BDA on Yellukunte lake bed, is situated between Somsundara Palya and Agara lakes. It is prone to flooding with every heavy spell of rain. In October 2019, after an episode of flooding, the BBMP had promised to widen and rebuild a drain between the two lakes and provide an alternative channel for the natural water flow between them as per the gradient, and not through the colony as it currently is. “But not even 50% of the work is completed. Moreover, downstream where work to widen the drain is ongoing, there is a big bottleneck which is less than three feet wide, which should have been addressed by now. If it is not sorted out immediately, the entire Sector 3 will again be flooded from that point,” said Mohan R., a resident of Sector 3, HSR Layout. According to Chandrashekhar H.E., president, HSR Layout Resident's Federation, while the lockdown did result in a delay, they also faced many hurdles including shifting of utility lines. Pre-cast drains The civic body has taken up rebuilding sewage drains in Sector 3 by using pre-cast drains to speed up the work, but that is also still far from completion. “Residents are also to blame for the mess in the sewage drains along the road. Several residents had built small walls within the drain to block the flow of water and prevent flooding in front of their homes. These walls were demolished and new drains are being built,” explained Mr. Chandrashekhar. Meanwhile, desilting of Storm Water Drain (SWD) near Silk Board Junction, identified as a bottleneck, is in progress. Residents are worried and angry. “Already we are reeling with several cases of COVID-19. If there is flooding, the situation will only become worse,” said Zahid Javali, a resident and editor of Residents Watch, a community portal for HSR Layout. Labour crunch Civic Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar acknowledged the delay in civic works. “During the lockdown, all civic work had stopped. Our focus is still on fighting COVID-19. Now the work has restarted, but we face a labour crunch as many have gone back to their hometowns. We will take all necessary measures to speed up the work, but we are also helpless in the face of the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/racing-against-time-drain-widening-work-in-hsr-layout-is-far-from-complete/article31856085.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Deaths cross 100 in State||With eight more deaths reported on Wednesday, the State’s COVID-19 toll touched 102. This is apart from the four non-COVID deaths. The first death in the State was reported on March 12. Of the eight new deaths, five are from Bengaluru Urban and one each from Shivamogga, Bidar, and Ballari. While the State recorded the first 50 deaths till May 29 — 82 days after the first case was reported on March 9 — the next 52 deaths were reported in 18 days from May 30 onwards. The State’s Case Fatality Rate (CFR) also increased from 1.2% on June 13 to 1.37% on Wednesday. Bengaluru Urban has so far recorded 43 COVID deaths and one non-COVID death. The CFR here has increased from 3.95% on June 13 to 5.33% on June 17. Meanwhile, 204 new cases have been reported on Wednesday taking the total number of positive cases to 7,734. This includes 4,808 discharges. As many as 348 patients were discharged on Wednesday. Among the new cases, Bengaluru Urban reported 55 cases, the highest, followed by Yadgir and Ballari that reported 37 and 29 cases, respectively. Kalaburgi reported 19 cases. Of the new cases, 106 are inter-State passengers and two international passengers. Meanwhile, the Health Department issued an order mandating all private medical establishments to notify or report all suspected COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deaths-cross-100-in-state/article31856087.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pharmacy students to be promoted to next semester||Pharmacy students in colleges affiliated to the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) will be permitted to attend the next semester without taking the examination. Arrangements will be made for them to write the exams after the COVID-19 situation eases. S. Sachidananda, Vice-Chancellor, RGUHS, said the university issued the order earlier this week bearing in mind the interest of the students. The order is likely to benefit 3,500 students across the State. Fourth semester students, however, will have to appear for the examination as many of them have already been placed and are waiting to start work. All other students are permitted to move to the next academic year/semester, stated an order issued by the university. The order also stated that students need not travel to the State until further orders regarding reopening of colleges. ‘Postpone dental exams’ Following this development, dental students who have been attending online classes, too, are demanding that their exams - tentatively scheduled to be conducted next month - be postponed. Students conducted an internal survey among 16,000 of their peers who are studying in colleges affiliated to the university. A majority of the respondents - an overwhelming 97% - believed they are not able to prepare for the examination based on the online classes and study material provided by their colleges. Many students who are in their hometowns said they did not want to travel to Karnataka for the sexamination given the rise in the number of cases. Dr. Sachidananda said that the university had announced the tentative dates. “We understand that students have had limited hands-on experience. But we have no other option as the number of patients particularly for dental professionals are very few. So even once practical classes resume, they will have little practical exposure. We understand the concerns of students but we have announced a tentative timetable. Students will have to appear for the examination next month,” he said. A dental student, however, said that it was impossible for students to understand the concepts without any practical experience. “Without looking at patients oral cavity, we cannot imagine all that we are learning in the online classes. We want the university to promote us to the next year or postpone examination till we get some practical experience,” the student said. They have stated that they need a minimum of one month regular classes before the university conducts the examination. The students have petitioned to the university, but state that they have received no response.  S. Sachidananda, V-C, RGUHS, said the university issued the order earlier this week bearing in mind the interest of the students. The order is likely to benefit 3,500 students across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pharmacy-students-to-be-promoted-to-next-semester/article31856102.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Doctors oppose ‘bond system’ under direct recruitment||While welcoming the State government’s decision to directly recruit doctors, the medical fraternity in Karnataka is irked by the “bond system” introduced in the gazetted rules for those who resign or remain absent for more than 30 days within six months of joining. The State government on Tuesday notified the “Karnataka Directorate Health and Family Welfare Services (Recruitment of Senior Medical Officer/Specialists, General Duty Medical Officers -GDMO and Dental Health Officers) (Special) Rules 2020” for direct recruitment of 1,924 doctors. So far, the government had been recruiting doctors through the Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC). A nine-member special recruitment committee headed by the Health Commissioner has been set up for the direct recruitment. The selection will be based on merit and corresponding reservation for each post, considering service years and category. The age limit is between 21 and 42, with the maximum age being 50 years on the date of applying. With several selected doctors in the past either having resigned from the government post within weeks of joining or remaining absent unauthorisedly, the government has not been able to fill the nearly 2,000 vacancies for years. Now, the government has made it mandatory for candidates to sign an irrevocable undertaking on a judicial bond paper for payment of an amount. This shall be enforced if he/she resigns or remains absent for more than 30 days within six months of joining. While a selected candidate for the post of senior medical officer or specialist has to sign a bond of Rs. 10 lakh, a GDMO has to sign a bond of Rs. 5 lakh if he or she quits before six months of joining the service. Dental health officers have to sign a bond of Rs. 3 lakh for the same period. The government has categorised vacancies under 12 heads with payscales ranging between Rs. 52,000 and Rs. 1 lakh, depending on seniority. Opposing the “bond system”, doctors from across specialities demanded that the government should drop the clause. “At a time when there are not many takers for government jobs, who will be ready to sign a bond and join? This will only desist even the few who may want to take up government posting,” said a senior government doctor. G.A. Srinivas, president of Karnataka Government Medical Officers’ Association, said while direct recruitment was a much-needed move to fill up vacant posts, the “bond system” is not “welcome”. “The government should instead think of ways to attract more doctors. When there are several opportunities in the private sector, why would medical graduates furnish a bond and take up government service,” he said. State Health Director Om Prakash R. Patil said the only intention of the “bond system” was to ensure that only those interested should join government service. “We do not want to penalise anyone. Our intention is that delivery of crucial health services should not be hampered. Earlier, if a doctor joined and resigned at short notice or remained absent, the post would be blocked. But now there will be a waitlist and the next eligible candidate will be recruited,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doctors-oppose-bond-system-under-direct-recruitment/article31856086.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Extend loan moratorium, urge coffee growers||Coffee growers and the coffee industry, which has registered a financial loss estimated at Rs. 700 crore owing to the lockdown, have demanded a one-year moratorium for short-term crop loans and development loans, from April 1, 2020, to March 31, 2021. In a memorandum to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Karnataka Planters’ Association (KPA) chairman Shirish Vijayendra urged the Centre to restructure the principal and unpaid interest of short-term crop loans and term loans. The Centre has extended interest subvention scheme of 2% a year and prompt repayment incentive of 3% per year up to May 31, 2020, for crop loans up to Rs. 3 lakh falling due between March 1, 2020 and May 31, 2020, advanced by banks as COVID-19 relief. Now, the planters have asked the Centre to extend the scheme for 2020-21 by increasing the limit for agricultural crop loans from Rs. 3 lakh by making it applicable for all growers irrespective of size of holdings. They have also requested the Centre to exempt GST on fertilizers, chemicals and nutrients during 2020-21. The coffee industry suffered during the last two years owing to heavy rainfall, floods and landslips. This has reduced production by over 35% in 2018-19 and by 50% in 2019-20, Mr. Vijayendra said. “A one-year moratorium from all payment of taxes and duties payable by the coffee growers such as land tax, property tax, and professional tax, and subsidy to compensate the excise duty and sales tax payable on diesel may also be considered compassionately,” the KPA chairman said. The association also demanded that the Coffee Board release all pending claims of growers such as replanting subsidy, capital subsidy and various other subsidies offered at different points of time immediately. Most of the claims are pending for over two to three years. The Board should honour its commitment when it offered assistance to the growers, he said. The lockdown measures disrupted plantation activities, trading, curing and export operations. Planters were unable to fully harvest coffee and pepper due to scarcity of workers and prohibition of workers coming to work from outside the estate. Migrant workers, who were engaged by plantations during harvest season, had gone back to their native places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/extend-loan-moratorium-urge-coffee-growers/article31856093.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||II PU English examination today||Over 5.95 lakh II PU students will finally be able to write their English paper on Thursday. The examination, which was postponed on account of COVID-19, will be held in 1,016 centres across the State. The Department of Pre-University Education has issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) on how the examination should be conducted. Students will have to undergo thermal screening and maintain social distancing. Those with cold, cough and fever will be assigned a separate room. Students have to report to the hall an hour before the exam begins. Those who have tested positive for COVID-19 or are primary contacts of positive patients cannot sit for the exam, but can appear for the supplementary examination as fresh candidates. Students who reside in containment zones will be in separate rooms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ii-pu-english-examination-today/article31856105.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM: table report on wakf properties in next session||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has directed Minorities Department officials to take steps for tabling during the next session of the State legislature the Karnataka Lokayukta report on the alleged irregularities in wakf properties in the State. Following the Anwar Manippady report on alleged irregularities in wakf properties, the Lokayukta conducted a probe. The earlier Siddaramaiah government rejected both reports. The Chief Minister issued directions to officials during a review of the department works on Tuesday, a release said. The Lokayukta has reportedly named several Congress leaders and senior officers in the scam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-table-report-on-wakf-properties-in-next-session/article31856107.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Caravans to tourist destinations flagged off||To attract tourists to Karnataka to improve the sagging fortunes of the tourism sector, the State on Wednesday flagged off caravans to travel to important tourist destinations. Initially, facilities for caravan parking will be provided at forest guest houses and Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation premises, and the caravans will be deployed to Hampi, Gokarna, Badami, Kudremukh, Sakleshpur, Belur, Halebid, Sakrebail, and Kodagu. This facility comes in light of the tourism and hospitality sectors suffering losses (estimated at around Rs. 15,000 crore) because of the COVID-19 lockdown. After launching the caravan service, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said that while tourism can be promoted with these services, they will also help in maintaining social distancing. He said that tourism had suffered heavy losses and was expecting more job losses, and the government was keen to help the sector recover. While the contribution of the tourism sector to the State GDP is about 14% now, efforts will be made to increase the sector’s share, he said. He added that the caravan facility would be extended to more tourist destinations in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/caravans-to-tourist-destinations-flagged-off/article31856112.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Online applications invited||The Labour Department has invited online applications from washermen and barbers for a one-time compensation of Rs. 5,000 under the Seva Sindhu scheme. Washermen and barbers who are aged between 18 and 65 years and who have BPL cards and Aadhaar-linked bank accounts are eligible to apply. The last date for submitting applications is June 30. For more information, visithttps://seva-sindhu.karnataka.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-applications-invited/article31856106.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BEML delivers last train set of Kolkata metro||BEML said it flagged off the last train set for the Kolkata Metro's East-West project on Wednesday from its factory in Bengaluru. After flagging off the last set in the presence of officials of both companies, BEML CMD Deepak Kumar Hota said, “We are on track. We have proven our capabilities and expertise in the supply of metro coaches.” Each train set can carry 2,068 passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beml-delivers-last-train-set-of-kolkata-metro/article31856079.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Revenue has improved’||BMTC, which is operating around 4,800 buses, ferrying over 10 lakh people, is seeing a steady rise in revenue. “On an average, revenue is over Rs. 1 crore from the first week of June, following an increase in fleet and ridership,” said a senior BMTC official. However, the corporation has a long way to go as this accounts for less than 50% of its earnings when compared to pre-lockdown days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revenue-has-improved/article31856080.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dak Adalat on June 23||The office of the Chief Postmaster, Bengaluru GPO, will hold a Dak Adalat on June 23 at 11 a.m on its premises. According to a release, customers residing in Bengaluru GPO delivery jurisdiction and availing facilities such as Saving Bank may send their grievances and suggestions to the Chief Postmaster by June 19. They may also attend the Dak Adalat in person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dak-adalat-on-june-23/article31856092.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||507 contract doctors defer mass resignation||Following an assurance from Health Minister B. Sriramulu that their demand for regularisation of services will be taken up in the next Cabinet meeting, the 507 contract doctors who met the Minister on Wednesday to submit resignations en masse in protest have now deferred their decision till July 1. Demanding regularisation of their services, the 507 contract doctors working in various primary health centres run by the Health Department for years had arrived in the city to submit resignations. “Although services of 2,000 doctors have been regularised from 2002 to 2016, 507 of us have been left out due to technical reasons. While we have been working on a par with permanent doctors, our salaries are lesser. When there are over 2,000 vacancies, why are our services not regularised,” asked Nithin Kumar, doctor working in a PHC in Hassan. “Mr. Sriramulu has assured that the process of increasing salaries from Rs. 45,000 to Rs. 67,000 has begun,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/507-contract-doctors-defer-mass-resignation/article31856095.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CCB takes over probe into murder of advocate||The Special Investigation Team of the Central Crime Branch has taken over the probe into the murder of Naushad Kashimji, who was gunned down in April 2009 near his apartment in Mangaluru. The CCB has taken custody of Ravi Pujari for 10 days. The police are probing the role of the underworld don who allegedly ordered the hit. The Mangaluru-based advocate had represented Dawood Ibrahim’s alleged associate and sharp-shooter Abdul Rasheed Hassan alias Rashid Malbari. All 97 cases The team headed by Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Sandeep Patil are probing all the 97 cases in which Pujari is allegedly involved, of which 47 cases are registered in Bengaluru alone. The police recently submitted a chargesheet against the don in two cases including the Shabnam Developers case, where two people were shot dead. The CCB is also probing a case of extortion of a builder that was registered in Whitefield police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ccb-takes-over-probe-into-murder-of-advocate/article31856100.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Revamp of IT facilities||The State government willshortly convene a meeting of stakeholders to comprehensively revamp the telecom and Internet infrastructure as “work from anywhere” is becoming popular in light of COVID-19. After reviewing the functioning of the IT, BT, and Science and Technology Department here on Wednesday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said that improving the Internet facility would enable faster work in government offices too. He also said that the government was reviewing a proposal to assist the medical equipment and technology sector in the coming days. He also acknowledged the efforts rendered by some IT startups during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revamp-of-it-facilities/article31856111.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||5 police personnel test positive||The KSRP 4th battalion in Koramangala was sealed on Wednesday after five police personnel tested positive for COVID-19. All personnel in the unit are in quarantine, and the premises has been sanitised and sealed for 48 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/5-police-personnel-test-positive/article31856091.ece
18 June 2020||BIDAR,KARNATAKA||Bidar records eighth COVID-19 death||Bidar district recorded its eighth COVID-19 fatality on Monday with the death of a 26-year-old male who later tested positive for the deadly virus. The 26-year-old person (P-7697), who was admitted to the hospital on June 5, died on Monday. The patient was admitted with a complaint of fever. Meanwhile, the district reported new 12 positive cases on Wednesday taking the total number of such cases to 395. Five patients are getting treatment in ICU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bidar-records-eighth-covid-19-death/article31856247.ece
18 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||‘Plan to provide irrigation to entire Dharwad with govt.’||A comprehensive plan to provide irrigation facility to the entire Dharwad district tapping the available natural water sources has been submitted to the government, said Minister in-charge of the district Jagadish Shettar. Inaugurating the 35th foundation day programme of WALMI here on Tuesday, Mr. Shettar said that the district is blessed with two major water streams — the Bennihalla and the Tuprihalla — with abundant water storage. Moreover, these streams go in spate and create floods during the monsoon. A proper and scientific utilisation of these water sources would help meet water requirement of the whole district, he added. Further, Mr. Shettar stated that this matter has been taken up at the government level. A comprehensive plan in this connection has been finalised in consultation with the legislators of the district and submitted to the government. When realised, this scheme would provide irrigation to the entire district, he said. Referring to the fate of WALMI, which is in bad shape, Mr. Shettar promised government help to revive this institution and develop it into a nodal agency in matters of land and water. He said that the government would extend all help to revive this institution despite economic challenges posed by COVID-19 situation. The government wants it emerge as a premier institution giving valuable suggestions to address various issues in water and land management. WALMI should also give suggestions to the government on major irrigation projects such as the Krishna A and B schemes and the Kalasa Banduri and other water-related projects, he said. WALMI director Rajendra Poddar said that the world may have to face a water crisis of serious nature by 2030. Water literacy and disciplined way of water usage were the only solutions. It demands extensive research and development of demonstrative models to create awareness. WALMI was the only public sector institution working in the field of water and land management. It can function in more efficient ways if the government helps fill vacancies and releases grants, be said. Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) director P. Seshu said that WALMI has entered into a pact with the IIT, the National Institute of Hydrology and others and is carrying out quality research in global water situation, change in weather conditions, rain-related issues, among others, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plan-to-provide-irrigation-to-entire-dharwad-with-govt/article31856254.ece
18 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Farmer offers jackfruit to jumbos to keep estate safe||Distraught over repeated instances of elephants damaging coffee plants in his estate, a planter at Kirehalli in Sakleshpur taluk has been voluntarily offering jackfruit grown in his land to the elephants. Krishne Gowda dumped two tractor loads of fruits along the path usually taken by elephants roaming around the village in the hope that it would satiate them and they would not enter his farm. The farmer owns a 30-acre coffee estate in the village. A herd consisting of more than 20 elephants has been moving around the place for the past few days. Neither planters nor workers can freely walk into their estates, as they could encounter elephants any time. “If they enter our estate, they will eat the jackfruits, besides damaging the coffee plants. I thought of giving it to them so that they would not enter the estate once they get their food,” said Mr. Gowda. On Tuesday, he dumped around 1,000 kg of jackfruit. He, along with his workers, were loading a tractor on Wednesday morning, when a few elephants moved towards the spot, forcing them to stop work and return home. “We would have otherwise dumped a few more truckload of jackfruit. I noticed that the elephants had eaten some of the fruits dropped the previous day,” he told The Hindu.  More than 60 elephants have been roaming in Sakleshpur, Yeslur, and Alur forest ranges. The Forest Department gets reports of crop damage caused by the herds every day. The department sends rapid response teams, formed by involving the local youth, to avoid human-elephant encounters. “We park our vehicles facing towards the road. As elephants can show up any time, we flee in the vehicles,” said Mr. Gowda. The department sends alerts on the movement of herds through mobile phones. The department has radio-collared a few elephants to track the herds. The rapid response teams also alert local people. Many planters have not been able to take up any work in their estates due to the presence of elephants. The planters have demanded that the State government capture all of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmer-offers-jackfruit-to-jumbos-to-keep-estate-safe/article31856099.ece
18 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Five more test positive||As many as five more people tested positive for COVID-19 in Hassan on Wednesday. Of these, four had had history of travelling to Mumbai and the other person had returned from Tamil Nadu. With this, the total number of confirmed cases in the district went up to 249.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-more-test-positive/article31856265.ece
18 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Caution for Kadra Dam downstream||As the Kadra Dam catchment area is witnessing incessant rainfall resulting in inflow into the reservoir, officials of Karnataka Power Corporation have appealed to the people in the downstream areas to be cautious and move to safer places. The officials have said that the water level at Kadra reservoir stood at 30.15 m against the maximum of 34.50 m. In the event of continued rainfall, the reservoir would reach the level of 32.50 m shortly. As a precautionary measure, water could be released any time to ensure the safety of the reservoir and people living in the downstream areas and on the river banks should move to safer places, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/caution-for-kadra-dam-downstream/article31856257.ece
18 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Canara Bank Circle Office inaugurated||Canara Bank’s Hubballi Circle Office was inaugurated by bank’s Circle Head K. Venkata Narasimha Murthy here recently. The Circle Office covers 12 districts in North Karnataka where nine regional offices operate. Mr. Murthy called upon the staff to help the farming community, MSMEs, traders and businessmen during the pandemic. Deputy General Manager G. Srinivas Rao and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/canara-bank-circle-office-inaugurated/article31856256.ece
18 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Proposed changes to Land Reforms Act welcomed||Welcoming the proposed amendment to Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, making a provision to allow others to purchase agricultural land, Hyderabad Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industries (HKCCI) said that the move was pro-industry and would boost growth. The industry body also put a set of demands and proposals for further industrial-friendly measures in terms of land use and rapid expansion of industries on unused and barren land. In a letter to Revenue Minister R. Ashok on Wednesday, Amarnath C. Patil and Shashikanth B. Patil, HKCCI president and secretary, respectively, held that only 2 % of the total land across the country was being utilised for the establishment of industries. They stressed the need for expanding the scope for industries to use barren land which was around 12 %-14 % in the country. The HKCCI urged the government to hasten the process of land purchase by industries by setting up a time-frame of not more than 30 days for the purchase of agricultural land and its conversion for industries. It also suggested setting up a single-window to deal with the purchase of agricultural land and its conversion for industrial purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/proposed-changes-to-land-reforms-act-welcomed/article31856248.ece
18 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Illegally extracted sand seized in raids||Officials from the Mines and Geology Department on Tuesday conducted raids at two places on the banks of the Netravathi and the Phalguni (Gurupura) rivers, in a crackdown on illegal sand extraction and seized sand extraction equipment as well as sand. The raids were conducted in collaboration with Revenue and Police departments at Adyarkatte off Mangaluru on the banks of the Netravathi in the early hours. Two earthmovers, two trucks loaded with sand, about 700 tonnes of illegally extracted sand and other equipment were seized during the process, said a release here. The sand was transported to the district administration’s stockyard. In another raid during the same time, a team seized a dredging machine and 50 tonnes of sand near the Railway Bridge off Malavoor vented dam on the Phalguni. The dredging machine was handed over to the Kavoor Police. Steps were being taken to book cases against those involved in illegal extraction before the jurisdictional courts. No sooner, Mangaluru MLA U.T. Khader held a press conference on Tuesday alleging that BJP legislators had become mute spectators to illegal sand extraction in the district. Despite licence lapsing, permit holders in the coastal regulation zone were extracted sand illegally, Mr. Khader said. He also urged the district administration to revive the Sand Bazaar App/ Portal for transparent and efficient delivery of sand to people. Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh, who is also the chairperson of the District Sand Monitoring Committee, chaired a meeting on Wednesday and directed officials concerned to act tough against illegal sand extraction. Several teams comprising officials from different departments were formed to curtail illegal extraction. The teams were conferred with powers to take action against illegal sand extraction under the Karnataka Minor Minerals Concession Rules, 1994 as amended in 2016, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/illegally-extracted-sand-seized-in-raids/article31856261.ece
18 June 2020||MANIPAL,KARNATAKA||M.D. Venkatesh is new MAHE V-C||M.D. Venkatesh has been appointed as Vice-Chancellor of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE). He will take charge on July 1, replacing H. Vinod Bhat who will be taking over as executive vice-president of MAHE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/md-venkatesh-is-new-mahe-v-c/article31856259.ece
18 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Tribal students will be left behind if classes are held online’||The proposal to hold online classes for students amid concerns over COVID-19 does not appear to be going well with thousands of students residing in tribal villages across the State. A team from Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR) visited a few tribal hamlets in Mysuru and Kodagu recently and found that the students, unlike their urban counterparts, lack accessibility to not just smartphones and computers, but basic necessities like power supply. “When such is the situation in the tribal hamlets, how can you expect students to catch up on their studies if classes are held online?” wondered Parashurama M.L., member of KSCPCR, who toured villages like Thithimathi, Beematagere, Devamachchi, and Gaddadi in Kodagu’s Virajpet taluk, besides Bavali, Balyadi, Machchuru, and Anemole in Mysuru’s H.D. Kote taluk along with the commission chairperson Antony Sebastian on June 13 and 14. Contending that any move to permit online classes will amount to perpetuating further inequalities in society, KSCPCR urged the State government to deny permission for online classes. The State government has constituted a task force comprising education experts to study the suitability or otherwise of online learning. Mr. Parashurama firmly believed that the government will be discriminating against tribal students if permission is granted for online classes. They will lag if the government goes ahead with the “urban-centric” proposal, he argued. Tribal villages in Mysuru and Kodagu are home to about 2,000 of the estimated 14,000 tribal students across the State covering places like Dakshina Kannada, Shivamogga, Chikkamagalur etc. “If online classes are held, they will see the children of the estate owners near their hamlets studying online, which will further accentuate the social divide among children,” Mr. Parashurama rued. The Ashram schools, where tribal children are enrolled, are in a pathetic state. Even if the government provides computers and software, the Forest Department will come in the way of providing electricity, he feared. Though the students are keen to study, the absence of opportunities make them vulnerable to child labour as they are under constant pressure from estate owners as well as their parents to work in the estates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tribal-students-will-be-left-behind-if-classes-are-held-online/article31856097.ece
18 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Portions of Krishna Temple get a fresh coat of paint||The dining hall, Kanaka Mantapa and Badagu Malige (administrative block) of Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple are getting a fresh coat of paint. This is being taken up using natural eco-friendly material. As there is no entry of devotees to the 800-year-old Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple complex on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, Ishapriya Tirtha Swami of Paryaya Admar Mutt has decided to make use of this period to paint these sections. Since Ishapriya Tirtha had already announced that his two-year Paryaya would be an eco-friendly one, the painting is being taken up using natural material, including red soil, gopichandana, and almond resin. When all these are mixed, the colour that emerges is copper leaf. Two coats of this paint are being given to the dinning hall and Badagu Malige. The dining hall is getting a dark copper leaf shade. Purushotham Adve, artist, who is supervising the painting, said that this was a natural colour and was intended to give a sense of peace to devotees visiting the mutt. “It is natural, earthy and soothing. We will be painting rangolis on the top and bottom of these walls soon,” he said. The dining hall can accommodate about 700 devotees at a time. Cultural and religious programmes are both held at Kanaka Mantapa. The Badagu Malige also houses the room or residence of the Paryaya seer. The painting work, which has been on for the last one month, will take about 20 more days to be completed. Ishapriya Tirtha Swami said: “We have used traditional style of painting here. We are happy that we are able to provide employment to 28 persons during the lockdown. We have scratched out the old paint and are using this natural paint. We will take up painting of the remaining sections of Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple complex in phases.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/portions-of-krishna-temple-get-a-fresh-coat-of-paint/article31856262.ece
18 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 positive woman gives birth||A 22-year-old COVID-19 positive pregnant woman underwent emergency Ceasarean delivery at the Dr. T.M.A. Pai Hospital, the designated COVID-19 hospital, here on Wednesday. A press release from the Department of Health and Family Welfare here said that the woman, who hails from Karkala, was admitted on June 16. “The woman is recovering and the newborn is healthy. This emergency surgery was required due to obstetrics reasons,” the release said. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said that both the woman and child are safe. “Doctors are taking all steps to see that the child does not contract COVID-19,” he said. This is the first surgery on a COVID-19 positive patient in Udupi district. A team of obstetrics surgeons Shashikala K. Bhat and Surbhi Sinha and anaesthesiologist Roshan Shetty was assisted by a nursing team of Veronica, Ashwini and Jayashree. Paediatric care was given to the newborn by paediatricians Ashish Gupta and Chaitanya, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-positive-woman-gives-birth/article31856264.ece
18 June 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Saline land may be used for fisheries||Minister for Fisheries Kota Srinivas Poojari has said that the State government is contemplating using around 1.20 lakh hectares of saline land for rearing fish. Addressing presspersons after a review meeting here on Wednesday, he said that because of the excess use of water, 1.20 lakh hectares of land in the State has become saline. Therefore, the land is unfit for cultivation. “We have been receiving proposals from many farmers and experts to convert such land for rearing fish,” he said. Mr. Poojari made it clear that the proposal is only at a nascent stage as no final decision has been taken yet. He added that only after holding wider consultation with experts, the government will reach a conclusion. He said that a project worth Rs. 3,500 crore is in the offing for the development of fisheries and welfare of the fishermen. Admitting that inland fisheries is still too weak compared to sea fishing in the State where fishing is taken up in around 320 km of coastal area, the Minister said that emphasis is needed to be given to improve inland fisheries also. On the demand of several fishermen to waive loan they have borrowed, the Minister did not give any commitment, stating that the financial condition of the State is not conducive because of the prolonged lockdown. On the demand for upgrading the Fisheries Research Centre located at Bhutanal tank area here and establishing a diploma college for fisheries, Mr. Poojari said that he would look into it. About using the only government-run aquarium for selling ornamental fish at subsidised rate here, Mr. Poojari said that he would send officials to conduct a survey and submit a report before taking any action. Earlier, he said that the Union government has decided to extend Kisan Card even to fishermen where they would be given loan up to Rs. 3 lakh at 3 % rate of interest. He said that the loan would help fishermen to buy equipment for fishing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/saline-land-may-be-used-for-fisheries/article31856250.ece
18 June 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Farmers revive kharif sowing in Yadgir||Yadgir district received a good spell of rainfall in the last 24 hours encouraging farmers to revive agricultural activities. Farmers, who had prepared land, have already started sowing green gram, cotton and red gram. The district has set a target of 2.90 lakh hectares for the kharif season this year. Of this, 26,000 hectares have been covered so far. Of the total 2.90 lakh hectares, green gram will be taken up in 25,000 hectares followed by cotton in 1.22 lakh hectares, red gram in 73,000 hectares and paddy in 72,000 hectares. Even on Wednesday, a majority of the hobli centres and taluks received a good spell of rainfall. The amount of rainfall recorded in the last 24 hours in the district is as follows: Shahapur and Kembhavi 3 mm each, Gogi and Hattikuni 2 mm each, Doranahalli 19 mm, Shorapur, Saidapur and Kekkera 8 mm each, Yadgir, Kodekal and Wadagera 10 mm, Balichakra 17 mm, Gurmitkal 11 mm, Konkal 17 mm and Hunsagi 7 mm. Farmers, who had experienced drought and floods last year and had lost crops, are hoping to get a good yield this year, particularly green gram, which is considered a short-term cash crop, in view of the good spell of rainfall. The Department of Agriculture has made preparations to store the required seeds and fertilizers to meet the demand. Joint Director of Agriculture Department R. Devika told The Hindu that they have adequate stock of seeds and fertilizers. A total of 47,000 tonnes of fertilizers and 1,800 quintals of seeds are in stock. Of the 1,800 quintals of seeds, red gram accounts for 1,100 quintals and green gram 318 quintals. The remaining consists of bajra and paddy, she added. She said that taluk officials have been given strict instructions to take action against illegal sales of substandard seeds and fertilizers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-revive-kharif-sowing-in-yadgir/article31856252.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Digital transactions yet to take off in BMTC||People using Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) buses to commute are yet to take to the newly introduced UPI based e-wallet system introduced in buses. While daily ridership is a little over 10 lakh, the number of digital transactions is just over 1,000 a day. “On June 10, around 1,047 people made digital transactions generating Rs. 57,308 while on June 11, there were 948 transactions, which generated Rs. 50,519,” said a BMTC official. The number of digital transactions rose marginally to 1,132 on June 12 but fell to 828 on Saturday and 635 on Sunday. BMTC officials attributed the drop to the fact that ridership was low on the weekend. At present, passengers can pay through QR code on over 4,000 buses. When BMTC resumed services on May 19, only 75 buses were enabled with this feature. Arun K., Director, Security and Vigilance, BMTC, said that the pandemic prompted them to quickly embrace digital avenues of payment. “The number of people using the QR code facility is increasing every day. A mass adoption of the system will happen slowly, but steadily,” he said. A BMTC official said that the introduction of weekly and monthly passes has contributed to the reduction of cash-based transactions. Commuters say the digital system is hassle-free. Sharath N., a regular commuter in BMTC, said that the QR code based payment was safer and quicker. “Nowadays, I am using it to generate my ticket. I don’t have to struggle for change,” he said. BMTC staff are of the opinion that mainly the youth are familiar with the QR code form of payment. “Not many know that the digital transaction option is available in BMTC buses. It will be more effective and efficient if QR code stickers are available at more places inside buses,” a conductor said. The BMTC is planning to introduce more QR code stickers in buses to create awareness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/digital-transactions-yet-to-take-off-in-bmtc/article31856077.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Over three lakh migrant workers have left the city||The exodus of migrant workers to their hometowns in other parts of the country continues with officials recording a rise in demand for berths on Shramik Special trains over the last two days. As of Wednesday, South Western Railways (SWR) had operated 240 trains from across Karnataka, of which 207 departed from Bengaluru. Of the over 3.50 lakh people who used the services, more than 3 lakh were from the city. On June 16, thousands of people gathered at mustering centres hoping to board a train. To meet the demand, SWR operated five trains on Tuesday, two after midnight. A BBMP official said that demand for Shramik trains is likely to continue for another two weeks. “After the first week of June, demand for trains started dropping. There were instances of operating only one train per day. But on Tuesday, there was a sudden increase in the number of people turning up at mustering points. We had to arrange two trains to Assam to cater to the demand. NGOs are helping migrant workers reach transit centres.” Civic officials added that as most people were accommodated on June 16, only two trains were operated on Wednesday. A railway official said they make sure that each train stops at multiple points along the way to ensure that migrants, who turn up for registration, are ferried to their destinations on the same day. ‘Train schedule’ Bengaluru with Migrants, an umbrella organisation of various citizens’ groups that have been working for weeks in helping migrant workers to register on the Seva Sindhu portal and helping them reach transit camps, have demanded that authorities announce the schedule of Shramik Special trains in advance. “Migrants have no access to information regarding the trains operating on a particular day. Most have to give up their rooms and wind up their operations when they decide to take a train. They often have no employment and no wages. Many come from towns and areas outside Bengaluru. To do this with uncertain or no information is a harrowing experience for them,” wrote NGOs in an open letter to the government. An official of the BBMP said it is very difficult to predict how many migrant workers will turn up at the transit centre. “People are turning up in large numbers without registering on Seva Sindhu, which makes planning difficult. When the number of registrations to a particular place reaches over 1,000, we request SWR to operate a train,” said the official. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar appealed to the general public to inform migrant workers wishing to leave Bengaluru that a transit camp has been set up at ‘Tripura Vasini’ in Palace Grounds. People can stay there till their date of travel. Free food and accommodation is available at the transit camp, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-three-lakh-migrant-workers-have-left-the-city/article31856083.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Opposition to automated composting units||Mayor Gautam Kumar’s recent direction to civic officials to adopt ‘automated composting unit that converts organic waste to compost in 24 hours’ in Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) limits has not gone down well with Solid Waste Management (SWM) activists and experts. Terming such plants as ‘glorified incinerators’, Savita Hiremath of Solid Waste Management Round Table (SWMRT) said they were an environmental hazard. “There are no studies saying that the compost is good for plants. This is an ill-informed move. All the compost will end up in landfills, as there will be no takers,” she said. The directive comes after Mr. Gautam Kumar’s visit to an automated composting unit in Electronics City on Tuesday. SWM expert N.S. Ramakanth said that apartment complexes should adopt community composting instead. “Composting, in an organic way, will take about 30 days. That is the best approach. The civic body should encourage people to adopt that process,” he said. The Mayor could not be reached for his comments.  There are no studies saying that the compost is good for plants. This is an ill-informed move. All the compost will end up in landfills, as there will be no takers Savita Hiremath, Solid Waste Management Round Table (SWMRT)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/opposition-to-automated-composting-units/article31856078.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Chairman appointed for fee regulatory committee||After a gap of 18 months, the Department of Higher Education, on Wednesday finally appointed a chairman for the fee regulatory committee. Former High Court judge and former Upalokayukta Subhash B. Adi has been named chairman for a tenure of one year or until further orders. The role of the committee, which comprises the chairman, is to prescribe the fee structure after looking at expenditure incurred by colleges with the aim of ensuring that students are not burdened by huge hikes. It will decide if a hike is deemed necessary and accordingly, fix a reasonable percentage or cap for college managements. In the lurch The absence of a committee for more than a year had left students, who were hoping to enrol in professional colleges, in the lurch. Dinesh N., an MBBS seat aspirant for this year, said: “The committee is especially important this year as students from middle-class families have been affected by the economic slowdown on account of COVID-19. We won’t be able to afford education if colleges hike tuition fees. We hope the committee will keep our concerns in mind.” For the 2019-20 academic year, there was no fee regulatory committee and the State governments as well as associations of different professional colleges got into a consensual agreement regarding fee structures. In the 2018-19 academic year, the intervention of this committee had ensured that the engineering fee hike was capped at 8%. Though the State government and college managements had decided on a 10% hike, they had to roll it back after the committee objected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chairman-appointed-for-fee-regulatory-committee/article31856101.ece
18 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||One tests positive in Alappuzha||One more person tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday. The patient, a woman from Alappuzha, came from Abu Dhabi on June 1. Results negative Meanwhile, 16 people who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 have been tested negative for the virus. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 93.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-tests-positive-in-alappuzha/article31856460.ece
18 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||KMML told to comply with stop memo||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday passed an interim order directing Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd. (KMML) to comply with the stop memo issued by the Purakkad grama panchayat, which refrained it from mineral sand mining at the Thottappally pozhi. The court refused to quash the stop memo issued by the local body on June 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmml-told-to-comply-with-stop-memo/article31856461.ece
18 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Online classes reaching all in Alappuzha, say officials||As the online learning initiative First Bell has moved into the second phase, almost all students in the district have been brought under the ambit of online classes, claim Education Department officials. R. Dhanya, Deputy Director of Education, Alappuzha said on Wednesday that no student was left out of the classes due to lack of facilities. “We have ensured that all students are attending online classes,” she said. Sideek A., district project coordinator, Samagra Shiksha Kerala, said at least 600 TV sets had been distributed through sponsorships. “We can say that in one way or other all students in the district have access to online learning. It is not our aim to provide television to all. Some of the students who do not have access to television or mobile phones are attending classes visiting nearby houses or other facilities. Steps have been taken to provide television to students of impoverished families through sponsorships,” he said. Mr. Sideek said the help desk started for providing assistance to students with difficulty in attending online classes had not received much calls in recent days. He said children with special needs (CWSN) who did not have necessary facilities at their houses would be provided smartphones or tablets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-classes-reaching-all-in-alappuzha-say-officials/article31856459.ece
18 June 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Tribal youth mauled to death||A 24-year-old tribal youth was mauled to death by an animal, suspected to be a tiger, at Kaduvakkunnu under the Chedalayath forest range inside the South Wayanad forest division on Wednesday. Forest officials identified the victim as Sivakumar, son of Madhavan, of the remote Basavankolly Kattunayaka settlement, near Pulpally, in the district. Sivakumar had been reported missing since Tuesday noon after he went to the forest to collect firewood, his relatives said. Forest Department officials and tribespeople searched for the youth inside the forest till midnight, but in vain. His mutilated body was found nearly 1.5 km from his settlement on Wednesday morning. The officials identified pug marks of a tiger near the body. South Wayanad divisional forest officer B. Ranjith Kumar and forest range officer, Chethalayath forest range, B. Sasikumar visited the site. Forest Minister K. Raju announced a solatium of Rs. 10 lakh to the kin of the deceased. Of the sum, Rs. 5 lakh would be given immediately. Mr. Raju directed the Forest Department officials to adopt steps to capture the man-eater at the earliest. Eight surveillance cameras have been installed in the area to monitor the movement of the animal and a cage has also been set to trap it, Mr. Ranjith Kumar told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribal-youth-mauled-to-death/article31856377.ece
18 June 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Kannur, Payyambalam under lockdown||A 14-year-old child who turned positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday has put the health department and district administration on high alert. In order to prevent the disease from spreading, the administration has decided to lock down Kannur town and Payyambalam area comprising three divisions of the Kannur Corporation from Thursday. The two geographical areas will be treated as containment zones. There was, however, no official communication on the number of days the lockdown would last. The child who was being treated for high fever at a private hospital for the past four days, was admitted to the Kannur Government Medical College on Tuesday, said Dr.Shaj, District Surveillance Officer. The body fluid test of the boy proved positive for the disease, following which the decision was taken to lock down Kannur town and Payyambalam, he said. According to District Medical Officer K. Narayanan Nayak, the child had contracted the disease through contact and the team was trying to trace the source. “We have to find out if any of the family members has the disease or anyone with the virus has visited their place,” he said. Meanwhile, the condition of a 28-year-old driver in the Excise department who tested positive for the virus on Tuesday and admitted to the Kannur Government Medical College, remains critical.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-payyambalam-under-lockdown/article31856337.ece
18 June 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Diocese action against priests for sexual misconduct||The Metropolitan Archdiocese of Thalassery of the Syro-Malabar Church has taken action against two priests accused of sexual misconduct. The diocese, in its explanation note to the faithful, said Father Joseph Poothotal and Father Mathew Mullappally had been removed from priestly duties after their alleged phone conversations with a person admitting to the crime emerged in social media. Another voice clip of the victim, a parishioner, complaining to a bishop against the priests was also being circulated. The crime was committed when the two priests were serving at the Puthenplavu parish during different periods. The priests are now in different churches under the Kasaragod diocese. The diocese said an investigation commission was appointed on the day the recordings of the phone conversation were out in the public sphere. It asked the Church authorities to take further action against the priests.  Apologising to the believers, the diocese said it was unfortunate that the clergy who were supposed to be role models for society had indulged in such actions. The diocese promised that legal action would be taken to bring out the truth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/diocese-action-against-priests-for-sexual-misconduct/article31856371.ece
18 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Ensuring access to online education in tribal areas||Solar panels will be set up in unelectrified tribal settlements in the eastern suburbs of the district for ensuring seamless access to online education for students there. The District Education Department is trying to solicit sponsorship for setting up as much panels as possible. Currently, volunteers trained under the Samagra Shiksha Kerala in association with the Scheduled Tribes Development Department are reaching out to students in tribal settlements after getting laptops charged from the nearest centres with power connectivity, which is an arduous task. “The idea is to set up solar panels in public spaces like anganwadis near to the settlements,” said Honey G. Alexander, Deputy Director of Education, Ernakulam. This is one of the many initiatives being adopted by the department to ensure universal accessibility to online education. Individual accessibility Having claimed to have covered the student community as a group, the authorities are now focusing on enhancing individual accessibility to online education. As per an initial estimate, about 7,000 students out of the 2.62 lakh students in the district didn’t have access to online classes either owing to lack of smartphones or television sets. “We covered all of them by this week through multiple modes, including 89 community study centres, by arranging television sets in easily accessible public spaces like libraries and anganwadis. We are now planning to increase the number of such centres depending on the availability of television sets,” said Ms. Alexander.   “We are expecting donation of around 200 television sets shortly, in which case we plan to distribute them to the most needy among the 250-odd students who are now dependent on their neighbours for access to television,” she said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensuring-access-to-online-education-in-tribal-areas/article31856346.ece
18 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Plan ready to tackle possible surge in COVID-19 cases||The district administration has prepared a plan to meet the healthcare infrastructure requirement in case there is a surge in COVID-19 cases. The plan was prepared based on a maximum number of possible 22,500 patients seeking COVID-19 treatment facilities. When 75% of the beds in a centre gets filled, it will be considered as a trigger point, and a new facility will be set up. Facilities identified by the administration in association with various departments, institutions, and local self-governments have been listed for the purpose. The district had already crossed the first trigger point of 50 patients when a COVID-19 treatment facility was set up at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH). The next facility will be set up when there are 225 active patients. If the number of patients reaches 750, block-level first-line treatment facilities would be activated. Unoccupied ICU beds of private hospitals would be used for symptomatic patients along with increased facilities at MCH, and PVS to treat patients, if the need arises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plan-ready-to-tackle-possible-surge-in-covid-19-cases/article31856351.ece
18 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Digital learning to be the new normal for Cusat||A digital replica of the traditional classroom session will be the new normal in the teaching-learning process at the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) in the aftermath of the COVID-19 outbreak. Each classroom session will have a simultaneous digital copy once the regular mode of teaching returns, to enable students adapt to the emerging challenges in the higher education sector triggered by the pandemic crisis. “In any exigency, they will have the option to go back to the digital format of the classroom sessions. The idea is to use both the traditional and digital teaching-learning methods simultaneously even after the situation turns normal,” says K.N. Madhusoodanan, Vice Chancellor. Online exams “The digital classrooms will help in creating a discussion-based learning process inside the traditional classroom. Students will then find it easy to switch from one mode to the other,” he says. The varsity will give a major push for conducting exams, viva, and PhD thesis defence sessions online. Prof. Madhusoodanan says the success of the final semester postgraduate exams held online amidst the ongoing crisis has encouraged them to extend it to the forthcoming second semester postgraduate exams. “The students will have no room for any malpractices as each question has to be answered within a prescribed time limit and the next question will be given only after its completion,” he says. The interviews for recruitment of teachers would be held in the online mode in view of the reality that external experts from prestigious institutions across the country may not be ready to come down to the campus in these difficult times. Online interviews “We have already completed the promotion interviews for teachers in the digital mode. Experts from institutions such as the Indian Institute of Technology had participated in it,” the Vice Chancellor says. With no clarity yet on when the situation would turn normal, the viva and the open defence for PhD thesis would also be carried out using the digital platforms, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-learning-to-be-the-new-normal-for-cusat/article31856356.ece
18 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||An exclusion that left a 15-year-old girl in tears||Never before in her life has Archana Anilkumar felt so badly left out as during the past three weeks. While her more privileged friends were attending online classes, the tenth standard student of Kendriya Vidyalaya was left ruing her misfortune in her rented hovel at Palluruthy in the company of her father Anilkumar, a fisherman, rendered jobless following the enforcement of trawling ban. Archana now realises that poverty hurts in myriad ways. “It is painful when you can’t study like your friends. Though I tried to learn on my own by reading textbooks, one can’t go much without the help of teachers to clear doubts,” she lamented.  Now that her father is free to accompany her, she hopes to at least catch up with her notes by visiting her friend’s house shortly. And much to her delight, Kendriya Vidyalaya Parents Association has now assured her a tablet with data connection. Notwithstanding his precarious financial position, Anilkumar wanted to arrange tuition for his daughter only for the pandemic to mess it up. A daily wage worker in fishing boats, he had a nasty fall and was bedridden for a few months. And then, COVID-19 and trawling ban in quick succession ended his job days quite prematurely when he eventually returned. “As my income got hit, we shifted to another much cheaper rented dwelling and our family is now dependent on my wife’s meagre income,” he said. Jacob Antony, State general secretary, Kendriya Vidyalaya Parents’ Association, said that Kendriya Vidyalayas had many students from poor families contrary to popular perception. “Archana’s case is not one off but there are probably many like her left out of online education in rural hinterlands. The management of Kendriya Vidyalayas should have made arrangements for inclusive online classes,” he said. KV conducts live online classes on Microsoft Teams with students having to log in using an id and password. Mr. Antony said that downloading two classes and uploading homework took about 3 GB data a day, which was beyond the means of many families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-exclusion-that-left-a-15-year-old-girl-in-tears/article31856347.ece
18 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||KSEB: no disconnection for non-payment of bills||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) on Thursday submitted before the Kerala High Court that power supply would not be disconnected on grounds of non-payment of electricity charges for the lockdown period. The submission was made when a writ petition seeking a directive to introduce monthly billing system for domestic consumers, instead of the present bimonthly billing, came up for hearing. The KSEB submitted that domestic consumers would be allowed to remit half the bill amount for the months of April, May, and June 2020 before June 15 or the due date of the bill whichever was later. The balance amount can be paid in two equal instalments. It added that surcharge was not made applicable to belated payment of electricity bills issued/ or became due from the time of commencement of the period of the lockdown, till May 16. In fact, a rebate of 25% on fixed charges applicable to all industrial, commercial, and private hospitals for the months of March, April, and May 2020 had been allowed. It was also decided to defer the payment of balance fixed charge up to December 15 without interest. Online charges The KSEB also said in a statement that online transaction charges, in applicable cases, would be borne by the board for a period of three months up to July 19. Non-domestic consumers who were billed on previous average consumption were permitted to remit 70% of the demand as their bill amount, if they so desired. During the lockdown period people were required to stay indoors which resulted in more consumption. As many as 97 lakh consumers were now being billed in the bimonthly cycle. And converting them into the monthly cycle would lead to doubling of labour and resource mobilisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-no-disconnection-for-non-payment-of-bills/article31856357.ece
18 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Special team to probe attack on man||A Special Investigation Squad has been formed to probe the assault of a man near UC College in Aluva a few days ago. Ranjith of Kuttamasserry was attacked by four motorcycle-borne assailants. He remains in a serious condition. The team is being led by G.Venu, Aluva DyS. Man arrested A person was arrested on the charge of attacking his former business partner for removing him from timber business. The arrested man was identified as Shaju of Koovappady. He had attacked his former partner near Perumbavoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-team-to-probe-attack-on-man/article31856350.ece
18 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Youngster’s body fished out||The body of a youngster who had gone missing in the Periyar on Tuesday at Nedumpara, near Perumbavoor, was fished out by the Fire and Rescue Services scuba team from Kothamangalam at 10.40 a.m. on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as Vaisakh, 23, of Nedumpara. The body of his friend Basil Mathew, 21, of Kuthuvazhi, was found by the scuba team on Monday evening itself. Vaisakh, an expert swimmer, drowned in his attempt to rescue Basil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youngsters-body-fished-out/article31856348.ece
18 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Five more test positive||Five more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2  in Ernakulam district on Wednesday. Of these, two came from abroad and two from other States. One person got infected through contact. They include a 32-year-old Telangana native who reached here from Muscat on June 4, a 23-year-old Tamil Nadu native who reached here on June 7 from Qatar, a 34-year-old Vazhakulam native who reached here on June 4 by train from Mumbai, and a 23-year-old Tamil Nadu native who reached here from Delhi on a flight on June 15. A 48-year-old Puthenvelikkara native is the fifth case, who got infected through contact. There are now 102 persons under treatment for COVID-19 in the district.  The total number of people in home quarantine is 10,193.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-more-test-positive/article31856349.ece
18 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||14 more cases in Kollam||The district reported 14 COVID-19 cases and four recoveries on Wednesday. The patients include a nine-year-old girl and all new cases are Non-Resident Keralites, including those who travelled from Chennai and Delhi. The girl, a resident of Kadathur, had reached Kerala on June 13 from Saudi Arabia with her mother and currently nobody else from her family has tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The other patients are from Mayyanad, Neduvathur, Oachira, Ayoor, Thazhava, Yeroor, Veliyam, Kottarakara and Mynagappally. Among them, the patient from Oachira had travelled in a lorry from Tamil Nadu to Kochi and later on a two-wheeler. Another person had completed institutional quarantine after reaching Kollam on May 27. His sample was taken when he visited the Amrita hospital for changing his stent and after testing positive he was shifted to the COVID-19 hospital in Angamaly. All the 13 others are undergoing treatment at Government Medical College Hospital, Parippally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/14-more-cases-in-kollam/article31856464.ece
18 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Remote lessons are no fun for villages deep in woods||Buried deep in the woods, nearly 3,000 residents of Achencoil are accustomed to frequent power cuts. The lightest drizzle can snap the power line, plunging the area into darkness, sometimes for days. During the monsoon of 2019, they were left with no electricity for nearly a week, a minor trouble compared to month-long blackouts in the past. People of Achencoil and Achencoil Kshetram, the first two wards of Aryankavu grama panchayat, used to consider 24x7 power supply a luxury. But now, their children, most of them students of Government Vocational Higher Secondary School, Achencoil, are finding it difficult to cope with online classes and remote teaching methods. “These two wards are around 45 km from the panchayat headquarters and it will take hours to reach there through the forest. It is a real task for Kerala State Electricity Board personnel to identify the problem in the rain and repair the cable,” says R. Pradeep, president, Aryankavu panchayat.  Inadequate resources Though the school authorities have arranged television sets at a nearby library and anganwadi, it is not quite adequate to bridge the digital gap. “If they miss the class and repeat session owing to power outage, the only option is to watch the recorded class on YouTube. But then, half the students have no access to smartphones or laptops,” says Principal D.S. Manu. He points out that the system is not very effective when it comes to the students of lower classes. Individual attention “It is not easy to engage them virtually and a class will have students at different levels. They require individual attention and right now we are unable to provide them that.” For the Class 12 students, the school has formed a WhatsApp group offering special sessions since most are not comfortable with lessons in English. “In Class 12, there are three students who do not have phones and we have asked some of the classmates to help them by sharing the notes.” At the same time, the school cannot implement the same strategy in all classes since half of the students have no smartphones. “At least 150 students are not part of the online groups and we have only three teachers attending Classes 1 to 10,” he says. Absence of adult supervision is another challenge as many children are on their own once their parents leave for work. Classes being skipped “We cannot ensure they are attending the virtual classes and some have already started skipping them. A majority of the students come from underprivileged families and around 50% of them belong to the Scheduled Tribes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/remote-lessons-are-no-fun-for-villages-deep-in-woods/article31856463.ece
18 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Six-member team authorised to shoot wild boars||The first panel of licensed gun holders who are authorised to shoot wild boars straying into farms has been formed in Kozhikode district in accordance with the recent State government order. The service of the six-member team will be available in the limits of Kodenchery panchayat. After verifying the documents, the Divisional Forest Officer, Kozhikode, granted the official sanction to the empanelled individuals. They will have to renew the temporarily sanctioned licence after six months. In order to exercise their newly conferred right, they will have to strictly comply with a series of official formalities. No shooting will be permitted within the forest area. Feeding animals should not be targeted. After shooting, the gun holder will have to inform the nearby Forest Range Officer for further inspection. The empanelled member who shoots the animal will be entitled for Rs. 1,000. It is not given as remuneration but to meet the cost of handling the firearm. On completion of the burial of the carcass, the Divisional Forest Officer will submit a report to the Chief Wildlife Warden. The service of the squad will be available in Chippilithode, Koorottupara, Thusharagiri, Manhuvayal, Mykkavy, and Velamkode regions under the Kodenchery panchayat. According to Forest Department officials, more number of licensed gun holders will be considered in panchayats where the wild boar menace is severe. Meanwhile, various farmers’ organisations have reiterated their demand to sanction gun licences for more eligible farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-member-team-authorised-to-shoot-wild-boars/article31856342.ece
18 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kudumbashree opens second ‘Janakeeya Hotel’||Mayor Thottathil Raveendran opened the second “Janakeeya Hotel” of the Kozhikode Corporation Kudumbashree at Chettikulam in the city on Wednesday. The restaurant is part of the corporation’s “Hunger-free city project”. The hotel, a budget restaurant operated by Kudumbashree units, specialises in mid-day meal for just Rs. 20. The restaurant is part of a network of 1,000 budget eateries planned by the State government. The unit gets a subsidy of Rs. 10 per meal while the electricity, water bills and rent of the restaurant will be paid by the Kozhikode Corporation. The corporation plans to open eight more such restaurants in the city. An amount of Rs. 50 lakh has been set aside for the purpose. The restaurant also provides home delivery service for Rs. 5 within 5 km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-opens-second-janakeeya-hotel/article31856341.ece
18 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Bus owners stage hunger strike||Bus owners under the banner of the All Kerala Bus Operators’ Organisation staged a hunger strike here on Wednesday demanding government intervention to end the crisis they were facing in the transport sector. They demanded that the government reduce the diesel price and sanction subsidies for private buses on par with the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation. All Kerala Bus Operators Organisation State president P.K. Moosa inaugurated the protest. District president K.V. Abdurahman and district secretary M.D. Kunhippa spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bus-owners-stage-hunger-strike/article31856333.ece
18 June 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Two toddlers among six new cases in Palakkad||Six more persons, including two children aged one and three, were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday. Out of the six new cases, one had returned from Russia, two from the UAE, and three from Saudi Arabia. District Collector D. Balamurali said that there were 120 patients currently under treatment in the district. However, they do not include the patients from Palakkad who are currently being treated at Manjeri, Kannur, Ernakulam, and Thiruvanananthapuram. In Malappuram Eleven more persons were tested positive in Malappuram district on Wednesday, raising the total number of patients to 221. When seven of the new cases were returnees from abroad, three had come back from other States. One person contracted the virus through local contact. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said all of them were shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri. A 23-year-old woman from Maryad, Manjeri, was found to have been infected from an Asha worker from the same place who was tested positive on June 5.  In Kozhikode The number of people of cured of COVID-19 exceeded those tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 for the first time in Kozhikode district, when 14 people recovered from the infection and six others were diagnosed with it on Wednesday. According to a release by District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, 11 of the recovered patients are from Kozhikode, and one each is from Malappuram, Kannur, and Wayanad. Those tested positive for the virus are from Thikkodi, Koyilandy, Kavilumpara, Unnikulam, Thurayoor, and Arakkinar. Five of them are at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, and the sixth person is at the first-line treatment centre set up at the Lakshadweep Guest House. Right now, there are 97 active COVID-19 cases in the district. The number of people under observation is 11,675, of whom 3,792 are expatriates. In Wayanad Three more persons tested positive in Wayanad on Wednesday. Two of them had returned from abroad, while the other came from Maharashtra. A 43-year-old man from Chundale, who returned from Kuwait on June 12; a 34-year-old from Kayyunni in Nilgiri district of Tamil Nadu who returned from Kuwait on June 11, and a 27-year-old hailing from Mananthavady who returned from Mumbai were confirmed to have contracted the disease. Of the 61 cases reported in the district so far, 40 have been cured. In Thrissur Eight more new COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur district on Wednesday. While five of them arrived from the Gulf, three came from other States in the country. In all 12,585 people are under observation in the district. The positive cases reported on Wednesday included five from the Gulf countries: 23-year-old man from Injamudi who arrived from Doha June 5; 23-year-old native of Kaipamangalm who came from Dammam on June 11; a 58-year-old woman of Chalakudy who came from Muscat on June 4; a 34-year-old man from Erumappetty who arrived from Qatar on June 7; and a 34-year-old native of Kunnamkulam who arrived from Kuwait on June 12. Others are: A 65-year-old man hailing from Chentrappinni who came from Chennai on June 6; a 64-year-old woman from Melur who arrived from Delhi on June 10, and a 48-year-old man from Kodungallur who arrived from Hyderabad on June 11.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, and Thrissur bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-toddlers-among-six-new-cases-in-palakkad/article31856340.ece
18 June 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Soft measures tackle elephant menace||The Forest Department will prefer soft measures to conventional fencing methods in its efforts to minimise the man-animal conflict in forest fringes in the State. The soft measures will include getting more trained elephants called Kumkis to deal with the wild elephant menace. Officers in the Walayar range of the Palakkad forest division replicated the success story that Kumkis scripted at Dhoni sometime ago. After the successful deployment of Kumkis at Dhoni to drive away the wild tuskers that had colonised the green patches there, the three Kumkis were being used effectively in the Walayar range since Monday. Palakkad Divisional Forest Officer Narendra Nath Veluri said that the soft measures such as the use of Kumkis were found more effective and economical for the government. “Instead of spending crores of rupees for rail fencing in regions like Walayar, soft measures like this are found to be more effective,” he said. “Dhoni is now a zero conflict area. We could expose the elephants hidden in forest patches there and drive them back to the forests,” said Mr. Veluri. He said the three Kumkis named Neelakandan, Surendran, and Augustian, would continue to patrol areas such as Kottekkad, Elambarakkad, Ooroli, and Arangottukulambu in search of wild elephants for the next few weeks. Three tuskers were driven back to the forest in the first two days of the Kumki operation. The Forest Department has identified a dozen-odd wild elephants having occupied the forest areas near Walayar. Four of them were big bulls and the others were of medium size. Except a big bull, all others were in herds. What worries the forest staff is the size and age of the Kumkis. None of the three Kumkis on the job at Walayar is a big bull. Neelakandan is 24 years old; Surendran is 22, and Augustian only 14. Alone, they may not be a match for a wild big bull. But the Forest staff circumvented this disadvantage by cleverly getting the three Kumkis charge together at individual elephants after getting the herds dispersed with crackers. “If a big bull charges back at a Kumki, it will be hard. Therefore, we can take on individual tuskers only in a concerted move,” said Mr. Veluri. “What the Kumkis actually do is to ensure area domination. By dominating the forest patches close to human settlements, the Kumkis give signals to the wild herds to go back to the forests,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/soft-measures-tackle-elephant-menace/article31856344.ece
18 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||One positive, 5 cured in Pathanamthitta||One more Non-Resident Keralite (NoRK), a medical student in Russia, from Chittoor in Pathanamthitta town, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. Five more persons were cured of the disease on the day. According to an official bulletin, the 21-year-old youth who came to the Kochi International airport on Tuesday tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 at the Government Medical College Hospital in Ernakulam. He was admitted to the General Hospital here on Wednesday. The total number of patients in the district is 100 as on Wednesday. Of this, 96 are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district while four have been admitted to hospitals outside the district. A total of 127 quarantined persons, including the COVID-19 patients, have been placed under observation at the isolation wards of various hospitals in the district as on Wednesday afternoon. As many as 369 contacts of an ASHA worker who tested positive on Tuesday were identified and placed in quarantine at their homes. The nasal and throat swabs of 204 persons tested negative on Wednesday. The Health Department is awaiting clinical examination results of 924 throat swab samples. 5,029 in quarantine According to the bulletin, 5,029 persons have been quarantined in the district as on Wednesday. Of these, 3,390 people came from various other States and 1,156 from abroad while 483 are contacts of the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-positive-5-cured-in-pathanamthitta/article31856466.ece
18 June 2020||SABARIMALA,KERALA||When rituals go quiet at Sabarimala||Pampa, in the foothills of Sabarimala, which is usually chock-a-block with pilgrims, is now resonant with just a monotonous drone — that of the 30-odd earth movers and trucks deployed by the District Disaster Management Authority for sand removal from the flood-ravaged river. The area now resembles a construction site. Move further, and the trekking path to Sabarimala is eerily quiet. Devotees have been asked to stay away as part of lockdown norms. Hence, no ‘Saranam Ayyappa’ chants, no jostling of pilgrims. There is just an overwhelming stillness. Animals take over Animals have taken over a few spots. Hungry wild boars, with herds of piglets, roam about in search of food in Pampa and the Sannidhanam. Earlier, they used to have their fill from the heaps of food waste left outside by Annadanam centres and hotels. For the past three months, their food source has dried up. In the deep silence, birds, monkeys, bees and an occasional elephant make themselves loud and clear. Only priests and staff Just priests and staff on duty are allowed on the temple premises and the Pathinettampady (18 steps). A deserted Sannidhanam is a rarity when the temple is open. For the rituals for the Malayalam month of Midhunom, the temple was opened on Sunday evening. On Wednesday, Melsanthi (head priest) A.K. Sudheer Namboodiri opened the sanctum sanctorum at 5 a.m. The rituals began with Tantri (chief priest) Kandararu Maheswararu Mohanararu performing the Ashtadravya Ganapati Homom at 5.20 a.m. Hardly 10 people, comprising temple staff and police personnel on duty, were present to worship the deity during the pujas. They stood two metres apart. The temple reopened at 5 p.m. for the evening rituals. The sanctum was closed at 7.30 p.m. The monthly rituals will come to a close on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-rituals-go-quiet-at-sabarimala/article31856360.ece
18 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||3 more cases in capital district||Three persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Wednesday. All three are men who arrived from Saudi Arabia and Delhi on different days earlier this month, the district administration said. The patients hail from Pothencode, Vamanapuram, and Keezherur near Aryancode. The 37-year-old man from Pothencode arrived from Saudi Arabia at the Karipur airport on June 13. He travelled by a Kerala State Road Transport Corporation bus to an institutional quarantine centre (IQC) in Thiruvananthapuram. On displaying COVID-19 symptoms, swab samples were taken and he was shifted to a first-line treatment centre at Karakkonam. After he tested positive, he was shifted to the General Hospital. The 26-year-old man from Vamanapuram had arrived from Saudi Arabia at the Cochin international airport on June 3. He too had travelled to an IQC in Thiruvananthapuram by KSRTC bus. On developing symptoms, he was shifted to the Homoeo Medical College Hospital. From Delhi The 25-year-old man from Keezherur arrived from Delhi on June 11. He was recommended home quarantine. He had developed symptoms and subsequently tested positive. He was shifted to the Homoeo Medical College Hospital. In all, 1,041 persons were placed under COVID-19 surveillance in the district on Wednesday, even as 203 others completed the observation period without developing symptoms. Twenty-five people were hospitalised with symptoms. 18,958 from other States The district has recorded 18,958 arrivals from other States since the lockdown started, the district administration said. Of this, 10,665 people arrived from various red zones. The highest number of arrivals was from Tamil Nadu (8,049), Karnataka (3,097) followed by Maharashtra (1,995), Delhi (1,319), Telangana (665), and Andhra Pradesh (353). To date, 52 flights have landed from various foreign destinations. In all, 9,484 passengers bound for various districts passed through the Thiruvananthapuram airport. On Wednesday, 170 people, including 75 women, entered the district through the interstate check-post at Inchivila. Four policemen Four policemen attached to the Fort Police Station have been placed under COVID-19 surveillance. They had come into contact with a mobile shop owner from Manacaud who had tested positive on Tuesday. On June 9, the 28-year-old man had reported at the station after he was charged for lockdown violation. Hailing from Malappuram, he had arrived in Thiruvananthapuram on May 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-more-cases-in-capital-district/article31856389.ece
18 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online classes cover 99.95%, claims govt.||Nearly 99.95% of State school students have access to online classes, Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath has said. The Minister told The Hindu that only about 50 students remained without access. Arrangements have been made for all students to view the classes through a common mechanism. If there were any students without access, teachers and Samagra Shiksha personnel would go to them with laptops till a permanent arrangement was made, he said. “Access to classes for all is what we are aiming at. The Cabinet has approved a project, wherein the Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE) will provide 35,000 TV sets. This will help expand the arrangements,” the Minister said. The Minister said from 2.6 lakh students without access to classes, the government had managed to bring down the number to 45 within two weeks with the support of MLAs, political formations, organisations, and others. Repeat telecast Repeat telecast of classes had been arranged. Downloaded content would be made available. Special classes would be held for those who could not understand the content, Mr. Ravindranath said. General Education Secretary A. Shajahan said any student without access to online classes should inform the school concerned. The government had given directions that in areas, especially tribal areas, where there was no cable or dish connection or Internet connectivity, teachers would show students downloaded version of the classes. If follow-up by teachers after every telecast was not happening for some reasons, including connectivity issues, students should get in touch with the school authorities who would find a solution to the problem. If they still found themselves deprived of the classes, students should get in touch with local self-government institutions, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-classes-cover-9995-claims-govt/article31856375.ece
18 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC shuts two bus depots||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) on Wednesday closed its Pappanamcode depot for two days after a driver attached to it tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. With Kattakada listed as a hotspot, the KSRTC has also shut its Kattakada depot until further notice. The district administration and health officials have begun containment measures. In addition to tracing the driver’s contacts, directions have been issued for disinfecting/fumigating the buses driven by him and establishments he visited. These include the fire stations at Chenkalchoola and Parassala, Regional Transport Office at Vazhuthacaud, a petrol pump at Vellayambalam (near Indian Coffee House), Nemom police station, the KSRTC depot at Pappanamcode and the depot office there. Of the 17 primary contacts traced so far, all of them KSRTC staff, six have been quarantined at the COVID Care Centre at Mar Ivanios Vidya Nagar. Various district administrations have been alerted as 10 persons have left Thiruvananthapuram district. Secondary contacts will remain under observation for seven days until the primary contacts undergo tests. The driver, a 40-year-old man from Thrissur, operated regular services and transported arrivals from outside the State to quarantine facilities and district borders. He was hospitalised on Sunday. The places through which he plied services are being placed on high alert for identifying potential symptomatic travellers. Expatriates who were transported on the bus are being traced. They will undergo tests after completing seven days in observation. The Pappanamcode depot was shut after the staff refused to go on duty and staged protests citing lack of safety measures. All persons who have come into close contact with the patient have been requested to contact the Health Department on the toll-free number 1077. Containment zones With the Kattakada and Pappanamcode depots shut, the KSRTC has announced alternative arrangements. The Neyyattinkara, Vizhinjam, Thiruvananthapuram city and Vellanad units of the KSRTC will make arrangements for covering the routes under the two depots. Ten grama panchayat wards in Kattakada have been declared containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-shuts-two-bus-depots/article31856387.ece
18 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pinarayi launches White Board project||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated White Board, a project for preparing study material for children with special needs; online classes for Tamil and Kannada medium students; and VHSEeVIDYALAYAM YouTube channel for making available online classes for Plus Two vocational higher secondary students, here on Wednesday . White Board is being implemented in association with the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala. As part of the project, study material suited to each category of differently abled children will be prepared. The Tamil and Kannada medium classes are a new milestone in the State’s FOSS (free and open source software) initiatives in public education, a statement from the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) here said. FOSS software All videos for the Tamil and Kannada medium classes are prepared using Kdenlive, a FOSS videoediting software that comes pre-installed in the 1.2 lakh laptops deployed in schools by KITE. The videos were shot using DSLR cameras deployed by KITE in 4,578 high-tech schools and ordinary mobile phones too. A group of 15 teachers, led by M.P. Rajesh, KITE Kasaragod district coordinator, shot and edited the videos. Seventy teachers helmed the classes for Kannada medium, of which 50 classes are ready for telecast. The Tamil medium content was prepared by a 30-member team led by V.P. Sasikumar, Palakkad district coordinator of KITE. Sixty classes are now ready for telecast, for which the services of 50 Tamil medium teachers have been utilised. All the activities were undertaken in association with the Kasaragod, Palakkad, and Idukki units of the Samagra Shiksha and academic support from the respective District Institutes of Education and Training.  “KITE has charted out a plan for providing FOSS-based videoediting, animation, and sound recording training for all teachers on an online platform, as done in the case of KOOL (KITE’s Open Online Learning) for teachers,” K. Anvar Sadath, Chief Executive Officer, KITE, said. The Tamil and Kannada medium classes are available on the YouTube channelswww. youtube.com/drcpkdandwww.youtube.com/ kitekasaragodrespectively. Local cable networks in those locations have expressed their willingness to telecast these classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-launches-white-board-project/article31856373.ece
18 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Farming initiative launched at CET||The College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram, is growing tapioca, colocasia, yam, banana, turmeric and ginger on two acres on the college campus as part of the Subhiksha Keralam@CET initiative. Second phase This forms the second phase of the farming programme undertaken as part of the Subhiksha Keralam initiative of the State Government. Mayor K. Sreekumar inaugurated the initiative, which has the support of the Krishi Bhavan, Ulloor, and the Central Tuber Crops Research Institute (CTCRI). CTCRI Director Ravi, Principal Scientist K. Sunil Kumar, CET Principal Jiji C. V., Dean S. Jayakumar and Sanjeev, Agriculture Officer, Ulloor, were presen on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farming-initiative-launched-at-cet/article31856388.ece
18 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM shrugs off criticism on tests for NoRKs||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday attempted to shrug off the criticism that the government had turned its back on expatriates and was against their return in large numbers. Mr. Vijayan’s counter-accusation that the Opposition was playing politics with the State’s containment strategy came soon after Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala announced a sit-in in front of the Secretariat on Friday in protest against the State’s decision to allow only Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) with COVID-19-free medical certificates to board flights bound for Kerala. Mr. Chennithala had termed the order impractical and unkind. Instead of insisting on COVID-19 negative certification, the government should test Keralites on arrival and treat infected persons, he demanded. The Indian Union Muslim League and the Bharatiya Janata Party had also echoed similar sentiments. ‘Politicising’ Mr. Vijayan accused the Opposition of trying to entangle the issue in a web of misinformation. He said parties should not allow politics to hold the well-being of the people to ransom. Without mentioning any name, Mr. Vijayan criticised a Union Minister of State from Kerala for attempting to sow seeds of insecurity and fear in the public. He had tried to lay down a smokescreen of lies and false statement to portray the government as against expatriate welfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-shrugs-off-criticism-on-tests-for-norks/article31856363.ece
18 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||75 new cases in State||Kerala’s effective disease containment strategy got a real shot in the arm when it reported more recoveries than new COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday. When 75 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, 90 persons left various hospitals after making full recovery. The number of active cases in the State now is 1,351. Of the new cases, all except three are imported cases of infection. While 53 persons had come from abroad, 19 had come from other parts of the country. Three persons acquired the infection through local transmission, having come into contact with known/unknown sources of infection. Effective Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said all interventions by the State to contain COVID-19 had been effective so far as the State’s containment strategies were based on the principles of maintaining physical distancing, universal mask wearing, reverse quarantine and containing local transmission to the minimum levels. While the situation ahead was quite serious, he expressed hope that the State can continue to implement its strategies effectively and hold the third stage disease transmission at manageable levels. Ever since the outbreak of COVID-19, 2,697 persons have tested positive, while 1,324 persons have recovered from the disease. The number of deaths till date is 20. Under surveillance In various districts, 1,25,307 persons are under surveillance and in quarantine, including 1,989 persons with mild symptoms who have been isolated in hospitals. So far, samples from 1,22,446 persons have been tested. This is apart from 33,599 samples tested in priority groups in the population as part of sentinel surveillance. The total number of hotspots in the State on Wednesday is 110, with three new regions in Kasaragod entering the list and three regions in Malappuram and Palakkad dropping off the list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/75-new-cases-in-state/article31856369.ece
18 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Final voters’ list published||The State Election Commission (SEC) has published the final voters’ list for the local body elections due this year. The final list comprises 2,62,24,501 voters. They include 1,25,40,302 men, 1,36,84,019 women and180 transgender persons. The number of new voters is 14,79,541 and they include 6,78,147 male, 8,01,328 female and 66 transgender persons. The list covers 941 grama panchayats, 86 municipalities and six Corporations. The names of 4,34,317 voters, including the deceased and those who have no permanent address, were deleted from the draft list. In order to revise the voters’ list, the existing list in local bodies was published as draft on January 20.  Elections are scheduled to be conducted in 941 grama panchayats, 152 block panchayats, 14 district panchayats, 86 municipalities and six Corporations. The commission would provide two more chances for enrolment before the election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/final-voters-list-published/article31856372.ece
18 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Organic farming at Raj Bhavan||Governor Arif Mohammad Khan inaugurated the organic vegetable farming activity at Raj Bhavan as part of the State government’s Subhiksha Keralam project for sustainability in agricultural production. The farming in Raj Bhavan has been taken up jointly by the city Corporation and the Swasthi Foundation. Cultivation of ladies’ fingers, tapioca, chilli, papaya, and 26 other items is being carried out in five acres of land, which had remained fallow till now. The Governor said that the public should realise the importance of cultivating vegetables at their own homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/organic-farming-at-raj-bhavan/article31856386.ece
18 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fish farming launched in pond||Fisheries Minister J.Mercykutty Amma inaugurated fish farming as part of the State government’s Subhiksha Kerala project for sustainability in agricultural production at the Vayambachira pond in Mannanthala on Wednesday. As many as 5,000 grass carp fishes were deposited in the pond. The pond was renovated as part of the city Corporation’s 2019-20 annual plan, at a cost of.Rs. 25 lakh. An amount of Rs. 60 lakh has been sanctioned for preparing a garden and for the construction of an auditorium in the land adjacent to the pond.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fish-farming-launched-in-pond/article31856385.ece
18 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Power bill: CPI seeks govt. intervention||The CPI State executive has sought government intervention to redress the complaints of consumers about ‘excessive’ power bills charged by the KSEB during the lockdown period. The executive that was in session here on Wednesday said in a resolution that there were widespread complaints about the power bills and the main allegation was that the board was trying to collect higher rates for power that had not been consumed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/power-bill-cpi-seeks-govt-intervention/article31856366.ece
18 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||10 lakh rural houses to get piped water||Ten lakh rural households will get piped water connection this financial year under the Centrally assisted Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), the State government said on Wednesday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will formally launch the initiative, which aims at covering 52.85 lakh households in the State by 2024, here on Thursday. In the current fiscal, JJM-related works are estimated to cost Rs. 1,525 crore, which will be shared equally by the State and Central governments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10-lakh-rural-houses-to-get-piped-water/article31856376.ece
18 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Term extended||Asha Kishore, current Director of the SCTIMST, Thiruvananthapuram, has been given an extension of term. A meeting of the institute body decided to allow Dr. Kishore to continue to hold the post of director till her retirement in February 2025.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/term-extended/article31856391.ece
18 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. hospital staff stage dharna||The Kerala Government Hospital Employees Association staged a dharna in front of the Secretariat raising various demands. These included steps to ensure safety of hospital employees, roll back of the increase in working hours of employees on COVID-19 duty, duty off as per guidelines after completing COVID-19 duty, and appointing adequate personnel instead of overburdening existing employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-hospital-staff-stage-dharna/article31856384.ece
18 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Businessman’s gesture||In a novel gesture, an NRI businessman at Chettuva has arranged quarantine facilities for expatriates in his house. Babu Engandiyur (Gulf Park Babu) arranged the facility at his 2,000 sqft house on Ashan Road at Engandiyur. Mr. Babu said he decided to offer his house for quarantine as the authorities had found it difficult to find a facility for NRIs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/businessmans-gesture/article31856334.ece
18 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Online learning facilities set up in tribal hamlets||Tribal hamlets in Thrissur district have become ‘Smart’ with online learning facilities being arranged in 43 neighbourhood centres. Teachers of schools at Vettilappara, Vazhachal, Peringalkuthu, Malakkappara, and Kodakara BRC are monitoring the online classes. Learning facilities have been arranged for 460 tribal students at their homes. A facility has been set up for 490 students. Learning centres have been arranged in Anganwadis, cultural centres, community halls, tribal hostels, schools, and coffee estate offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-learning-facilities-set-up-in-tribal-hamlets/article31856345.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ire against Chinese aggression||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ire-against-chinese-aggression/article31856336.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Relief for motorists||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/relief-for-motorists/article31856353.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Eco-friendly protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eco-friendly-protest/article31856468.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Good protection||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/good-protection/article31856393.ece
18 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bus operations between A.P., Karnataka resume||Inter-State bus operations between Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka resumed on Wednesday after 84 days of suspension in view of the COVID-19. Passengers going to Bengaluru were being stamped ‘Home Quarantine’ at Bagepalli border check-post after collecting their personal data and phone numbers. Andhra Pradesh officials, however, did not collect any such information and those arriving at the bus stations, were being checked with thermal guns for body temperature. While the APSRTC planned to run 58 buses from various locations in Anantapur district to four destinations in Karnataka, the actual number of buses that plied on the first day got limited to just 10 as there was no demand from the passengers. The Kurnool region, which planned operation of 20 buses for the first day, has demand for just 13 buses, said Kurnool Regional Manager T. Venkataramam. APSRTC Anantapur Regional Manager Sumanth R. Adoni said the corporation was running only the buses in which seats were being booked online in advance or at the bus stations. As of now for Thursday too APSRTC has demand for only eight buses.  Green channel The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation operated five buses to Anantapur and Puttaparthi and those who arrived at Anantapur and Puttaparthi both by APSRTC and KSRTC buses were checked for body temperature. There was no case of high fever detected so far among those coming by these buses. Meanwhile, the number of 600 slots per day in the Devasindhu app of Karnataka for permitting people into Karnataka got exhausted till June 25. This posed a big challenge at the Bagepalli check-post, hence the Karnataka government was contemplating creating a green channel for the APSRTC and KSRTC passengers, Mr. Sumanth said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bus-operations-between-ap-karnataka-resume/article31856507.ece
18 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three persons ‘end life’ in Anantapur district||Three persons, including an elderly couple, allegedly committed suicide in Anantapur district in two separate incidents on Wednesday. Sudhakar, 60, and his wife Ramulamma, 58, allegedly committed suicide by consuming poison at Hariancheruvu village in Chennekothapalli mandal of the district in the early hours, reportedly unable to bear the problems arising out of health issues, said the C.K. police. Health issues When neighbours did not get any response from the couple in the morning, they informed the police, who broke open the main door to find a suicide note, which reportedly said despite two consecutive spine operations, Sudhakar was unable to bear the pain and Ramulamma too had some health issues. Their children stay in Tadipatri and have been informed about the incident. Second incident In the second incident in NSP Kottala village of Mudigubba mandal, a 62-year-old man was found hanging from a tree on the village outskirts. The man, identified as K.Venkataramudu, and two of his sons allegedly fought over a landed property. He was reportedly feeling lonely after his wife’s death five years ago, the Patnam police said. There is always someone to talk to at: 100; 9989819191 or reach over email: ananthapuramupolice@gm ail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-persons-end-life-in-anantapur-district/article31856442.ece
18 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Partial lockdown in Kadiri||Partial lockdown will be imposed in Kadiri town from Thursday owing to large number of COVID19 positive cases getting registered everyday, announced the Tahsildar. All roadside shops, eateries or tea stalls will not be allowed to be opened. Special teams Other shops (except medical shops) would be allowed only till noon. Meanwhile, the District Jail at Reddiappli in B.K. Samudram mandal has been declared a containment zone after a case emerged here, and special teams have been formed to cater to the needs of the inmates and for regular check-up of their health condition, Jail Superintendent Narasimha Reddy has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/partial-lockdown-in-kadiri/article31856445.ece
18 June 2020||ANANTAPUR / KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur dist. registers highest single-day spike of 81 cases||Anantapur district registered the highest-ever single day spike in the number of positive cases on Wednesday with 81 of the samples testing positive. One COVID-infected person in Madakasira died taking the total number of deaths to six. Meanwhile, in Kurnool district, 66 fresh cases surfaced taking the total number of positive cases to 1,487. Out of the 52,987 samples tested so far, 268 were of the same persons who tested positive again, said Kurnool District Collector G. Veerapandian. He chaired a meeting of district officials and advised them to spread the message of wearing masks and keeping physical distance among the general public. While many of those who tested positive have very mild symptoms and were sent for home isolation with a doctor visiting them in Anantapur district, others have been sent to COVID Care Centre at Sri Krishnadevaraya University. Those with prominent symptoms or with some problem in taking breath, were being sent to RDT Bathalapalli Hospital or KIMS Saveera Hospital, where ventilators were available, said District Collector Gandham Chandrudu. Directive to officials The Collector also asked officials to keep more number of COVID Care Centres ready for admitting more number of patients due to the rising number of positive cases. Training would be given to Aayush doctors, DWCRA group members, and paramedics on COVID protocols, he said. Kurnool Government General Hospital (a State COVID Hospital) Superintendent Narendranath Reddy personally visited COVID positive ICU and wards by wearing PPE kits on Wednesday and enquired the patients about the facilities. Dr. Narendranath Reddy said that the COVID patients expressed satisfaction over treatment, services rendered by doctors, nurses, paramedics and supply of diet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-dist-registers-highest-single-day-spike-of-81-cases/article31856444.ece
18 June 2020||BUTTAIGUDEM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||100% quota sought in teacher posts||A 48-hour bandh by various Adivasi Sangams seeking 100% reservation in recruitment of teachers in the tribal areas began on Wednesday. Shops, hotels and other establishments downed shutters . The members of JAC for Adivasi Acts, Rights Protection of A.P. staged dharnas, following the COVID-19 norms, in many villages and raised slogans demanding implementation of the G.O. No.3. Adivasis will continue their protests on Thursday to mount pressure on the government demanding 100% reservation in recruitment of teachers in the tribal areas, the JAC leaders said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/100-quota-sought-in-teacher-posts/article31856516.ece
18 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||No let-up in cases in Chittoor as 24 test positive||Forty-eight fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported during the last 24 hours from Chittoor district taking the total number close to 600. It shows a sharp rise of more than 100 cases in a week. The fresh cases were reported from Srikalahasti (10), followed by Puttur (8), Nindra (7), Tirupati urban and Varadaiahpalam (6 each), Satyavedu (4), and one each from Karveti Nagaram, Tirupati rural, Pichatur, Narayanavanam and Yerpedu. A majority of the cases were youth in the age group of 20 to 30. District Medical and Health Officer M. Penchalaiah said the fresh cases surface at a fast pace on a par with the percentage of discharges. “By Tuesday night, there were 595 cases, of which 300-plus patients have been discharged. Special teams with medical and paramedical staff were constituted to keep surveillance at all mandals, particularly those recorded the highest number of cases. The swab tests are going on rapidly at all area hospitals and primary health centers for the convenience of those voluntarily coming for the tests,” he said. Spurt in positive cases in the mandals bordering with Tamil Nadu — Satyavedu, Pichatur, Puttur, Nindra and Karveti Nagaram — has kept the police, medical and revenue officials on their toes. The municipal authorities in Puttur ordered closure of all business establishments by 11 a.m. Vigil stepped up The police mounted vigil at the border check-posts at Nagari and Surutupalle on the two national highways connected to Chennai. The inter-State check-posts at Gudipala and NR Peta were also put under the CC camera surveillance. In view of the alarming spike of COVID-19 cases in Chennai and elsewhere in Tamil Nadu, Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar instructed the police teams manning the border check-posts to be alert and strictly prevent entry of all vehicles which have no valid documents matching the COVID-19 guidelines. During the last one week, the number of public using face masks is encouraging. After the police launched a special drive against unmasked cases with hefty fines, there is an increase in the number of users of masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-let-up-in-cases-in-chittoor-as-24-test-positive/article31856448.ece
18 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crop acreage shrinks in parched Chittoor district||Even as the southwest monsoon has set in over the State, Chittoor district remains parched, taking a toll on agriculture. With the hope of good rain, the sowing of groundnut was expected to commence on June 15. A section of farmers in the western mandals of the district even launched the sowing operation early this month. With no rain in June, preceded by two months of dry spell, the crop acreage has shrunk by 40% in the tail-end Chittoor, the officials say. Sowing operations hit The acreage stands meagre, which includes 14,000 hectares of groundnut and 3000 hectares of paddy. Farmers are also shying away from sugar cane cultivation with the closure of cooperative sugar factories at Chittoor and Renigunta, and dues from private factories pending. Unlike the previous years, the Agriculture Department distributed groundnut seeds to farmers from mid-May, with forecast over onset of monsoon from June first week. Some farmers also opted for early sowing in around 3,000 hectares, banking on residual soil moisture and monsoon forecast. Rain deficit According to officials, fate of paddy crop would depend on rain. Already, paddy is no more a preferred crop in the western mandals when compared to the eastern belt, owing to the plummeting ground water table. “Chittoor district has recorded a rain deficit of 85 mm this month. Going by the forecast, the district has no prospects of rains on the next one week to ten days. This will lead to withering of groundnut crop in a considerable stretch,” says Joint Director (Agriculture) N. Vijay Kumar. He says the sowing operations of groundnut and paddy would continue till July end. “We have one and a half months of time before the sowing season ends. If we don’t get rains by the next ten days, it will have an adverse impact on crop acreage,” explains Mr. Vijay Kumar. Fodder scarcity Meanwhile, fodder crisis is slowly raising its head in several mandals as the groundwater has plummeted. “There was no summer shower in March. The monsoon will decide the fodder production this time. Delayed rains will lead to stunted yields,” says Mani, a farmer from Mandipeta Kotur in Palamaner mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crop-acreage-shrinks-in-parched-chittoor-district/article31856508.ece
18 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Council adjourned after animated discussion over tabling of Bills||The A.P. Legislative Council was adjourned on Wednesday night amid acrimonious scenes. Minister for Endowments Velampalli Srinivas and Telugu Desam Party member Beeda Ravichandra were reportedly engaged in a fist fight after the latter tried to stop Mr. Srinivas from barging towards TDP MLC Nara Lokesh. Earlier, the House witnessed an intense and acrimonious debate between the ruling and Opposition members over the tabling of the two Bills — Decentralisation of Governance and Inclusive Development of the AP and Repeal of CRDA Act — when reports last came in. The two Bills were passed by the Assembly in January this year, but were sent to a select committee by the Chairperson of the Council, a decision which led to a furore in the State. On Tuesday, the two Bills were sent to the Council after being approved by the Assembly on Monday. Minister for Finance Buggana Rajendranath Reddy sought to table the Bills, which had been passed by the Assembly, but the TDP members vehemently opposed the tabling of the two Bills, as they had been referred to the select committee. Appropriation Bill The TDP, on the other hand, demanded that the Appropriation Bill be first taken up before tabling of the CRDA Repeal and Decentralisation Bills. TDP floor leader Yanamala Ramakrishnudu demanded that the House take up discussion under Rule no 90 on the Appropriation Bill. The Finance Minister said it was not a custom to initiate the proceedings with a discussion on the Appropriation Bill, and Deputy Chairperson Reddy Subramanyam countered by saying that the House could start a new custom. Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana said it was not proper to start a new custom just because there were more members in the Opposition camp. “There has never been a tradition in the country that an Appropriation Bill has been taken up before tabling of other Bills,” said Mr. Satyanarayana. Mr. Subramanyam then sought a consensus and the Ministers sought an opinion on the mood of the House, which is opinion of floor leaders. Even as the stand-off persisted, the Deputy Chairperson adjourned the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/council-adjourned-after-animated-discussion-over-tabling-of-bills/article31856491.ece
18 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Palnadu ryots’ anxious wait ends||The decades-long dream of people of parched uplands in Palnadu to get irrigation facilities for commercial crops such as chilli, is finally going to be fulfilled. The government has allocated Rs. 1,650 crore to stablise an ayacut of 1.50 lakh acres under Varikapudisila Lift Irrigation project in the budget. Elected representatives from Palnadu, led by Narsaraopet MP Lavu Krishnadevarayulu, and MLAs Pinnelli Ramakrishna Reddy (Macherla), Gopireddy Srinivasa Reddy (Narsaraopet), Bolla Brahma Naidu (Vinukonda), Namburu Sankara Rao (Pedakurapadu) called on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at the Assembly and thanked him for including the project in the YSR Palnadu Durbiksha Nirmulana scheme. The LI scheme had a long history dating back to 1940s when the irrigation authorities proposed to construct a lift scheme upstream the Nagarjuna Sagar project. The proposed site is located in deep jungle and this led to frequent postponement of the work. First phase Finally, the then Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy laid the foundation stone for the project in 2008 but nothing happened for the next six years. N. Chandrababu Naidu again laid the foundation stone and the department prepared the DPR, but the project got administrative sanction in 2019 after Mr. Jagan formed the government. In the first phase, the project aims to provide water to 45,000 acres in Veldurthy, Durgi, Chautupalli mandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/palnadu-ryots-anxious-wait-ends/article31856033.ece
18 June 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police step up vigil after many areas report property offences||After witnessing a drastic fall in the crime rate during the lockdown period in the city, police focussed on crime prevention as property offences and a few other crimes are reported in some areas. It may be noted that during March 21 to May 21 in 2019, the total number of crime reported under all heads was 904 cases. During the same period in this year, the number of cases recorded was 358. According to sources, after relaxations were announced, police witnessed an increase in property offences, especially house break-ins, in some parts of the city. With many people going to their destinations or leaving home to drop someone, burglars are committing thefts targeting the locked houses. Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP - Crimes) Ch. Penta Rao said that a few areas in Zone I witnessed several house break-ins after relaxation. He said that the situation is under control after additional beat police teams deployed at night. “Police teams have been conducting awareness programmes and alerting people to be cautious. In some areas, our personnel are patrolling with the help of locals to prevent offences,” he said. Police also said that post relaxation, a gang from East Godavari district had come to the city and started to commit bag snatchings. The two-member gang had committed an offence in the city and was caught by the crime wing at One Town while committing second offence. According to a senior police officer, since people were confined to houses and huge deployment of forces at all areas, property offences have witnessed a drastic fall during the lockdown. “We are also keeping a vigil on the movement of ex-offenders to make sure they do not take part in criminal activities again,” he added. It may be recalled that two weeks ago, the city police caught a nine-member gang who were plotting to eliminate the members of rival gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-step-up-vigil-after-many-areas-report-property-offences/article31856517.ece
18 June 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,150-kg giant manta ray caught off Masula coast||A giant manta ray ( Mobula birostris ) weighing about 1,150 kg was caught by fishermen 60 nautical miles off Machilipatnam coast near Palayakatippa beach in Krishna district. The ray was caught on the evening of June 15, in the gill net by a group of six fishermen on a mechanised boat. The fishermen, led by Venkanna, had ventured into the sea on June 11. Boat owner, Arja Shankara Rao said that the aquatic animal was brought out from the water at the Gilakaladindi harbour with the support of a crane. The 1,150-kg ray fetched Rs. 37,000 at the Kakinada harbour during an auction on Wednesday. The ray has been transported by road from Gilakaladindi harbour to Kakinada.  IUCN Red List According to the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) Red List, the giant manta ray is ‘vulnerable’ as its population is decreasing. In India, it has been sighted in Andhra Pradesh, Andaman Islands, Tamil Nadu, Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Kerala, and the species are ‘full migrant’ as per its movement patterns, according to the IUCN. According to the Forest Department staff that record marine species at the fish landing centres, the ray species are fetching a record price as ‘Gill Rakers’ are believed to be used for medicinal purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1150-kg-giant-manta-ray-caught-off-masula-coast/article31856073.ece
18 June 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Health officials worried as Nellore adds 51 cases||Health officials were tenterhooks as the fresh cases went up to 51 in SPSR Nellore district on Wednesday. Two of the infected persons were from West Godavari district. Nellore city accounted for a maximum 28 cases with COVID-19 hotspot of Kotamta accounting for a maximum of 11 cases. Recoveries With this, the total number of cases rose to 511 in the district. A consolation aspect was that as many as 48 patients were discharged on recovery, taking the total number of cured persons in the district to 310. Lockdown was implemented stringently in, among other areas, Dargamitta which reported eight new cases and Beevinagar which registered three new cases in the city. Two of the infected persons were from Vedayapalem. Magunta layout, Molapeta, and Vengal Rao Nagar reported one case each, a health bulletin released by the Medical and Health Department said on Wednesday night. A police personnel was among those who contracted the dreaded disease. Elsewhere in the district, Udayagiri accounted for eight new cases. Sulurpeta, about 80 km from Chennai, reported six fresh cases. Health officials were alarmed over the spread of the disease to newer areas in the district bordering Tamil Nadu. Three persons got infected in Kota and two others in Bangarapeta. A.S.Peta and Sangam registered one case each. The number of active cases stood at 195. As many as 451 contacts of the infected persons were quarantined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/health-officials-worried-as-nellore-adds-51-cases/article31856452.ece
18 June 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temple unearthed in Nellore is intact: archaeology official||The centuries-old Nageswara Swamy temple unearthed at Perumalapadu village near Chejerla in Nellore district is intact, State Archaeology Assistant Director Ramasubba Reddy has said. The temple was unearthed during sand mining on the bed of the Penna River on Tuesday. “The excavation work will begin with all care so that the structure is not damaged. The exercise will be undertaken after getting the permission from the higher-ups,” said Mr. Ramasubba Reddy after inspecting the temple on Wednesday. A steady stream of people has been thronging Perumalapadu to have a look at the temple. The brick structure surfaced when some youth began removing sand on Tuesday. Police picket Police pickets have been set up to guard the structure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/temple-unearthed-in-nellore-is-intact-archaeology-official/article31856511.ece
18 June 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to slain soldiers||Activists of the Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) on Wednesday paid glowing tributes to the soldiers killed in a face-off with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley on Monday night. Paying floral tributes, the activists led by BJP leader Yashwant Singh called it an unfortunate incident and offered condolences to the families of fallen soldiers. In Ongole, members of the Ex-Servicemen Abhivruthi Sangham led by State president Neppalli Nageswara Rao expressed solidarity with the Indian armed forces fighting on India’s eastern border and said the supreme sacrifice made by the defence personnel would not go waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid-to-slain-soldiers/article31856453.ece
18 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Policing in times of pandemic||It has been a harrowing time so far for the police personnel who are at the forefront in the battle against the pandemic, with some of them even contracting the infection while discharging their duties. As it is known that the virus is here to stay, the Prakasam police have found a way to work in an altered environment. With a view to overcome the occupational hazard, Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal has come out with elaborate “Dasha Sutras” to prevent the spread of the disease among its ranks on the one hand and keep the personnel in the pink of health. They were conceived to protect the district police force and provide visitors a safe environment to lodge complaints without the fear of contracting the disease. The commandments are: complaints should be taken from spatially segregated room, establishing entry and exit points for visitors, disinfecting the police stations regularly, arranging a foot-operated sanitizer dispenser, making mandatory wearing of face mask by all personnel, restricting movement of outsiders, especially couriers and delivery boys, avoiding visit to hotspot States of Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Rajasthan, lodging detainees in a special detention centre instead of at police stations, assigning outdoor duty only to young and fit personnel and educating online all the personnel and their family members on dos and don’ts. Pat for SP Patting the SP, Director-General of Police Gautam Sawang wanted police personnel across the State to adopt it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/policing-in-times-of-pandemic/article31856451.ece
18 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers stage protest seeking monetary help||Private school teachers and lecturers staged a novel protest by begging on the streets here on Wednesday to draw the attention of the authorities to their plight in the wake of closure of schools coinciding with lockdown. Leading the protest in front of the Prakasam Bhavan by members of the Private School Teachers and Lecturers Welfare Association, district convenor T. Ramana demanded payment of Rs. 10,000 per month by the government till all educational institutions were allowed to function. The teachers were living hand-to-mouth as no salary had been paid since March 2020, Mr. Ramana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-stage-protest-seeking-monetary-help/article31856449.ece
18 June 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasJAGGAIAHPET (KRISHNA DT.):,ANDHRA PRADESH||12 killed, 12 injured as lorry hits tractor||Twelve persons, including women and children, died and 12 others suffered injuries in a ghastly road accident at Vedadri village in the district on Wednesday. The victims were natives of Pedda Gopavaram village in Yerrupalem mandal of Khammam district in Telangana. They were on a pilgrimage to Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple. The accident occurred when a speeding lorry hit the tractor on which the pilgrims were travelling. Seven persons died on the spot and five others succumbed to injuries in hospital, said Krishna SP M. Ravindranath Babu. The impact of mishap was such that the bodies were strewn on the road and the injured were seen crying with pain. Two persons escaped unhurt, said the villagers. The deceased have been identified as Vemireddy Pullareddy, Vemireddy Padmavathi, V. Udayasri, Guduru Upender Reddy, G. Suryanarayana Reddy, Lakkireddy Appamma, Lakkireddy Raji, Vemireddy Bharathamma, Guduru Ramanamma, Lakkireddy Thirupathamma, Vemareddy Kalyani and Seelam Srilakshmi. The injured were admitted in Khammam Government Hospital. Doctors performed post-mortem on the bodies at Jaggaiahpet Government Hospital. “The death toll was high as the trailer got detatched from the tractor engine, ploughed into the roadside bushes and overturned and many of the victims were crushed under it,” said a local P. Ravi. 25 people on board About 25 persons were travelling on the tractor and the lorry driver was alone in the cabin. The locals rescued the injured pilgrims, provided water and first aid and helped the police in shifting them to hospital, the police said. V. Pullareddy purchased a new tractor and came to Vedadri temple to perform puja to the new vehicle, along with his family members. The accident occurred when the family was returning after having darshan, said an injured person. Nandigama Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) G.V. Ramana Murthy, who visited the spot, said the accident could have occurred due to the rash and negligent driving of the lorry driver. “Victims and residents of Vedadri village allege that the lorry driver was in an inebriated condition. The driver was trapped in the cabin and lost his both limbs,” Mr. Ravindranath Babu told The Hindu . The Chillakallu police registered a case and Mr. Ramana Murthy will investigate the case, the SP said. Governor expresses grief Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan express grief over the ghastly road mishap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/12-from-ts-killed-as-lorry-hits-tractor-in-andhra/article31855969.ece
18 June 2020||Staff Reporter GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI leaders arrested over protest||Several leaders of the Communist Party of India were taken into preventive custody at Mangalagiri after they tried to take a procession to the Assembly demanding that the Agrigold Chit Fund scam victims should get full justice. AgriGold Customers and Agents Welfare Association president and CPI assistant secretary Muppala Nageswara Rao was arrested at Mangalagiri as he along with other leaders tried to take a procession from Dr. B.R. Ambedkar statue in Mangalagiri. CPI district secretary Jangala Ajay Kumar was arrested in Guntur and kept at Lalapet police station. CPI city secretary Kota Malyadri was arrested and kept at Arundelpet police station. Mr. Nageswara Rao said that the State Government had not allocated any funds for paying the victims of the AgriGold Chit Fund scam and added that they wanted to give a representation to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to announce on the floor of Assembly that the allocation for providing relief to victims would be made in Budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-leaders-arrested-over-protest/article31856039.ece
18 June 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala as no-horn zone: police to gauge the mood||The Tirupati Urban police are toying with the idea of declaring Tirumala, the abode of Lord Venkateswara, a ‘no-horn zone.’ The intention is to control sound pollution and preserve the serene environs of the sacred town. Tirupati Superintendent of Police A. Ramesh Reddy, who has played a pivotal role during the lockdown, is keen on eliciting views of the public, a cross-section of devotees and officials before going ahead with the proposal.  Increase in traffic Vehicular traffic on the Tirumala ghat road has increased by leaps and bounds during the past one decade with a sizeable number devotees from neighbouring States such as Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharastra and of late, Kerala and Chhattisgarh, coming in private vehicles. The town experiences an average footfall of around 75,000 pilgrims in a day of whom about 35 % come in their own vehicles and cabs. According to rough estimates, around 5,000 vehicles, including private cabs/jeeps, ply on the ghat roads daily in addition to APSRTC operating hundreds of services till midnight. To enable the wild and other nocturnal animals to breed in comfort, the TTD has restricted the movement of vehicles on both roads for three hours — between midnight and 3 am every day. Senior officials of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), however, feel that it will be difficult to implement the silent zone proposal given the practical difficulties. Several VVIPs and VIPs visit the town at regular intervals and it is next to impossible to put restrictions on their convoys. More than 50-60 % of the visiting pilgrims are first-timers and probably may not be aware of the restrictions. They naturally tend to honk horns and if the practice is prohibited, what is the alternative, the officials question. Both these issues need to be sorted out before putting the restrictions in place, they say. Already, honking of horns is banned in a radius of 100 metres in the sacred shrine area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirumala-as-no-horn-zone-police-to-gauge-mood/article31856276.ece
18 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||17 motorcycles recovered, 6 held||The Tirupati Urban police have arrested six vehicle-lifters, including two minors, and recovered 17 high-end motorcycles from their possession. The vehicles were allegedly stolen from across Chittoor and Kadapa districts. The value of the recovered vehicles is pegged at Rs. 11 lakh. It all started with a probe on a stolen vehicle registered at SVU Campus police station that made the skeletons tumble out of the cupboard. The accused hailing from various places in Chittoor district, allegedly stole two-wheelers regularly. Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Avula Ramesh Reddy said the youth stole the bikes reportedly to meet the growing pocket expenses, as they had been allegedly addicted to vices. The arrested had cases booked in SVU Campus, MR Palli, Tirupati East, Tiruchanur, RC Puram, Renigunta (all in Tirupati Urban police district), Madanapalli (Chittoor police district) and Railway Kodur (Kadapa district) police stations. Mr. Ramesh Reddy appreciated the SVU Campus police team effort and presented cash reward to the personnel involved in the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/17-motorcycles-recovered-6-held/article31856457.ece
18 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Martyrs’ sacrifice will not go in vain’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State secretary G. Bhanuprakash Reddy said the sacrifice of the martyrs in Ladakh valley will not go in vain and that India will give its aggressors in a fitting manner. The party leaders and workers burnt Chinese flag and paid tributes at the martyr’s memorial here on Wednesday. Speaking on the occasion along with State spokesperson Samanchi Srinivas, Mr. Bhanuprakash Reddy said the entire nation was shocked at the martyrdom of the soldiers in an unprovoked attack, for which the neighbour owed an explanation to India. The party also gave a clarion call to boycott all forms of Chinese products, as any form of economic support to the belligerent country would only boomerang on India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/martyrs-sacrifice-will-not-go-in-vain/article31856454.ece
18 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Snack food giant supports 8,600 families||Sri City-based Mondelez India, makers of Cadbury brand of snacks and food products, has announced additional relief contribution of over 70 tonnes of products to support relief workers and migrant population during the times of COVID-19. After donating 140 tonnes of chocolates, biscuits and beverages to India Food Banking Network (IFBN) across 20 cities, the company is donating dry ration kits to support over 8,600 families in the communities around its factory locations in Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/snack-food-giant-supports-8600-families/article31856455.ece
18 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Assembly passes resolution against NRC and NPR||The Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly on Wednesday passed a resolution against the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the National Population Register (NPR) on the ground that some clauses in them were highly objectionable and needed to be set right. ‘Allay apprehensions’ Through the resolution that was moved by Deputy Chief Minister Amzath Basha Shaik Bepari, the government made its stand clear that it would not implement the NRC unless it was carried out in the old (2010) format so that the apprehensions among the minorities were allayed. Mr. Amzath Basha said the government had opposed the NRC earlier as it infused a sense of fear in the Muslim community, and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was himself not happy with the manner in which the Central government went about the exercise. Mr. Amzath Basha said data was gathered for the NPR in 2010 and 2015, but now information about parents, including their dates of birth, domicile status, mother tongue, was being sought. These were troublesome for the minorities, he added. The Cabinet opposed the NRC and the NPR at its meeting on March 4, and the present resolution was in reiteration of the government’s stand, Mr. Basha stated, thanking Mr. Reddy for taking a sympathetic view of the minorities’ concerns.  The government has made its stand clear that it will not implement the NRC unless it is carried out in the old (2010) format Amzath Basha Shaik Bepari Deputy Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-assembly-opposes-nrc-npr/article31855979.ece
18 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu blames government for second surgery on Atchan||TDP national President N. Chandrababu Naidu has held the State government responsible for the “deterioration” in the health of party deputy leader in the Assembly K. Atchannaidu. Reacting to reports in a section of the media on Wednesday, Mr. Naidu said a second surgery had become necessary because Mr. Atchannaidu was made to sit and travel for 21 hours despite his delicate health following the first surgery. Mr. Naidu enquired about Mr. Atchannaidu’s health from the Superintendent of Government General Hospital, Guntur, who said a second surgery was performed on the TDP leader as bleeding did not stop. ‘Arrests undemocratic’ Meanwhile, the TDP complained to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) against the “undemocratic and inhuman arrests” of its leaders Mr. K. Atchannaidu, former MLA J.C. Prabhakar Reddy and his son Asmith Reddy. While TDP MLA N. Ramanaidu lodged a complaint regarding the arrest of Mr. Atchannaidu, MLC G. Srinivasulu complained against the arrest of Mr. Prabhakar Reddy and his son. The TDP leaders told the NHRC that the YSRCP government was pursuing politics of vengeance, leading to gross violations of human rights. “False cases are being filed to harass and persecute the Opposition TDP leaders,” they alleged, and termed the recent arrests as politically motivated. The TDP further alleged that the ACB and the police were not following the principles of natural justice. “They are merely acting at the behest of the YSRCP,” it alleged. “Leaders who do not succumb to the YSRCP’s arm-twisting tactics are being harassed with false cases and arrests. In a very inhuman way, Mr. Atchannaidu was arrested and forced to travel for 21 hours. As a result, he had to undergo a surgery for the second time,” the TDP alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-blames-government-for-second-surgery-on-atchan/article31856493.ece
18 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Budget session cut short to cover up failures, alleges TDP||TDP MLA Nimmala Ramanaidu has alleged that the Assembly budget session has been cut short to two days to cover-up the failures of the government. Addressing the media on Wednesday, Mr. Ramanaidu said at least 20 days were required to discuss problems such as coronavirus, Amaravati, power bills, RTC bus charges and attacks on dalits. The TDP demanded that a virtual Assembly be conducted in view of the pandemic, but the government turned down the proposal saying it was not possible, he said. Surprisingly, the Governor addressed the joint session of the Legislature virtually, he added. “Even the Supreme Court is conducting proceedings online. Why is it not possible to conduct Assembly on similar lines?” he asked. “The Governor’s address showed the government lacked commitment to solve problems of people. It is undemocratic to prevent a discussion on Bills that affect people. The sanctity of Assembly is in question.,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/budget-session-cut-short-to-cover-up-failures-alleges-tdp/article31856494.ece
18 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anxiety mounts as SSC exam date draws closer||An exponential increase in the number of COVID-19 cases has put parents of students who are preparing hard to appear for the SSC Board exams scheduled to begin on July 10, on tenterhooks. The government, as a precautionary measure, brought down the number of papers from 12 to six. This is to minimise the number of days when students will be exposed to any possible health threat. The Education Department is leaving no stone unturned to make the exams a hassle-free affair by making elaborate arrangements to maintain the COVID-19 protocol. “The government contention that students should be given a chance to prove their mettle by writing this crucial examination is right in its place, but the rise in COVID-19 cases poses a grave threat to the children,” said P. Babu Reddy, general secretary of Andhra Pradesh United Teachers Federation (AUTF). Citing the observation made by the Supreme Court on Wednesday on the issue of conduct of exams for classes 10 and 12 for students of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) schools, State president of the Municipal Teachers’ Federation S. Ramakrishna said even the Supreme Court asked the CBSE to consider cancellation of the pending papers for these classes in view of a sharp spike in cases. ‘Unprecedented crisis’  Mr. Ramakrishna said the State government should consider what the apex court has suggested to the Central board, keeping in minds the larger interests of the student community. “The pandemic has brought about an unprecedented crisis and it is impossible to focus on exam preparation,” said Ashish Kakamanu, a 10th class student. Wary of the situation, the government seems to be treading cautiously on the issue. In a recent meeting held by Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh with the officials of the department and members of the parents’ committee, serious concerns are said to have been raised by parents and representatives of teachers’ unions. Maintaining that the government’s priority was to hold the examination, the Minister said an ‘appropriate’ decision would be taken on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anxiety-mounts-as-ssc-exam-date-draws-closer/article31856501.ece
18 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Highest single-day spike with 351 new cases||As many as 351 persons have tested positive for COVID-19, the highest so far in the State, in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 7,071. Andhra Pradesh has been in the forefront in conducting the tests and it has so far tested 5,98,474 people. Of them, 3,641 people won the battle with the virus and were discharged (128 of them new cases).The number of active cases stands at 3,340. The toll has mounted to 90 with two more persons succumbing to the virus in the last 24 hours. Among the new cases, 275 of them are locals, 50 from other States and 26 of them comprise people who recently returned from abroad. Hotspots Of the total 7,071 positive cases, 5,555 people are from the 13 districts of the State, 1,253 of them from other States and the remaining 263 are foreign returnees. Similarly, the 3,340 active cases include 2,559 from the State, 562 from other States and 219 foreign returnees. Among the 3,641 people discharged so far, 2,906 of them are from different parts of the State, 691 from other States and 44 foreign returnees.  There is a clear spurt in the positive cases being reported from the districts every day. Kurnool, Krishna and Guntur, in that order, have so far contributed the highest number of cases. Kurnool, a hotspot, has reported 1,151 cases, followed by Krishna that has contributed to the rising graph by reporting 821 cases and Guntur 694 cases. They are followed by Anantapur (580 cases), Nellore (425), East Godavari (404), Chittoor (388), West Godavari (348), Kadapa (269), Visakhapatnam (229), Prakasam (117), Vizianagaram (74) and Srikakulam (55).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/highest-single-day-spike-with-351-new-cases/article31856499.ece
18 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP objects to three capitals proposal||TDP MLC Buddha Venkanna on Wednesday objected to the State government “continuing its constitutional violations” to form three capitals cities for Andhra Pradesh much against the wishes of the people of the State. He asked the YSR Congress Party to recall its pre-election promise that it would retain and develop Amaravati as Capital city. “After coming to power, Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy reversed his stand and went back on his promise on the issue of the capital,” he said. Speaking to mediapersons outside Legislative Council, the TDP MLC asked the Chief Minister to explain how the newly formed State would develop if it got stuck in the confusion emerging from the three capitals proposal. The State needed a strong and single capital city in order to register progress and development. If there were three capitals, it would be like a human body having three heads which will tear it apart by pulling it in different directions, he said. Slamming the State government, he alleged that the government had taken a very adamant and vengeful stand against Amaravati just out of political considerations. The people of the State were upset over the vindictive and undemocratic governance of YSRCP and they would teach a fitting lesson at an appropriate time, he said. ‘Illogical’ The TDP leader reiterated his party's commitment to fight back YSRCP’s “illogical and unethical” plans to fulfil its selfish agenda by going ahead with the three capitals decision. Under the leadership of Mr. Chandrababu Naidu, the TDP would achieve its goal finally and nothing untoward would happen to Amaravati. The sacrifice made by thousands of farmers who gave their lands would not go waste and Andhra Pradesh would emerge stronger with a fully developed single Capital eventually, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-objects-to-three-capitals-proposal/article31856496.ece
18 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Electricity staff oppose BOT model in projects||The Andhra Pradesh Power Generating Employees’ Union (APPGEU) has opposed the introduction of Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) model in the projects being implemented by A.P. Green Energy Corporation Limited and AP-Genco. Adopting the BOT model in the execution of 10,000-MW solar power projects of APGECL would be a drain on the exchequer as it would open the field for private players, APPGEU general secretary A. Srinivasa Kumar observed in a letter to Energy Secretary N. Srikant on Wednesday. Mr. Kumar stated that if the government implemented the 10,000-MW solar power projects on its own, subsidy on agriculture connections running into thousands of crores of rupees could be prevented from going into private pockets. Besides, the assets would be with APGECL/AP-Genco.  An investment of just Rs. 11 lakh (AP-Genco and Solar Energy Corporation of India Rs. 5 lakh each and NREDCAP Rs. 1 lakh) in the AP-Solar Power Corporation Limited coupled with Central grants and loans generated an asset of Rs. 1,500 crore, the APPGEU asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/electricity-staff-oppose-bot-model-in-projects/article31856032.ece
18 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||2-day webinar to focus on persons with disabilities||The Higher Education for Persons with Special Needs (HEPSN) wing of the Andhra Loyola College (ALC), in collaboration with Youth4Jobs Foundation and Xavier Board of Higher Education in India, will organise a national-level webinar on 'Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities in Higher Education and Employment'. The two-day online (through Zoom) event will be held on June 22 and 23. K. Damayanthi, Principal Secretary, Department of Women, Child, Disabled and Senior Citizens Welfare, will be the chief guest. The panel of speakers include Founder and CEO, Youth4Jobs Foundation, Meera Shenoy, Country Director and Managing Trustee, CBM India, SaraVrughese, Trustee, Help the Blind Foundation, Chennai, Nataraj Sankaran, Programme Manager for Youth4Jobs Ramesh Duraikannan and Assistant Professor from Indraprastha College for Women, Delhi, B.R. Alamelu. The objective of the event is to highlight the need to promote the rights of persons with disabilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-day-webinar-to-focus-on-persons-with-disabilities/article31856035.ece
18 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC agrees to conduct physical hearing||The High Court on Wednesday posted a matter pertaining to the payment of money due to contractors under the Neeru-Chettu programme (likely to be in excess of Rs. 50 crore) to after July 6 keeping in view the time required to go through a voluminous report submitted by the Vigilance Department. During the hearing into a batch of PILs filed by some former sarpanches, Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and Justice K. Lalitha Kumari found merit in Government Pleader (GP) C. Sumon’s contention that the matter related to recovery of money and it was brought to the court’s notice in the garb of PILs. The PILs were, therefore, not maintainable, the GP argued. Mr. Sumon told the judges that the Vigilance Department, which was entrusted the task of looking into the irregularities in the implementation of the scheme and the money embezzled by government employees and contractors, sent final reports in relation to 530 cases. The money misappropriated could be far more than what was initially detected. Since the court has to look into all those reports, a physical hearing is essential, the GP asserted and the court agreed to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-agrees-to-conduct-physical-hearing/article31856489.ece
18 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor mourns soldiers||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has expressed condolences to the family members of Col. B. Santosh Babu, who died in a face-off with Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, on Monday. Governor’s ADC Major Sahil Manajan placed the wreath and paid homage to the martyr at Hakimpet Air Force Station on Wednesday, on behalf of Mr. Harichandan, according to a press release issued from Raj Bhavan. “My salutes to the bravehearts who sacrificed their lives for the nation and attained martyrdom in fighting with the enemies,” Mr. Harichandan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-mourns-martyrs/article31856038.ece
18 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kanna urges Governor to ensure independence of SEC||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana has appealed to Governor Biswa Busan Harichandan to ensure independent functioning of the State Election Commission (SEC) by restoring N. Ramesh Kumar as its Commissioner in tune with the judicial pronouncements. In a letter to the Governor on Wednesday, Mr. Lakshminarayana stated that the government’s failure to act as per his (Governor’s) instructions amounts to breakdown of the Constitution and would have serious repercussions. He pointed out that it was the role of the Governor to protect the Constitution as the Head of the State by preventing the government’s interference in the SEC affairs. Mr. Lakshminarayana alleged that the government was not allowing Mr. Ramesh Kumar to travel to Vijayawada and resume duty from his office by creating “physical obstacles” even after the High Court ordered that he be restored as the SEC. The government had allegedly posted police personnel to prevent Mr. Kumar from entering the SEC office in city, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kanna-urges-governor-to-ensure-independence-of-sec/article31856505.ece
18 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu to meet Governor today||TDP president and Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly N. Chandrababu Naidu will meet Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on Thursday and complain about the “rampant violation of the rule of law and fundamental rights” under the YSRCP government in the State. Mr. Naidu is scheduled to meet the Governor here at 6 p.m. He will raise the issue of “false cases” filed against three BC leaders of the party in the last four days. “YSRCP’s undemocratic activities have caused fear, apprehensions and insecurity among the SC, ST, BC and Minorities,” according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-to-meet-governor-today/article31856502.ece
18 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Essentials distributed to transgenders||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh distributed groceries to the members of the transgender community in the Kandrika area of the city on Wednesday. Mr. Venkatesh along with other officials handed over the groceries, including essential grains, oil, soaps and others packed in plastic buckets to 51 persons residing under the limits of 281 ward secretariat. He said that the essentials were donated by several organisations and persons in the city and the same were distributed among the poor who were affected by the lockdown imposed due to COVID outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/essentials-distributed-to-transgenders/article31856031.ece
18 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poor budgetary allocation for education decried||Leaders of the Andhra Pradesh United Teachers’ Federation said it was unfortunate that the budget allocation for the education sector this year has been reduced. In a statement, federation president Shaik Sabi and general secretary P. Babu Reddy pointed out that the 2020-21 budget of Rs. 2,24,789,18 presented by the Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath in the Assembly on Tuesday was 1.4 % less than last year’s budget. The education sector was allocated Rs. 22,604.01 crore which was only 10 % of the budget, 3 % less compared to last year. They said when compared to the former TDP government, the ruling YSR Congress Party had prioritised the education sector and had introduced a series of programmes such as Amma Vodi, Naadu-Nedu, Jagananna Vidya Kanuka, and Vidya Deevena among others but budget for the purpose had not been increased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poor-budgetary-allocation-for-education-decried/article31856034.ece
18 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Appughar reports 13 cases in single day||Fifteen new COVID-19 cases were reported in Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday, taking the tally to 328. Out of the 15 new cases, 13 cases are from Appughar area alone, while among the remaining two cases, one is an air traveller and the other a train traveller. Meanwhile, 21 persons have been discharged. The total number of discharges rose to 165, while the number of active cases as on Wednesday is 163. Appughar in Zone II became the new containment zone in the district after a person who runs a tea stall, along with two of his family members, tested positive recently. Now, 13 more persons from the same locality tested positive, taking the total count to 16. The Health Department has sent ANMs and other staff to conduct a survey and find symptomatic cases. People from the neighbouring localities have barred the entry of people from the containment zone and other places by barricading entry points. According to a senior official from the Health Department, the case of Appughar seems like another Dandu Bazaar, which witnessed an outbreak in May. A very high population density in the area, where people live in congested lanes, could have led to the outbreak here, the official said, adding that it is feared that the area might see more cases in the coming days. According to MVP police station Inspector Ch. Shanmukha Rao, as the number of cases in the cluster is on the rise, the containment zone which was spread over 150 m has now been extended to 500 m. A few localities on Beach Road will also come under the zone. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 P.V Sudhakar, with the addition of new clusters at ITI junction, Malkapuram (Palli Veedhi), Official Colony, Kirlampudi Layout and Nathavaram, the total number of active clusters will be 46. He also said that there are 19 active clusters and six dormant clusters. Twenty-five clusters have already been de-notified, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appughar-reports-13-cases-in-single-day/article31856527.ece
18 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID testing centre gears up for Vande Bharat passengers||The Port Sitarama Kalyana Mandapam, which is the designated COVID-19 testing centre for passengers arriving at the Visakhapatnam International Airport, is gearing up to test a large number of persons arriving on Vande Bharat flights in the next two weeks. Five Vande Bharat flights as well as a couple of chartered flights are expected to arrive at the city airport in the next two weeks, according to airport officials. All the arriving passengers will be taken directly from the airport to the kalyana mandapam by bus, where they will undergo swab tests for COVID-19. ‘Arduous process’ Both officials and passengers agree that the process of testing each and every individual is arduous and time-consuming. “It takes at least a few minutes to test each passenger and complete the formalities. The entire process takes several hours,” said an official at the kalyana mandapam. The same process applies not just for international passengers but for those arriving in the city on domestic flights too. An IT professional working in Hyderabad reached the city on an IndiGo flight on June 11 at 10 p.m. All the passengers on that flight were taken to the kalyana mandapam for swab testing. By the time they reached, it was 10.30 p.m. “There were already scores of passengers who came on earlier flights awaiting their turn. The entire process of taking down passenger details was being done manually,” he said. “It took more than three hours for the process to be completed. Passengers were not being allowed to hire taxis and had to wait for the completion of the tests of all other passengers.”  Anu, who came from Bengaluru, said, “We were taken from the airport to the quarantine centre in RTC special buses. There is no social distancing. However, the authorities gave priority to pregnant women and senior citizens,” she said. Passengers said that instead of making all buses at the airport wait till the arrival of the last passenger from the flight, the buses that are filled can be allowed to proceed to the kalyana mandapam which will prevent unnecessary crowding. “The personal details and travel history can be secured from the Spandana app as the same is already taken from the passengers before issuing of the e-pass. Integration with the Spandana app will avoid duplication of work and thereby save the time of passengers,” said Muralikrishna of Travel IQ.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-testing-centre-gears-up-for-vande-bharat-passengers/article31856518.ece
18 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rich tributes paid to deceased jawans||Rich tributes were paid in the city to soldiers who were killed on the Line of Actual Control in a clash with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army at Galwan. A group of BJP and BJYM leaders gathered at the War Memorial on Beach Road on Wednesday and paid tribute to the soldiers killed in the line of duty. Former MP Kambhampati Haribabu said that 20 Indian jawans, including Colonel B. Santosh Babu from Suryapet in Telangana, were killed in the clash. The Indian jawans fought valiantly and killed several Chinese soldiers, he said, calling upon people to boycott Chinese goods in India. BJP Parliamentary district president M. Ravindra and party leader Kasiviswanadha Raju and BJYM national executive member K. Surendra Mohan participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rich-tributes-paid-to-deceased-jawans/article31856523.ece
18 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scrap SSC exams in view of pandemic, appeals BVF||Bala Vikas Foundation, an NGO working for child rights, has sought the scrapping of the SSC examinations this year in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. In letters to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan and Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh, BVF secretary Narava Prakasa Rao said that schools in Andhra Pradesh and across the country have been closed since March due to the lockdown. The children, confined to their homes, were experiencing stress and anxiety, he said. “The Government of A.P. recently announced its determination to conduct the SSC examinations over five days from July 10. This would mean that 6.39 lakh students have to attend the examinations and the services of around 50,000 teachers, and an additional 15,000 staff on invigilation work and around 20,000 police personnel have to be deployed at the examination centres,” Mr. Prakasa Rao said. “Gathering of children at the examination centres and in examination halls during the pandemic is not safe and any lapse could lead to a lot of damage. States like Telangana, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh have already scrapped their respective Class X board exams this year and some more States are also considering doing so,” he said. “It would be a herculean task for the government to conduct the examinations in view of the increasing number of positive cases. Hence, it would be better to declare common grading for all students and promote them to the next class without examinations,” the BVF secretary said. Mr. Prakasa Rao appealed to the State Government to reconsider its decision on holding the examinations in the interest of the school students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scrap-ssc-exams-in-view-of-pandemic-appeals-bvf/article31856521.ece
18 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||FSAI Vizag chapter elects new team||The Visakhapatnam chapter of Fire and Security Association of India (FSAI) elected its new team of office bearers through a webinar on Tuesday evening. S.P.B. Rangacharyulu was elected president of the Visakhapatnam chapter and CWC members. Director of Disaster Response and Fire Services Department K. Jayaram Naik , Hindustan Oil Exploration Company Ltd. MD Elango P and Admiral K. Mohan Rao of Indian Navy attended. FSAI national president Suresh Menon called upon the Visakhapatnam chapter representatives to focus more on student awareness programmes to meet FSAI targets apart from women’s safety and creation of a women safety committee. Mr. Rangacharyulu spoke on the plans for partnering with Central and State Government bodies in the formulation and implementation of safety and security policies, encourage members to uphold world-class quality standards and continuous engagement with all the member companies and stakeholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fsai-vizag-chapter-elects-new-team/article31856520.ece
18 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||14 kg hash oil, 917 kg ganja seized||Officials from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) arrested a person and allegedly seized 14 kg of hash oil from his possession near Nandivalasa village at Hukumpeta mandal in Visakhapatnam district, on Wednesday. The seized hash oil is estimated to be worth Rs. 12-15 lakh. According to sources, a team of SEB Paderu conducted a raid in Nandivalasa area after receiving credible information and recovered the hash oil. The SEB team nabbed a person hailing from Bengaluru. Sources said that the accused was allegedly trying to smuggle the hash oil to Bengaluru, but due to the lockdown, he was stuck in Hukumpeta. Two nabbed An SEB team from Chintapalle arrested two persons while they were allegedly transporting 917 kg of ganja worth Rs. 90 lakh in a lorry near Lambasingi under Chintapalle police station limits, here on Wednesday. According to sources, two persons loaded ganja in their vehicle at Malkangiri in neighbouring Odisha and were heading to Rajamahendravaram. In order to escape from the police, the smugglers fabricated a box inside the driver’s cabin, where they stored the ganja. “The vehicle is registered in Uttar Pradesh. The driver and cleaner were hired and they were instructed to hand over the vehicle at Rajamahendravaram. We are suspecting that the smugglers might have planned to shift the contraband to Uttar Pradesh or Delhi,” said a police official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/14-kg-hash-oil-917-kg-ganja-seized/article31856524.ece
18 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight held in sainik welfare funds scam||The CID, Visakhapatnam on Monday arrested eight persons in connection with the Sanik Welfare Board scam reported in 2018. The CID probe began after Majji Seethamma, wife of an ex-serviceman, and 94 others lodged a police complaint alleging that then executive board members of Ex-Servicemen Mutually Aided Cooperative House Building Society, in collusion with then Zilla Sainik Welfare Officer P. Satya Prasad and eight others, made around 3,594 members join the society and collected Rs. 24 crore, promising house sites. They allegedly misappropriated funds by showing government land as if it were alienated to the society. The accused were sent to judicial remand till June 29, said investigating officer Malla Seshu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-held-in-sainik-welfare-funds-scam/article31856515.ece
18 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central Tribal University launches two new courses||The Central Tribal University (CTU), which is now functioning from Andhra University’s Vizianagaram campus, has launched two new courses— Master in Journalism and Mass Communication (MJMC) and five-year integrated M.Sc programme in geology—this academic year.  “The five-year M.Sc geology programme will have an exit option after the third year,” said P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy, Vice-Chancellor of Andhra University, which is mentoring the CTU. The CTU is offering various academic programmes including M.Sc (Chemistry) with a special focus on medicinal chemistry, and Master in Social Work. The other integrated programmes are B.Sc (mathematics, physics and chemistry) merged with M.Sc (Chemistry), and BBA (Tourism) merged with MBA (Hospitality management). All these programmes have exit options after the third year. The diploma programmes include PG diplomas in computer applications, cyber security, tourism and hospitality and diploma in horticulture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/central-tribal-university-launches-two-new-courses/article31856513.ece
18 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||DYFI decries budget cut for youth, sports||The city unit of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) on Wednesday condemned the steep cut in the budget allocation for youth, sports and skill development in the State Budget. “The budget for sports is down by 54.25%, skill development by 18.8%, youth development and tourism and culture departments by 54.7% as compared to the previous budget,” DYFI city secretary U.S.N. Raju and its president K. Mahesh said in a statement on Wednesday. They said it was unfair to neglect youth, sports and culture. The government had promised to fill up the 1.83 lakh vacant posts through DSC and in State Government departments. But now, there was no mention of it in the budget, which shows the lack of commitment of the State Government towards youth. There was also no mention of establishment of new industries and creation of new jobs, they alleged. They sought allocation of funds to provide ‘unemployment allowance’ to jobless youths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dyfi-decries-budget-cut-for-youth-sports/article31856519.ece
18 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three held for ‘bootlegging’||Officials of the City Task Force (CTF) arrested three persons for allegedly selling liquor without possessing a licence, and seized 42 liquor bottles from their possession, on Wednesday. Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP-CTF) A. Trinad Rao conducted a raid at Thotagaruvu junction and arrested a man named N. Varahala Reddy for allegedly selling liquor illegally. Police seized 30 bottles from him. Another team conducted a raid at Chinamushidiwada fish market and caught two persons named B. Balaraju and V. Srinivasa Rao for allegedly selling liquor without a licence. Police seized 12 bottles from them. The cases have been handed over to Arilova and Pendurthi police stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-held-for-bootlegging/article31856528.ece
18 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayyanna booked under Nirbhaya Act||The Narsipatnam town police booked cases against senior TDP leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu under various Sections of the IPC, including 354 A (IV), late on Tuesday night following a complaint lodged by Municpal Commissioner K. Krishnaveni. In her complaint, Ms. Krishnaveni accused Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu of using “derogatory, offensive and sexually coloured language” against her, at a protest site outside the municipal office on Monday. Superintendent of Police, Visakhapatnam, B. Krishna Rao, confirmed that a case under Section 354 A (IV), which falls under the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013 (Nirbhaya Act), was filed against the TDP leader. Mr. Patrudu had staged the protest against removal of the photograph of his grandfather and former sarparnch from the municipal office. Sources said the photograph had been kept in another room as painting work was in progress. Earlier, the police booked a suo motu case against Mr. Patrudu for violating the COVID-19 guidelines. The situation in Narsipatnam is tense as he may be arrested any time. Meanwhile, the Visakhapatnam police booked cases against MLA V. Ramakrishna Babu on Wednesday for violating COVID norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ayyanna-booked-under-nirbhaya-act/article31855981.ece
18 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Agency bandh total on Day 1||The first 24 hours in the 48-hour bandh call given by the Girijan Joint Action Committee in the Visakha Agency passed off peacefully . The bandh was near total with vehicles, including APSRTC buses remaining off the road, and shops and establishments closed for the day. The bandh call was given by the JAC demanding that the State government file a review petition in the Supreme Court against the apex court’s quashing of the order providing 100% reservation to Scheduled Tribe (ST) candidates for the posts of teachers in schools in the Scheduled Areas.  JAC demand “Since the Assembly is in progress, we want that the State government to file a review petition and see that G.O. 3, which was passed in the year 2000 be brought back into implementation. The G.O. guaranteed 100% reservation for STs for the posts of teachers in schools in Schedule Areas,” said Killo Surendra of the JAC. Additional forces were deployed in all the 11 mandals in the Agency area to prevent untoward incident. Earlier, the bandh call for the same issue was given on June 9 and it was supported by the CPI (Maoist).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/agency-bandh-total-on-day-1/article31856514.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bumper yield||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bumper-yield/article31856041.ece
18 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Most unlikely pet! People buying red velvet mite||The name of the red velvet mite (Trombidiidae) just got added to the list of the most unlikely pets in Adilabad district head quarter town. Yes, people here are purchasing these velvety insects, also called rain bugs or ‘aridra purugu’ in Telugu and ‘beerbahuti’ in Hindi, to keep them as pets at home, despite their life span in the adult phase being much shorter. The rain bugs are bright red in colour and the coat of fine hairs is velvet like. These insects appear in soil during the start of the rainy season. “I collect more than a 100 of these creatures everyday and sell it for a price between Rs. 2 and Rs. 5 each,” said Md. Shahid, a school student belonging to Bokkalguda locality, who has been collecting the mites from the aerodrome since the last few days. “On the first day, I just happened to take a few of the lovely creatures home and they became an instant hit with our people and now I am earning between Rs. 200 and Rs. 500 every day,” he disclosed of the business aspect. Md. Shahid and one of his friends have little to do with schools being closed due to COVID-19. “We chanced upon the business when we went to the aerodrome for a stroll recently,” he pointed out. The boy uses common sense to advise his customers on the care to be taken with these pets. He asks them to feed the insects with grass much like what he puts into the bottle when he picks them up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/most-unlikely-pet-people-buying-red-velvet-mite/article31856314.ece
18 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Agriculture ordinance renders marketing panels inconsequential||The ordinance promulgated recently to promote inter-State and intra-State trade in farmers’ produce, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance 2020, has spread a scare within the marketing department in the State as it will render it and the agriculture marketing committees irrelevant. The ordinance, which makes a provision for trading in agriculture produce almost anywhere outside the market yards, has put a big question mark on the very existence of the employees in the department. The top officials in the department are now busy preparing a road map for the immediate future by collecting all details with regard to income and expenditure of the committees at district level and strength of employees at different levels. The road map with appropriate suggestions will be submitted to the government seeking its positive action. If trading takes place outside the market yards, the market committees will be deprived of their income in the shape of one per cent cess on transactions. If this happens, likely from the coming trading season, employees of the marketing committees will have their source of salary dried up. In the last trading season, the market committees in Adilabad cumulatively earned about Rs. 15 crore as cess on cotton trading by the Cotton Corporation of India alone. Thanks to the ordinance, the CCI will carry on with trading in ginning mills itself instead of coming to agriculture market yards, according to insiders. The beginning of austerity measures in the marketing department indicates that it is scared of uncertainty in future. It has also suspended all developmental activities that take place through funding from marketing funds. “The State earns an income of about Rs. 360 crore from marketing fee every year. The expenditure comes to about Rs. 125 crore that includes Rs. 50 crore towards salaries of 834 employees, Rs. 44 crore towards pensions of 2,600 retired employees and Rs. 34 crore as salaries of outsourcing personnel,” revealed a source in the department as he tried to present a clearer picture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/agriculture-ordinance-renders-marketing-panels-inconsequential/article31856315.ece
18 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||BRF-1||Adilabad Municipal chairman Jogu Premender on Wednesday exhorted people to shun Chinese products. He said that China must be weakened economically to teach that country a lesson after its incursion in Indian territory and killing of 20 soldiers. Mr. Premender, vice chairman Zaheer Ramzani, TRS floor leader in the municipality Bandari Satish and other councillors were paying tributes to the soldiers who were martyred on the night of June 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf-1/article31856316.ece
18 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Apply mind in filing affidavits on ‘excesses’, police told||Observing that counter-affidavits filed by the police on a batch of PIL petitions on “police excesses during lockdown” lacked complete details, the Telangana High Court said the police needed to apply mind and file all relevant documents before it. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy pointed out several lacunae in the affidavits filed by the police in different cases. In one case, a petitioner alleged that policemen had damaged their vehicles outside their houses. “It was surprising that police maintained that they used batons (lathis) to check vehicles due to coronavirus,” the CJ said. He said it was baffling that police had used batons to check vehicles and claimed that the vehicles had got damaged in the process. In the case of an alleged police attack on a motorist, Muralikrishna, in Wanaparthy reported in April, the police asked the victim to go to police station to lodge a complaint. “Can a victim of police go to police station and lodge complaint and will the police there register cases against their colleagues?’ the CJ remarked. In 80% of the cases, the police claimed that the alleged victims had denied police abuse or excesses. “But where are the copies of the statements of the victims? Without those statements, how can the courts rely on statements of police,” the bench said. Referring to the Wanaparthy case, the bench said the police statement said the accused policeman had behaved in a high-handed manner but gave ‘minor punishment’. ‘No medical reports’ In instances of civilians sustaining injuries in cases of alleged police excesses, medical reports were also not filed. A case in point was that of a youngster, Junaid, who had sustained injury above his eye allegedly after a Home Guard of Golconda police had beaten him up. “Junaid had 35 sutures for the injury. In this case, medical report and the doctor’s opinion as to how the injury was caused is crucial,” said the bench. The reports presented by the police suggested that facts were not being mentioned, the bench said. The police did not file any medical report or the outcome of the subsequent departmental inquiry in this case. In a good number of cases, police claimed that the alleged victims had retracted on their allegations. Unless statements of the victims were placed before the court, these aversions could not be relied upon, the bench said. Noting that a counter-affidavit filed by DGP M. Mahender Reddy in one of the PIL pleas “was vague”, the Chief Justice said the Diretor-General of Police should explain what specific action had been initiated against the erring officers. The bench instructed Advocate-General B. S. Prasad to present detailed affidavits in all PIL petitions on “police excesses”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/apply-mind-in-filing-affidavits-on-excesses-police-told/article31856293.ece
18 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lockdown phase over, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi clarified on Wednesday that the lockdown phase was over in the country and ‘unlock’ has started. The PM said this in response to a request by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, during a video conference with him, that clarity be given in the wake of rumours that another lockdown would be imposed again across the nation. Mr. Narendra Modi said that there would not be any other lockdown in the country again. “The four phases of lockdown are over and at present, unlock 1.0 is on. All of us must now discuss how unlock 2.0 should be implemented,” the PM said. Mr. Rao also explained about the steps taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the State. “At present, COVID is under control and the death rate is also less. We are confident that with the united efforts of the Centre and State, the war against coronavirus will be won,” he said. “In Telangana, COVID cases are being reported only in Hyderabad and its surrounding districts and efforts are on to control the spread of the disease in these areas,” he said, adding that he was confident that the situation would be fully under control in a few days and normal life would slowly be restored. “Migrant workers, including hamalis, are getting ready to go to other states for work. Hamalis from Bihar are gearing up to come to Telangana. They should get an opportunity to go anywhere in the country for work and earn a living,” he added. In a lighter vein, Mr. Rao responded to reports that Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar was discouraging hamalis from his State to go to other states. “We will look after your hamalis well Nitish ji and our Chief Secretary is also from Bihar. Do send your hamalis,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lockdown-phase-over-says-modi/article31856309.ece
18 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor promulgated ordinance on pay, pension deferment, HC told||The State government on Wednesday told the Telangana High Court that the Governor had promulgated an ordinance the previous day, making provision for deferment of pension or salaries to retired and serving employees respectively. Advocate General B.S. Prasad informed this to a Bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijayen Reddy, while hearing a batch of PIL pleas challenging government’s action of deferring pensions and salaries. During the previous hearing, held a couple of days ago, the Bench told the AG that government cannot defer pension payments unless it was backed by a specific law. GO on salary The GO deferring 25% pension and 50% salaries of retired employees and serving employees respectively was liable to be set aside unless a specific law was made empowering the State to do so, the Bench said. Since the State government presented the ordinance, the petitioners have to amend the prayer in their PIL petitions, the High Court said. Counsels for the petitioners said that they would amend their prayers by challenging the ordinance promulgated by the Governor. The batch of pleas were posted to June 24. PIL against muthavallis In another PIL plea seeking direction to police to take action against muthavallis who did not allow burial of a Muslim man in the burial grounds under their jurisdiction, the Telangana High Court appointed lawyer Sanisetty Venkateshwarlu as amicus curiae to assist the court. A letter written by Abid Rasool Khan on the matter was taken up as PIL plea by the High Court. Another PIL plea with similar content was filed by a person Khaja Bilal Ahmed. However, Ahmed did not make muthavallis as parties in the plea. Mr. Venkateshwarlu being the counsel of Mr. Ahmed, the Bench said that he would be familiar with the subject and appointed him as amicus curiae. The Bench asked him to make muthavallis as parties in the plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-promulgated-ordinance-on-pay-pension-deferment-hc-told/article31856304.ece
18 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS ordinance ‘anti-employee’: BJP||The Telangana unit of BJP on Wednesday asked the TRS government to immediately withdraw the ordinance making a special provision for deferment of payments to its employees and termed it an ‘anti-employee ordinance’. City president and MLC N. Ramchander Rao told the media that the ordinance would only lead to more harassment of government employees and pensioners by stopping their payments. “They are already getting low salaries after the government had cut their pay/pensions in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak,” he pointed out and questioned the silence of employees’ union leaders on this latest blow by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The party also expressed grief and paid tribute to Colonel B. Santosh Babu and other Armymen who had laid down their lives in a skirmish with Chinese troops at Galwan valley in Ladakh. Meet over Bonalu In a separate digital media conference, party MLA T. Raja Singh urged the Chief Minister to host an all-party on Bonalu celebrations and issue guidelines for arrangements. He expressed his dissatisfaction at the earlier meeting called by Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav and said that it did not take any suggestions from others. “The government has taken an unilateral decision and announced that people should celebrate the festival inside their houses contrary to the traditional system. One woman from each house should be allowed to go to the temple to perform pujas following social distancing,” he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-ordinance-anti-employee-bjp/article31856305.ece
18 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||269 new coronavirus cases in Telangana||Highest number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana in a day was recorded on Wednesday as 269 more swab samples tested positive for coronavirus, taking the total number of cases to 5,675. The second highest of 253 was recorded on June 13. One more COVID-19 patient died. This is the lowest count of deaths in a day this month. The highest of 14 deaths was recorded on June 7. It may be noted that the State government has started performing 50,000 tests in 30 Assembly constituencies from Monday to gauge prevalence of the disease. The number of cases in the coming days will help know the extent of COVID spread in the State. The Health department performed 1,096 tests on Wednesday. A total of 45,911 tests were performed till June 17. The 269 new cases include 214 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 13 from Rangareddy, 10 from Warangal Urban. Of the 5,675 total cases, 2,412 are active cases, 3071 were discharged, and 192 died. Of the 192 COVID patients in Telangana who died till date, 157 patients (81%) suffered from one or multiple diseases. Of the total deaths, 71 suffered from hypertension and diabetes, 21 suffered from diabetes and cardiovascular diseases, 22 had hypertension, 11 had diabetes, five had chronic kidney diseases, and five were cancer patients. Senior officials from the State Health department have been stressing that people with co-morbidities such as hypertension, or patients whose vital organs are not functioning normally, are more at risk. Age-wise distribution of the cases reveals why young population have to be careful. According to the details shared by State’s Director of Public Health Dr G Srinivasa Rao, 2,120 of the total 5,675 cases are people in the 16 to 35 age bracket. In other words, 37% of cases are among young population. Of all age groups, the highest of 679 were among people between 21 to 25 years. As age group increased, number of cases decreased. For instance, 519 cases were detected among 46-50 age group, which reduced to 458 in 51-55 age group, and 369 among 56-60. The lowest of 5 cases were among 91-95 age group. Of the total cases, 65% (3671) were among female patients and 35% (2004) among male patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/269-new-coronavirus-cases-in-telangana/article31856285.ece
18 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Trees chopped off for power lines in FCI Colony||Indiscriminate chopping of several grown up trees in FCI Colony of L.B. Nagar on Tuesday stands witness for utter lack of coordination among government departments. Morning walkers on Wednesday counted a total of 11 freshly felled tree stumps lining the roads in FCI Colony Phase-II. Upon enquiries, it was revealed that the felling was done to prevent the branches from coming into contact with LT power lines above. It is the practice by the TSSPDCL to prune branches of trees when they interfere with electricity lines and cause frequent tripping of power. However, care is exercised to prune only the problematic branches and not chop off the tree. “Here, entire tree was chopped, leaving only stems. FCI Colony has premium value for its lush green surroundings, and if this is the attitude of authorities, it will not be long before the colony is shorn of all its beauty,” said M.Srinivas, a morning walker. Enquiries with the GHMC’s Urban Biodiversity officials have revealed that they were not informed about the tree felling. Though it was proposed earlier that discom should work in coordination with GHMC when it comes to tree pruning, it is hardly ever put into practice. “Discom hands over the pruning job to contractors, who do not care to retain the trees. These trees were planted back in 2007-08, before power lines came up,” said an official from the Urban Biodiversity wing of GHMC.  Discom hands over the pruning job to contractors, who do not care to retain the trees.   Official,  Urban Biodiversity wing, GHMC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trees-chopped-off-for-power-lines-in-fci-colony/article31856322.ece
18 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Governor, Ministers pay tributes at Hakimpet||The mortal remains of Colonel Bikkumalla Santosh Kumar arrived at Hakimpet in a special flight late on Wednesday evening. Colonel Santosh Kumar's body was flown to the Hakimpet airport by a special flight via Chandigarh. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan led the officials as well as defence personnel in paying tributes to the slain colonel at the airport. Accompanied by Ministers K.T. Rama Rao, Malla Reddy and senior officials, the Governor waited at the airport for the body to arrive. Official honours The body was received with official honours and many people, who gathered at the airport, paid tributes to the mortal remains of Santosh Kumar. The Colonel attained martyrdom along with several other soldiers following an attack by the Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in Ladakh on Tuesday while defending the country’s borders. Several other soldiers were said to have suffered serious injuries in the attack.  The Governor said that the brave officer’s supreme sacrifice would be remembered by the nation even as she offered deep condolences to the bereaved family. She said she is proud to be the Governor of Telangana, which is the birth place of the martyr. Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy also paid floral tributes to the martyred officer and offered condolences to the bereaved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-ministers-pay-tributes-at-hakimpet/article31856287.ece
18 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TPCC Treasurer tests positive for the virus||TPCC Treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy tested positive for COVID-19 and has been admitted to a private hospital. The Congress leader was active in distribution of masks and sanitisers in several slums recetly and also organised several programmes to create awareness among people against coronavirus in Secunderabad Assembly constituency. He was also active in interacting with mediapersons during the last two weeks. He said the State government was denying prevalance of community transmission in Telangana for unknown reasons, forgetting that accepting it would in fact make people more alert and help prevent further spread of the virus. Waqf Board employee A 62-year-old employee of Telangana State Waqf Board has also tested positive for the virus. According to TSWB officials, the patient had not reported for work since June 10. He was suffering from renal issues and underwent dialysis several times. He was taken to a private hospital in Banjara Hills where he tested positiveafter which he was moved to Gandhi Hospital. Sources said some other employees have also not been reporting to work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tpcc-treasurer-tests-positive-for-the-virus/article31856289.ece
18 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man, woman found dead in Vikarabad||A 21-year-old electrician and his recently married female friend were found dead on the outskirts of Poolpally village in Nawabpet mandal of Vikarabad district on Wednesday. The victims were identified as Sarla Karthik and K. Sara Meena (21), both from Gollapally village in Chevella mandal of Rangareddy district. The duo, said to be in a relationship, committed suicide by hanging from a tree, said the police. “They had been in a relationship for the past few years. When Meena’s family came to know about it, they got her married to another man from Gattupally village in Maheshwaram mandal last month,” the Nawabpet police said. Unable to bear the separation, the two left their homes on Tuesday afternoon, spent some time at a secluded place and reached Poolpally village by evening, where they resorted to the extreme act, the investigators said. The incident came to light when Mallaiah, a farmer from Poolpally, noticed the bodies on his way to agricultural land, and alerted other villagers and the police. A note purportedly left by Karthik in his pocket said they took the decision to end their lives as Meena was married to another man against her will. A case of suspicious death under Section 174 of the CrPC was registered.  (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: +91 40662 02000 or 6666 1117)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-woman-found-dead-in-vikarabad/article31856296.ece
18 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dexamethasone given to patients at Gandhi||Gandhi Hospital doctors have started administering Dexamethasone, a corticosteroid which is claimed to have brought down deaths among critically-ill COVID patients to at least two at the hospital from Tuesday. Hospital Superintendent M Raja Rao said they have been administering other steroids too sincein the past two months to bring down inflammation (swelling), and that Dexamethasone was administered to two patients. However, the doctors have reservations about the claims. They want to give time to see if the medicine brings down deaths. Though the inexpensive drug has been in use in Telangana for many years, it shot into news after initial results of randomised controlled clinical trial from the UK were announced on Tuesday. As per preliminary results, Dexamethasone reduced mortality by one-third among patients on ventilators, and the mortality reduced by about one-fifth in patients receiving oxygen only. No benefit was observed among patients who did not need respiratory support. “Dexamethasone was administered to COVID patients from Tuesday to see the effect. We have been prescribing it to patients suffering from other illnesses,” said a doctor. Doctors and pharmacologists have cautioned people against self-administering Dexamethasone. Dean of National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Hyderabad, Srinivas Nanduri said though steroids have advantages, there are serious side effects also. “It should be used only based on doctor’s prescription,” Dr Nanduri said. Meanwhile, Telangana State Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation officials found out there are 2 lakh Dexamethasone tablets and 6.6 lakh injections available across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dexamethasone-given-to-patients-at-gandhi/article31856284.ece
18 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TS alerts 9 border districts over possible locust attack||The State government has directed the Collectors and administration of nine districts that are likely to be affected by locusts attack. There is need to have micro-level planning for vulnerable villages of the districts bordering neighbouring states like Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh. Officials concerned should take steps to create an inventory of human resources, material and equipment available in these villages. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar held a review meeting with senior officials of these districts following the directions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday. Directing the officials to be prepared to meet any eventuality, he wanted constitution of village-level teams involving all stakeholders. Special officers should be appointed in each of the mandal likely to be affected while a steering committee at the district-level should be set up to closely monitor the situation. The Collectors should work pro-actively in close coordination with officials of neighbouring districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-alerts-9-border-districts-over-possible-locust-attack/article31856319.ece
18 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Uppal police crack onion theft case||The Uppal police on Wednesday arrested a 34-year-old man in connection with the theft of 91 bags of onion worth Rs. 1.5 lakh. Police said Abhishek Dixit, a daily wage earner from Gowlipura market in the old city, was alcoholic and addicted to other vices. “To make a quick buck to meet his ends, Abhishek Dixit took to committing thefts. Recently, he committed three property offences at Uppal vegetable market," said Malkajgiri Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Rakshitha K. Murthy. She said that the accused used to engage auto trolleys in the guise of transporting onion bags to Gowlipura market and dispose of the stolen property. "At Uppal market, Dixit told people that he was a trader in old city," theDeputy Commissioner of Police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uppal-police-crack-onion-theft-case/article31856298.ece
18 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man held for ‘impregnating’ daughter||A painter, who allegedly sexually assaulted and impregnated his 15-year-old daughter, was arrested by the Dundigal police here on Wednesday. The girl was said to be five months pregnant. The 40-year-old accused from Suraram Colony in the area sexually assaulted the victim twice — in January and in the last week of March — and threatened her with dire consequence if she revealed the offence to her mother or relatives, police said. According to the police, the incident came to the knowledge of the girl’s mother 10 days ago, who took her to several hospitals for abortion. “As the doctors refused to perform abortion, they approached police, seeking help. Based on a complaint of the woman, a case under IPC and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered against the father,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-held-for-impregnating-daughter/article31856299.ece
18 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Withdraw ordinance on pay cut, says Vamshichand||AICC secretary and former MLA from Kalwakurthy Ch. Vamshichand Reddy took strong objection to the government promulgating an ordinance to defer payment of salaries and pensions during disaster and public health emergencies and said that no law or Act allows the government to defer employees’ salaries. Addressing a press meet here, he said it was a draconian move by the government with an apparent view that it was immune from court judgments or tribunals. “The order has triggered fears among employees and pensioners whether this government would ever repay salaries already cut or salaries in future, going by its attitude. The government has been making deferred payments to employees and pensioners for the last three months,” he said. He also said that payment of salary is certainly not a matter of charity and mentioned that GO 27 issued on March 30 this year by the Finance Department for deferment of salaries and pensions, is in gross violation of statutory norms and in violation of Article 300A of the Constitution. It was unfortunate that an ordinance was brought now, he said, and demanded immediate withdrawal of the ordinance and payment of full salaries to all employees and pensioners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/withdraw-ordinance-on-pay-cut-says-vamshichand/article31856312.ece
18 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR shocked||Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has expressed shock over the death of people from Madhira in a ghastly road accident in Krishna district of Andhra Pradesh. Mr. Rao conveyed his condolences to the members of the bereaved families and wished speedy recovery for those injured in the accident. He instructed the officials to extend all the necessary support and help the family members of those died and the injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-shocked/article31856320.ece
18 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Why a particular community?’||The CJ asked the Advocate-General why majority of the victims of alleged police excesses were from a particular community. Was the minority community targeted, the CJ sought to know, observing that it was a subtle but a vital issue. Even as the AG denied police having done so, the CJ said 99% policemen would be doing good but even 0.01% of them indulging in dereliction of duties could not be permitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/why-a-particular-community/article31856294.ece
18 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Homemaker found dead||A 45-year-old homemaker was found dead at her house near Gandimaisamma on Tuesday night. M. Bhagyamma ended her life by hanging from a ceiling fan, police said. “She was upset as her husband, M. Malyadri, had started consuming alcohol after a gap of 15 years.” A case was registered and the body was shifted to Gandhi Hospital for autopsy.  (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: +914066202000 or 6666 1117)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/homemaker-found-dead/article31856300.ece
18 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Farmer found dead in Chevella||A 50-year-old farmer was found dead at Pamena village in Chevella mandal of Rangareddy district. M. Anthaiah committed suicide by hanging himself from a giant tree in his agricultural field, police said. Sources said that the farmer resorted to the extreme step after his ancestral land was not transferred in his name by Revenue department officials. The incident took place around 1 p.m. on Wednesday. (Roshni - Suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmer-found-dead-in-chevella/article31856306.ece
18 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Narasimha Rao’s birth centenary on a grand scale: KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced that former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao’s centenary celebrations would be held on a grand scale for one year starting June 28, his birth anniversary. Mr. Rao said that the late Narasimha Rao had rendered yeoman’s service as the PM, freedom fighter, educationist and literary figure. “That a man with such extraordinary qualities hailed from Telangana is a matter of pride for the State,” he said. In this regard, the CM appointed a committee under the leadership of MP K. Keshav Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/narasimha-raos-birth-centenary-on-a-grand-scale-kcr/article31856311.ece
18 June 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Heart-rending scenes at hospital||As many as ten persons, including three children, those grievously injured in the ghastly road mishap involving a tractor trolley and a lorry in Andhra Pradesh’s Krishna district were admitted to the district headquarters hospital in the town on Wednesday evening. Two more injured - Kalyani, 18, and Laxmi, 20, of Pedda Gopavaram village in Yerrupalem mandal were declared brought dead at the hospital here. About 12 persons were killed in the horrific accident that took place near Vedadri in Jaggaiahpeta mandal of Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday afternoon, sources said. Of them seven hailed from Pedda Gopavaram in Yerrupalem mandal and two from Jamalapuram. The victims were returning to their villages in the district in the ill-fated tractor trolley after visiting the famous temple at Vedadri in the neighbouring State, when the tragedy struck them. Heart-rending scenes were witnessed at the hospital premises as the grief stricken close relatives of the two persons, those brought dead to the hospital, wailed despondently over their tragic death. Transport Minister P Ajay Kumar along with Collector R V Karnan visited the injured persons at the district headquarters hospital here on Wednesday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heart-rending-scenes-at-hospital/article31856323.ece
18 June 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Back from Galwan Valley, wrapped in the tricolour||His family stood by him, and he stood by the country. That is how the citizens of this town will remember Colonel B. Santosh Babu. His father, Upender, a retired bank manager, had a deep desire to join the Armed Forces but circumstances did not allow him to. But his dream never died. “My brother fulfilled that dream by being commissioned into the prestigious Indian Army, by former president APJ Abdul Kalam himself,” recalls Shruthi, sister of Col. Santosh Babu.  When Babu was 10, he was introduced to the idea of Armed Forces, but his relatives discouraged him. Destiny, however, had other plans. He secured all-India ranks, went on to shine in the entrances to the National Defence Academy and Indian Military Academy, Dehradun, where president Dr. Kalam reviewed the 119th regular course in 2006. “When he got admission into Sainik School of Korukonda, my father was serving in Adilabad. Through several requests, he got a transfer to Vizianagaram, to be with him,” she said. Mr. Upender feels proud to say his son served in important posts, “achieved much for his age, but died too young”. The Colonel was only 37. He was at the forefront in fighting infiltrators at the India-Pakistan border, completed the Peace Mission at Congo and served in other critical postings. “When Abhigna (Babu’s son) was born, he was in Congo. Three years after Anirudh, he is no more. We were expecting a rejoining, that he gets transferred to Hyderabad unit in September,” he said. “Mujhe papa ke paas jaana hai”, Shruti recollects Anirudh’s cries and weeps inconsolably. Residents of Vidyanagar, where the Colonel’s family lives, said they seldom saw the officer spending much time in Suryapet. “He was active and friendly. He would have taken voluntary retirement after five more years of service and looked after the family,” a neighbour said. Another added that Mr. Upender is a heart patient and mother Manjula has age-related illnesses. According to Mr. Dileep Kumar, a resident in the colony, Suryapet could not get more proud than for the Colonel’s sacrifice. “It will be really painful to see him back home, wrapped in the tricolour. He will be an inspiration to many youth,” he felt. Col. Santosh Babu will be given military funeral honours at the family’s agriculture land in Suryapet on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/back-from-galwan-valley-wrapped-in-the-tricolour/article31856283.ece
18 June 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Santosh Babu in every heart and on every lip||Given restrictions due to COVID-19 lockdown, a unique tribute was paid to slain Colonel Santosh Babu. White masks embossed with the slain officer’s image in uniform were a common sight at Vidyanagar, where the ward’s councillor Kakkireni Srinivas distributed them. “The message is to pay our respects while keeping in mind the pandemic situation,” he said. Mr. Srinivas, councillor of ward 44-Vidyanagar, ordered thousand such masks in Hyderabad and ensured they were distributed to police officials, general public, mediapersons and visitors on Wednesday. “The whole colony knows their son is in the Army, but we never thought he was such a high-ranking officer. They are a gentle family. His father Upender is a regular morning walker,” he added. Outside the house, father-in-law of the Colonel, T. Venkateswara Rao, also wearing the imprinted mask was inconsolable. “If their family was brave in sending its son to the Army, I thought my daughter marrying him was courageous too. Many had discouraged the match, but we went ahead. We are proud now,” he said, shaking and eyes filled with tears. For Mr. Dileep Kumar, a businessman and colony resident, the idea of distributing such masks is only “a small act”. “They are such a simple family. Santosh Babu made Suryapet and the country proud,” he says. Colony residents along with its councillor have also organised small meals and shelter for visitors from far-off areas. They promised the Colonel’s family to bear all expenditure related to the last rites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/santosh-babu-in-every-heart-and-on-every-lip/article31856281.ece
18 June 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Condolences pour in from several quarters||Parents and relatives of Colonel B. Santosh Babu were subjected to non-stop media glare at their Vidyanagar residence as nearly hundreds of mediapersons set up camp here. However, Suryapet police drew the line on Wednesday morning by restricting them, which led to a minor scuffle. Ensuring COVID-19 regulations, clear distance was marked with posters advising physical distance and some 20 police personnel regulated movement outside the house. The media contingent was later allotted a press gallery in the open space voluntarily offered by the neighbours. Condolences for the family poured in from political parties of all hues. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, also an ex-serviceman, called on the family and offered his condolences. He handed over a letter of condolence from Congress Parliamentary Party leader Sonia Gandhi to Colonel’s father, Upender. From BJP, State leader Sankineni Venkateswara Rao arranged communication with Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy, who assured all support and care to the family. Leaders of the CPI(M) Julakanti Ranga Reddy and Mallu Nagarjuna Reddy met the family to assure their support. Earlier, TRS leaders along with Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy called on the family. CPI State leader Narayana also spoke to the parents -- Mr. Upender and Ms. Manjula.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/condolences-pour-in-from-several-quarters/article31856279.ece
18 June 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DT.,TELANGANA||BRF-2||A minor girl was allegedly attacked by a stalker with a broken beer bottle near her house at Labour Colony. The accused was identified as Nikhil (20). He was taken into custody. The Inter second year student sustained grievous injuries on her shoulder and was rushed to MGM Hospital by her neighbours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf-2/article31856317.ece
18 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Post-retirement plan cut short for soldier||Nandu Ram Soren, a Naib Subedar with 16 Bihar Regiment, was preparing for a quiet post-retirement life with his wife and three minor daughters in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district but destiny had different plan. The 43-year-old was killed in the violent face-off with China at Galwan Valley in Ladakh on Monday. He served 23 years with the Army.  ‘Building a house’ “In January, my brother had come to Rairanghpur, five km from our ancestral village, where he was building a house to settle in after retirement. He supervised the construction for two months. The rest of the work would have been taken up during his next visit,” said his brother Daman. On Wednesday morning, ever since the news of his death broke people from all walks of life made a beeline to pay their respects to Soren at his ancestral house in Champahuda village of Mayurbhanj district. Recruited at the age of 20, he was the only earning member of the Soren household. “He was very caring, a family man and loved to spend time with friends,” said Mahendra Nath Mohanta, a senior colleague in 16 Bihar Regiment, who had retired on June 1. He had spent eight years with the deceased. “The government must take care of his family. His minor girls need society’s support more than ever before. We should no more take the Chinese at face value,” said Mr. Mohanta. The State government has announced ex gratia of Rs. 25 lakh each from Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to the next of kin of the two soldiers from Odisha who were killed in Ladakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/post-retirement-plan-cut-short-for-soldier/article31856226.ece
18 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Ex gratia, job to kin of four Punjab Army men||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced ex gratia along with government job to a next of kin of the four Army men who died in the Galwan Valley clash with China, said an official statement. “The loss suffered by the families is immeasurable and cannot be compensated with material things, but the compensation and the jobs would help alleviate some of their sufferings,” said Capt. Amarinder, paying his tributes to the four men. The Chief Minister said Cabinet Ministers would represent the State government at the funerals, which will be held with full Army honours in their villages. ‘Make arrangements’ He directed the respective district administrations to make all arrangements befitting the occasion for receiving the bodies of the fallen soldiers. While one family member each would be given a government job in all the four cases, the families of Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh and Naib Subedar Santnam Singh will be given Rs. 12 lakh compensation each in line with the government policy, on account of their married status. Mandeep hailed from Seel village of Rajpura in Patiala district while Satnam was from Bhoj Raj village in Gurdaspur. The families of the two unmarried soldiers, Sepoy Gurtej Singh of Bire Wala Dogra village in Mansa district and Sepoy Gurbinder Singh of Tholowan village in Sangrur, will be given Rs. 10 lakh each as compensation, said the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ex-gratia-job-to-kin-of-four-punjab-army-men/article31856223.ece
18 June 2020||JAIPUR,||HC cautions staff on using social media||The Rajasthan High Court has cautioned judicial officers and court staff to act in a responsible manner while using social media platforms. It asked them to desist from forwarding, liking, disliking and commenting upon any posts which were against the policies of the government and the High Court administration. A standing order issued by the Registrar-General on Monday stated that the judicial officers and court staff were expressing opinions on social media on the matters to which “they have no concern whatsoever”. They were also commenting on the posts which were not only scandalous and derogatory, but also sensational, it said. Official hours The judicial officers and court staff were accessing social media during office hours, which was not only affecting the working but also diminishing the dignity and reputation of the entire system, the order stated. “The policies of the government and the High Court administration are also being commented upon. The official communications are being forwarded unauthorisedly on social media platforms which amounts to a breach of official confidentiality,” said the order. It pointed out that this practice amounted to misconduct under the Rajasthan Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 1971, and would attract disciplinary action. The Registrar-General said no official communication should be forwarded on social media except when required as a part of bona fide discharge of duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-cautions-staff-on-using-social-media/article31856224.ece
18 June 2020||New Delhi,||DMs given overall command to fight virus||The heads of all Delhi government hospitals, Deputy Commissioners of the three civic bodies, and the DCPs who are in charge of police districts, will now work under the command of District Magistrates to effectively deal with the COVID-19 situation in the Capital. Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, who is the chairperson of the State Executive Committee of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), has empowered all DMs to have overall command in their respective districts. “The DM is responsible for overall management of COVID-19 pandemic... and shall implement all the guidelines, SOPs, orders and directions of the DDMA, Ministry of Home Affairs and National Disaster Management Authority,” read the order issued by Mr. Dev. Testing charges The move is in line with strategies discussed during Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s meeting with Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on June 14. Meanwhile, the MHA said that a high-level expert committee submitted a report on COVID-19 testing rates, and it has been decided to fix the rate at Rs. 2,400. Over 2,400 cases The decisions come on a day when Delhi reported 2,414 COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 47,102. As per the heath bulletin issued by the Delhi government, 67 deaths were reported in a single day, taking the toll to 1,904. A total of 510 people recovered in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 17,457. There are 27,741 of active cases in the city and 242 containment zones. An MHA spokesperson added that acting on instructions given by Mr. Shah to increase testing in Delhi, 16,618 samples were collected on June 15 and 16. Till June 14, daily collection varied between 4,000-4,500 samples. “Reports of 6,510 tests received so far, remaining to be received by Thursday,” the spokesperson said. Health surveys To improve contact mapping in Delhi’s containment zones, health surveys have been started on the directions of Mr. Shah and out of a total population of 2,30,466 in the 242 containment zones, survey of 1,77,692 people was conducted between June 15-16. The remaining will be covered by June 20, the spokesperson said. Rapid Antigen tests The MHA added that to increase testing and quick delivery of results in Delhi from June 18, tests will be done via new Rapid Antigen methodology approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research. “Delhi will be given priority for these kits. 169 centers have also been set up across the city,” the spokesperson said. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, after reviewing COVID-19 preparations on Wednesday, tweeted that the Capital may need more ICUs in the coming days and said that he has discussed with Delhi government doctors how to increase the number. Expert panel Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday held the first meeting with a six-member expert panel constituted by him to suggest measures to deal with the COVID-19 situation in the city. The meeting was attended by Mr. Kejriwal, his deputy Manish Sisodia, Mr. Dev and other senior officers of the Delhi government. Mr. Baijal asked the panel to suggest measures to make containment strategies more effective, formulate measures for psycho-social care of ‘corona warriors’ and come up with strategies to ramp up intensive medical care expeditiously. The L-G said he had also asked for suggestions on containment and mitigation strategies in addition to projections for Delhi based on the trends worldwide. “I am confident that the panel will provide the necessary expertise to fight this pandemic more effectively,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dms-given-overall-command-to-fight-virus/article31856214.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Health Minister Satyendar Jain, AAP MLA Atishi test positive||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Atishi tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. A member of the Chief Minister’s media team and a member of the Deputy Chief Minister’s team have also tested positive. Party sources said that other members in the team are being tested. Mr. Jain was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) due to high-grade fever and a sudden drop in oxygen levels on Tuesday. His first test for COVID-19 had come back negative on Tuesday. He was administered a second test on Wednesday, which came back positive. Sources at the hospital said that the Minister was “stable” but still had fever and had been put on oxygen support. On June 14, Mr. Jain had attended a meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Union Heath Minister Harsh Vardhan, Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal, Mr. Kejriwal, and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia were also at the meeting. Home isolation Atishi, who represents the Kalkaji constituency, is under home isolation. She was tested on Tuesday and her report came back positive on Wednesday. “Thanks a lot for all the love and good wishes! Want to reassure everyone that I’m doing OK. Am in home isolation since I got my test results. Fully equipped with fruit, Vitamin C and an oximeter to monitor oxygen levels [sic],” she tweeted. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “Atishi has played an important role in the fight against Corona. I hope that she will be healthy as soon as possible and will return to serving the people again [sic].” Previous cases Earlier, AAP MLAs Vishesh Ravi from Karol Bagh and Rajkumar Anand from Patel Nagar had also tested positive. Last week, Mr. Kejriwal was also tested for the virus after he complained of fever and cough. His report came back negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/health-minister-satyendar-jain-aap-mla-atishi-test-positive/article31856221.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Manish Sisodia inspects 50 isolation coaches||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday inspected 50 coaches stationed at Shakur Basti railway station that have been converted into isolation centres for COVID-19 patients. Mr. Sisoidia said that these are the first 50 of the 500 railway coaches provided by the Center to augment bed capacity after a meeting was held with Home Minister Amit Shah. After his inspection, Mr. Sisodia said that the soaring temperatures and the heat woud make it difficult for the medical staff to operate while wearing heavy PPE kits when patients would be sent to the coaches. “We are trying our best to improve the infrastructure and to come up with a solution to this, so that we can begin deploying staff and admitting patients at these isolation centres,” he said. As a measure to increase bed capacity, the Delhi government has been trying to convert railway coaches and banquet halls into COVID-19 dedicated facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/manish-sisodia-inspects-50-isolation-coaches/article31856216.ece
18 June 2020||New Delhi,||Petition to restrain elderly kanwariyas||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the Centre to treat as representation a petition to restrain kanwariyas above 60 years, and those with co-morbidities, from undertaking this year’s ‘Kanwar Yatra’, which is starting from July 6. The petitioner and advocate Subhash Vijayran said that as per government reports, the COVID-19 pandemic has been most lethal for those in the 60-plus age group. The plea said that during ‘Kanwar Yatra’, kanwariyas walk hundreds of miles from Haridwar, Gaumukh and Gangotri in Uttarakhand and Sultanganj in Bihar to their residences, carrying Ganga water on their shoulders. The petition stated that the sheer number of pilgrims participating in the ‘Kanwar Yatra’ results in infinite social contacts of the kanwariyas among them and with the rest of the community that is a high-risk situation not only for the aged and co-morbid kanwaryias but also for their family members and the whole community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/petition-to-restrain-elderly-kanwariyas/article31856210.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Will do something in husband’s memory: ACP||Two days after an Assistant Commissioner of Police lost her husband to COVID-19, she said she plans to do something in his memory after the last rites are over. Charan Jeet Singh (54), the husband of ACP Surender Jeet Kaur (Crimes Against Women) posted in the South-East district, passed away on Monday after battling COVID-19 since May 20. Ms. Kaur first tested positive, following which all her family members and a house help tested positive. Her husband was admitted on May 20, while Ms. Kaur was admitted on May 17. She recovered but her husband was put on ventilator support on May 22.  The ACP said that during the entire period of lockdown, her husband was very cautious and took care of everything at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/will-do-something-in-husbands-memory-acp/article31856211.ece
18 June 2020||New Delhi,||Tablighi case: plea in HC for a designated court||The Delhi High Court asked the Centre, the AAP government and the police on Wednesday to respond to a plea seeking a designated court for speedy trial in a case where 121 Malaysians were charge-sheeted for attending a religious congregation at Nizamuddin here in alleged violation of visa norms and also government guidelines for COVID-19 outbreak. The court asked the Delhi government and the State police to file a status report on the petition filed on behalf of 125 Malaysians in all. The police have filed chargesheets against 121 of the 125 Malaysian nationals. The court, which conducted the hearing through videoconferencing, also impleaded Ministries of Home and External Affairs as parties in the petition and asked them to respond and listed the matter for further hearing on July 1. Petitioner Fahrul Naim Bin Mohd. Noor said that the Malaysian nationals are in the care and custody of the High Commission of Malaysia here and sought direction to establish a designated court to adjudicate upon the chargesheet in an expeditious manner. The Malaysian nationals are stranded in the country away from the kith and kin for almost three months, the plea said, adding that the High Commission of Malaysia is spending substantial money on them that could be diverted for other constructive purposes, including fighting the pandemic. Meanwhile, 11 Saudi Arabian nationals, who were also charge-sheeted in the matter approached the court on Wednesday seeking direction to the trial court concerned to conduct the proceedings through videoconferencing and decide the case expeditiously by giving hearing on day to day basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tablighi-case-plea-in-hc-for-a-designated-court/article31856218.ece
18 June 2020||Patna,||Families proud of soldiers’ sacrifice||When the body of soldier Sunil Kumar reached Patna airport on Wednesday, his elder brother Anil Kumar, himself an ex-Army man, said: “India should take revenge on China.” Among the 20 Indian soldiers killed during a violent face-off with Chinese troops at Galwan along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, five were from different districts of Bihar. Sunil Kumar hailed from Tara Nagar village under Sikaria panchayat of Bihta near Patna. His son and some other family members were also present at the airport to receive the body. Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi, Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav, BJP MP Ram Kripal Yadav and several other State leaders turned up at the airport to pay last respects to the slain soldier. Retired Army personnel took out a Tiranga Yatra in Danapur area. “If the government and our defence forces want our services, we are ready to go to the battlefield,” one of them told media persons. Bodies of the other four soldiers — Chandan Kumar (Bhojpur), Jai Kishore Singh (Vaishali), Aman Kumar (Samastipur) and Kundan Kumar (Saharsa) — are expected to be brought to Patna by a special flight on Thursday. “I feel proud on my son’s martyrdom. I have two grandchildren and I will send them too to serve in the Army,” said Nimindra Yadav, father of Kundan Kumar. Youth wings of several political parties burnt effigies of Chinese President Xi Jinping and appealed to people to boycott “Chinese goods”. Surprise for family Amid the mourning, good news came for family members of soldier Sunil Rai from Saran district whose name was there in the list of slain soldiers. The sombre mood of the family turned into joy when Mr. Rai himself called up his wife Menaka Devi on Wednesday. He said the confusion was due to same name of another soldier posted at Leh. Even the names of their fathers are said to be same, Sukhdeo Rai. “I spoke with my husband over the phone today. God has given me a new lease of life,” a beaming Menaka Devi told journalists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/families-proud-of-soldiers-sacrifice/article31856228.ece
18 June 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai reports 1,359 more cases; death toll up to 3,244||Mumbai recorded 1,359 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 61,587. The city also recorded 77 more fatalities, taking the death toll to 3,244. The city’s case-fatality rate now stands at 5.2%, much higher than the national fatality rate of 3.3%. Of the latest fatalities, 59 were men and 18 women. At least 53 patients had comorbidities that made their recovery difficult. Medical experts say the mortality rate in patients who go on ventilator support is much higher. Steroid shows results An Oxford University trial has now shown positive results with steroid drug dexamethasone when given to patients on ventilator support. The State’s COVID-19 task force members are closely following the development and are likely to add the drug after the final trial results are out. “In our current standard of care, we are already using a steroid drug methylprednisolone for moderate to severe patients. If the final trial results of dexamethasone are favourable, we will recommend it to the government as another drug to be added to the list,” said task force member Dr. Shashank Joshi. The current treatment protocol includes a cocktail of multiple drugs depending on the patient’s condition. Use of steroids in serious patients is common yet often debated. A study carried out in Michigan on 213 patients concluded, “An early short course of methylprednisolone in patients with moderate to severe COVID-19 improved clinical outcomes”. Ward watch Dharavi reported 17 new cases and one death on Wednesday. Its case tally is now 2,106 and death toll is 78. As cases in Andheri (East) continued to grow, K East ward still has the highest number of cases at 4,223. Of these, 2,183 are active cases. The second highest number of active cases was recorded in P North ward (Malad) which has 2,053. However, R North ward continued to have highest case growth rate at 5.5% Mumbai’s average case growth rate dipped to 2.43% while its doubling rate stands at 29 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/mumbai-reports-1359-more-cases-death-toll-up-to-3244/article31856433.ece
18 June 2020||Mumbai,||CM seeks nod for drugs with positive outcome||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to sanction the use of specific drugs and treatments, which have shown positive outcomes, on COVID-19 patients. The CM also appealed to the Centre to draw up a uniform strategy to conduct university examinations. Mr. Modi held a videoconference with all CMs to discuss the measures taken to fight the pandemic. “There is no specific treatment for [COVID-19]. But different treatments, including different drugs, have shown positive results. Those treatments must be authorised by the Centre,” Mr. Thackeray said in the videoconference. He said Maharashtra has observed positive results with such treatments on patients as old as 90 years. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope had earlier said the government will be requesting the Centre to make available drugs like remdesivir, which have been effective against COVID-19, in large quantities and at a reasonable price. Mr. Thackeray said the State’s strategy to deal with the pandemic is to “chase the virus”. “We have increased tests and contact tracing. This was used to control the disease in a place like Dharavi,” he said. The Chief Minister also sought uniform guidelines on university examinations. “We are not in a position to hold examinations. For non-commercial courses, the State government has devised a formula under which marks based on [students’] previous performance will be given. We have also given students the option to appear for exams in October in case they want to improve their grades,” he said. The CM said the Centre should take a uniform decision for non-commercial and commercial courses to ensure justice for all students. The Maharashtra government has locked horns with the Governor over the matter. The Governor wants the State to conduct final year exams, but the government has said the exercise would be difficult given the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/cm-seeks-nod-for-drugs-with-positive-outcome/article31856420.ece
18 June 2020||Mumbai,||Pvt. hospitals can’t take asymptomatic patients: Tope||Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said no asymptomatic COVID-19 patient will be admitted to private hospitals and asked all hospitals in Mumbai to operationalise the total capacity of beds, without giving any excuses. He also appealed to people to use only government ambulances instead of relying on costly private ones. Maharashtra is the first State in the country which has acquired 80% beds in private hospitals, he said. “But if asymptomatic patients are given beds there, then it will be injustice to those who are critical. Therefore, each hospital will have a designated officer and the main porch will have a ‘May I help you’ desk. No direct admissions will be allowed. Asymptomatic patients will not be admitted to private hospitals. Only those who are really in need or in critical condition will be admitted there.” Mr. Tope said private or trust hospitals will be given preference to admit patients. “If we utilise all 80% beds reserved, then there will be no dearth of beds in Mumbai,” he said, adding since local train services have begun, people engaged in essential services, who are living in far off places, can now travel to their workplace. “No excuses from any hospital will be heard. All sanctioned beds must be operational from now on, at any cost,” the minister said. Extra ICU beds Mr. Tope, however, admitted that patients do face inconvenience in getting ICU beds, and said an additional 600-650 such beds will be made available in the city. “These extra ICU beds will be added at St. George’s Hospital, Worli dome, Bandra-Kurla Complex, and Seven Hills Hospital,” he said, adding that a new 200-bed hospital will start functioning at ESIC Hospital in Kandivali. One of the major concerns for the Mumbaikars is availability of ambulances, Mr. Tope said. “I have spoken to the Municipal Commissioner and it has been decided that each ward in the city will have five to 10 ambulances ready at any given point,” the minister said, adding that a call to 1916 or a war room set up in each ward, will ensure that an ambulance is made available for free. “I appeal to all Mumbaikars to not use private ambulances and spend thousands of rupees. We have 500 ambulances ready at this moment. Another 150 ambulances will be available within a week. Do not go to costly private ambulances. We are well-equipped to provide this service free of cost,” he said. Tests for Rs. 2,500 The State has introduced a third slab between the already announced COVID-19 test rates from private labs of Rs. 2,200 (for tests done after taking swabs from hospital) and Rs. 2,800 (for tests done with home visit), the minister said. “It has been found that several individuals or organisations are going directly to labs for testing, which results in no expenditure on personal protective equipment kits to the labs. Therefore, it is not right to charge Rs. 2,800 from them. We have decided to introduce another slab of Rs. 2,500 for such tests,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/pvt-hospitals-cant-take-asymptomatic-patients-tope/article31856426.ece
18 June 2020||Mumbai,||S ward makes it to top 10 on COVID-19 list||The ‘S’ ward, comprising Bhandup, Vikhroli, Kanjurmarg and parts of Powai, has made it to the top 10 from the bottom of the COVID-19 list in a short span of time. The ward in the eastern suburbs has reported over 600 cases in the past week alone, making its tally the eighth highest in Mumbai. Most cases are from the slums but a few are also from the upmarket Powai. In the first few weeks of April, the ward was among the bottom 10 in terms of COVID-19 cases, which have increased rapidly in June. On June 1, the ward had 1,705 cases while on June 16, the number stood at 3,166, just short of double. The ward has a doubling rate of 18 days. Of the total cases, 1,873 are active while the remaining have been discharged. The ward has a higher percentage of active cases (59%) as compared to K East (51%), which has the highest number of cases. S ward’s average case growth rate stands at 3.8%, higher than many wards. R North ward has the highest case growth rate at 5.5%. Most cases in the ward are from Bhandup and Kanjurmarg’s eastern section that largely comprises slums. Cases have been reported from areas like Phule Nagar, Tanaji wadi, Sonapur, Tembhipada, Gaondevi in Bhandup, Ambedkar Chowk in Vikhroli and parts of Kannamwar Nagar. Some cases have also been found in residential areas like the highrises in Hiranandani Gardens, Powai. The ward has 72 containment zones and 167 sealed buildings. “There is no control now that the lockdown is relaxed. People are not cooperating. Most cases are from the slums where people are not following containment measures,” said Dhananjay Pisal, a former Nationalist Congress Party corporator. Common toilets lead to crowding every day, he said. “People don't want to go to a quarantine facility anymore. The BMC, police are also tired now.” Assistant municipal commissioner Santoshkumar Dhonde, S ward, was not available for comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/s-ward-makes-it-to-top-10-on-covid-19-list/article31856437.ece
18 June 2020||Mumbai,||High June power bills shock consumers||Several people in the city were in for a shock when they received extremely high electricity bills for June from power distribution companies. On Wednesday, several consumers of Tata Power, Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML), the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking, and the State-run Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Corporation Limited (MSEDCL), took to social media demanding an explanation for the high amounts. In some cases, the bills were for more than Rs. 10,000. Mumbai has nearly 32 lakh residential power consumers and around eight lakh commercial consumers. The high amounts are largely because power utilities have been able to check meter readings in June after over two months. Meter readings had been discontinued since March 22, as per a Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) directive. Instead, during the lockdown, consumers were billed based on average consumption of December, January and February. “Consumption is higher in summer months as the use of air conditioners and fans increases. Also, this summer, people were at home through the day, which has increased power consumption,” power sector expert Ashok Pendse said. The June bill is for the actual electricity units consumed during the lockdown period, which in many cases is more than the average of the April and May bills. An MSEDCL spokesperson said that the balance units have been spread across the months so that consumers get the benefit of power slabs. Similarly, an AEML spokesperson said, “Consumers will start receiving the bills based on their actual consumption with appropriate tariff slab benefits.” Mr. Pendse suggested that companies provide an EMI facility to consumers to soften the blow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/high-june-power-bills-shock-consumers/article31856418.ece
18 June 2020||Mumbai,||Diesel price hike hits Ola, Uber drivers hard||The skyrocketing price of diesel has dealt a severe blow to the already-hurting Ola and Uber drivers in Mumbai. Unlike black and yellow taxis and autorickshaws, majority of cars operating on the two cab aggregator platforms run on diesel, whose price has increased for the 11th consecutive day on Wednesday. The diesel rate in the city on Wednesday was Rs. 74.32 per litre. The price of diesel has gone up by Rs. 6.40 over the last 11 days, with Wednesday recording a 60 paise hike. While both cab aggregators resumed full services earlier this month, drivers said there is hardly any business with most getting an average of two to three rides per day. Only 5% on road Mohammad Yakub of the Action Committee of Maharashtra, a union of Ola and Uber drivers in Mumbai, said nearly 70% drivers in the city have gone back home during the lockdown. With the rising diesel cost, barely 5% of the cabs are currently on the road and bulk of them run on CNG. “The worst affected are those who do intercity travel. Many airport bookings are for Pune or far-off suburbs from where the driver needs to come back empty. However, this dead run is not factored in the fare, and with the rising diesel cost, there is no way the driver can bear it,” he said. Host of problems Shahnawaz Hussain, who has been driving on Ola in Mumbai for four years, said there were already a host of issues that have been compounded by the diesel price hike. “Since only 10% private offices are functioning, there is already a low demand and drivers have to wait for hours to get a booking. If the driver decides to go to a different location in hopes of better prospects, they will just be wasting fuel without any revenue,” Mr. Hussain said. Shaik Salauddin, national general secretary of Indian Federation of App Based Transport Workers, an umbrella body of several Ola and Uber unions across the country, said the diesel price rise has hit drivers, who were among the worst affected due to the lockdown and were struggling to make ends meet. “Even after they started the services in different parts of the country, drivers have had to wait for hours to get any booking. And the companies are cutting their usual 20% as commission. In such a difficult time, shouldn’t they reduce their commission?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/diesel-price-hike-hits-ola-uber-drivers-hard/article31856424.ece
18 June 2020||Mumbai,||CM inaugurates Phase II of makeshift BKC facility||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday virtually inaugurated Phase II of the makeshift hospital at Bandra Kurla Complex. The facility, constructed by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority, was handed over to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. The new facility has 1,000 beds, out of which 100 beds will serve as the intensive care unit, while the remaining 900 will have oxygen and non-oxygen facilities. The facility is equipped with 30 ventilator machines, 18 dialysis machines, a CT scan machine, and a mortuary with a capacity for 12 deceased patients. The makeshift hospital has been constructed using German tent technology, and the structure is designed to be waterproof. At present, around 500 patients are undergoing treatment in Phase I of the hospital, from where they had to be moved temporarily due to Cyclone Nisarga. The hospital remained unaffected due to the cyclone. New centre at Thane The CM also inaugurated a dedicated COVID-19 centre with 86 beds for the Thane Municipal Corporation. During the inauguration, Mr. Thackeray congratulated the team for setting up the facilities in record time but said the city should not see a scenario where these facilities have to be used.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/cm-inaugurates-phase-ii-of-makeshift-bkc-facility/article31856430.ece
18 June 2020||Mumbai,||Policeman succumbs to COVID-19||A 58-year-old head constable with a police station in western Mumbai died of COVID-19 on Tuesday. Although he is the second constable with the same station to succumb to the virus, the police station is not being considered at risk, as neither had been reporting to work. The victim, who passed away on Tuesday night, had been on leave since April, as he was in the high-risk age group. A senior official said the Worli resident only came in for urgent work. “He tested positive on June 7 and was admitted to Nair hospital,” the officer said. On Monday, a police constable with the station, who had been admitted to SevenHills Hospital since May 3, died. The senior police inspector in charge of the station said all necessary precautions are being taken, but no personnel have been quarantined. Deputy Commissioner Police (Headquarters-I) N. Ambika said as of Wednesday, the death toll in the Mumbai Police is 30, while the case tally is 2,270.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/policeman-succumbs-to-covid-19/article31856423.ece
18 June 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai: Spa raided in Lokhandwala; 11 held||At least 11 people were arrested in a raid on a spa in Lokhandwala in Andheri on Wednesday. The Oshiwara police found four customers, three women, two managers and other staff at the spa. The government has not allowed spas and salons to resume operations.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/mumbai-spa-raided-in-lokhandwala-11-held/article31856428.ece
18 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||NMMC sees surge of 122 cases, tally now 4,189||After seeing a surge of less than hundred cases for two days in a row, Navi Mumbai once again saw a massive surge of 122 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. With this, the total case tally under the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) reached 4,189. Three deaths were also reported — one at Ghanosli and two at Airoli. With 102 patients recovering, the number of people who have recovered is at 2,457. NMMC has 1,603 patients under treatment, a recovery rate of 59% and a mortality rate of 3%. “There is a rise in COVID-19-positive cases, mainly due to the phase-wise lifting of the lockdown and mass screening that we have been conducting,” said NMMC commissioner Annasaheb Misal. Nearly 70% of the people who have tested positive are asymptomatic, he said. “People with mild symptoms do not come forward for testing and hence the mass screening has been planned in places that are densely populated and have slums.” Up until Wednesday, NMMC has screened 32,344 people. “There is no reason to panic. The only thing people need to do is follow the precautionary measures, with physical distancing, masks and hand-washing being the most important. Navi Mumbaikars do not have to worry about the availability of beds for treatment,” said Mr. Misal. The NMMC, he said, has 7,000 beds, which is more than the current requirement. “We are also recruiting more manpower through walk-in interviews and giving them training for the work,” Mr. Misal said. The NMMC has also reined in representatives of political parties who are seen promoting their parties during the mass screening, demoralising health workers in the process. “We have requested the party workers to work in a way that is beneficial for the city. They should not be disturbing our work at any point,” Mr. Misal said.  People with mild symptoms do not come forward for testing and hence mass screening has been planned Annasaheb Misal NMMC Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/nmmc-sees-surge-of-122-cases-tally-now-4189/article31856434.ece
18 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||41 new cases in Panvel, death toll touches 50||The Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 41 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking its case tally to 1,078. Panvel rural saw 19 new cases, taking its tally to 519 With four new deaths under PMC, the death toll is now 50. Sixteen more people were discharged, bringing the totakl recoveries to 748.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/41-new-cases-in-panvel-death-toll-touches-50/article31856431.ece
18 June 2020||Pune,||3,307 cases take State’s tally past 1.15 lakh||Maharashtra reported another 3,307 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the State’s total tally to 1,16,752. As many as 114 more deaths pushed the death toll to 5,651. Of the total cases, 51,921 are active. As per State Health Department figures, 1,315 patients were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries till date to 59,166. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the State’s recovery rate currently stands at 50.68%. However, the State’s case fatality has climbed to 4.84%. With 1,359 new cases reported on Wednesday, Mumbai’s total case tally has now crossed the 60,000-mark to reach 61,587. Of these, only 26,997 are active cases. As the city recorded 77 of the new deaths, its death toll has risen to 3,244. Across the State Pune district saw 22 fatalities as its total death toll surged to 610. Seven deaths from Jalgaon district in north Maharashtra took its total death count to 176. Deaths were also reported from Yavatmal, Latur and Malegaon, among other parts of the State. “As many as 84 deaths (73.7%) of the total 114 fatalities reported on Wednesday, had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma, and heart disease,” Dr. Awate said. Pune district’s total tally, as per State Health department figures, has reached 13,250, with the district reporting more than 350 new cases on Wednesday. Of these, 5,230 are active cases, while 7,410 have been discharged thus far. Spike in MMR Besides Mumbai, the surge in new cases continued in Thane, with a surge of more than 300 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the district’s total tally to 8,635. Navi Mumbai reported a spike of 144 new cases as its total case tally reached 5,036. “A total of 98 laboratories — 55 government and 42 private — are currently functional for testing samples. Till date, of a total 7,00,954 laboratory samples, 1,16,752 (16.65%) have been tested positive, with around 16,000 samples across the State tested on Wednesday,” Dr. Awate said. Dr. Awate further said presently, 5,82,699 people across the State are in home quarantine and 27,582 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/3307-cases-take-states-tally-past-115-lakh/article31856422.ece
18 June 2020||Sonam Saigal Mumbai,||Only 124 quarantine beds left in E ward: BMC to HC||Mumbai’s E ward has only 124 beds left for quarantine purposes and is the fourth worst-affected ward with 3,085 COVID-19 cases as on June 12, the Bombay High Court was recently told. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has revealed this in an affidavit filed in response to a plea by Neelkamal Realtors. The real estate agency was challenging BMC’s May 31 decision to use the realtor’s building in Byculla as a quarantine centre. Densely populated areas The 39-page affidavit, filed by the assistant commissioner of E Ward, said the ward only four quarantine centres as on June 9, despite consisting of densely populated areas such as Byculla, Mumbai Central and Mazgaon. These included: YMCA with a 150 bed capacity, of which 149 are occupied; Bombay International Guest House, where 35 of 37 beds are occupied; Neelkamal with 1,000 beds, of which 940 are occupied; and Amber Hotel with 36 beds, which are yet to be occupied. Aggressive tracing The affidavit said the BMC has been carrying out contact tracing of people who have been in contact with COVID-19 patients in the ratio of 1:10. It has also proposed to ramp up the same to 1:15 in densely populated areas. According to it, 78,69,388 people have been covered in the screening process as on June 12, of which 3,35,345 were in the high-risk elderly population. Additionally, the BMC has been running 404 fever clinics, where 24,490 patients have been screened and 5,837 swabs have been collected and sent for tests. As a result of this aggressive testing, the number of cases and number of persons at risk have increased substantially, said the affidavit. Keeping all this in mind, the building containing 234 flats was taken over for use as a quarantine facility for people that may have come in contact with COVID-19 positive patients, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/only-124-quarantine-beds-left-in-e-ward-bmc-to-hc/article31856435.ece
18 June 2020||Devesh Pandey New Delhi,||Bank fraud: CBI searches in Mumbai||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday carried out searches in connection with a case against two Mumbai-based companies and others for allegedly cheating the Bank of India of over Rs. 57 crore. “Searches have been conducted at five places in Mumbai, on the residential and official premises of the accused,” said a CBI official. Those named in the case are Avyaan Overseas Private Limited (now known as Bagla Overseas Private Limited), its managing director Mohit Kamboj, and Jitendra Gulshan Kapoor, Siddhant Bagla and Irtesh Mishra (all directors). Another company, KBJ Hotels Goa Private Limited is also named in the case. Mr. Kamboj is the general secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Mumbai unit. Avyaan Overseas is alleged to have conspired with unknown bank officials to cheat the bank between 2013 and 2018. The company was sanctioned foreign bills negotiation limit and export packaging credit limit, for which it got Rs. 60 crore. In February 2015, bank officials inspected the company records and found that sale proceeds were not being routed through the bank, and it was raising bills on sister concerns. Its sale export proceeds were not getting realised. Stock was shown in the godown, but no proper records were maintained. The loan account was declared NPA in March 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bank-fraud-cbi-searches-in-mumbai/article31856233.ece
18 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. Cong. chief released from jail in buses case||Congress Uttar Pradesh president Ajay Kumar Lallu on Wednesday stepped out of jail almost a month after being booked and arrested for allegedly sending a faulty list of buses to the BJP-led State government to ply migrant workers home. The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday granted bail to the MLA who was in jail since May 21.  ‘Strong ideas’ After being released from the Lucknow district jail, Mr. Lallu vowed to continue raising voice for workers, oppressed and deprived sections of the society. “The walls of a prison cannot stop our strong ideas. If for the sake of oppressed, deprived, Dalits, Backwards and workers, Ajay Lallu has to go to jail a 1,000 times, I will not take a step back,” he asserted. Mr. Lallu then paid his respects at the statues of B.R. Ambedkar, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Mahatma Gandhi in the Hazratganj area of Lucknow before heading to the Congress State headquarters. Mr. Lallu was arrested on May 20 in Agra for protesting against the district administration’s refusal to allow buses arranged by the Congress from Rajasthan to ply into U.P. to transport stranded migrants home. Though he was granted interim bail by an Agra court, he was arrested again by the Lucknow police on charges of allegedly sending a faulty list of buses to the U.P. government and alleged forgery of documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/up-cong-chief-released-from-jail-in-buses-case/article31856240.ece
18 June 2020||Mumbai,||Will ease licensing regime, CM tells industry captains||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday moved a step further in easing conditions for industry, assuring business leaders that the State’s business licensing regime will be streamlined to assist reopening of offices and industries in a phase-wise manner. Mr. Thackeray held one-to-one meetings with the leaders of industry, close on the heels of signing agreements for foreign direct investment (FDI) worth Rs. 16,000 crore. Industries Minister Subhash Desai participated in the meeting through video conferencing. On a day when several trade and industry organisations called for a boycott of Chinese goods, Mr. Thackeray urged corporate leaders to come forward with at least one ‘Made in Maharashtra’ proposal, which includes an item or product fully made in the State, and said the government will give priority to such products. This will strengthen Indian manufacturing and the country’s industrial base, he said. The dialogue was organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and was attended by top industrialists, including RPG Group chairman Harsh Goenka and Jamshyd Godrej, managing director and chairman of Godrej & Boyce, among others. Overcoming hurdles Mr. Thackeray acknowledged hurdles in the corporate and industrial sectors in the wake of the pandemic, but said emphasis will be on overcoming them as well as improving the situation in these sectors. Priority will be given to agro-based industries, cold storage chains, and the marketing of agricultural commodities. “Workers have returned to their homes. We did not ask them to. But now in Maharashtra, we have started the work (again), and industries too have started. We will make manpower available through advertisements in every corner of the State, and will see that the work does not stop, by giving jobs to the people here,” he said. Mr. Desai said the government has decided to extend the relaxation of various levies on businesses and industries till September 30, 2020. The relaxation is currently provided in premium amount, transfer fee, additional premium and sub-rental fee charged in special industrial zones. As a result of the State’s efforts, businesses and industries are coming back to life, with as many as 60,000 of them opening shop since the lockdown rules were relaxed last month, he said. For industries facing a labour shortage, a bureau has already been set up and workers are being identified as skilled and unskilled for providing a workforce to those reopening shop in the State. To provide extensions The State government said wherever land development period has ended during the lockdown will also be given an extension, with the relevant regional authorities being given the go-head. The decision will help industry to recover from the novel coronavirus crisis, Mr. Desai said. On Monday, Mr. Thackeray had unveiled Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0, assuring an additional Rs. 10,000 crore in FDI investments as the State moves to lift restrictions on businesses and industries in a phased manner. All licences in the State are being given in less than 48 hours, while the government has reserved nearly 50,000 acres for industrial development, Mr. Thackeray said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/will-ease-licensing-regime-cm-tells-industry-captains/article31856236.ece
18 June 2020||Mumbai,||Three State COVID-19 task force members test positive||Three doctors from the State’s COVID-19 task force have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The 10-member panel, formed by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in mid-April, has been instrumental in formulating the protocol for care, treatment and screening of COVID-19 patients, while working in their respective hospitals. While two of the doctors have recovered and one of them has resumed work, the third doctor tested positive on Monday. He received treatment at his hospital after complaining of sore throat and severe fatigue. He has now been placed under home quarantine. The task force is headed by Dr. Sanjay Oak from Prince Aly Khan Hospital. It also comprises Dr. Shashank Joshi and Dr. Vasant Nagvekar from Lilavati; Dr. Zarir Udwadia, Dr. Zahir Virani, and Dr. Khusrav Bajan from Hinduja; Dr. Rahul Pandit from Fortis; Dr. Kedar Toraskar from Wockhardt; Dr. Nitin Karnik from Sion; and Dr. Om Shrivastava from Jaslok. Dr. Pravin Bangar from KEM Hospital is the convenor of the task force. Over the past several weeks, many senior doctors in the city have tested positive. A specialist from Lilavati Hospital and a senior doctor from SevenHills Hospital are under treatment.  Recoveries recorded Dr. V. Ravishankar, COO of Lilavati Hospital, said the specialist has recovered and is likely to be discharged on Thursday. A deputy executive health officer from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation who had tested positive, has also recovered from the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/three-state-covid-19-task-force-members-test-positive/article31856234.ece
18 June 2020||Mumbai,||More drone pilot training schools in offing||The country’s aviation regulator is planning to allow more than just flight training organisations to offer drone pilot training. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has brought out a draft circular that proposes to allow interested organisations under the Central and State governments, government-approved universities, and even private drone manufacturers to sign up as drone pilot training schools. The DGCA has invited comments on the draft from stakeholders until July 13. So far, only a few organisations were permitted to operate as remote pilot training organisations (RPTOs) and the focus was primarily on training fixed wing aircraft pilots. Now, entities selected by the DGCA will be able to train drone pilots and grant commercial pilots licences and private pilot licences. “Hopefully, we will be able to complete the process by next month after examining and factoring in the comments,” a senior DGCA official said. According to officials from the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA), the move presents great opportunities in areas such as logistics, agriculture, e-commerce, aerial photography, law enforcement. Prerequisites As per DGCA requirements, drone pilot training organisations must have at least three serviceable remotely piloted aircraft (RPA) of one type at any given time. RPAs are drones that can be flown beyond the visual line of sight, without the pilot having to look at them physically to manoeuvre them. Once an institution fulfils these requirements, the DGCA will approve them as an RPTO, initially for a period of five years. RPTOs can apply for renewal of their licence for an additional five years, but it will be subject to satisfactory compliance of requirements. Students will be awarded course completion certificates on clearing the exam with a minimum of 70% marks. During the lockdown, drones have been used to monitor adherence to physical distancing orders. DGCA also granted express permission to Marut Drones, IoTechWorld Aviation, Omnipresent Robot Technologies, Thanos and PrimeUAV to deploy drones to spray pesticides in areas infested with locusts in the country. To test the delivery of goods using drones, permissions were granted to 10 firms, including Reliance-backed Asteria Aerospace, Nandan Nilekani-backed ShopX, SpiceJet, and Google-backed Dunzo, to conduct beyond visual line of sight drone projects in designated zones. Since January, when the MoCA made it mandatory for operators to register their drones, 19,553 unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) — 1,832 nano, 13,735 micro, 2,808 small, 140 medium and 1,038 large drones — have been registered. The MoCA opened the window to register drones from June 8. The process has been left open ended with provisions made for the online issuance of unique identification numbers for drones through the Digital Sky platform.  We will be able to complete the process by next month after examining and factoring in the comments Senior DGCA official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/more-drone-pilot-training-schools-in-offing/article31856232.ece
18 June 2020||Mumbai,||Swiss company unveils masks made from fabric that can kill coronavirus||A Switzerland-based hygiene company has claimed that its technology for disinfecting textiles has, through tests, been observed to also destroy the novel coronavirus. Owned by Sanjeev Swamy, the company is running trials to make masks using this technology that will soon be available in Mumbai and Bengaluru. This was announced in a webinar on Wednesday by Livinguard Technology, an environment-friendly hygiene technology platform based in Zug, Switzerland, that is part of the World Economic Forum Innovators Community. It is the first firm to empower textiles and materials with self-disinfecting properties. “The underlying principle is to empower the surface of the textile with a strong positive charge. When microbes come in contact with fabric, the microbial cell, which is negatively charged, is destroyed, leading to permanent destruction of the micro organism. The technology makes the fabric reusable, allowing users to use the mask up to 210 times with no compromise on safety or efficacy. Further, the masks are washable,” Mr. Swamy said. This technology, he added, has endured multiple uses and washes, and is being used on face masks, gloves and wipes to avoid cross-contamination. The mask is seen to have a broad spectrum of microbial killing capabilities, ranging from ebola, tuberculosis to athlete’s foot. It’s use reduces the environmental waste caused by disposable masks by approximately 36,000 tonnes every week. “Our focus is now on getting suitable textiles to the industries that are affected by COVID-19, like healthcare and hospitality. We have also developed fine filters for air conditioners, with a partner company in Switzerland, and a non-woven mesh, with companies in Germany, for which testing is under way,” he said. Masks treated with the Livinguard technology are currently available in Portugal, Israel, Sri Lanka, Jordan, UAE, Canada, Mexico, Germany and China. They are also being manufactured in the United States for their military. “We have already started operational trials in plants in Navi Mumbai and Bengaluru, with permission from the respective State governments, and will soon begin producing 150 masks a week, which will be sold for Rs. 1,490 to Rs. 1,990,” Mr. Swamy pointed out. He said he chose Mumbai and Bengaluru as he is familiar with both the cities and their market dynamics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/swiss-company-unveils-masks-made-from-fabric-that-can-kill-coronavirus/article31856440.ece
18 June 2020||Mumbai,||HC extends all interim relief orders till July 15||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday issued a notice extending all interim relief orders till July 15. The notice was issued by a Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta, and Justices A.A. Sayed, S.S. Shinde and K.K. Tated. The notice said the lockdown is still on and “complete access to justice is yet at a distance”. Taking the prevailing situation into consideration, the Bench said to exercise powers inherent in the High Court and to serve the ends of justice, the order dated March 26, and extended by an order dated April 15, shall be in operation till July 15. The Bench said, “It is made clear that this order shall not have any application in respect of matters where interim orders have been passed, which are to be in operation until further orders of the relevant courts or to orders which have been modified/varied/vacated after April 15.” The decision was taken in the presence of Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, Advocate General of Maharashtra A.A. Kumbhakoni, Chairman of Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa Subhash Ghatge, president of Bombay Bar Association Milind Sathe, Brihanmumbai Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Chahal and president of Bombay Incorporated Law Society Kaiwan Kalyaniwalla. The High Court’s notice added, “It is clarified that any order or decree for eviction/dispossession/demolition which has been passed by any court/tribunal/authority subsequent to the order dated March 26, 2020, shall also remain in abeyance till July 15, 2020, unless directed otherwise.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-extends-all-interim-relief-orders-till-july-15/article31856237.ece
18 June 2020||Mumbai,||MoUs worth Rs. 5,000 crore inked with Chinese firms||Three Chinese firms are among the 12 companies from different countries with which the Maharashtra government has signed MoUs collectively worth Rs. 16,000 crore. The investment of the three Chinese companies is collectively worth over Rs. 5,000 crore, an official statement has said. The MoUs were signed on Monday under the Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0, hours before the violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh, in which 20 Indian Army personnel were martyred. All the three Chinese companies: Hengli Engineering, PMI Electro Mobility Solutions JV with Photon and Great Wall Motors will invest in Talegaon in Pune district, the statement has said. Hengli Engineering will invest Rs. 250 crore, PMI will invest Rs. 1,000 crore in the auto sector, it said, adding that Great tWall Motors will set up an automobile firm with investment of Rs. 3,770 crore. MoUs were also signed with companies from other countries like the U.S., Singapore and South Korea. They are from diverse sectors like automobile, logistics, banking, engineering and mobile production, it has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mous-worth-rs-5000-crore-inked-with-chinese-firms/article31856238.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Place quarantine guidelines on record, SC tells U.P. govt.||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to place on record its guidelines for quarantine and hospital treatment of asymptomatic COVID-19 patients in the State. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan ordered the State to file an affidavit with the details. The court listed the case for further hearing when the court reopens after vacation on July 6. It asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta also to obtain necessary instructions on the guidelines implemented in Uttar Pradesh. The direction came after senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan highlighted the case of a pregnant woman who died unable to get admitted to a hospital. In a previous hearing, the court had asked the State government about its quarantine rules when it was informed that the ones in Noida were “contrary” to the national guidelines notified by the Centre. The court was originally hearing a petition about the lack of a uniform pass system for commuters in Ghaziabad, Noida and Gurugram who travel across the border to Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/place-quarantine-guidelines-on-record-sc-tells-up-govt/article31856241.ece
18 June 2020||Pune,||As cases rise in new areas, PMC redraws containment zones||With more than 30% of the new COVID-19 cases in Pune city now emerging outside designated containment zones, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has drawn up a fresh list, adding new zones and increasing the number of micro-containment clusters to 73 from the previous number of 66. In an order issued late on Tuesday, PMC Commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad deleted 24 ‘old’ containment zones and designated 32 new ones which had witnessed a spike in COVID-19 cases. At the same time, in a bid to keep to economic activity humming along, the cumulative area under containment in the city has been reduced from 9.28 sq. km a fortnight ago to 6.645 sq. km The city has been witnessing an average surge of nearly 300 cases for the past few days as a number of hitherto green zones are in danger of transforming into red ones. The Aundh-Baner and Kothrud-Bavdhan areas, which were safe from the scourge of the contagion till now, have witnessed fresh cases with the Bopodi slum cluster (in Aundh-Baner) reporting 246 cases in the past two weeks. Wadarwadi and Janawadi slums in Shivajinagar have emerged as new ‘highly-infected’ zones in the last 15 days, reporting 220 cases in the last fortnight. “We will be continuing with the strategy of micro- containment zones, sealing buildings or partially locking down areas where COVID-19 cases are found, instead of shutting off the entire area,” Mr. Gaikwad said. Meanwhile, 234 new cases were reported from Pune district on Tuesday as the cumulative case tally (including deaths and recoveries) rose to 12,919, said authorities. With eight new deaths, the district’s death toll has climbed to 535. However, Pune Divisional Commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said only 4,259 of the total cases were active, while more than 8,125 people had been discharged across the district, whose recovery rate had increased to 62.89%. Along with Pune’s total fatalities, the total death toll in Pune division has now risen to 745. Pune division’s total case tally stood at 16,469 of whom only 5,269 were active cases while10,455 people in the division have been discharged thus far, said Dr. Mhaisekar. A total 264 people are critical. Solapur reported 24 new cases taking the district’s tally to 1,811. However, only 655 of these were active, with 996 persons discharged so far. With eight fatalities reported in the last 24 hours, Solapur’s death tally stands at 160.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/as-cases-rise-in-new-areas-pmc-redraws-containment-zones/article31856230.ece
18 June 2020||Beijing,||Beijing fears a second wave of virus||Beijing’s airports cancelled two-thirds of all flights and schools in the Chinese capital were closed again on Wednesday as authorities rushed to contain a new coronavirus outbreak linked to a wholesale food market. The city reported 31 new cases on Wednesday while officials urged residents not to leave Beijing, with fears growing about a second wave of infections in China, which had largely brought its outbreak under control. Tens of thousands of people linked to the new Beijing virus cluster are being tested, with almost 30 residential compounds in the city now under lockdown. At least 1,255 scheduled flights were cancelled Wednesday morning, state-run People’s Daily reported, nearly 70 percent of all trips to and from Beijing’s main airports. According to the Chinese flight-tracking database VariFlight, around two-thirds of inbound flights and more than half of outbound flights at Beijing Capital International Airport were cancelled on Wednesday, while three-quarters of outbound and more than two-thirds of inbound flights at the new Daxing International Airport were cancelled. The outbreak had already forced authorities to announce a travel ban for residents of “medium- or high-risk” areas of the city, while requiring all other residents to take nucleic acid tests in order to leave Beijing. Meanwhile, several provinces were quarantining travellers from Beijing, where all schools -- which had mostly reopened -- have been ordered to close again and return to online classes. “The epidemic situation in the capital is extremely severe,” Beijing city spokesman Xu Hejian has warned. Mass testing under way Officials have closed 11 markets and disinfected thousands of food and beverage businesses in Beijing. The city has now reported 137 infections over the last six days, with six new asymptomatic cases and three suspected cases on Wednesday, according to the municipal health commission. Authorities have so far banned group sports, ordered people to wear masks in crowded enclosed spaces, and suspended inter-provincial group tours in response to the outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/beijing-fears-a-second-wave-of-virus/article31855956.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Is China’s ‘peaceful development’ over?||On Tuesday, the same day news broke about the violent clashes between Indian and Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley of eastern Ladakh, in which at last 20 Indian soldiers died, a Chinese J-10 fighter briefly entered Taiwan’s air defence zone, prompting the self-ruled island to scramble its aircraft in response. This was the third Chinese incursion into Taiwan’s airspace within a week. Two months ago, Chinese vessels had entered the waters of Malaysia and Vietnam. Last month, Chinese Coast Guard ships pursued Japanese fishing boats in waters claimed by both countries. All these incidents point to a newfound aggressiveness in China’s approach towards its already troubled neighbourhood, from the Himalayas to the South and East China Seas. Tensions in the neighbourhood are not new for China. The roughly 4,000 km-long India-China border, which is not clearly demarcated, has seen occasional flare-ups. In 2017, troops from both countries were locked in a face-off in the India-China-Bhutan tri-junction of Doklam for over two months. China has claims over the South China Sea, and “reunification” with Taiwan is one of its self-declared goals. But what makes the current stand-offs different is China’s readiness to use force in addressing these challenges. This was the first time in 45 years that blood was spilt on the India-China border. Last month, in an annual policy blueprint, China dropped the word “peaceful” in referring to its desire to “reunify” with Taiwan, ending a nearly 30-year-long precedent. Sharp turn This sharp turn marks China’s most major policy decisions post-COVID-19. Relations with the U.S. are particularly bad, with the Trump administration now openly targeting China for its handling of the pandemic. When Australia pushed for an investigation into the pandemic outbreak, Beijing punished the country by imposing trade curbs. In Hong Kong, which has been seeing anti-China protests for a year, Beijing has introduced a new national security law, granting itself broader powers in the Special Administrative Region. If Xi Jinping was facing one the biggest crises of his Presidency early this year, in the middle of the COVID-19 outbreak, he now appears to be firmly in control, overseeing an expansive foreign policy that pushes the boundaries. “The ‘peaceful rise’ is now out of the question. They think they have arrived,” said Alka Acharya, professor of international studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi. President Hu Jintao, Mr. Xi’s predecessor, had adopted the “peaceful rise” (or “peaceful development”, as the the Chinese later called it) policy to assure other countries, especially the U.S. and China’s Asian neighbours, that its rise did not pose any threat to others. China came out of it long ago, Prof. Acharya told The Hindu . “The whole series of positions China has taken with respect to Taiwan, Tibet, Hong Kong, national sovereignty or whatever problems they have with the U.S. are nothing new. The question is what are the elements in China’s behaviour today which are different from what had happened in the past,” she pointed out. The virus factor In Prof. Acharya’s view, COVID-19 has brought on a “sharper turn” to China’s foreign policy because: “suddenly, it was quite obvious that China was on the back foot. It was getting very bad press all around. Other countries were speaking out against its handling of the outbreak. The Americans are now open about building a coalition against China. So a lot of China’s response is part of their way of tackling this crisis. We are going to fight back is the message from Beijing.” But China has always contested such analysis. In its version, China is a rising, responsible power and some tensions are part of its rise. The “China Dream”, laid out by President Xi after he took power in 2012, seeks to turn the country into wealthy, strong and modern global power by 2049, the centenary of the Communist revolution. Differences and disputes “I would like to think of China’s diplomatic situation as something a growing country has to meet and deal with day-to-day,” said Qi Haotian, assistant professor, School of International Studies, Peking University, Beijing. “It’s easy to get amplified. However, I think what we have been seeing is not surprising or dishearteningly alarming. As long as China takes it seriously that peaceful coexistence and development serve her interests ultimately, tensions of any kind should probably be taken as temporal processes,” he told The Hindu . “I personally do not see current tensions, clashes, disputes or conflicts between China and other countries as existentially alarming for any side, as long as we faithfully attempt to address the issues with everything in our toolkit, bilaterally and institutionally. There will be troubles. They are also good learning opportunities ,” said Prof. Qi. Prof. Acharya, however, sees a clear shift. “This [aggressive] narrative is being built up very systematically. Between India and China, they used to say ‘don’t let differences become disputes’. What’s happening now is that, across the spectrum, where differences which predate COVID-19, that predate even the ‘peaceful rise’ policy, are now literally becoming disputes. Let’s face it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/is-chinas-peaceful-development-over/article31855959.ece
18 June 2020||WASHINGTON,||Trump signs order on police reform||Following weeks of national protests since the death of George Floyd, President Donald Trump has signed an executive order he said would encourage better police practices. But he made no mention of the roiling national debate over racism spawned by police killings of black people. Mr. Trump met privately with the families of several black Americans killed in interactions with police before his Rose Garden signing ceremony and said he grieved for the lives lost and families devastated. “Reducing crime and raising standards are not opposite goals,” he said before signing the order on Tuesday, flanked by police officials. Mr. Trump’s executive order would establish a database that tracks police officers with excessive use-of-force complaints in their records. Many officers who wind up involved in fatal interactions have long complaint histories, including Derek Chauvin, the white Minneapolis police officer charged with murder in Floyd’s death. The order would give police departments a financial incentive to adopt best practices and encourage co-responder programmes, in which social workers join police when they respond to nonviolent calls involving mental health, addiction and homelessness issues. Mr. Trump said that, as part of the order, the use of chokeholds, which have become a symbol of police brutality, would be banned “except if an officer’s life is at risk.” While Mr. Trump hailed his efforts as “historic,” Democrats and other critics said he didn’t go nearly far enough.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-signs-order-on-police-reform/article31855966.ece
18 June 2020||Hong Kong,||‘Extraditions to China a possibility with HK law’||China’s planned national security law for Hong Kong could allow for extraditions to the mainland, the city’s sole representative to Beijing’s top lawmaking body said on Wednesday. The comments by Tam Yiu-chung, a veteran pro-Beijing politician, are significant because it was the threat of extradition to China’s party-controlled courts that ignited last year’s pro-democracy protests. The city has been convulsed by a year of huge and often violent rallies that began with an eventually aborted criminal extradition Bill but morphed into a popular call for democracy and police accountability. Beijing says the new national security law is needed to end the political unrest and restore stability. But critics see it as potential knock-out blow for Hong Kong’s cherished freedoms and autonomy. In an interview, Mr. Tam said he believed some prosecutions alleging foreign interference, or cases involving diplomatic issues, could be handled by China’s central government. The Standing Committee, the party organ that will draw up the new law, is sitting on Thursday and Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/extraditions-to-china-a-possibility-with-hk-law/article31855957.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Facebook aims to boost voter turnout in U.S. polls||Facebook is launching a widespread effort to boost U.S. voter turnout and provide authoritative information about voting — just as it doubles down on its policy allowing politicians like President Donald Trump to post false information on the same subject. The social media giant is launching a “Voting Information Center” on Facebook and Instagram. It will draw the information from state election officials and local election authorities. The information hub, which will be prominently displayed on Facebook news feeds and on Instagram later in the summer, is similar to the coronavirus information center the company launched earlier this year. Facebook and its CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, continue to face criticism for not removing or labeling posts by Trump that that spread misinformation about voting by mail and, many said, encouraged violence against protesters. “I know many people are upset that we’ve left the President’s posts up, but our position is that we should enable as much expression as possible unless it will cause imminent risk of specific harms or dangers spelled out in clear policies,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote earlier this month. In a USA Today opinion piece Tuesday, Mr. Zuckerberg reaffirmed that position. “Ultimately, I believe the best way to hold politicians accountable is through voting, and I believe we should trust voters to make judgments for themselves,” he wrote. Meanwhile, Facebook is allowing users to turn off all political ads in a move aimed at quelling criticism of the leading social network's hands-off approach to election misinformation. The feature being rolled out in the United States from Wednesday and some other countries will give Facebook and Instagram users the option of blocking paid ads from candidates and political groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/facebook-aims-to-boost-voter-turnout-in-us-polls/article31855962.ece
18 June 2020||Moscow,||‘Disinfection tunnel’ to protect Putin from virus||Visitors meeting Russian President Vladimir Putin at his country residence must first pass through a walk-through device that sprays them with disinfectant, to protect him from the coronavirus, officials said. Mr. Putin has been self-isolating at his Novo-Ogaryovo residence outside Moscow under lockdown although he made a public appearance without a mask at an outdoor event on the June 12 Russia Day holiday. As part of precautions, visitors walk through the device and get sprayed from above and the side, a video posted on Tuesday evening on Twitter by Kremlin pool journalists from RIA Novosti state news agency showed. The Kremlin has imposed a range of measures to protect Mr. Putin, including regular virus testing of the leader and all those who come into contact with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/disinfection-tunnel-to-protect-putin-from-virus/article31855964.ece
18 June 2020||WASHINGTON,||U.S. govt. files suit to block Bolton’s book||U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration filed a lawsuit on Tuesday in a bid to prevent publication of former National Security Advisor John Bolton’s book, which is expected to provide a damning insider portrait of the White House. The book, The Room Where It Happened: A White House Memoir , is due to hit the shelves next week. The suit said Mr. Bolton has failed to get the text vetted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-govt-files-suit-to-block-boltons-book/article31855965.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Resolve conflict peacefully: U.S.||The U.S. supports a “peaceful resolution” of the current conflict between India and China, in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed on Monday along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Galwan area in Ladakh. “We are closely monitoring the situation between Indian and Chinese forces along the Line of Actual Control. We note the Indian military has announced that 20 soldiers have died, and we offer our condolences to their families,” a State Department spokesperson told The Hindu via email on Wednesday morning (Indian time). “Both India and China have expressed a desire to de-escalate, and we support a peaceful resolution of the current situation.” When asked if U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo had spoken to his counterpart, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, on the issue or if the U.S. had reached out to India at any other level, the spokesperson referred to the June 2 phone call between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and U.S. President Donald Trump, saying the two leaders had discussed the border situation then. A White House readout for the June 2 call had referred to Mr. Modi and Mr. Trump discussing “regional security issues”, without naming China, while a readout of the same call from the Prime Minister’s Office referred explicitly to “the situation on the India-China border”. The U.S.-China relationship is currently under strain due to bilateral trade and intellectual property issues between the countries as well as China’s role in the COVID-19 pandemic and its recent legislative actions in Hong Kong. “We are monitoring the situation between Indian and Chinese forces along the Line of Actual Control in Eastern Ladakh,” a senior administration official separately told The Hindu , offering their “deepest condolences” to the families of the soldiers who died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/resolve-conflict-peacefully-us/article31856008.ece
18 June 2020||Brussels,||Brussels, June 17, 2020 (AFP) -||The European Union wants tougher rules to thwart heavily-subsidised foreign companies, especially Chinese ones, from taking over European firms, officials said on Wednesday. The economic shock caused by the coronavirus pandemic has accelerated the plans, with widespread concern that foreigner companies could swoop in and buy European firms weakened by the recession.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/brussels-june-17-2020-afp/article31855961.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||History, the stand-off, and policy worth rereading||The deadly clashes at Galwan and the ongoing stand-off between India and China on the ridges or “fingers” around the Pangong Tso are a metaphor for the wider conflict between the two countries over all the areas that Chinese strategy refers to as the “five fingers of the Tibetan palm”. According to the construct, attributed to Mao and cited in the 1950s by Chinese officials, Xizang (Tibet) was China’s right palm, and it was its responsibility to “liberate” the fingers, defined as Ladakh, Nepal, Sikkim, Bhutan, and the North East Frontier Agency (NEFA, or Arunachal Pradesh). Sixty years ago, India began to set about ensuring that quite the reverse ensued, and all five fingers were more closely attached to India, not China. As the government of India grapples with its next steps at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), it must cast a similarly grand strategy, to renew its compact with each of those areas today. India’s countermove In the 1950s, even after India and China signed the Panchsheel agreement in 1954 and before the 1962 China-India war, the Nehru government had begun to worry about some of China’s proclamations. Especially after the flight of the Dalai Lama to India in 1959, China began to demand “self-determination in Kashmir”, wrote former Foreign Secretary T.N. Kaul in his memoirs, detailing how the Chinese press and radio launched a propaganda war against India, while the Chinese government allowed Naga and Mizo dissidents into China for refuge and training. More importantly, school textbooks there began to depict the “five fingers” as a part of China, wrote Mr. Kaul, who was posted in Peking (Beijing) and then as Joint Secretary (East) overseeing the China relationship, in the 1950s. While Prime Minister Nehru’s military miscalculations and India’s defeat in the 1962 war have been studied in great detail, what is perhaps not so well understood is the three-pronged foreign policy New Delhi set into motion at the time, that provided an effective counter to Mao’s five finger policy over the course of the century. Managing the borders The first was a push for building border infrastructure and governance. In the mid-1950s the government piloted a project to build the Indian Frontier Administrative Services (IFAS) for overseeing NEFA (Arunachal Pradesh) and other areas along the India-China frontier. The Foreign secretary was the Chair of the IFAS selection board, and many who enlisted in the cadre overlapped between the Indian Foreign Service, the Indian Administrative Service and the Indian Police Service, and rotated between postings in the most remote tribal areas and embassies in the region. A special desk was created in the Ministry of External Affairs for officers who would tour all the regions from NEFA to Ladakh in order to make suggestions for the rapid development of these areas. While India’s border infrastructure is only now catching up with the infrastructure China built in the course of the next few decades, its base was made during the brief period the IFAS existed, before it was wound up in 1968. An idea before its time, the IFAS’s role has since been transferred to the Indian Army and the Border Roads Organisation, but it is an idea worth revisiting, especially as areas along the frontier continue to complain of neglect and a lack of focus from the Centre (in 2019, the Chief Ministers of Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram called for the resurrection of the IFAS). Outreach and treaties The second prong were a series of treaties that were signed around that time with neighbours such as Nepal and Bhutan, and the consolidation of control, militarily and administratively, of other territories that acceded to India, including Ladakh as a part of Jammu and Kashmir (1947), and NEFA (1951). In 1950, India signed a treaty with Sikkim that made it a “protectorate”, and by 1975 the Indira Gandhi Government had annexed Sikkim and made it the 22nd State of India. Each of these treaties built unique relationships with New Delhi, tying countries such as Nepal and Bhutan in ways that were seen as a “win-win” for both sides at the time. However, over time, the treaties have outlived their utility, and the benefits of unique ties with Nepal and Bhutan, including open borders and ease of movement, jobs and education for their youth as well as India’s influential support on the world stage, have waned in public memory. One of the reasons that China has been able to make inroads into Nepal and not with Bhutan, is that the government renegotiated its 1949 Treaty of Perpetual Peace and Friendship between the Government of India and the Government of Bhutan of 1949 with the India-Bhutan Friendship Treaty in 2007, dropping an article that had committed Bhutan “to beguided” by India on its external affairs policy. This has held India and Bhutan ties in good stead thus far, even during the Doklam stand-off between India and China in 2017 in the face of severe pressure from China. However, despite years of requests from Kathmandu, New Delhi has dragged its feet on reviewing its 1950 Treaty of Peace and Friendship between the Government of India and the Government of Nepal, and on accepting a report the Eminent Persons’ Group (EPG) on Nepal-India relations has produced that recommends a new treaty. New treaties may not, in themselves reduce India’s security threat from China in its neighbourhood, but they create space for a more mutually responsive diplomacy that is necessary to nurture special relationships. The Tibet issue For the third prong, India’s policy towards the “palm” or Tibet, itself should be looked at more closely as well. While New Delhi’s decision to shelter the Dalai Lama and lakhs of his followers since 1959 is a policy that is lauded, it does not change the need for New Delhi to look into the future of its relationship, both with the Tibetan refugee community in India, which has lived here in limbo for decades, as well as with its future leadership. At present, the Dalai Lama has the loyalty of Tibetans worldwide, but in the future, the question over who will take up the political leadership of the community looms large. The Karmapa Lama, who lived in India after his flight from China in 2000, and was groomed as a possible political successor, has now taken the citizenship of another country and lives mostly in the United States. Meanwhile, China will without doubt try to force its own choice on the community as well. Given that it is home to so many Tibetans, India must chart a more prominent role in this discourse. On J&K Finally, it is necessary to introspect on how India’s own reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir in August 2019 has changed the security matrix and threat parameters for India, and its neighbours. While Pakistan’s extreme reaction to the move was expected, China’s reaction was perhaps not studied enough. Beijing issued a statement decrying the impact on Jammu and Kashmir, and another one specifically on Ladakh, calling it an attempt to “undermine China’s territorial sovereignty by unilaterally changing its domestic law” and warning that the move was “unacceptable and will not come into force”. Home Minister Amit Shah’s vow in Parliament, in August last year, to take back Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK) and Aksai Chin was not taken lightly either, as China’s stakes in PoK now go beyond its historical closeness with Pakistan, to its investment in the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor that runs through it. The impact of the new map of Jammu and Kashmir on ties with Nepal as well, is no coincidence. There is proof enough that now more than ever, as the government readies its hand on dealing with China, it must not lose sight of every finger in play. suhasini.h@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/history-the-stand-off-and-policy-worth-rereading/article31855943.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Multilateralism post COVID-19||Change is often touted as being the only constant. However, in the hard-nosed world of multilateral diplomacy, seasoned practitioners often say that only babies with wet nappies delightfully accept change. The rest, they say, usually display differing degrees of tepid enthusiasm for any type of change. Even at the best of times, when there was great power cooperation rather than great power rivalry like now, multilateralism has belied the ability to update swiftly. For example, Resolution 50/52 adopted unanimously during the 50th session, “to initiate the procedure set out in Article 108 of the Charter of the United Nations to amend the Charter, with prospective effect, by the deletion of the ‘enemy State’ clauses from Articles 53, 77 and 107 at its earliest appropriate future session” awaits action, nearly 25 years later. Multilateralism 0.1 The COVID-19 outbreak has placed all international institutions under a magnifying glass. By any measure, most have performed below par. Such is the caution espoused that multilateralism today seems to have reverted to its version 0.1. The General Assembly now passes resolutions through no objection procedure. The Security Council has been found wanting in no small measure. The 75th session’s ‘leaders week’ runs the risk of being reduced to a video playback session. It is true that functioning of multilateral institutions, like much else, requires reform. They need to adapt to new realities, just as their headquarters staff have quickly adopted the new normal of ‘work from home’. However, the pursuit of change by threatening to leave multilateral institutions is a phenomenon we witnessed only during the period of the League of Nations. One state followed another in bidding goodbye, until the League’s final demise. The post Second World War multilateral institutions have survived such departures. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) in Paris and the Human Rights Council in Geneva have survived the departure of the U.S. The United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) in Vienna continues despite the withdrawal of the U.S. and many others. The World Health Organization (WHO), notwithstanding its visible shortcomings, will survive U.S. threats. The reasons are simple. Multilateral organisations serve desperately felt global needs of the vast membership. The pandemic has reinforced the desire for greater global cooperation amongst most states. Gulliver and the Lilliputians So, as the current multilateral order is unlikely to capsize, will it fall prey to the ‘wolf warriors’ of China posing as the new defenders of the established order? It is true that Chinese nationals head four multilateral organisations. It is also true that Chinese nationals have failed in campaigns to head UNESCO and the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). Despite contributing nearly 10% of the UN’s budget, Chinese nationals are not exactly overrepresented in terms of staff positions, unlike many other countries whose personnel occupy more than half of the percentage of their financial contribution. Take the Chinese language interpreters out and there is a further decline. If the head count of senior staff from UN regular and peacekeeping budgets is taken together, that percentage falls dramatically, although China contributes 14% of the peacekeeping budget. Of course, Chinese announcements of voluntary contributions made at international organisations need to be taken with a pinch of salt. They usually encompass all contributions — bilateral, plurilateral and multilateral — on a specific theme. By those indices, many contribute much more. China has certainly risen up the multilateral pantheon and is able to better promote its interests. It has warded off attacks against it in multilateral fora, at times with the aid of the heads of these organisations. However, it is yet to display an ability to set the multilateral agenda and dominate the discourse on an array of issues, in the manner that the U.S. once indispensably did. China’s flagship venture, the Belt and Road Initiative, remains only on the fringes of multilateral fora. Neither in monetary terms nor in substantive inputs are there portents of a ‘Chinese takeover’. Amidst this, multilateral bodies are populated by a plethora of small and middle states quietly working to restore equilibrium, when the balance tends to shift. Capture of the existing multilateral order by a new hegemon is antithetical to the ethos of multilateralism. Multilateralism thrives on the notion of the Lilliputians tying up Gulliver — old or new. Not binary choices The choices for the evolving multilateral order are not binary, as portrayed sometimes. Between collapse and capture there are other pathways. Multilateral architecture places premium on structures over functions, processes over substance. It slows down change of any sort. The same processes that have stalled change in the past will militate against a takeover in the future. Does that mean that multilateralism will meander meaninglessly? Meander it perhaps will; meaninglessly perhaps not. The ‘pluri-laterals’ and the emerging ‘mini-laterals’ each have their place in terms of international agenda setting, but global norm-setting requires an inclusivity that they lack. Being able to shape the discourse at an incipient stage is a good perch to be on. Issue-specific ‘coalitions of the willing’ are catalysts. As a growing power, India needs to avail of such avenues. However, by themselves, these will not do justice to the depth and variety of India’s interests and our stakes in global cooperation. Also, they are not holistic solutions in ensuring global acceptance of norms. Responses of states during the COVID-19 crisis point to more emphasis on sovereign decision making than before. The imprimatur for acting on behalf of the global community is not going to be available easily. On myriad issues, from sustainable development to the environment, from climate change to pandemics and cyberspace to outer space, the demands for ‘nothing about us without us’ are likely to increase. Since stakeholders perceive that their stakes have risen, they will call for enhanced engagement. Convening such stakeholders in pursuit of global goals is the essence of multilateralism. Neither permitting the capsizing of the multilateral order nor allowing it to be captured is in our interest. Since we visualise the world as Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam , support for multilateralism will have to remain a primary pursuit. Unlike in other realms where quantum leaps are common, in multilateral diplomacy, incrementalism pays dividends. To unseat a permanent member from the International Court of Justice took us seven decades. To get Masood Azhar designated as a terrorist took us a decade. We need to patiently promote reforms while building partnerships to avail opportunities which may arise for more fundamental change. We need to bide our time without hiding our intent. Syed Akbaruddin has served as India’s Permanent Representative at the UN||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/multilateralism-post-covid-19/article31855950.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A prescription of equitable and effective care||Medical care has been disrupted by the novel coronavirus. Fear, anxiety, uncertainty and confusion have all overtaken clinical services. The private sector, which delivers the major part of medical services, is now functioning at a skeletal level and patients have considerable difficulty in accessing medical care. Tamil Nadu has one of the better health systems in the country and has demonstrated that it can provide high quality care through public-private collaboration in the areas of maternity, cardiac and trauma care. As the number of COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu has crossed 50,193, with 576 deaths (June 17), there is a need to pull together the resources of the public and private sectors into a functioning partnership, to provide good clinical care, ameliorate suffering and prevent deaths. A neglect of the primary task Until now, the focus of the government has been on prevention of the epidemic through testing of suspects, isolation of cases and institutional quarantine of contacts. Hospitals have focused their efforts on prevention by admitting asymptomatic contacts and mild infections. With the focus on prevention, doctors have been unable to attend to their primary task of providing good clinical care to reduce morbidity and prevent deaths. The majority of COVID-19 infections are mild and resolve on their own. Serious illness occurs in the elderly and those with multiple co-morbidities such as diabetes, heart disease and respiratory problems. The primary cause of death in COVID-19 pneumonia is respiratory failure. The mainstay of treatment in moderate and severe illness is clinical monitoring, oxygen therapy to correct hypoxemia (low oxygen levels in the blood), and good supportive care. Even in those above the age of 80 years, the mortality rate is only 15%. Patients who require ventilator treatment have a mortality rate of over 50%. Good supportive care for sick patients is essential in preventing deaths. Hospital services have to focus on in-patient management of moderate and severe pneumonia, prioritising intensive care unit (ICU) beds for potentially reversible illness. We need to ensure that every patient with moderate and severe COVID-19 pneumonia has access to the optimum level of care, to prevent deaths and ameliorate suffering. Combating fear Because of the labelling and stigmatisation of those diagnosed with COVID-19, the public are reluctant to come to hospital and may come late or die at home. We need to send out a clear message that hospitals will provide good quality care for COVID-19, at affordable cost and ensuring confidentiality. For this to happen, the government must work with the private sector to make care accessible and affordable. The Tamil Nadu government’s efforts to cap the cost for different levels of COVID-19 care in private hospitals is a positive step. The government should financially assist the private sector by reimbursing basic patient care costs for providing COVID-19 care. Medical staff taking care of COVID-19 patients are anxious that they may acquire the infection and transmit it to their family members. Deaths of hospital staff due to COVID-19 have been reported, although the mortality risk is lower than that of the general population. Medical staff involved in COVID-19 care should be adequately protected with appropriate personal protective equipment, or PPE, and should be trained in infection control and clinical care protocols. They should be encouraged to communicate with a patient and the family within the restrictions. A wish list In Tamil Nadu, we should shift the discourse from the focus on prevention and reducing the number of cases to an equal priority for providing COVID-19 care. Every citizen in Tamil Nadu who has serious COVID-19 pneumonia should be able to access high quality care. In order to implement a universal COVID-19 care programme, the government health system should collaborate with private hospitals. Towards this we suggest that: all private hospitals which have the potential, should take care of COVID-19. They should be given requisite incentives and subsidies to that end; every patient should be able to access medical care for COVID-19 from a private or public hospital; only patients with moderate to severe COVID-19 pneumonia should be admitted; ICU care should be prioritised for COVID-19 patients who have potentially reversible illness; confidentiality of the patient should be protected; the government should support the basic cost of COVID-19 care in private hospitals as well; city hospitals should pool their ICU resources for the care of COVID-19 pneumonia; staff providing COVID-19 care, should receive adequate training and be provided appropriate PPE, and, finally, families of staff who die due to COVID-19 should receive appropriate compensation. These initiatives can only be realised with appropriate leadership from the government. The private sector has to be fully involved in clinical care of the COVID-19 epidemic. We should work towards making COVID-19 treatment available, affordable and effective. Our response to the epidemic must combine good science, clinical reasoning and a humane response to save the lives of the people of our country. Anand Zachariah is a Professor of Medicine at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. George Thomas is an Orthopaedic Surgeon at St. Isabel’s Hospital, Chennai. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-prescription-of-equitable-and-effective-care/article31855946.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Maternal health matters||In a shocking incident earlier this month, a pregnant woman died in an ambulance in Noida after being turned away from a number of private and government hospitals. This raises a chilling question for all of us: if this can happen somewhere so close to the nation’s capital, what is happening in the corners of the country? A second question that comes to mind is: when the lockdown was suddenly announced and then extended, what exactly was the plan for the millions of women who were/are due for childbirth? Over the last 15 years, the state has been promising maternal well-being to pregnant women provided they turn up at public hospitals during labour, and has been providing a cash incentive to those that have institutional birth. Consequently, it has become almost routine for all pregnant women to reach health facilities during labour. Elaborate tracking systems have been instituted by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to track every pregnant woman, infant and child until they turn five. However, during lockdown, the state appeared to have forgotten those women expected to give birth. Even though recent epidemics have identified pregnant women as people being ‘high risk’, no reference was made this time on the need to provide emergency services for pregnant women. Frontline workers were pressed into community surveillance, monitoring and awareness building for COVID 19. The public health system was overburdened with handling the pandemic: most secondary and tertiary hospitals were either those designated as COVID-19 facilities or those unequipped with enough PPE kits. Adverse fallout on pregnant women The recent news has been providing many glimpses of the stigma and paranoia regarding the virus and its fallout upon pregnant women and infants. There was the 20-year-old in Telangana with anaemia and high blood pressure, who died after being turned away by six hospitals. Similarly, a 25-year-old woman in labour coming from a COVID-19 containment area in Delhi was turned away by at least six hospitals and clinics. She finally gave birth outside the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. Innumerable other incidents have possibly gone unreported. These indicate that in these 12 weeks, the approximately 9,00,000 pregnant women (15% of the six million women giving birth) who needed critical care had to face enormous hurdles to actually obtain treatment at an appropriate hospital. Added to this were the women who have had miscarriages or sought abortions: that would be another 45,000 women every single day. The government rather belatedly issued a set of guidelines a month after lockdown started, but that only compounded the confusion. Pregnant women had to be ‘recently’ tested and certified COVID-19-negative to enter a ‘general hospital’ but it was not clear how this can happen once they are in labour, as the test results need a day’s turnaround at the very least. The fundamental question here is: when the state compels people to modify their behaviour through an inducement like a cash incentive, doesn’t that put the onus on the state for ensuring effective systems for maternal care? Need to scrutinise private sector The health policymakers need to acknowledge the shortcoming of an overstretched and under-resourced system in responding to the critical care needs of pregnant women during crises. Although 80% doctors and 64% beds are in the private sector, clinics have closed down and private hospitals have stepped back fearing infections, while larger hospitals have begun charging exorbitant amounts. The role of the private sector therefore needs to be scrutinised. India’s Maternal Mortality Ratio came down to 122 deaths per 1,00,000 live births (SRS 2017), from 167 per 1,00,000 births in 2011-13. Much effort and investment over many years have led to this decrease. As India struggles to manage the COVID-19 pandemic, the hard-won gains of the last 15 years can be erased with one stroke. The pandemic has amplified many inequalities and shows up sharply the state’s abdication of responsibility for prevention of lives lost, putting the entire responsibility of health protection on the individual citizen. In order to win back the trust of pregnant women, the state will have to account publicly for how the millions of deliveries took place; or how abortions, miscarriages and childbirth complications were handled. Improved maternal health was the lynchpin around which public health systems had been strengthened over the last 15 years. As the country slowly emerges from a total lockdown into a longer-term management strategy, it is time to consider doing things differently for improving maternal well-being. Jashodhara Dasgupta writes on gender, rights and health||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/maternal-health-matters/article31855953.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Making an envoy feel at home||The press reported a few days back that “the credential ceremony was conducted via a video-conferencing from the South Block as the envoys stood in front of a large screen one after another. This exercise was conducted as usual credential ceremony in Rashtrapati Bhawan could not be arranged due to spread of COVID-19.” The rationale of the procedure is understandable. The knowledgeable in the public would, however, note that this may also signal the demise, or virtual oblivion, associated with an institution of great antiquity that serves global discourse between organised communities. It was said, perhaps jocularly, that it originated when one set of cannibals concluded that it is better to hear a message than eat the messenger. Overtime, a set of rules and rituals were developed in all countries East and West to ensure that such representatives are accorded appropriate religious, legal and practical immunities to discharge their functions. Alongside, elaborate ceremonials emerged to give a palpable demonstration of the relative power and influence of the sender and the receiver of these missions. A later development of this was the resident mission. Accidental or deliberate departures from these norms were viewed seriously and even led to armed conflicts. Multiple objectives Much has been written over centuries about the functions entrusted to these emissaries. A good example is the 11th century wazir Nizamul Mulk Tusi and his Siyasat-nama that has a full chapter on Ambassadors. “It should be realised that when Kings send Ambassadors to one another their purpose is not merely the message or the letter which they communicate openly, but secretly they have a hundred other points and objects in view.” Some of these were listed and remain relevant to this day, like the state of infrastructure, condition and morale of the armed forces, the state of the economy, etc. The author added that “Ambassadors are generally censorious and always on the lookout to see what faults there are in the kingdom and kingship and what virtues.” Independent India inherited and improved upon these rituals and developed its own practices. Presentation of credentials by a foreign envoy in the days of yore was an elaborate affair: travel to the Rashtrapati Bhavan in an open vehicle, ceremonial conduct to the Ashoka Hall, formal dress norms military and civil, presentation to the President by a Secretary to government in the MEA, a short speech by the Ambassador and an appropriate response by the President and an informal tete-a-tete of the Head of State with the new arrival and his spouse. The whole ceremony took about 45 minutes and left an indelible mark on the new arrival. Our heads of state on their part took these ceremonial duties with due care. On one occasion, our head of state declined to receive a new Ambassador who carried the letter of credence of a very recently demised head of his own land. “I shall not receive a dead man’s letter” was the stentorian ruling that deferred the presentation ceremony, leaving South Block to work out functional alternatives! Abandonment of rituals Individual propensities and, occasionally, pressures of time came up from time to time to scoff at the procedure as antediluvian and suggest its abandonment. The open carriage of course was abandoned on security considerations. Overtime and while the contents and wording of the letter of credence have been retained in most countries, its practical content stands diluted and changed. The ingredients and procedures of a ritual may be incidental in the larger scheme of things. Yet, we know that symbols and rituals are essential parts of international diplomacy. In this sense, ritual becomes a power source and has been used down the ages to project images of power. The world of practical diplomacy understands this and continues to practise it. For us, to abridge one aspect for it makes little sense, more so because this on past record was highly appreciated and commended. Hamid Ansari is the former Vice-President of India (2007-2017)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/making-an-envoy-feel-at-home/article31855951.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Disorder at the border||With the deaths of at least 20 Indian soldiers, and reports of Chinese soldier casualties in clashes at the Galwan valley in Ladakh, India and China have entered uncharted territory on the Line of Actual Control, the first combat deaths since 1975, and the first such in the Galwan Valley since the 1962 war. The brutality of the clashes, with severe injuries and deaths incurred despite the fact that no shots were fired, is all also unheard of thus far. The deaths occurred when the two armies had agreed to “disengage” and “de-escalate” the month-long stand-off, which makes the clashes particularly shocking. China has now claimed sovereignty over the entire Galwan Valley, indicating that it is unlikely to pull back from this crucial and hitherto non-contentious area, unless it is forced to. In his talks with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi appeared to countenance this new position, and even called on India to “punish those responsible” for crossing the LAC, prompting India to accuse China of attempting to “alter” the LAC with this “premeditated and planned action” by its forces. Meanwhile, reports that Chinese troops continue to be well entrenched in the Fingers area (Finger 4-8) or the ridges around Pangong Tso (lake) that India has always patrolled, and remain inside the LAC at Nakula Pass are worrying indicators of a hardening Chinese position. While Prime Minister Modi’s strong statement on Wednesday of a “befitting reply” and of the sacrifices of the soldiers that “would not go in vain”, is a much needed expression of the national sentiment, simply extracting revenge does not appear to be the answer to the altered situation across the LAC. In order to prepare its response appropriately, the first step the government must take is to apprise the nation of exactly what has occurred since late April along the LAC, including incidents in Ladakh and Sikkim. Monday’s clashes have put an end to claims that Chinese troops have not entered Indian territory (they have), that troops have disengaged, and that the situation was being de-escalated. The government must conduct a full investigation of the Galwan clash and put out clearer details of the lives lost. A true tribute to those soldiers will not only include ensuring accountability from Beijing but also enforcing a full troops withdrawal from all the areas occupied in the last few weeks. Both the MEA and the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs have reaffirmed their commitment to dialogue as a means of restoring peace. Both sides must also acknowledge that the situation is precarious, and that the recent days in particular have undone decades of painstakingly negotiated confidence-building mechanisms. Without a full restoration of the status quo ante , reparations for the casualties, as well as some honest commitment to abide fully by any agreement, talks with Beijing at this point might not mean more than empty words.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/disorder-at-the-border/article31855938.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||United front in Delhi||The new-found spirit of camaraderie between the Arvind Kejriwal-led government of Delhi and the BJP-led Centre has not come a moment too early. Delhi is in the grip of the pandemic, and its response had been chaotic until recently. The Centre and Mr. Kejriwal have had a long history of mutual hostility, affecting the city’s pandemic preparedness. On March 4, there was just a single case. As of June 16, 44,688 positive cases and 1,837 deaths have been recorded. Meanwhile, complaints of denial of patient care, exploitative billing by private hospitals, and deliberate attempts to underreport cases and deaths have surfaced. Whether there is community spread or not, in half of the cases, the infection source is unknown. The national capital is staring at an even bleaker situation ahead, as cases are expected to cross 5.5 lakh by July-end. All this was to be expected and in fact, the purpose of the national lockdown that continued for 10 weeks until June 7 was to prepare the health infrastructure for such a surge. Delhi failed in that task. The pandemic has stretched the health-care system even in developed countries to a breaking point. Administrative inaction and personality clashes aggravated the situation in Delhi. Home Minister Amit Shah and Mr. Kejriwal seem to have agreed on the need for enhanced cooperation between the governments. Though a bit a late in the day, this could potentially lead to a more robust response by pooling in resources. In the process, Mr. Kejriwal has conceded some ground to the Centre and its representative, L-G Anil Baijal. Mr. Shah inspected a hospital in the city on Monday and Mr. Baijal has been taking a hands-on approach to the management of affairs. He has used his authority as chairman of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), and powers vested in him to maintain public order during the epidemic to take critical decisions. He has reversed decisions by the Kejriwal government that discouraged testing and limited treatment to only bonafide city residents. A new six-member advisory committee of eminent experts has been constituted to advise the DDMA. The L-G issued orders empowering government officials to impose fines ranging from Rs. 500 to Rs. 1,000 on those found violating norms related to COVID-19 prevention such as spitting in public among others, besides fresh measures to ensure transparency in the functioning of the city’s medical facilities. On his part, Mr. Kejriwal has been uncharacteristically mellowed and said his interactions with Mr. Shah were “extremely productive”. This cooperation may have been necessitated more by expediency than by choice, but it has given the city hope that it can avoid hurtling toward disaster.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/united-front-in-delhi/article31855937.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Japan’s rice crisis||(From an editorial) The Green Revolution has created a serious problem for the Japanese Government. It fixed a high price for rice some years ago when there was a shortage of the cereal and thanks to the new seeds, there is now an embarrassing surplus. But Japan's farmers are demanding a still higher price on the ground that the cost of their inputs has gone up. The Rice Price Council, which represents consumers, producers and a neutral element has tried to dodge this awkward problem by voting in favour of the Government’s policy of not altering the current price which is more than twice the world price. The leading Opposition parties. Komeito, the socialists and communists have come out with strong criticisms of the Government’s failure to meet the demands of the farmers. This is a ticklish problem for the ruling Liberal Democratic Party which depends heavily on the rural vote. It would not be surprising if Japan chose to follow the example of the United States and pays the farmer not to plant rice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/japans-rice-crisis/article31855954.ece
18 June 2020||Berlin,||Bayern wins eighth straight crown||Bayern Munich was crowned Bundesliga champion on Tuesday for an eighth straight season as Robert Lewandowski’s volley secured a 1-0 win at Werder Bremen, while Paderborn was relegated from the top flight in Berlin. “Compliments to the team, it is sensational what we have achieved in the past few months,” said coach Hansi Flick, for whom it was a first league title in his first season in charge. A deft chip over the Bremen defence from Jerome Boateng was chested down and volleyed home by Lewandowski shortly before half-time. The result keeps Werder Bremen second-from-bottom with just two games left to avoid dropping down to the second-tier for the first time since 1980. Bottom side Paderborn had its relegation confirmed with a 1-0 defeat at Union Berlin after an own goal from the visitors by Ben Zolinski. Lionel Messi was rugby tackled and then scored a penalty as Barcelona put the pressure back on Real Madrid by easing to a 2-0 victory over Leganes at an empty Camp Nou on Tuesday. Messi was hauled to the ground in the first half by a diving Unai Bustinza wrapping two arms around his waist and he was knocked over again in the second, this time earning a penalty, which he converted. After 33 appearances, Messi now has 26 goals this season. In his last eight games, he has seven goals and eight assists. The 17-year-old Ansu Fati had earlier given Barcelona the lead.    The results: Bundesliga: Borussia Monchengladbach 3 (Hofmann 11, 30, Stindl 65) bt Wolfsburg 0; Werder Bremen 0 lost to Bayern Munich 1 (Lewandowski 43); Freiburg 2 (Grifo 61, Petersen 71) bt Hertha Berlin 1 (Ibisevic 66-pen).   Union Berlin 1 (Zolinski 27-og) bt Paderborn 0.   LaLiga: Getafe 0 drew with Espanyol 0; Villarreal 1 (Bacca 16) bt Real Mallorca 0.   Barcelona 2 (Fati 42, Messi 69-pen) bt Leganes 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bayern-wins-eighth-straight-crown/article31856067.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Mixed reactions over US Open move||Following the approval from New York State on Tuesday, decks were cleared for the 2020 US Open to be held behind closed doors from August 31 to September 13. But the move has elicited mixed reactions from the Indian players. There will be no qualifying in singles and the doubles draw will be reduced to 32 from 64. Strict distancing norms mean that there will be no player entourages, something Novak Djokovic didn’t approve of. “It’s a tough situation for all, so trying to salvage something is not a bad idea,” said Sumit Nagal, India’s top-ranked singles player (No. 127). “The big players are not happy with it, but they have millions in their bank accounts, something that 99% of tennis players don’t. Lower-ranked players and a few doubles players will like to give themselves a chance to earn some money.” There is a high probability of Nagal and Prajnesh Gunneswaran (No. 132) getting direct entries because of potential player withdrawals. In 2019, a main draw appearance guaranteed $58,000 and with the organisers committing to close to 95% of the prize money pot from last year, the amount can be a life-saver in these desperate times. “It is good that a tournament is starting, but not a good thing that there is no qualifying,” said Prajnesh. “Giving out ranking points is bad because not everyone will have a fair chance to compete. Even players in the main draw may not be able to travel because of restrictions in many countries. It would have been ideal to have it a little later, but if I get in and am able to travel, I will consider playing.” Big blow For Ankita Raina, India’s top women’s singles player (No. 163), the cancellation of qualifying is a big blow. “The return of the tournament is a positive, but for players who don’t get a direct entry, the qualifying event of a Grand Slam is an opportunity to win points and prize money. It helps us travel for the rest of the year. I hope Roland Garros (September 27-October 11) gives us that chance.” “To be honest, tennis has never been fair for players ranked outside the top-100 in terms of prize money. COVID-19 has highlighted the disparity. I hope there will be better distribution in the future.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mixed-reactions-over-us-open-move/article31856064.ece
18 June 2020||Sydney,||CA slashes jobs and pauses ‘A’ teams’ tours||Cricket Australia axed 40 jobs on Wednesday to cut costs after the coronavirus crisis, just a day after its CEO resigned. The “soul-destroying” decision made about 15% of staff redundant and was aimed at saving Aus$40 million in costs, Cricket Australia chairman Earl Eddings said. The body said it is concerned about further financial shocks this year, with smaller crowds expected and extra spending on safety measures. “We’ve been through a number of challenges but when you lose really good staff like today it’s really gut-wrenching,” Eddings said. The restructuring also includes removing bonuses for senior management and stopping international tours for ‘A’ teams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ca-slashes-jobs-and-pauses-a-teams-tours/article31856044.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Unfair to deny a chance to win points: Bopanna||The lack of a level-playing field is the main concern for Rohan Bopanna following the decision to go ahead with the US Open. “It’s great that they are able to hold events with so much prize money, but it is unfair to deny a chance to earn points because of restricted draws, as it affects players through the season,” reasoned Bopanna. “They could have had the qualifying event for the US Open, instead of moving Cincinnati to New York. Doubles draw is down from 64 to 32 and will consider only doubles rank for entry. “We also have to see the situation with international travel, including from India.” With the French Open set to follow two weeks after the US Open, Bopanna said some players may not be able to play both. “On our return, we may have quarantine at home for two weeks. One may have to perhaps fly from the U.S. Open to France for the French Open. “We may have to be out for many weeks,” he said.  On our return, we may have quarantine at home for two weeks. One may have to perhaps fly from the US Open to France for the French Open||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/unfair-to-deny-a-chance-to-win-points-bopanna/article31856054.ece
18 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Workshop on online chess coaching||Chess Kerala will conduct a workshop for coaches to empower them to explore the possibilities of online coaching. The workshop will held on June 20 and 21 and IM V. Saravanan is the resource person. The COVID-19 pandemic has affected the livelihood of many chess coaches in Kerala which prompted Chess Kerala to conduct the online workshop. The workshop will cover all aspects of online coaching and those interested can contact 90485 31738 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/workshop-on-online-chess-coaching/article31856325.ece
18 June 2020||Bengaluru,||KSFA opens affiliation for new clubs||The Karnataka State Football Association (KSFA) has opened affiliation for new clubs in the lowest divisions of all district football associations in Karnataka for the 2020-21 season. Clubs, institutions and groups of players can apply for Associate Club Membership. Teams should have been involved in promoting the game for at least three years, access to a training or playing field, a qualified coach and financial ability to fund the requirements of the club. For details, contact ceoksfa@gmail.com or satyaksfa@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ksfa-opens-affiliation-for-new-clubs/article31856055.ece
18 June 2020||New Delhi,||India in Pot 3 for Under-16 AFC event||India has been slotted in Pot 3 for the official draw of the AFC U-16 Championship which is scheduled to take place on Thursday at the AFC House in Kuala Lumpur.  This is India’s third consecutive qualification in the AFC U-16 finals, and ninth overall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-in-pot-3-for-under-16-afc-event/article31856113.ece
18 June 2020||Chennai,||CSK suspends team doctor||Chennai Super Kings suspended team doctor — Dr. Madhu Thottappillil — after he posted a controversial tweet about the current India-China face-off at Ladakh. Chennai Super Kings immediately suspended Madhu and put out a statement on its official Twitter handle. “The Chennai Super Kings management was not aware of the personal tweet of Dr. Madhu Thottappillil. He has been suspended from his position as the Team Doctor. Chennai Super Kings regrets his tweet which was without the knowledge of the Management and in bad taste,” the statement read. Madhu has been the three-time champion team’s official team doctor since its inception in 2008.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/csk-suspends-team-doctor/article31856065.ece
18 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Former footballer Safi no more||Former National footballer and Andhra Pradesh State team captain, G.M.S. Safi, passed away here on Wednesday. He was 47. He is survived by wife, two sons and a daughter. Telangana Football Association president Mohd. Rafat Ali, secretary G.P. Palguna, former India captains Shabbbir Ali, Nayeemuddin and Victor Amalraj expressed condolences to the bereaved family members of Safi, who was working as deputy manager with the State Bank of India. Safi represented the AP State team from 1993 to 2002 and was the captain in 2001 and in the 2002 National Games at Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-footballer-safi-no-more/article31856268.ece
18 June 2020||Nyon (Switzerland),||New-format finish for CL||The Champions League will finish with a 12-day mini-tournament in Lisbon, restarting in August after a five-month suspension. Eight teams will play from the quarterfinals in knockout games at two venues, the UEFA executive committee decided on Wednesday. The final will be held at the home stadium of Portuguese club Benfica on Sunday, August 23 — the latest date ever. The Europa League will also get an eight-team knockout tournament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-format-finish-for-cl/article31856045.ece
18 June 2020||Paris,||French Open from Sept. 27||Roland Garros chiefs said on Wednesday that the delayed French Open will get underway on September 27 as the ruling bodies of world tennis revealed a new-look calendar. The French Open was switched from its traditional May-June slot because of the pandemic with September 20 pencilled in as a start date. Now, the Paris main draw will begin on September 27 and finish on October 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/french-open-from-sept-27/article31856056.ece
18 June 2020||New Delhi,||AIFF recommends IM Vijayan for Padma Shri||The All India Football Federation (AIFF) has recommended legendary former skipper I.M. Vijayan for Padma Shri, the country’s fourth highest civilian award. The 51-year-old former India striker, who scored 40 goals in 79 matches for India since making his debut in early 90s, was bestowed the Arjuna award in 2003. He was also awarded the Indian ‘Player of the Year’ in 1993, 1997 and 1999.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aiff-recommends-im-vijayan-for-padma-shri/article31856052.ece
18 June 2020||New York/Paris,||Paris, June 17, 2020 (AFP) -||The ATP and WTA tours both announced on Wednesday that they plan a return to competitive tournaments in August. While the men’s ATP Tour will stage its return tournament in Washington starting August 14, the WTA will precede it with the Palermo Ladies Open in Italy on August 2.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/paris-june-17-2020-afp/article31856059.ece
18 June 2020||Guwahati,||Mizo footballers raise funds for volunteer’s family||Footballers in Mizoram joined online gamers for a virtual shooting match to generate money for a deceased COVID-19 frontline worker in a village bordering Myanmar. The Mizoram government had closed its international borders following the outbreak of the pandemic. Voluntary groups of villagers along the border have since been camping at strategic points along the international boundary to prevent the movement of people. Mizoram shares a 510-km border with Myanmar and 318-km border with Bangladesh. A temporarily suspended (due to the pandemic) agreement with Myanmar allows the free movement of border residents of both countries up to 16 km from the boundary line. One of the volunteers, 18-year-old H. Lalvenmawii from Sangau village in southern Mizoram’s Lawngtlai district, died on June 9 after suffering from a bout of malaria. Sangau is situated near Phawngpui or Blue Mountain, the highest mountain peak in Mizoram. On June 14, the Mizoram Professional Footballers’ Association (MPFA) teamed up with Mizo PUBG Mobile Gamers and inkhel.com, a sports-related website, to organise a PUBG exhibition for generating funds for Lalvenmawii’s family. The match was live-streamed through Facebook and YouTube, clocking more than 100,000 views. “Instead of shooting the ball with our legs, we took to shooting digital guns with our fingers for a cause. “Our members, gamers and viewers donated to raise Rs. 90,000 that was transferred to the account of a beneficiary through the website,” MPFA vice-president Jeje Lalpekhlua told The Hindu on Wednesday. One of the country’s top-ranking footballers, Jeje, is a striker in the Indian team. The president of MPFA, formed in 2010, is veteran footballer Malsawmtluanga Shylo, popularly known as Mama. Donations pour in “The donations are pouring in. We are happy to have contributed our bit through a game most of us are not familiar with,” Jeje said. The MPFA has some 50 members comprising professional footballers of the 10 best teams that play in various leagues in Mizoram. They have been organising charity football matches periodically to help people in distress. In May, members of the association got together to distribute food grains and other necessities to villages around State capital Aizawl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/mizo-footballers-raise-funds-for-volunteers-family/article31856043.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 08:55 IST,||Sudoku - June 18, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-18-2020/article31856971.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Proud to help||“In times like these, if there is anything at all we can do to help someone, why not just do it?” says a 17-year-old singer-songwriter based in Chennai, who goes by the stage name Yogi. A vocal member of the LGBTQIA+ community, Yogi (who identifies as he/him), has been a part of the city’s indie music circuit for about two years now. This weekend, he joins other artistes from the community — as well as a number of allies — in a series of online performances for a cause. Rainbow Renaissance is a three-day concert by Period Chennai, the city chapter of an international organisation that works for menstrual hygiene and awareness. Says Manasa Sanjai, another 17-year-old musician who started the Chennai chapter just a month ago, “There are so many organisations that are working hard through the lockdown to provide people with basic necessities; menstrual products would be one of them. We thought it would be a good idea to bring together a community of artistes who can celebrate Pride Month together while being able to raise money for these causes.” She adds, “Period [the organisation] functions on the basis of three main pillars — service, education and advocacy. This is our first service project.” For a maiden event, it is pretty ambitious: the line-up comprises a total of 18 artistes, six each on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. The team members helming it range mostly between the ages of 18 to 20 years. “Most of us are still in school; some us have just finished school and are starting college,” adds Manasa. The line-up, however, is varied: featuring long-familiar city names like Mr Kev, whose sounds range from funk to softly instrumental, as well as newer voices like the operatic Vishwa R Shankar. Playback and indie singer Shilpa Natarajan is also part of the line-up, which is otherwise dominated by up-and-coming teenage voices of the city. Expect a range of sounds including rock, Carnatic blends, some joyous ukulele solos and maybe even a few Bollywood mashups. Proceeds go to a number of NGOs working not only against period poverty, but also for LGBTQIA+ rights and providing related support. Notable among them are Chennai-based Orinam that is one of the long-standing organisations behind Chennai Pride and the city’s LGBTQIA+ rights activities, and Delhi-based Goonj. Says Aira, a singer-songwriter who prefers to be known only by her stage name, and is also part of Period Chennai, “International Foundation for Crime Prevention and Victim Care (PCVC) is based in Chennai, and works to rescue victims of domestic abuse,” while other NGOs benefiting from the concert include All India Democratic Women’s Association and Noble Cause, both of which have pan-India operations. Social distancing at home, there isn’t a lot we can physically do to help these initiatives. But Pride Month is also about showing love and support, and it looks like the city’s musicians are ready to show us the way, with Gen Z taking the wheel.  Rainbow Renaissance will be held on June 19, 20 and 21, on Zoom. To buy passes or to donate, click on the link provided on the @period.chennai Instagram page.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/proud-to-help/article31855895.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Push a button, grab a meal||Lunch is ready in minutes, whirs and clicks. A mechanical arm hovers over the options, then picks a tray and pushes it into an inbuilt microwave chamber. The meal slides out gently: fluffy schezwan fried rice and Hakka noodles, crunchy with vegetables. In the smaller compartments on the side, there is cauliflower manchurian, as well as vegetables in soy sauce. As contactless dining gains popularity in a world battling COVID-19, restaurants are finding innovative ways to gain customer confidence, and keep their doors open. As for Advantage Foods, they seem to have hit upon a way to draw customers back: even when their doors are closed. Advantage Foods is run by Tarun Mahadevan, and includes popular city restaurants such as Benjarong, Writer’s Café, China Town and The Marina, under its umbrella. Tarun’s father, M Mahadevan, well known for starting Hot Breads, oversees the international business, which includes bakeries around the world, in addition to partnering with well-known brands such as Saravana Bhavan and Anjappar. Together, they are collaborating with Frshly (a first-of-its-kind dispenser machine that stores and serves hot food to customers) to make dining more accessible in this age of physical distancing. Standing around the hulking 10-foot-high machine, Tarun explains how their speciality kitchens will load about 150 packs of food before lunch and dinner. Since they have a slew of restaurants to choose from, they are currently looking at one South Indian, one Pan Asian and one Continental meal option everyday. “We want to provide hot, fresh, simple food,” says Tarun. While all the food is vegetarian, as the team continues to work on the technology, menus will change through the week. Right now, a staffer will be on hand to help customers, but eventually, the machine will work with just a QR code, so you can get a hot meal at any time using your mobile phone. Their strongest selling point however, is pricing: every meal will cost below Rs. 100. Mahadevan, who just got back to Chennai from Auckland where he was setting up a bakery, before the lockdown began, is looking at taking the machine, which is made in Coimbatore, to his partners across the world. “The fear economy has kicked in, even in New Zealand, Malaysia, Dubai — where there are no lockdowns — we are only seeing 25% of our restaurants filled,” he says, adding that this provides diners with contactless access to restaurant meals. Additionally, since it is set outside, it is not subject to lockdown timings. He is clear that affordability will be their mainstay. “I’m focussing on sourcing. We get vegetables from an organic farm in Thindivanam. Rice from Red Hills... We will not compromise on quality, instead I am buying directly from farmers so it is cheaper,” he says. They are also using innovative hacks. “We are making chappatis in the bakery sheeter, normally used for croissants. “This way we get 800 chappatis done in an hour and a half,” he says. The first machine, set up outside Benjarong, will start running from Friday, after which Frshly will be set up in high traffic locations across the city. “I’m taking it to Dubai, a partner wants to stock it with Amburbiryaniand set it up in the Metro stations; Saravana Bhavan in Toronto wants one. In Singapore, Anjappar can use it so people can get theirbiryaniat 3 am, contactless,” says Mahadevan. Satish Chamyvelumani, who has been working on the machine since 2013, had launched a version in 2015, which was installed in railway stations and airports for a while. “We have been running multiple pilot projects around the country to improve the technology,” he says, adding, “This isn’t a one sandwich machine, we can do multiple cuisines with it.” Already, Tarun is planning chilled dessert trays, with tiramisu, apple pies and pastry. Mahadevan says, “The days have come when you have to run a lean and mean operation.” With partners in 16 countries, and multiple brands, he states that now, survival is key. And this machine is his way of packaging decades of brand building in one, re-heatable tray. “We have set up so many runways over the years,” he says. “Now, we want to land and take off from them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/push-a-button-grab-a-meal/article31855922.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||House of Cards||Dr Chanjiv Singh’s mornings prior to lockdown always started the same; a cup of tea in one hand and the other holding 13 cards as he sat down with three friends for a game of contract bridge at the Jalandhar Gymkhana Club. A surgeon and a member of the Jalandhar Bridge Association (JBA), he says, “The Britishers may have brought the game of bridge to India, but it turned out different from what they expected. Here, it is not a mere gentleman’s game. There is a lot of fun involved,” he says. A partnership card game played by two teams of four players, contract bridge calls for teams to successfully estimate and win a certain number of tricks among them. Despite the pandemic situation, the 80-odd JBA members, some of whom are retired bureaucrats and military officers, are eager to keep the fun alive and are doing so by learning to play bridge online. The diligence of these senior citizens, says the 46-year-old general secretary of JBA, Sirvinderjit Singh Dua, in learning to play online is “proof of their love” for the game and the association. Dua created individual accounts for each JBA member on Bridge Base Online website and taught them how to navigate the software that allowed player interaction in real-time. “At first, [playing online] was a challenge. We had connection issues. The players struggled with their devices’ touch-interface during our first online tournament on May 14,” he says. Embracing technology However, the seniors soon overcame these minor hiccups and are now so invested that Dua thinks they may prefer playing online even after lockdown. “Even youngsters struggle with technology, but our club members have become pros within weeks,” Dua laughs, adding, “We were able to play with Mumbai players while sitting here in Jalandhar. This ability to connect with people across the country is the main attraction.” Dr Singh, who calls bridge “a dying art”, is glad to see the surge in popularity of the game’s online iteration, which is attracting even those who he refers to as “tech-sceptics”. Dr Singh’s own enthusiasm for online bridge seems to have had an effect on his 27-year-old son-in-law who lives in Pune, and his colleague who lives in Jammu, both of whom have now taken up the game. “Socialisation is a crucial part of bridge,” says veteran international player Prakash Paranjape. “The poor and the rich both play the game. Even online, people tend to form similar clusters,” he adds. The Bridge Federation of India, the game’s ruling board in this country, is, however, apprehensive: the worry is that online games could allow players to communicate through illegal means like video calls as opposed to the traditional method of writing down bidding systems. Sandeep Thakral, a national-level player and an online tournament organiser based in Gurugram, begs to differ. He says that online platforms have become far more sophisticated during lockdown. “At the end of the day, people adapt when they want to, when there is a passion for it,” says Thakral. Former national champion, Indira Sonawala, is a testament to this. The 80-year-old’s usual bridge sessions at her country club in South Mumbai were interrupted by the lockdown. However, after some encouragement from friends, she decided to give the online game a chance. “I need to go back and play. The club and players are like a family. So, of course, I want to meet my family,” she says, when asked why she continues playing online bridge. The same familial instinct is what keeps pushing 80-year-old Mahendra Shah to go on the Internet and learn to play the online game, despite his strongly-held suspicions toward technology. While he has improved his online navigation skills, Shah still misses the ambience at Wimbledon Club in South Mumbai, where he would watch passers-by, and the feel of holding physical pieces of playing cards in his hands. “I prefer physical interaction over virtual play. The device’s backlight hurts my eyes. But I do miss my friends. I don’t intend to play professionally. So, as long as the lockdown continues, I will keep practising to play bridge online,” he adds.  How to play Contract bridge is a complex strategy game that is distinguished from other card game variants by the elements of auction and play. Auction is the first part of the game where partners decide a trump suit and assess how many tricks their partnership is likely to win. The partners communicate using bidding systems, which are, essentially, code languages, and vary across different regions (like Precision Club artificial system, standard American system). The highest bid is known as a “contract” thus giving the game its name. When the contract of one team is fulfilled, the partners win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/house-of-cards/article31855926.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Chop, chop||Dentist Yohan Chacko is normally accustomed to spending his evenings drilling teeth and filling cavities. But now, he has translated his skills onto wood. He is a semi-professional carpenter, a skill he picked up during the lockdown. “Carpentry is similar to dentistry,” he laughs. Perhaps a little more difficult as it involves handling larger equipment that can get unwieldy. Though, if you make an incision on wood, it is not going to complain like a patient would. Thanks to his new hobby, Yohan’s terrace is now covered with his experiments — this includes complete pieces like deck chairs, wardrobe, boxes, musical instruments, dovetail boxes and gift boxes. There are also a few incomplete ones, as well as some that look like they have no future. The latter is what he refers to as “carcasses of failed experiments”. “I got interested in carpentry when I was 17 and watched my grandfather, a hobby carpenter, create things. I liked how pieces of wood could be put together to construct something useful and long lasting,” says Yohan. Luckily, he had all the equipment and wood required as he had stocked up four years back, when his wife suggested he should try his hand at this hobby. But he never really got around to doing anything then. In March, when Yohan picked up a saw and hammer, the first thing he made was a wardrobe for his clinic. While the frame was easy, it was a task to get the doors to align perfectly. One wrong cut and that entire piece of wood is wasted. “One of the adages in carpentry is, ‘You always measure twice, so you cut once’.” It took him a month to complete it. But now, working with wood is almost like meditation for him. “Nothing fazes or upsets me. I vent on wood,” he laughs, proudly wearing his battle scars (read: wood cuts and deep gashes) like ornate epaulettes. Priyadarshini Paitandy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/chop-chop/article31855935.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Enter, the dragonfly!||Last week, a photograph of a dragonfly in grass-green, yellow and reddish-brown colour and bottle-green eyes trended on odonate forums in India. It is the first time this species,Megalogomphus superbus Fraser, has been caught on camera and naturalists Ravindran Kamatchi and S Gopala Krishnan achieved this feat during a birding outing at a farm near Coimbatore. “It was a fantastic day of birding at the Kallar garden in Mettupalayam,” says Ravindran. “We saw the rarely spotted lyrical white-rumped shama, a resident bird of the Western Ghats locally called solaipaadi. Also a yellow-browed bulbul, lesser yellownape woodpecker and Tickell’s blue flycatcher. Later, we walked to a nearby stream. Gopala Krishnan alerted me when he saw an unusual dragonfly, much bigger in size than usual, perched on a shrub. We just went click, click, click.” Later, when they posted it on the WhatsApp group ‘Odonates of the Western Ghats’, they learnt that it was indeed a thrillingly rare discovery. Scottish botanist Fraser FC, who worked on Odonates in India, described this dragonfly as the most beautiful species in the book, Fauna of British India . “Fraser spotted it in 1931 and 1934 at the Boluvampatti forest range near Siruvani, Walayar (Kerala-Tamil Nadu border) and Kallar near Mettupalayam. The species distributed in South India is endemic to the Western Ghats. The dragonfly belongs to theGomphidaefamily which has six dragonflies – two in Tamil Nadu and Kerala, one in Sri Lanka and three others in the Northeast ,” says Kalesh Sivadasan of Travancore Natural History Society. Kalesh has documented odonates for over 20 years and has identified as many as 15 new species in Kerala. The taxonomical descriptions of the dragonfly in the book matched with the photograph. “The species has not been spotted in a long time,” says Krishnan, who has been following Odonates for over five years. “We have 193 species of odonates occurring in the Western Ghats. These are ecological indicators but are least studied in India. As aerial predators, they play a crucial role in pest control.” Megalogomphus superbus Fraseris a narrowly distributed endemic species, says Kalesh. “You can see them only on the pockets along the Tamil Nadu- Kerala border. A photographic record will pave the way for further studies on its distribution, habitat and ecology. It is an aquatic water species that thrives in fresh water, and feeds on on mosquitoes and insects that are harmful to humans.” The sighting and photographing of this species is significant as it has happened after a gap of nearly nine decades. The best part? It is an indicator that the quality of water and air is still pollution-free in these areas.  ‘Tis the season The Southwest Monsoon is the best time to spot dragonflies, especially till December In freshwater streams, you can often sight common species like stream rubies, Nilgiris torrent dart and the orange marsh dart. Species like ‘ditch’ jewel breed in contaminated water   liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/enter-the-dragonfly/article31855905.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Backyard gourmet||Tendli , shevla , phodsi , kantola or potol — rarely do we see these desi vegetables on a restaurant menu. However, because of the current pandemic, locally grown vegetables are making a dashing debut. With international, and even national, supply chain networks collapsing under the lockdowns, procuring exotic ingredients has become increasingly difficult. As a result, chefs are exploring local markets to make the best of what is freshly available, thus learning more about indigenous produce, and finding inventive ways to showcase it. According to Krishna Mckenzie, an Englishman who cultivates a farm settled in Auroville, near Puducherry, the lockdown not only spurred demand for local produce, but also gave him an opportunity to acquire a deeper understanding about vegetables and plants. “All this while I used bananas and its leaves for cooking. But during this lockdown, I learnt how to use banana stems and flowers in my dishes,” he says. All the fresh produce that he needs in the kitchen comes from his six-acre farm where he grows over 150 varieties of vegetables, fruits and herbs. Every week, his farm sends out vegetable baskets to subscribers, who have steadily been increasing since lockdown began. “Eating local is healthy, both for the human body and the environment. When you order exotic food, it is packed, frozen, shipped and then delivered. Imagine the carbon footprint of that!” he adds. At the ITC Grand Chola Chennai, Ajit Bangera, senior executive chef, discusses how the chefs are constantly innovating with dishes. He adds, “the present situation has made it all the more imperative to pivot and adapt. So depending on the fresh local produce, our menu changes every day”. The chef and his team at Chennai’s ITC Grand Chola have been catering for the 50 long-stay guests as well as the hotel’s takeaway orders. “Before the pandemic, I used to craft a menu and after that I would go looking around for ingredients. But now I first visit the vegetable vendors, learn about the seasonal produce and then make a menu based on what is available,” says Jayesh Karande, executive chef at Visakhapatnam’s WelcomHotel Grandbay. During the lockdown Jayesh accidentally discovered a Telugu variety of palm jaggery calledtati bellamin one of the oldest markets in Visakhapatnam. “The jaggery is largely grown in and around Kakinada in Andhra Pradesh. It stands out because it has a hint of coffee flavour. It has now become our obvious choice for most of the desserts. Currently, I am using it generously in our watalappams, a Sri Lankan dessert made with coconut milk, eggs and nutmeg. Had it not been for the lockdown, I would have probably just sourced jaggery from Bengaluru or Hyderabad and never discovered it,” he adds. When COVID-19 brought life to a standstill, Neelabh Sahay — executive chef of Novotel Kolkata — had no choice but to rely on locally available produce. “We had to tweak ingredients in common exotic dishes,” says Neelabh. So sushi rice was replaced with Bengal’s gobindo bhog rice, while black beans — which are used extensively in Mexican cuisine — were replaced by Indian kidney beans ( rajma) . Also, the peppery Le Puy, a classic French preparation, is now made with local masoor chilka dal, instead of the traditional green speckled lentil. At Bengaluru’s Novotel and Ibis, locally sourced basil leaves has made an entry into the exotic butternut squash ravioli. “Originally, this delicacy was served with fried sage. However due to lockdown, sage is unavailable. Apart from its aroma and flavour, basil also acts as an antioxidant to strengthen the immune system,” says Avijit Deb Sharma, executive chef, Novotel & ibis, Bengaluru. Thomas Zacharia, executive chef and partner at The Bombay Canteen, has been advocating the use of indigenous produce ever since the opening of his restaurant almost five years ago. The restaurant made a conscious choice to have a menu that is centred around locally grown fruits and vegetables. “The aim — then and now — is to familiarise people with the taste of the land. As the availability of the vegetable changes due to seasons, so does our menu. We change our food every three months to serve the best of what is available in the local markets. We make dishes out of karela (bitter gourd) or lauki (bottle gourd) which are loved by our customers. Till date the restaurant has had 160 local vegetables on the menu,” he adds. Sticking to indigenous produce is economical too, says Hussain Shahzad, executive chef at O Pedro, The Bombay Canteen’s sister entity. “When you buy seasonal produce, they are cheap as they are available in abundance,” he says. “Also, they are nutritious and fresh as they come from nearby farms.”  (With inputs fromSunalini Mathew)   Farmers to the chefs Achintya Anand started Krishi Cress five years ago, to supply the freshest possible produce to chefs in Delhi-NCR, from his farms in Chhattarpur and Faridabad, be it different types of mustard, different colours in baby carrots, or microgreens. With the renewed interest in local farms, Achintya recently sold his entire 60-kilograms stock of Muzaffarpur shahi lychee despite lockdown. His most popular produce includes salad leaves from farmers in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, and watermelon.  With an aim to provide city dwellers with fresh crops within hours of harvest, Mumbai-based brothers Brian and Benjamin Zehr started Kisano in 2018. Located across 7,000 square feet in two locations near Mumbai, the farm uses hydroponic technology to grow over 50 crop varieties that include 15 types of lettuce and several herbs.  Bengaluru-based Living Food Company was started by Akash Sajith when he started questioning the nutrition value of the food we consume. The company specialises in growing microgreens like sunflower, red cabbage, pink radish. They also grow supergreens such as curly kale, deer tongue lettuce and green butterhead lettuce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/backyard-gourmet/article31855915.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||The pet whisperer||Millie the hamster has an appointment this afternoon. Her vet is seeing her at 2 pm...virtually. CoZo Plus (+), a Gurgaon-based app that launched on April 13, connects pet parents to vets for one-on-one consultations. Started by Yasir Khalil, Vaibhav Jain and Minal Kaushik, CoZo Plus is an extension of CoZo, a pet wellness service app that was started by the trio in November 2018. The idea for the new app came about after a friend of the founders’ lost her cat due to the unavailability of vets in April, in the middle of the lockdown. “Around the same time, we came across cases where delayed medical help pushed treatable situations to fatal ones,” says Yasir, adding, “Soon we found ourselves in a situation where hundreds of people were reaching out to us with concerns about their pet’s health.” The team observed that a lot of pet parents were relying on secondary information from random sources and social media. “We realised, the best option was to get them medically licensed and certified support. Since tele-consultations are working for humans, then why not try it for pets,” adds Yasir. Soon after the launch, a lot of people reached out for the care of stray, abandoned and injured animals. People from rural areas called for their cattle, he says. There are also calls for consultations of rabbits, hamsters, hens, and guinea pigs among others. “This application platform is currently non-commercial. We are not charging the pet parent for consultation and will continue doing that,” says Yasir. “Within two months of launch, we have close to 20,000 downloads,” says Yasir. Around 200 consultations take place in a day. Not just in India, they have also helped out in Bangladesh, the US, Germany and Singapore. Yasir says they received applications from over 200 vets. “We started out with four and ramped up to meet the demand and keep the service instant.” Currently they have around 15 vets on board. “The doctors had to submit all the relevant documents and certificates. A video KYC is done for the clinic current practice. Feedback analysis and chat reviews are done by an experienced doctor and after these steps, a vet gets on the platform,” explains Yasir. When they started out, the idea was not to be a 24/7 service, but that is what they have become now, with calls coming in round the clock.  For details, log on to www.getcozoplus.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-pet-whisperer/article31855910.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I’d be tempted to experiment with OTT’||It does not come as a surprise when Karthik Subbaraj, who challenged Tamil cinema’s conventions when he entered the field as a short filmmaker, says that the theatre and digital space should coexist. For, he was one of the earliest to find an ‘alternative’ route to becoming a filmmaker at a time when short films and its creators were not considered professionals, nor were they taken seriously by the gatekeepers of Tamil cinema. His production, Stone Bench Creations, was the first to lap up the ‘direct-to-home’ option, when the industry was waging a war with streaming giants such as Netflix and Amazon Prime Video for disrupting the business of Kollywood. “The lockdown period has been hard on us all. Personally, I have been utilising this time to work on a few scripts,” says Karthik Subbaraj, ahead ofthe mystery-thriller Penguin ’s release on Friday. Excerpts from an interview: Penguinwas originally planned for a theatrical release but is now ready for a direct-to-home release. Was it a last resort, given the current COVID-19 situation? The direct-to-home window is not because of the current situation. You cannot completely turn a blind eye to OTT platforms. Going forward, I think both theatre and OTT will continue to coexist. But we decided to release Penguin [which follows the story of a mother in pursuit of her missing son] on Amazon Prime because we had the product ready. We were eyeing a summer release, but then, COVID-19 happened, which brought the world to a halt. As a production company, we had stakes involved and when we got this opportunity, we thought it was good for the film. What attracted you to the material? Eashvar Karthic knew Vijay Sethupathi, who, in turn, referred him to us. I liked the way Eashvar narrated the script, which had a strong and had a lot of scope for performance.  If you take a movie likeThe Irishmanor Anurag Kashyap’sChoked, they were specifically written for streaming platforms, right? But that is not the case withPenguin. The other definition of OTT is comfort watch. For example, I loved The Irishman, but I did not watch it in one-sitting. I watched the first one hour and resumed it later the next day. That is the luxury you get with an OTT release. Yes, The Irishman was written for Netflix. But look at the quality of production — from sound design to cinematography. How many of us have discovered great movies on streaming platforms? With a good television and sound system, I don’t think Penguin ’s effect will be any lesser. Normally, a streaming platform quotes a price for a movie, depending on the star value or how well it has performed at the box office, right? Content is content and it is up to them [streaming giants] to pick and choose. I cannot comment about their business strategy, but the process is as simple as selling satellite rights. For some cases [like Petta ], the rights are bought beforehand. But for low-budget films, they have a different business model.  But how do you measure its success — in terms of the number of views? Even in a theatrical release, there is no transparency in box-office figures (laughs). There is a certain group that decides the net collection, even though it is the producer who truly knows whether a film has netted or not. But, in OTT, the metrics are different. We don’t know how it is measured. If you take the number of views, we don’t know if it is a single-day count or a cumulative figure. Take Ayyappanum Koshiyum, for instance. People hardly noticed when it played in Chennai. But those who watched it online are many. So far, most of the movies we discussed were relatively ‘smaller’ in terms of scale and budget. Do you think a direct-to-OTT release is a feasible option forJagame Thanthiram? See, Jagame Thanthiram [his upcoming film with Dhanush] is a theatrical film and it will release in theatres no matter what. It has an ensemble and is a completely different scenario. The whole ‘direct-to-OTT’ release itself is a new concept which has become the ‘new normal’, thanks to the COVID-19 pandemic. But as more audience move to the web space, there will be high return on investment, which will prompt the streaming companies to slowly acquire big stars’ films.  In a webinar session, Mani Ratnam said that filmmakers would factor in audience’s patience and would appropriately tweak their stories for the online medium. Your thoughts? It is true. The way I write for a film format would be different from that of a digital platform. As a writer, I would be tempted to experiment with OTT content. When it comes to theatrical, you have to be aware of the meter with which you tell certain things. Certain subjects may not work for a theatrical release. Personally, I would definitely consider those aspects when I am writing, say for a Netflix or an Amazon. I want to try a musical and something strong — as in, something that has not been explored in theatre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/id-be-tempted-to-experiment-with-ott/article31855891.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||The curtains are down||The COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown has forced several theatre owners to consider reinvention, or closure. However, the recent closure of Chennai’s popular theatre AVM Rajeswari has nothing to do with the troubled times we are in. “We decided it a few months ago, and insiders in the trade knew already. It just so happened that COVID-19 and lockdown hit us around the same time,” says AVM K Shanmugam, who jointly managed the theatre along with his father AVM Kumaran. Curtains coming down at this Vadapalani cinema hall is sad news for cinema fans: this was one of the most reasonably-priced theatres in the city. “Our ticket rates were among the lowest in the city. My father (Kumaran) was very clear that it needs to be a budget-friendly theatre to which an entire family could come,” says Shanmugam. When the theatre was started in 1979, a ticket cost Rs. 2.50. In early 2020, it was less than Rs. 70. The theatre was the brainchild of Shanmugam’s grandfather and movie moghul, AV Meiyappan, widely regarded as one of the pioneers of Tamil cinema. “He was keen on buying Odeon (which became Melody Theatre later), but the owners sold it to a group from Bangalore. Then, his focus shifted to Pilot Theatre, which he felt was very promising, but even those negotiations fell through.” That’s when AV Meiyappan decided to create a cinema hall of his own, and thus was born ‘AVM Rajeswari’. The theatre opened on Vinayaka Chaturthi day of 1979: the film screened to a select few was Sri Valli , a 1945 film that Meiyappan had produced and co-directed. The first movie released was American crime film Scorchy . “It was a relatively unknown film, but it was a superhit here and ran for over 100 days,” he says. Regular screenings of Tamil films followed; AVM Rajeswari has seen the release of every big Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan film ever since. Other language film releases too were held here, Mr India did well, for instance. However, the biggest blockbuster at Rajeswari till date remains the 1997 English flick Titanic , which ran for nine months. “We even had telephone bookings for the film. We employed boys who would deliver the tickets at home, and for that, we had requests coming in from as far as Kilpauk and George Town. People from all over Madras came here to watch Titanic .” Over time, especially in the last few years, there was a steady decline in audiences to the hall. “The trade was going well till a few years ago when we had a regular set of directors. Today, to run over a week is a big challenge, and the films are no longer wholesome, family entertainers.” Dwindling audiences meant that the inevitable decision to shut shop had to be taken earlier this year, just before the pandemic hit the country. The future of the premises is unclear at the moment, but Shanmugam believes that the hall has “led a full, complete life.” “The theatre business has become more like a weekend business. When that’s the case, it’s difficult to sustain things and still run the show.”   All set for the show  Established in 1979, it is popular for catering to family audiences and being budget-friendly. It is also well known for playing the National Anthem before every show  Among the first theatres in Chennai to go in for Dolby sound system   Titanic was the biggest grosser here; it ran for nine months||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-curtains-are-down/article31855898.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Support vocal in style||“Clothes aside, the masks you wear have become just as descriptive of who you are, in today’s world,” says fashion designer Vivek Karunakaran. The man is bringing his style to his line of three-layer masks in blends of cotton, silk and linen. Vivek is working with a pool of Chennai-based craftsmen, who have come together to create this line. “The idea is to raise funds for craftsmen, given that no business is happening right now, no events, parties or travels…” he says. Underlining the importance of supporting local talent, he states that the proceeds from this line — after covering basic costs — would go to his Help the Artisan fund. “We received generous donations from across the world when we started, but to keep the process going, this line would help substantially.” Vivek is personally involved with the designs for each mask. “We have corporate clients as well, who place 500-piece orders. For them, we create customised masks with logos.” The masks come in multiple sizes: small, medium, large and extra large for adults and children. These masks, he says, are good for multiple wash cycles. “That would really bring the waste down; look at how much waste we have generated since the pandemic!” he says, adding that his team upcycles fabrics from his clothing line to make them.  Vivek Karunakaran’s masks start at Rs. 150 per pack of two pieces, and come in four sizes. Deliverable by Dunzo. Call 9840830165.  As told to Sweta Akundi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/support-vocal-in-style/article31855908.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||House of Cards||Dr. Chanjiv Singh’s mornings prior to lockdown always started the same; a cup of tea in one hand and the other holding 13 cards as he sat down with three friends for a game of contract bridge at the Jalandhar Gymkhana Club. A surgeon and a member of the Jalandhar Bridge Association (JBA), he says, “The Britishers may have brought the game of bridge to India, but it turned out different from what they expected. Here, it is not a mere gentleman’s game. There is a lot of fun involved,” he says. A partnership card game played by two teams of four players, contract bridge calls for teams to successfully estimate and win a certain number of tricks among them. Despite the pandemic situation, the 80-odd JBA members, some of whom are retired bureaucrats and military officers, are eager to keep the fun alive and are doing so by learning to play bridge online. The diligence of these senior citizens, says the 46-year-old general secretary of JBA, Sirvinderjit Singh Dua, in learning to play online is “proof of their love” for the game and the association. Dua created individual accounts for each JBA member on Bridge Base Online website and taught them how to navigate the software that allowed player interaction in real-time. “At first, [playing online] was a challenge. We had connection issues. The players struggled with their devices’ touch-interface during our first online tournament on May 14,” he says. Embracing technology However, the seniors soon overcame these minor hiccups and are now so invested that Dua thinks they may prefer playing online even after lockdown. “Even youngsters struggle with technology, but our club members have become pros within weeks,” Dua laughs, adding, “We were able to play with Mumbai players while sitting here in Jalandhar. This ability to connect with people across the country is the main attraction.” Dr. Singh, who calls bridge “a dying art”, is glad to see the surge in popularity of the game’s online iteration, which is attracting even those who he refers to as “tech-sceptics”. Dr Singh’s own enthusiasm for online bridge seems to have had an effect on his 27-year-old son-in-law who lives in Pune, and his colleague who lives in Jammu, both of whom have now taken up the game. “Socialisation is a crucial part of bridge,” says veteran international player Prakash Paranjape. “The poor and the rich both play the game. Even online, people tend to form similar clusters,” he adds. The Bridge Federation of India, the game’s ruling board in this country, is, however, apprehensive: the worry is that online games could allow players to communicate through illegal means like video calls as opposed to the traditional method of writing down bidding systems. Sandeep Thakral, a national-level player and an online tournament organiser based in Gurugram, begs to differ. He says that online platforms have become far more sophisticated during lockdown. “At the end of the day, people adapt when they want to, when there is a passion for it,” says Thakral. Former national champion, Indira Sonawala, is a testament to this. The 80-year-old’s usual bridge sessions at her country club in South Mumbai were interrupted by the lockdown. However, after some encouragement from friends, she decided to give the online game a chance. “I need to go back and play. The club and players are like a family. So, of course, I want to meet my family,” she says, when asked why she continues playing online bridge. The same familial instinct is what keeps pushing 80-year-old Mahendra Shah to go on the Internet and learn to play the online game, despite his strongly-held suspicions toward technology. While he has improved his online navigation skills, Shah still misses the ambience at Wimbledon Club in South Mumbai, where he would watch passers-by, and the feel of holding physical pieces of playing cards in his hands. “I prefer physical interaction over virtual play. The device’s backlight hurts my eyes. But I do miss my friends. I don’t intend to play professionally. So, as long as the lockdown continues, I will keep practising to play bridge online,” he adds.  How to play Contract bridge is a complex strategy game that is distinguished from other card game variants by the elements of auction and play. Auction is the first part of the game where partners decide a trump suit and assess how many tricks their partnership is likely to win. The partners communicate using bidding systems, which are, essentially, code languages, and vary across different regions (like Precision Club artificial system, standard American system). The highest bid is known as a “contract” thus giving the game its name. When the contract of one team is fulfilled, the partners win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/house-of-cards/article31856191.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Chop, chop||Dentist Yohan Chacko is normally accustomed to spending his evenings drilling teeth and filling cavities. But now, he has translated his skills onto wood. He is a semi-professional carpenter, a skill he picked up during the lockdown. “Carpentry is similar to dentistry,” he laughs. Perhaps a little more difficult as it involves handling larger equipment that can get unwieldy. Though, if you make an incision on wood, it is not going to complain like a patient would. Thanks to his new hobby, Yohan’s terrace is now covered with his experiments — this includes complete pieces like deck chairs, wardrobe, boxes, musical instruments, dovetail boxes and gift boxes. There are also a few incomplete ones, as well as some that look like they have no future. The latter is what he refers to as “carcasses of failed experiments”. “I got interested in carpentry when I was 17 and watched my grandfather, a hobby carpenter, create things. I liked how pieces of wood could be put together to construct something useful and long lasting,” says Yohan. Luckily, he had all the equipment and wood required as he had stocked up four years back, when his wife suggested he should try his hand at this hobby. But he never really got around to doing anything then. In March, when Yohan picked up a saw and hammer, the first thing he made was a wardrobe for his clinic. While the frame was easy, it was a task to get the doors to align perfectly. One wrong cut and that entire piece of wood is wasted. “One of the adages in carpentry is, ‘You always measure twice, so you cut once’.” It took him a month to complete it. But now, working with wood is almost like meditation for him. “Nothing fazes or upsets me. I vent on wood,” he laughs, proudly wearing his battle scars (read: wood cuts and deep gashes) like ornate epaulettes. Priyadarshini Paitandy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/chop-chop/article31856194.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||The pet whisperer||Millie the hamster has an appointment this afternoon. Her vet is seeing her at 2 p.m. ...virtually. CoZo Plus (+), a Gurgaon-based app that launched on April 13, connects pet parents to vets for one-on-one consultations. Started by Yasir Khalil, Vaibhav Jain and Minal Kaushik, CoZo Plus is an extension of CoZo, a pet wellness service app that was started by the trio in November 2018. The idea for the new app came about after a friend of the founders’ lost her cat due to the unavailability of vets in April, in the middle of the lockdown. “Around the same time, we came across cases where delayed medical help pushed treatable situations to fatal ones,” says Khalil, adding, “Soon, we found ourselves in a situation where hundreds of people were reaching out to us with concerns about their pet’s health.” The team observed that a lot of pet parents were relying on secondary information from random sources and social media. “We realised the best option was to get them medically licensed and certified support. Since tele-consultations are working for humans, then why not try it for pets,” adds Khalil. Soon after the launch, a lot of people reached out for the care of stray, abandoned and injured animals. People from rural areas called for their cattle, he says. There are also calls for consultations of rabbits, hamsters, hens, and guinea pigs among others. “This application platform is currently non-commercial. We are not charging the pet parent for consultation and will continue doing that,” explains Khalil. “Within two months of launch, we have close to 20,000 downloads,” beams the co-founder. Around 200 consultations take place in a day. Not just in India, they have also helped out in Bangladesh, the US, Germany and Singapore. He adds that they have received applications from over 200 vets. “We started out with four and ramped up to meet the demand and keep the service instant.” Currently, they have around 15 vets on board. “The doctors had to submit all the relevant documents and certificates. A video KYC is done for the clinic’s current practice. Feedback analysis and chat reviews are done by an experienced doctor and after these steps, a vet gets on the platform,” explains Khalil. When they started out, the idea was not to be a 24/7 service, but that is what they have become now, with calls coming in round the clock.     See getcozoplus.com for details||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-pet-whisperer/article31856414.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||The mask as canvas||Shreya Mondal has great admiration for the paintings created by Bengal master Jamini Roy. So when the Class XII student entered the Kiran Nadar Museum of Art (KNMA) Mask-a-thon, an all-India competition that encouraged children to use the mask as a canvas, she did not think twice before using one of his artworks as inspiration. Roy, one of India’s nine masters, as declared by the Ministry of Culture, was active during the freedom movement and after. “My work highlights the culture of rural Bengal,” says Mondal, who studies in Tarasundoori Balika Vidyabhaba in Balitikuri, Howrah, Bengal. She says it took six days to complete the piece that mirrors the features of Roy’s images of Santhals: wide eyes and a broad forehead. She contemporises the women with masks, at once giving out a message and making COVID-19 a part of art history. Masks bearing her image will soon be produced by KNMA. Contesting against students from across the country gave her goosebumps, and she didn’t realise she was pitted against over 6,000 others, in her 11 to 18 year age group. “Since this was an online competition, I felt nervous. I had never done anything like this before. It felt as if I was sitting for my Board exams,” she says. Abirub Das, her cousin who had shared the link of the contest with her, had the honour of announcing her win to the family. Mondal enjoys drawing faces — whether of her neighbours, of people in school, or of photographs she sees in newspapers and magazines. “I feel the message that wearing a mask is mandatory is communicated through my work. This is the only way we can keep this virus at bay.” Here, she tell us about the artwork. Tell us how the painting was created from the first sketch to the last. At first it was drawn on A4 size paper. Then, I put fabric colour on paper, outlining the design with a black border. The shortage of colours made things difficult, as the market in our neighbourhood was closed due to the lockdown. I had to work with what I had: green, yellow ochre, cobalt blue. How did you decide to show the pandemic in your work? I discussed a couple of ideas with my parents and decided on what I wanted to create. I wanted to capture simplicity, Indian culture and the pandemic situation through my work. My parents helped me to select the subject. What is your dream? To be a full-fledged artist. Once the lockdown is lifted, I will buy material to bring alive my inner feelings of the lockdown.  winners all Anvesha Jha, Class X student, a student of Bharat Ram Global School, Greater Noida, who won the second prize, says the pandemic is scary as it has forced everyone to stay indoors. “I first made sketches of virus cartoons. Then I made green leaves and designs as the colour depicts environment. I labelled the design with terms that help us to fight this deadly virus.” The third prize went to Premlata Chouhan from Azamgarh. In the junior (under 11) category, Avani Kansal from Panipat, Haryana, got the first prize; Adona Mary Martin from New Delhi stood second; and Drithi from Udupi, Karnataka, won third place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-mask-as-canvas/article31856203.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Stuck up||From Count Dracula’s ability to command bats to the mythical association of vampires and bats being blood-suckers, the winged creatures have been feared across centuries. In truth, there are only a few bats (Vampire Bats) from the subfamily Desmodontinae  that drink blood. Also, it’s possible that the bat as a bad omen is Western in origin. Rohit Chakravarty — a close friend, bat-researcher, and Ph.D. student at the Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research, Berlin — studies bats in the Himalayas. He says that in some parts of India, bats are considered a good omen. In Rajasthan, the faeces of Mouse-tailed bats and Tomb bats were traditionally used to fertilize Mathania chillies that are used to make Rajasthan's signature dish, Laal Maans. There is so much more to them than we understand, and their nocturnal behaviour adds to the mystery. While there are a few mammals like flying squirrels that glide or parachute, bats are the only mammals capable of a true flight, i.e. they can fly freely. True to its name, Mouse-tailed Bats (from the Rhinopomatidae family) have mouse-like tails, long and slender in appearance. They often roost in ruins, caves, and forts. Considering the rich architectural heritage of Delhi-NCR, we find them in the ruins of Hauz Khas, Lodhi Gardens, Nizamuddin and several other areas that play host to their colonies. The overall dry and hot climate of the city seems ideal for them to thrive as well. In general, they prefer arid and semi-arid regions in Southern Asia and Northern Africa. According to bat researchers, bats may very well be one of the most vocal mammals, but these sounds are not audible to the human ear, apart from some screeches that are in the pitch range audible to us. Like most bats, they also make use of echolocation to hunt as well as avoid obstacles while flying. Echolocation is a technique used by bats, shrews and several marine mammals, where they produce high-frequency sounds that bounce back to these bats in case of obstacles. These sounds also help them gauge the size of the object. One thing the movies did get right was the typical behaviour in most bat species of hanging upside-down while roosting. Mouse-tailed Bats echolocate mostly nasally through their small triangular leaf-shaped nose called nose-leaf. Their bodies are covered with soft fur and are greyish to dark brown in colour. Mouse-tailed Bats are primarily insectivores that remain active throughout the year but in winter, when insect availability is low, they often remain in torpor, a state of mental and physical inactivity. After the monsoon season, they start accumulating fat in their bodies to help them survive through dire winter. In general, we find both the Greater Mouse-tailed Bat and the Lesser Mouse-tailed Bat in the city. There are subtle differences in size: the Lesser are smaller, and have a relatively longer tail in comparison to the Greater. In addition, the Lesser Mouse-tailed Bat has a distinct grey belly and tends to have more delicate feet than its larger cousin, according to the book Indian Mammals by Vivek Menon. They do share some common traits like roosting in colonies (can vary from a few individuals to thousands of them) and are typically characterised by a strong, pungent odour. They are shy and elusive and have learnt to live with humans near their houses and still manage to go unnoticed for years. Besides the fact that they mean no harm, Mouse-tailed Bats feed on insects (beetles, moths) in flight, thus controlling their population. According to references of credible scientists cited in the book Bats of the Indian Subcontinent by Paul J J Bates and David L Harrison, these bats have tongues highly adapted for insect feeding and can thus play an important role in curbing the population of insects that are harmful for crops. Chakravarty says, “Bat researchers, all over the world, have repeatedly reaffirmed that COVID-19 doesn't spread from bats. A virus similar to the SARS-CoV-2 has been isolated from a species of bat (out of 1,400 species in the world!) and that virus does not infect humans to cause COVID-19. Recently, 150 Mouse-tailed Bats were killed in Rajasthan out of fear that they spread COVID-19.” These are important for the local economy and culture, he says. The writer is the founder of NINOX - Owl About Nature, a nature-awareness initiative. He is the Delhi-NCR reviewer for Ebird, a Cornell University initiative, monitoring rare sightings of birds. He formerly led a programme of WWF India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/stuck-up/article31856200.ece
18 June 2020||June 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I want to be as fearless as Guddo’||Srishti Shrivastava lives in Kandivali with her mother and grandmother while her father works in Indonesia. Two aunts stay in the vicinity. This little world of hers in the mega city is one in which women rule. Right now, however, they have forgotten all else and seem to be blinded by the fact that she is in a movie — Shoojit Sircar’s Gulabo Sitabo — and can’t get over how well she has acted in it. “ ‘ Kaise kar payeen tum (How did you manage to do this)?’, they keep asking me and are using all the attention to further their own popularity,” laughs the young actor, adding, “We are hardcore, cool women!”  Less is more    Her statement reflects the sorority one sees in Gulabo Sitabo in which Shrivastava, as Guddo, plays leader of the pack. She plays the eldest of Baankey’s (Ayushmann Khurrana) three sisters and, along with the mother, rules the roost — not only within the confines of her home but also in the group of tenants who live at Fatima Mahal. Educated, aware and ambitious, audacious and a fighter for her rights, Guddo is delightfully free-spirited even as she is rooted and responsible. “I knew when I read the script that the character would be mad fun,” she says. It’s a role she bagged, thanks to casting director Jogi Malang’s keen eye. For Shrivastava, it wasn’t about the duration of her presence on screen but the fact that her scenes in the film were all very strong. While the actor was confident that her part was good, she never imagined that the response would be so overwhelming, post the film’s release online. Guddo is not exactly the way Shrivastava is in real life. “ Ek toote phoote mahal ke chhote se kamre mein rah rahi hai (She lives in a small room in a decrepit mansion). But there is something real and refreshing about her. I want to be as fearless as she is. Particularly, [during the] lockdown we are being taught to not be scared about things,” she says. The actor’s approach to interpreting Guddo was to do less in the scene, yet have the most control. Though born in Lucknow, Shrivastava did most of her education in Mumbai at Podar and Sophia. She always knew she wanted to be an actor but didn’t have the prior experience of performing on stage, to be able to apply for the National School of Drama. Eventually she trained at the Drama School Mumbai and has worked as a freelance actor with theatre directors like Manav Kaul, Niketan Sharma, Atul Kumar, Mahesh Dattani, among others. Younger viewers would know Shrivastava for TVF’s Girliyappa and the regular film-going audience for playing Albina, the girl with whom Safina (Alia Bhatt) has a massive fight in Gully Boy . And then again, regular Mumbai theatregoers will remember watching her on stage at Prithvi and NCPA, in plays like Faezeh Jalali’s Shikhandi: The Story of the In-Betweens and Manav Kaul’s Chuhal .  New world   Gulabo Sitabo threw her into a whole new world, in the thick of seasoned star-actors — Amitabh Bachchan, Ayushmann Khurrana, Farrukh Jafar, Brijendra Kala, Vijay Raaz. “I was a little unsure the first day but Shoojit sir worked with me,” she says. Shrivastava describes Bachchan as “inspiring”, recalling the scene in builder Munmun’s office where the towering actor bent down a little to appear even shorter than her. Khurrana made things easy and was a “blast on the set”. Raaz would tell stories all the time and she found him and Kala as the ones who were always chilling. “They are so experienced that when they are playing a scene they are the most stress-free,” she adds. What made the most impact on her was the entire energy of the film set. It was about enjoying being in the moment, as it happens in a play on stage. She recalls: “The entire team of assistant directors, production people, sound dada were so excited to create this world.”  Familiar ground  A Lucknow film for a Lucknow girl. Must have been a perfect fit? Yes, and also not quite. Her birthplace is where one of her uncles still lives but the frequency of her visits has reduced. Of late, she’s travelled to the city with her plays and performances. But she tried to make the most of it in her 30-odd days stint for Gulabo Sitabo . For every three days of shoot, she would get a day off, and that’s when the actor reconnected with the town, walking on her own for chaat at Shukla’s, Shree’s chhole bhature and l assi and to the old bookstores to just browse. While her link with Lucknow may not be as strong any more, the family is culturally still very rooted in Uttar Pradesh, “The Kandivali home is where our family has preserved the essence of UP,” she asserts.  I knew when I read the script that the character would be mad fun Srishti Shrivastava Actor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/i-want-to-be-as-fearless-as-guddo/article31856412.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||You are shooting messengers, doctors and paramedics: SC||The Supreme Court slammed the Delhi government for choosing to “shoot messengers, doctors and paramedics” who brought the dismal truth about its COVID-19 hospitals to light, rather than making an effort to “redeem itself”. “Doctors, paramedics are warriors. The fight against this pandemic is like a war. They need support. But you are only interested in filing FIRs. The solution is not threatening doctors. We will not permit that to happen,” Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, one of the judges on the Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, orally addressed the Delhi government side. Hospital staff suspended Justice Kaul referred to the suspension of an employee who shot a video about the “deplorable state of affairs” at Lok Nayak Hospital, including the piling up of bodies of the COVID-19 victims. “The person who shot the video has been suspended,” Justice Kaul remarked orally. “You do not want the truth to come out,” Justice M.R. Shah interjected. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, for Delhi, agreed there was no point in shooting messengers. “You are shooting messengers, doctors and paramedics,” Justice Kaul retorted. Mr. Jain acknowledged that “everything is not hunky-dory”. Remedial measures “We are not leaving anything to chance. We are very focussed on remedial measures for patient care, disposal of bodies and salaries... Our emphasis is on remedial measures... In capacity-building,” Mr. Jain assured the court. The court, however, was not satisfied with the government’s response and asked it to file a fresh affidavit by June 19, detailing the corrective steps it has taken to redeem itself, including withdrawal of FIRs against whistle-blowers. “We do not appreciate your approach, both, before and after our issuance of notice to you,” Justice Kaul told the Delhi government counsel. The hearing is based on the suo motu cognisance taken by the apex court on the treatment meted out to COVID-19 patients and the bodies of those who lost the battle to the virus. The court referred to several media reports, especially on Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Hospital, on the lack of infrastructure, patients and their families running from pillar to post to get themselves admitted and, ultimately, videos of bodies being thrown into pits. “The State on whom the duty lies to take care of health of its citizens cannot abdicate its responsibility of ensuring that all hospitals, including government hospitals take care of the COVID-19 patients. The duty of the State of NCT Delhi does not end in informing the people that it has arranged 5,814 beds in government hospitals and 9,535 beds, including private hospitals,” the court said. “The State and its officers are also duty bound to ensure that patients are taken care, attended, provided all medical facility, the hospitals have necessary infrastructure and staff,” the court had observed in its previous order. Issued notices The court had issued notice to Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat as well as to the Lok Nayak Hospital. The States have been asked to submit status reports on their government hospitals, patient care and the details of the staff, infrastructure, etc. The affidavits along with the reports should be filed through by the Chief Secretaries or Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare of the States. The director or medical superintendent of Lok Nayak Hospital has been ordered to explain the “deplorable state of affairs” in their institution. It posted the case for July 17. “The reports show horrific scenes from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh in COVID-19-dedicated hospitals. The deplorable conditions of wards, the pathetic condition of patients... They are seen in wards with bodies in lobby and greeting areas. There is no oxygen or saline drip support. There is no one to attend the patients... The condition of a government hospital in Delhi with 200 beds is that only 17 beds are occupied... Patients are unable to get themselves admitted... What pains the court is no proper care or treatment is given,” Justice Bhushan had said in the last hearing.  Doctors and paramedics are warriors. The fight against this pandemic is like a war. They need support. But you are only interested in filing FIRs. The solution is not threatening doctors  Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul  SC Bench||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/you-are-shooting-messengers-doctors-and-paramedics-sc/article31856184.ece
18 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Site promoting e-pharmacies on Aarogya Setu suspended’||The Centre has informed the Delhi High Court that a website, promoting sale of medicines through e-pharmacies, which was linked to Aarogya Setu mobile app has been suspended. Additional Solicitor General Maninder Acharya, appearing for the Centre, said that the operation of the website http://www.aarogya setumitr.in has been suspended. vFollowing the ASG’s statement, Justice Navin Chawla disposed of the petition seeking to delink the website from Aarogya Setu mobile app. Issues raised The ASG also submitted that if at all the website is to be relaunched, the Centre shall keep in mind the issues raised by the petitioners — South Chemists and Distributors Association — in the present petition. The association, in its plea, had said the website is linked to the official mobile app Aarogya Setu in a highly illegal, arbitrary and discriminatory manner as the website promotes and acts as a marketing tool for e-pharmacies only. There is no mention that medicines can also be procured by the local pharmacy stores which operate offline, the plea said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/site-promoting-e-pharmacies-on-aarogya-setu-suspended/article31856178.ece
18 June 2020||New Delhi,||Finish registration of labourers on war footing, HC tells AAP govt.||The Delhi High Court has asked the government to complete registration of construction workers under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Act (BOCWWA), “on war footing” so that financial relief under the scheme can be provided to them during the COVID-19 crisis. The court’s direction came on a petition by social activist Sunil Kumar Aledia seeking registration of all construction workers here under the BOCWWA so that they can get the benefit of the relief package of Rs. 5,000 per month being provided to each labourer during the lockdown. The plea has contended that only a small section out of the over 10 lakh workers in the city are registered under the laws, regulating their welfare and service conditions and thus, a huge chunk of the labourers are not getting benefits actually meant for them. ‘Cumbersome form’ “So far, as the detailed form required to be filled by the applicants for registration/ renewal of registration is concerned, it is clear to us that the same, in its present form, is extremely cumbersome, and would obviously be difficult for any worker to fill up online,” a Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/finish-registration-of-labourers-on-war-footing-hc-tells-aap-govt/article31856179.ece
18 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC rejects petition seeking rent waiver||The Delhi High Court has dismissed a petition seeking direction to prohibit the eviction of tenants by landlords over non-payment of rent till the COVID-19 crisis is over. “This petition, filed as a public interest litigation on behalf of the tenant residents in Delhi, is thoroughly misconceived and baseless,” a Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said. “The general prayer for waiver of rent, cannot be granted by this court while exercising powers under Article 226 of the Constitution of India,” it said adding, “The powers/discretion for waiving of such consideration [rent] vests first with the landlords, who are contractually entitled to the same”. The Bench, further, said that even assuming the petitioner, Gaurav Jain, intends to espouse the cause of the poorer sections of tenants, the direction sought by him cannot be granted in a PIL of this nature. “It ought to be kept in mind that the court cannot do charity at the cost of others,” the court said. “However, it ought to be kept in mind that even the landlords can be financially dependent on the rent for their livelihood,” the Bench said. While dismissing the petition, the court imposed a cost of Rs. 10,000 on Mr. Jain.  The discretion for waiving of rent vests first with the landlords, who are contractually entitled to the same HC Bench||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-rejects-petition-seeking-rent-waiver/article31856180.ece
18 June 2020||New Delhi,||Two RPF personnel held for raping minor girl||Two Railway Protection Force (RPF) constables were arrested for allegedly raping a 16-year-old girl in the Capital, the police said on Wednesday. The teenager, who used to work as a domestic help in east Delhi, left the house on Friday and reached the New Delhi railway station to go back to her home in Ranchi, according to the police. She was allegedly lured by the two RPF personnel on the pretext of helping her to board a train to Jharkhand, the police said. The suspects took her to a secluded place from the station, gave her some sedative substance and later raped her, an officer said, adding that the two dropped her near the Old Delhi station. Case registered Later, a policeman noticed the girl and took her to the Kotwali police station where a case under relevant sections was registered after she narrated the story, the officer said. During investigation, CCTV footage of the area was analysed and the two were arrested on Monday, the police said. The statement of victim under CrPC 164 has been recorded. The case is under probe, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-rpf-personnel-held-for-raping-minor-girl/article31856187.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||DUTA writes to PM opposing online exam||The Delhi University Teachers’ Association on Wednesday sent a petition signed by students, teachers and parents to Prime Minister Narendra Modi opposing the online open book examinations. The DUTA had initiated an online petition to oppose the university’s decision to conduct online open book examination for the terminal semester/ year students, which garnered 15,701 signatures. “A survey-cum-referendum by DUTA garnered nearly 52,000 responses and 85% of students have expressed their opposition against open book exam,” the petition read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/duta-writes-to-pm-opposing-online-exam/article31856185.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Don’t force JNU hostellers to vacate’||The North-East Students’ Forum of JNU on Wednesday wrote to Vice-Chancellor M. Jagadish Kumar urging the administration to not put pressure on students to vacate hostels amid the rising COVID-19 cases. Referring to advisories issued by the university asking hostellers, who are stranded on the campus to return home, the forum said that “forceful evacuation” would put students at risk. “It is extremely difficult for students, specifically the ones from Northeast, to travel all the way home from Delhi, taking risk,” read the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dont-force-jnu-hostellers-to-vacate/article31856186.ece
18 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sisodia writes to Centre over CBSE exams||Education Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday wrote to Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal expressing his concern over the plan to conduct the remaining Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) examinations of Class 10 and Class 12 in July. He added that with the rising number of cases, it would be extremely difficult to conduct the exam. Mr. Sisodia had earlier, in a conference with the State Education Ministers, suggested that the results be declared on the basis of pre-board or internal exams instead of conducting the remaining exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sisodia-writes-to-centre-over-cbse-exams/article31856188.ece
