21 June 2020||New Delhi,||PMO says ‘mischievous’ spin given to Modi’s remark at meet||A storm sparked by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement on Friday that nobody had intruded across the Indian frontier in eastern Ladakh continued to swirl on Saturday, with a clarification issued by his office leading to more questioning by the Opposition. The statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said attempts were being made “in some quarters to give a mischievous interpretation to remarks by the Prime Minister” at the all-party meeting on Friday. In his closing remarks at the meeting to discuss Chinese aggression, Mr. Modi had said: “Neither has anyone intruded into our frontier, nor is anyone present there, nor are any of our posts under someone else’s occupation.” The Congress said the government must clarify if Chinese troops were present on Indian territory. The PMO statement, which did not make a specific reference to the line that has turned controversial, said: “Prime Minister was clear that India would respond firmly to any attempts to transgress the Line of Actual Control (LAC). In fact, he specifically emphasised that in contrast to the past neglect of such challenges, Indian forces now decisively counter violations of LAC.” Earlier, the Ministry of External Affairs had said the violent clash between the forces of both countries on June 15 in the Galwan Valley that led to the loss 20 Indian lives, was “a result of an attempt by the Chinese side to unilaterally change the status quo there.” Claims over Galwan As China reiterated its claims over the Galwan region, External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said it was the Chinese side that had crossed the LAC and “sought to erect structures”. “When this attempt was foiled, Chinese troops took violent actions,” he said. The PMO statement said Mr. Modi’s remarks made a distinction between the current government and its predecessors. “Insofar as there is some illegal occupation…over the last 60 years, more than 43,000 sq.km has been yielded…this Government will not allow any unilateral change of the LAC.” The Congress said the statement was “a lame attempt to obfuscate”. “PMO and the government need to clearly state their position on the Galwan Valley. Is it not part of Indian territory?” party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala asked. He said, “But what about the intrusions between May 5 and June 15? We refer to several statements of the Defence Minister admitting to the presence of Chinese forces “in large numbers” and the statement of the Chief of Army Staff on “disengagement….If Chinese troops are not present in Indian territory, why is the MEA harping on disengagement and de-escalation as late as on June 17?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pmo-says-mischievous-spin-given-to-modis-remark-at-meet/article31880375.ece
21 June 2020||New Delhi,||Tahawwur Rana arrested again after release in U.S.||U.S. authorities have informed India about the provisional arrest of Tahawwur Rana, one of the key players in the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack, as he is “proposed to be extradited” in a case registered by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Rana walked out of a prison in the U.S on June 10 after getting bail on compassionate grounds on testing positive for COVID-19. Hearing on June 30 Under the India-U.S. Extradition Treaty of 1997, he can only be extradited to be tried in a case registered by the NIA in 2009 to unearth the conspiracy of several such crimes, including the 26/11 terror attack. A U.S. district court has scheduled the hearing for June 30. The “double jeopardy” clause in the U.S. law prohibits punishment for the same crime twice. Therefore, India tweaked its bid to seek Rana’s custody on the ground that he was actively involved in planning an attack on the National Defence College, Delhi, and Chabad houses (Jewish religious centres) in several Indian cities in 2009. “The authorities here are in touch with their U.S. counterparts. As soon as Rana walked out of prison, the pending warrant as per the extradition pact was executed by the local police and he was taken into custody. The extradition proceedings will begin soon,” a senior government official told The Hindu . Rana, a Chicago-based businessman, helped David Coleman Headley, a prime suspect in the Mumbai terror attacks, open an immigration firm in Mumbai. It was allegedly a cover to conduct reconnaissance on targets that were attacked on November 26, 2008, killing 166 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tahawwur-rana-arrested-again-after-release-in-us/article31880377.ece
21 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||COVID cases go up as State ramps up testing||The State has yet again reported the biggest single-day spike of 491 COVID-19 cases and five deaths during the past 24 hours, as of Saturday morning. Also, for the first time, the State tested 22,371 samples in a single day increasing the 24-hour testing capacity to the same number, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. The tally has crossed the 8,000-mark and gone up to 8,452 and 4,240 of them are under treatment, while 4,111 patients were discharged. The death toll has mounted to 101. The worst-hit districts Krishna and Kurnool reported two more deaths each while Guntur reported one more COVID death. The 77 deaths in these three districts so far account for 76% of the State’s deaths reported, and Krishna with 33 has the highest mortality rate, while the State’s mortality rate is 1.19%. Nearly 80% of the new local cases were detected in the districts of Anantapur (97), West Godavari (65), Chittoor (51), Krishna (51) and East Godavari (41), and the remaining were detected in Guntur (17), Prakasam (16), Kadapa (15), Kurnool (15), Visakhapatnam (15), Nellore (6) and Vizianagaram (1). No new case was reported in Srikakulam. Meanwhile, the State has for the first time revealed the information about the cases from other States and other countries. Of the 8,452 cases, 6,620 are of locals and 1, 506 are of people from other States, migrant returnees and 326 cases are of foreign returnees. Maharashtra returnees As many as 785 persons who came to the State from Maharashtra tested positive upon entering the State following the relaxation of the lockdown travel restrictions. It is followed by neighbouring Tamil Nadu with 297 cases and Telangana with 212 cases. While the three States account for 86% of the cases in the category, the remaining are from Gujarat, Delhi, Odisha, Rajasthan, Karnataka, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Goa. Among the foreign returnee cases, 289 returnees from Kuwait tested positive while 10 from Saudi Arabia, seven from Qatar and the remaining 20 cases are from Indonesia, South Africa, UAE, Kazakhstan, Oman, Bahrain and Sudan. Ratio So far 6,52,377 samples were tested and the State’s tests per million ratio has gone up to 12, 217. The district tallies of local cases are as follows: Kurnool (1,247), Krishna (982), Anantapur (789), Guntur (742), Chittoor (515), West Godavari (498), East Godavari (485), Nellore (459), Kadapa (330), Visakhapatnam (261), Prakasam (175), Vizianagaram (78) and Srikakulam (59).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-cases-go-up-as-state-ramps-up-testing/article31880381.ece
21 June 2020||New Delhi,||Arms-laden drone downed in J&K||The Border Security Force (BSF) shot down a made-in-China hexacopter drone from Pakistan, loaded with a sophisticated rifle and grenades, along the International Border in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday. The drone carried a U.S.-made M4 carbine, two magazines and seven Chinese grenades. “The BSF intelligence branch was receiving inputs about the possible use of drones for ferrying arms and ammunition from Pakistan into India. Accordingly, the troops were on high alert and the border domination was increased,” a BSF statement said. Around 5.10 a.m., a patrol party noticed the drone coming from Pakistan, it said. “The drone was at a height of 150-200 ft within Indian territory. The alert troops shot it down. The drone is made in China and weighs 17.5 kg. The payload capacity of the hexacopter is on the higher side,” the statement said. Earlier, sophisticated weapons were dropped by such drones in Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/arms-laden-drone-downed-in-jk/article31880379.ece
21 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||SSC exams cancelled due to spike in COVID-19 cases||The State government has decided to cancel SSC public exams in view of a sharp increase in COVID-19 cases. Announcing the decision at a press conference on Saturday, Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh said keeping the safety of the students in mind, it was decided to pass all 10th class students without writing the exams. Mr. Suresh said the Education Department had been asked to evolve a mechanism to award grades to the students, as they would need them for their higher studies. Students who had failed in the Intermediate first and second year courses, also would be passed without writing the advanced supplementary exams, the Minister said. The 10th class students were scheduled to write their public exams from July 10 to 17. But a spurt in the cases of Coronavirus made the government rethink on the issue. A meeting held on Thursday between the Minister, the department officials and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to review the situation, discussed threadbare all the key aspects involved in the conduct of the examinations. After weighing the pros and cons of the situation, Mr. Jagan asked the department to cancel the exams in the larger interests of the students, Mr. Suresh said. Mr. Suresh said the government was determined to conduct the SSC examinations considering that this was the most crucial exam of the students’ life. He said the department officials had worked relentlessly to identify and establish exam centres with all safety norms in place. The Minister said during a video conference on feedback on June 15, many parents and leaders of teacher unions pointed out that even though the department was ready to make fool-proof arrangements at the exam centres, students would be exposed to grave health threats while travelling from home to the centre. Mr. Suresh said the Chief Minister was of the view that the safety of the students was paramount and thus, the decision to cancel the exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ssc-exams-cancelled-due-to-spike-in-covid-19-cases/article31880327.ece
21 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State reports highest single-day spike with 127 fresh cases||The State reported its highest single-day spike of COVID-19 cases with 127 new cases on Saturday. However, it is a great relief to the government that even when the number of cases is going up every day, almost all of these are imported cases and those diagnosed are people who are already in quarantine and hence can be monitored. 123 imported cases On Saturday, 123 out of the 127 new cases were imported cases of infection. Four persons, including one health-care worker, acquired the infection through local transmission, by contact with known/unknown sources of infection. With 57 recoveries reported, the number of active COVID-19 cases in the State now is 1,450. Of the 3,039 persons who contracted the infection in the State ever since the outbreak began, 1,566 have recovered so far. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the fact that the State had been able to contain local transmission and seriously limit the number of cases developed through contact was a testament to the successful containment strategies. He claimed that it also indicated that community transmission was not yet a possibility in the State. Of the 2,413 persons who had tested positive between May 4 and June 19, as many as 2,165 were imported cases. T.N. report dismissed He sought to dismiss the fact that over 50 people who had crossed the State borders to Tamil Nadu post lockdown had been tested COVID-19 positive by the Tamil Nadu authorities, indicating that the virus was moving silently in the community. This figures in the daily bulletin issued by the Tamil Nadu Health authorities. But Mr. Vijayan said the State had not received any official intimation about these cases from Tamil Nadu. The State currently has 1,39,342 persons under surveillance and in quarantine, of whom 2,036 are isolated in hospitals. The number of hotspots in the State now is 111.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-highest-single-day-spike-with-127-fresh-cases/article31880630.ece
21 June 2020||New Delhi,||L-G rolls back institutional quarantine order||A day after announcing five-day mandatory institutional quarantine in the national capital, Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal rolled back his order on Saturday. The Friday order was vehemently opposed by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia at the first session of a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Saturday morning. This was followed by another meeting at 5 p.m. where the DDMA approved recommendations of a high-level expert committee for fixing rates charged by private hospitals in Delhi for isolation beds and ICUs with and without ventilator support. The Delhi government later issued an order capping maximum per day package rates for COVID-19-related treatment in private hospitals in the range of Rs. 8,000 to Rs. 18,000. “Regarding institutional isolation, only those positive cases which do not require hospitalisation on clinical assessment and do not have adequate facilities for home isolation would be required to undergo institutional isolation,” Mr. Baijal tweeted after the meeting. ‘Arbitrary decision’ Earlier, in his capacity as the chairperson of the DDMA, Mr. Baijal had ordered that the five-day institutional quarantine would mandatorily apply to each case currently under home quarantine. An estimated 80% of the infected patients in the city are under home isolation. The Delhi government had called the decision “arbitrary” and asked for it to be reconsidered. After the evening meeting, the Raj Niwas issued a statement saying all individuals who are positive would be referred to the COVID care centres for assessment of clinical conditions, the severity and the presence of co-morbidities. Simultaneously, it also said, physical assessment will be done whether adequate facilities for home isolation like minimum two rooms and separate toilet exists so that the family members and neighbours are protected. “If adequate facility for home isolation exists and the person on clinical assessment does not require hospitalisation, he would be offered to either continue to stay in COVID centre/paid isolation facility [hotels etc.] or can opt for home isolation,” the Raj Niwas said. “Those who are in home isolation should follow the guidelines laid down by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and should stay in touch with healthcare providers so that if their condition deteriorates, they can be moved to the COVID hospitals,” it said. Mr. Sisodia tweeted, “All apprehensions of L-G sir regarding home isolation were resolved in the SDMA meeting and now the system of home isolation will continue. We thank L-G sir for this.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/l-g-rolls-back-institutional-quarantine-order/article31880552.ece
21 June 2020||CHENNAI,||In biggest single-day spike, 2,396 cases recorded in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu on Saturday recorded an all-time high of 2,396 cases of COVID-19. While 1,254 of the fresh cases were in Chennai and 64 were returnees, the remaining 1,078 cases were reported in the rest of the State. For the first time, the number of samples tested on a single day crossed the 30,000-mark. A total of 33,231 samples were tested, an increase of 5,694 over Friday’s figure. A total of 32,186 individuals were tested. With this, the total samples tested stands at 8,61,211 and the total number of individuals at 8,21,594. The State recorded 2,000-plus cases for the fourth consecutive day. Its tally of cases climbed to 56,845*. The total number of persons discharged increased to 31,316, with another 1,045 persons leaving hospitals. The toll crossed the 700-mark with 38 more deaths. While 24 deaths occurred in government hospitals, the remaining were in private hospitals. Among them was a 26-year-old man, who had no co-morbidities. A resident of Tiruvallur, he was admitted to Government Vellore Medical College Hospital on June 14. He died on June 19 due to severe acute respiratory illness and respiratory failure. A 44-year-old woman died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, on June 18 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome, acute respiratory failure and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 44-year-old man died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on June 19 due to cardiopulmonary arrest and COVID-19 pneumonia. Both did not have any co-morbidities. A 45-year-old woman from Madurai — a patient with a high risk pregnancy — died at the Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, on Friday due to viral pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Except Erode, Namakkal and the Nilgiris, all other districts reported new cases of COVID-19 that included imported cases. Chennai’s overall tally climbed to 39,641, while Chengalpattu with 180 new cases accounted for a total of 3,620 cases. There were 131 cases in Tiruvallur and 125 cases in Tiruvannamalai. Apart from these districts, there were 90 cases in Madurai, 87 in Kancheepuram, 67 in Ranipet, 48 in Ramanathapuram, 46 in Thoothukudi, 40 in Salem, 36 in Vellore and 32 in Sivangangai. Nine other districts had cases in the range of 10 to 25 each. The imported cases included 17 persons who returned from Delhi, 12 from Maharashtra and 14 from Oman. Till now, a total of 2,495 persons who returned from other countries and States have tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. Two more private laboratories — Meenakshi Medical College Hospital and Research Institute, Kancheepuram and Laboratory Services in Sri Ramakrishna Hospital, Sidhapudur, Coimbatore — were approved for COVID-19 testing. As of now, the State has a total of 85 testing facilities. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-biggest-single-day-spike-2396-cases-recorded-in-tamil-nadu/article31880456.ece
21 June 2020||Mumbai,||State’s TB notifications dip drastically||The COVID-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown have severely hampered the State’s battle against tuberculosis (TB) as the notification of new cases has dipped drastically since March. The trend being witnessed across the country indicates that a large number of TB cases are going undetected, and many patients may be on the verge of disease progression. Data retrieved through Nikshay, India’s TB notification module, shows Maharashtra’s notifications from the public and private sectors fell to 14,824 in March, when the nationwide lockdown was declared. The number slipped to 7,959 in April and 7,276 in May. In comparison, there were 18,370 new TB notifications in January and 17,763 in February. While the figures change every day as Nikshay is updated, there has been a 60% decline in notifications between January and May. ‘Aggressive approach’ State TB officer Dr. Padmaja Jogewar said the drop can be attributed to several factors, such as outpatient departments (OPDs) not being fully functional, health staff being deployed for COVID-19 duties, drop in TB testing, patients not stepping out or unable to visit healthcare providers, and delay in compiling data. “We now have to adopt an aggressive approach in detecting cases,” said Dr. Jogewar, adding that healthcare workers undertaking door-to-door screening for COVID-19 are referring people with TB-like symptoms for TB testing. Chest physician Dr. Zarir Udwadia said since the start of the lockdown, hospitals and clinics have had to focus on treating COVID-19 patients, relegating patients with other diseases like TB to the sidelines. At Hinduja Hospital in Mahim, where Dr. Udwadia practises, OPD visits across specialities dropped by 85% from 32,000 in April 2019 to 4,800 in April this year. “The pandemic and the prolonged lockdown have adversely affected every aspect of TB care. Irregular, erratic, unsupervised and interrupted treatment is likely to occur, which is the recipe for treatment failure and possible amplification of drug resistance,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-tb-notifications-dip-drastically/article31880690.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Pumps, shops to stay shut||All shops and fuel pumps will remain shut in Chennai and parts of neighbouring districts on Sunday in view of the ‘total’ lockdown announced by the government. Chennai Police Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan said that the lockdown will be enforced strictly. Medical and milk supply vehicles can ply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pumps-shops-to-stay-shut/article31880455.ece
21 June 2020||Belagavi,||SSLC student tests positive||A 16-year-old boy, who was to write his SSLC examination next week, tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday in Belagavi district. The boy had returned from his relative’s home in Chennai last week and his samples came back positive for the virus on Saturday. His parents have appealed to Deputy Commissioner S.B Bommanahalli to help him write the SSLC examination by releasing him early.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sslc-student-tests-positive/article31880576.ece
21 June 2020||Mumbai,||Highest spike in State with 3,874 new cases||Maharashtra recorded 3,874 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, its highest surge in a day, pushing its tally to 1,28,205. The State also recorded 160 fatalities, its second-highest single-day rise, taking its death toll to 5,984. Nearly 51% of the State’s cases and 59% deaths are from Mumbai. A total of 136 were recorded in Mumbai, 10 in Jalgaon, six in Aurangabad, five in Pune, and one each in Solapur, Jalna and Beed. Of the 35 districts in the State, only three — Bhandara, Gondia and Chandrapur — have not reported a single death yet. Wardha and Gadchiroli, which had not reported any positive cases in the initial weeks of the outbreak, have now reported one death each.  In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, the case load is inching towards the 95,000 mark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/highest-spike-in-state-with-3874-new-cases/article31880691.ece
21 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Govt. issues orders for cash assistance||The State government has appointed district collectors as nodal officers for distribution of funds to differently abled persons who hold the National Identity and Disability Certificate (NIDC) in Tamil Nadu. The government issued a G.O. on Saturday sanctioning a sum of Rs. 133.52 crore from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) for distribution of cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 each for NIDC holders. The Chief Minister had announced cash assistance for 13.35 lakh NIDC holders considering their livelihood during the lockdown period. Through another G.O, a sum of Rs. 16.66 crore was sanctioned from the State Disaster Response Fund to Tiruppur, Chengalpattu, Madurai, Ranipettai districts and the Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation for quarantine facilities and other COVID-19 related activities in these regions. As per the allocations, Tiruppur has been given Rs. 3.87 crore, Chengalpattu Rs. 1.10 crore, Madurai Rs. 93.89 lakh, Ranipettai Rs. 75 lakh and Greater Chennai Corporation Rs. 10 crore. The proposals raised by the Collectors of Tiruppur, Chengalpattu, Madurai and Ranipettai included feeding and transportation charges for migrant labourers. Chennai Corporation raised a proposal seeking funds to settle the food bill for COVID-19 Care Centres. Separately, the government also issued orders sanctioning a sum of Rs. 40.32 crore as honorarium to be paid to 6,720 volunteers, engaged for a period of four months to monitor home-quarantined people, at a rate of Rs. 500 per day. Another amount of Rs. 1.17 crore, at a rate of Rs. 575 per member of self-help groups engaged in Tiruvallur, who are assisting block medical officers in COVID-19 control measures. A total of 680 SHG members were engaged for this work. The government also sanctioned Rs. 6 crore sought by the Greater Chennai Corporation as relief fund for people in slum areas, under institutional quarantine, at Rs. 1,000 per person for 60,000 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-issues-orders-for-cash-assistance-covid-19-relief/article31880478.ece
21 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Drug launched for moderate COVID-19 cases||Glenmark Pharmaceuticals on Saturday announced the introduction of an oral anti-viral drug for COVID-19 patients in the age group of 18 and 75 with mild to moderate symptoms. Nearly 80% of all positive cases in the country are in this category. The drug Favipiravir to be sold under the brand name FabiFlu is the first such in India for COVID-19, the company said. The drug will be available in seven to 10 days in strips of 34 tablets at Rs. 3,500. The prescribed first-day dose is 18 tablets — nine each in the morning and evening. From the second day, it will be four each twice daily. The treatment can last 14 days. Since it is an oral medicine, the patient can stay at home. “It is a significant step in the fight against COVID-19 India. Glenmark is leading the flight. We are not looking it as a business opportunity. The priority is to make the drug available to as many patients and save lives,” said Sujesh Vasudevan, president, India Formulations, Middle East and Africa, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd in a video conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drug-launched-for-moderate-covid-19-cases/article31880373.ece
21 June 2020||Srinagar,||Four civilians injured in Pakistani firing||Four civilians were injured in Baramulla as the Pakistan Army resorted to firing and shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) on Saturday. “The Pakistan Army initiated unprovoked firing and launched mortars on Saturday morning in the Rampur sector. In the afternoon, Pakistan again fired mortars in the Uri sector in Baramulla. Four civilians were injured in the ceasefire violations,” a Srinagar-based Army spokesman said. The Army said it was giving “a befitting response” to Pakistan’s aggression. An official said Pakistan targeted forward posts at Haji Pir, Nambla and Rustum in Uri. Ahmed Shiekh, 60, Parveena Begum, 40, and Maqbool Mangral 20, were injured when mortar shells exploded near their houses. “The condition of the injured is stated to be stable,” the officials said. A local official said the shelling from the Pakistani side was intense and the official teams will go to the spot to assess the damage once the fire stops in the area. “Around a dozen villages were affected due to the constant firing and shelling in Baramulla,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-civilians-injured-in-pakistani-firing/article31880386.ece
21 June 2020||Chennai,||Lockdown is like a speed breaker, says CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday said the ongoing 12-day total lockdown in Chennai and parts of its three surrounding districts was like a “speed breaker”. Asked if there was a possibility of the lockdown being extended further, he said there was no such plan as of now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-is-like-a-speed-breaker-says-cm/article31880457.ece
21 June 2020||Chennai,||1,500 police personnel across T.N. test positive||At least 1,500 police personnel and an equal number of their family members or contacts have tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu till now. In Chennai city alone, over 830 police personnel, including four IPS officers, were infected. Many of them are still undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1500-police-personnel-across-tn-test-positive/article31880459.ece
21 June 2020||Bengaluru,||518 pvt. hospitals told to treat COVID-19 patients||Even before fixing rates for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals, the Health Department on Saturday directed the 518 private Medical Colleges/Hospitals in the State, including 44 in Bengaluru, empanelled under ABArK to admit and treat referred COVID-19 patients as per government protocol and criteria. All treatment protocols as laid down by the government from time to time should be followed by private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/518-pvt-hospitals-told-to-treat-covid-19-patients/article31880410.ece
21 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC allows public viewing of virtual hearings||The Delhi High Court on Saturday allowed public viewing of hearings conducted through videoconferencing due to the COVID-19 outbreak. A circular issued by the HC registrar said links will be offered for public viewing so long as the stability of the system is not disturbed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-allows-public-viewing-of-virtual-hearings/article31880550.ece
21 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana scraps tender drawing Chinese firm bids||The Haryana government has decided to float fresh tenders for installation of pollution control equipment at two of its thermal plants in the State, after it scrapped the process of assigning contract for the work that elicited tender bids from a few China-based companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-scraps-tender-drawing-chinese-firm-bids/article31880553.ece
21 June 2020||Bengaluru,||5 PG doctors test positive in Victoria||After positive COVID-19 cases were reported from NIMHANS, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, and Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology, now five PG doctors from Victoria Hospital and the Head of the department of gynaecology at ESI hospital in Rajajinagar tested positive on Friday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5-pg-doctors-test-positive-in-victoria/article31880409.ece
21 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘No intrusion due to soldiers’ bravery’||The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on Saturday clarified that no part of India’s territory was under Chinese occupation, but that the statement made at the all-party meeting was also to indicate that the state of affairs was a “consequence of the bravery of our soldiers”, pointing to the June 15 violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh that left 20 Indian soldiers dead. In his closing remarks at the meeting, Mr. Modi categorically stated that “neither is anyone inside our territory nor is any of our post captured”. Questions by Congress This statement had led to questions by the Congress on the reasons why 20 soldiers died in a clash with the Chinese in the Galwan valley, if there was no intrusion and the continuing military-level talks to defuse the situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). In Saturday’s clarification, the intrusion is acknowledged as having occurred and then repulsed by Indian soldiers, hence currently no intrusion exists on India’s western border with China. “Attempts are being made in some quarters to give a mischievous interpretation to remarks by the Prime Minister to the APM [all-party meeting] yesterday [Friday],” said a press release from the PMO. “Prime Minister was clear that India would respond firmly to any attempts to transgress the Line of Actual Control [LAC]. In fact he specifically emphasised that in contrast to the past neglect of such challenges, Indian forces now decisively counter any violations of LAC. The APM was also informed that the Chinese forces have come in much larger strength to the LAC and that the Indian response is commensurate. As regards transgression of LAC, it was clearly stated that the violence in Galwan on June 15th arose because Chinese side was seeking to erect structures just across the LAC and refused to desist from such action,” the statement said. The focus of Mr. Modi’s remarks to the discussions were the events of June 15 that led to the loss of lives of 20 Indian soldiers. “The Prime Minister’s observations that there was no Chinese presence on our side of the LAC pertained to the situation as a consequence of the bravery of our armed forces,” it stated. “What is Indian territory is clear from the map of India. This government is strongly and resolutely committed to that. In so far as there is some illegal occupation, the APM was briefed in detail how over the last 60 years more than 43,000 square kilometres has been yielded under circumstances with which the country is well aware. It was also made clear that this government will not allow any unilateral change of the LAC,” said the statement, taking aim at the Congress. It did acknowledge that the overall sentiment of the meeting was of unequivocal support to the government and the armed forces at a time of national crisis, and that the “unfortunate and unnecessary controversy” being created to “lower morale” would not be allowed to undermine the confidence of people. Nearly 20 presidents of mainline Opposition parties met the Prime Minister, and expressed support to the government and the Army and asked for the restoration of status quo ante on the LAC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-intrusion-due-to-soldiers-bravery/article31880340.ece
21 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Chinese troops responsible for deadly clashes’||Rejecting China’s “step by step” account of what led to the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in the Galwan valley on June 15, the Ministry of External Affairs on Saturday said the Chinese troops were wholly responsible for the deadly clashes and they had “attempted” to transgress into the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) many times. “Both sides had agreed to respect and abide by the LAC and not undertake any activity to alter the status quo,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said in a statement on Saturday in response to the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA). “The Chinese side departed from these understandings in respect of the LAC in the Galwan valley area and sought to erect structures just across the LAC [on the Indian side]. When this attempt was foiled, Chinese troops took violent actions on 15 June, 2020, that directly resulted in casualties,” Mr. Srivastava added. The MEA also rejected, for the second time this week, China’s newly articulated claims on the entire Galwan valley. In a statement, repeated by spokesperson Zhao Lijian in a series of tweets on Saturday, the Chinese MFA had said, “The Galwan valley is located on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control in the west section of the China-India boundary. For many years, the Chinese border troops have been patrolling and on duty in this region.” It claimed that India had agreed “not to cross the estuary of the Galwan river to patrol and build facilities” during the military commanders meeting on June 6. ‘Historically clear’ The MEA said the position on the Galwan valley was “historically clear”. “Attempts by the Chinese side to now advance exaggerated and untenable claims with regard to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) there are not acceptable. They are not in accordance with China’s own position in the past,” Mr. Srivastava said, adding that Indian troops had been patrolling the Galwan area for a “long time without any incident”. To the Chinese version of the events unfolding over the past few weeks, which the MFA put out as a “step by step” account of the developments, the MEA said China had been “hindering” normal patrols by Indian troops since early May 2020. “This had resulted in a face-off which was addressed by the ground commanders as per the provisions of the bilateral agreements and protocols. We do not accept the contention that India was unilaterally changing the status quo. On the contrary, we were maintaining it,” it said. The MEA’s response came hours after the government clarified Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s comments on the Galwan valley clashes, in which he had said, “No one has intruded into Indian territory, nor is anyone in our territory, nor have any of our border posts been captured.” The statement, which has been questioned by the Opposition, also led to comments from former diplomats, who said all communication during times of conflict must be closely monitored. “It appears the PM misspoke as it is not possible to deny that China has transgressed, and the clarification has come too late,” former diplomat K.C. Singh told The Hindu . “In times of conflict, as it was during the Kargil war and PM Vajpayee’s statements, it is important that public positions conform to facts and inherited strategic wisdom. What the PM says is being heard not only in India but by our opponents and beyond that in the Asia-Pacific region and the world,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinese-troops-responsible-for-deadly-clashes/article31880359.ece
21 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Community spread not a possibility yet: Kerala CM||Karnataka recorded nine more deaths from COVID-19 on Saturday, taking its toll to 132. Andhra Pradesh reported another single-day spike of 491 cases and five deaths. While three of the nine deaths in Karnataka were from Bengaluru Urban, two were from Bidar and one each from Davangere, Chikkamagaluru and Udupi. One death was reported in the “others” category as a 66-year-old female patient was brought dead to a hospital in Bidar from outside the State. In the last 11 days, the number of deaths in the State doubled. From 66 on June 9, the number rose to 133 (including a constable’s) on June 20. In the last five days alone, 45 deaths were reported at an average of nine per day. As new cases, 416 were reported, taking the total to 8,697. This included 5,391 discharges and 3,170 active cases. The new cases included 116 inter-State and 22 international passengers. With 94 cases, Bengaluru continued to report the highest number for the second day and total positive cases in the city touched 1,076. A deputy director from the Information Department at Vidhana Soudha tested positive on Saturday. Kerala reported 127 new cases of COVID-19. The government was relieved that in spite of cases going up every day, almost all were imported cases and those diagnosed were already in quarantine. On Saturday, 123 of 127 new cases were imported. Four persons, including one health-care worker, acquired the infection through local transmission. With 57 recoveries reported, there were 1,450 active COVID-19 cases in the State. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the State was able to contain local transmission and limit the number stemming from contact, which was proof of successful containment strategies. He said it also indicated that community transmission was not yet a possibility. Of the 2,413 persons testing positive between May 4 and June 19, 2,165 were imported cases. On the issue of more than 50 people crossing to Tamil Nadu post-lockdown and testing positive in Tamil Nadu, indicating community spread (and included in bulletins issued by the Tamil Nadu Health authorities), Mr. Vijayan said the State had not received any official intimation. For the first time, Andhra Pradesh tested 22,371 samples in a single day, the Health Department said. The State tally was 8,452 and 4,240 were under treatment. The death toll was 101. The worst-hit Krishna and Kurnool districts reported two more deaths each while Guntur recorded one fatality. The 77 deaths in these three districts accounted for 76% of the State toll. Also, 289 from Kuwait tested positive while 10 were from Saudi Arabia, seven from Qatar and 20 from Indonesia, South Africa, UAE, Kazakhstan, Oman, Bahrain and Sudan. Tamil Nadu on Saturday recorded another high of 2,396 new cases of coronavirus. While 1,254 of the fresh cases were in Chennai and 64 were returnees to the State, the remaining 1,087 cases were reported in the rest of the State, signalling a rise in cases in many districts. For the first time, the number of samples tested on a single-day touched 33,231 samples. When compared to June 19, the samples were up by 5,694. TN recorded 2,000-plus cases for the fourth consecutive day. With this, the State’s overall tally climbed to 56,845. The total number of persons discharged increased to 31,316 with the discharge of another 1,045 persons on a single day.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/community-spread-not-a-possibility-yet-kerala-cm/article31880332.ece
21 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||BSP stares at a steady slide in Haryana politics||The political graph of the Bahujan Samaj Party in terms of its vote share in parliamentary and Assembly elections has been steadily on the decline in Haryana for more than a decade, and now scores of its former and present office-bearers joining other political outfits over the past couple of days could cause a further erosion of the party’s political base in the State. The BSP’s best-ever performance in Haryana, which has over 20% Scheduled Caste voters, was seen in the 2009 Lok Sabha elections when it secured 15.7% votes. But the party’s vote share plummeted to 6.7% in the Assembly elections the same year and gradually decreased to 4.1% in the Assembly polls last year. Lack of faith The party’s former State president Prakash Bharti blamed its poor performance in Haryana on the central leadership not reposing faith in local leaders, the growing dynasticism in the BSP and its failure to forge long-lasting alliances. Mr. Bharti, along with 56 former office-bearers of the party, joined the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) earlier this week, almost six months after they were sacked from the BSP. Several members of the BSP’s Faridabad unit also quit to join the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) a day before. “After its spectacular performance in 2009, the [BSP’s] central leadership forged an alliance with Kuldeep Bishnoi’s Haryana Janhit Congress but broke it just a month before the Assembly election. Similarly, the party forged and then broke alliances with the INLD, the Loktantra Suraksha Party and the JJP for the Lok Sabha and the Vidhan Sabha elections in Haryana last year. We opposed it saying it would hit the credibility and electoral prospects of the party and were sacked,” said Mr. Bharti, adding that they decided to join the INLD after deliberations for over six months.  Family politics He also accused BSP chief Mayawati of promoting her family, unlike late Kanshi Ram, and not letting the State leadership in Haryana to settle. The 53-year-old also alleged that the party acted under pressure from the BJP to break the alliances last year. Mr. Bharti claimed that many office-bearers of the BSP were in touch with him and would soon quit and join the INLD. Some party insiders, not willing to be identified, also expressed similar apprehensions. Bajrang Indal, the party’s Nalwa constituency candidate in last year’s Assembly election, said the BSP’s performance in Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls due in early 2022 would decide its political future in Haryana and elsewhere. He said the BSP’s rank and file were sitting ducks and all political parties had their eyes set on them. Mr. Indal, however, added that every political party has its share of ups and downs and people have faith in Ms. Mayawati’s leadership. BSP’s State president Gurmukh Singh strongly denied that the recent turn of events would have any bearing on the party. “Those who have left were either already sacked or were inactive. These people had struck deals with other parties in the State to weaken the BSP. The BSP will only benefit with such people leaving the party,” said Mr. Singh, an advocate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bsp-stares-at-a-steady-slide-in-haryana-politics/article31880555.ece
21 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||China lost over 40 soldiers in Galwan, says Minister||While India lost 20 soldiers in the violent clash at Galwan area, China lost more than 40 soldiers, Union Minister Gen. V.K. Singh (retd.) said on Saturday. This is the first response from anyone in the government on casualties on the Chinese side in the June 15 clash. “If we lost 20 soldiers, more than double the number were killed on their [Chinese] side,” Gen. Singh said. “China hides numbers. In the 1962 war too, it did not accept the casualties,” he added. In the first combat fatalities in 45 years along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), 20 Indian soldiers were killed when they were attacked by Chinese troops in Galwan valley during the “de-escalation” process on Monday night. PLA’s (People’s Liberation Army) Western Theatre Command spokesman Senior Colonel Zhang Shuili said on Tuesday that the clash in Galwan valley had led to casualties on both sides but so far China has not revealed its casualty numbers. Queries from veterans Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s comments on Friday that “neither is anyone inside our territory nor is any of our post captured”, raised several questions from the military fraternity, both serving and retired. The clarification issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on Saturday did not do much to assuage their apprehensions. “This means the Chinese did not come across to the Indian side. There was no transgression nor incursion,” a serving officer said on condition of anonymity. Several veterans also took to social media to raise questions and demand clarity on this. PMO’s clarification The PMO issued the clarification that with regard to LAC transgression, it was clearly stated that the violence in Galwan on June 15 “arose because Chinese side was seeking to erect structures just across the LAC and refused to desist from such actions.” The statement further said the focus of Mr. Modi’s remarks were the events of June 15 at Galwan that led to the loss of lives of 20 soldiers. The statement clarifed that his observations that there was no Chinese presence on ‘our side’ of the LAC “pertained to the situation as a consequence of the bravery of our armed forces”, and added that the sacrifices of the soldiers of the 16 Bihar Regiment “foiled the attempt of the Chinese side to erect structures and also cleared the attempted transgression at this point of the LAC on that day.” Soon after Mr. Modi’s comments, China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesperson Zhao Lijian claimed on Twitter that “Galwan Valley is located on the Chinese side of the LAC in the west section of the China-India boundary.” “For many years, the Chinese border troops have been patrolling and on duty in this region”, he said. Veteran helicopter pilot AVM Manmohan Bahadur (retd) debunked those remarks. “We flew regularly over Galwan estuary way back in 1978 and my predecessors were doing this from before. Our maps clearly showed the LAC way to the East of the estuary - else we would have skirted the confluence of Shyok and Galwan. Sorry sir, but you are wrong,” he said in reply on Twitter. Past agreement Beginning May 5, Chinese troops have come inside Indian territory at several points. At the Corps Commanders talks on June 6, both sides reached an agreement for a partial pullout of troops and equipment from some of the stand-off areas in Galwan. They also identified five locations of conflict- PP 14, 15 and 17, North bank of Pangong Tso and Chushul. In Pangong Tso, they are sitting at Finger 4, while India’s claim is till Finger 8. It remains a major area of contention and that is expected to be discussed at the Corps Commander level at a later stage.  If we lost 20 soldiers, more than double the number were killed on their [Chinese] side Gen. V.K. Singh (retd.) Union Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-lost-over-40-soldiers-in-galwan-says-minister/article31880336.ece
21 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||We are suitably deployed: IAF chief||Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria on Saturday said that despite the unacceptable Chinese action after agreements were reached at military talks and the resulting loss of lives, all efforts were made to ensure that the current situation was resolved “peacefully” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) at the Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh. “It should be very clear that we are well-prepared and suitably deployed to respond to any contingency ... we will never let the sacrifice of the braves of Galwan go in vain,” he said. The gallant actions of Indian soldiers who lost their lives during the confrontation with the Chinese forces had demonstrated the resolve to protect the country’s sovereignty at any cost, he told presspersons after reviewing the combined graduation parade of 123 flight cadets at Air Force Academy at Dundigal, 45 km from Hyderabad. “The security scenario in our region mandates that our armed forces remain prepared and vigilant at all times. The development at the LAC in Ladakh is a snapshot of what we are required to handle at short notice,” he said. Chinese air activity Responding to a question on Chinese air activity over Tibet since the crisis in Ladakh began, Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said, “In this period, normally China deploys a fair number of aircraft in the area for their own training. It happens every summer. But this year, the number of deployments has increased and, beyond May, it increased further. We are aware of what has been deployed and are monitoring the deployments and postures and have taken the necessary action.” He said the IAF had been flying combat patrols whenever required, but there had been no incursion from the fighters. “We know what their [the Chinese] airfields are, where they are deployed and what their operational bases are,” he said. Earlier, addressing the flight cadets, he said,“The contributions by our esteemed veterans have been pivotal in changing the course of several wars fought by India since Independence.” Full alert The armed forces have gone into full alert following the Galwan clash. The IAF has forward-deployed its front-line fighters, including Su-30MKI and MiG-29UPG, and deployed the AH-64E Apache heavy attack helicopter in Leh. The CH-47 Chinook heavy lift helicopters have also been deployed in this region. China has deployed artillery, armoured vehicles and tanks close to the LAC.  It has been learnt that the Army, too, has moved additional divisions from Bareilly and other areas forward for acclimatisation. ( With inputs from   Dinakar Peri in New Delhi )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-are-suitably-deployed-iaf-chief/article31880344.ece
21 June 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi rolls back order on institutional quarantine||A day after announcing five-day mandatory institutional quarantine in the national capital, Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal rolled back his order on Saturday. The mandatory institutional quarantine was vehemently opposed by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy, Manish Sisodia, at the first session of a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Saturday morning. This was followed by another meeting at 5 p.m. where the DDMA approved recommendations of a high-level expert committee for fixing rates of hospital beds for treatment. The committee was constituted on the directions of Union Home Minister Amit Shah under the Chairmanship of Vinod K Paul, Member, NITI Aayog, to fix rates charged by private hospitals in Delhi for isolation beds and ICUs without and with ventilator support. “Regarding institutional isolation, only those positive cases which do not require hospitalisation on clinical assessment and do not have adequate facilities for home isolation would be required to undergo institutional isolation,” Mr. Baijal tweeted after the meeting. Earlier, in his capacity as the Chairperson of the DDMA, Mr. Baijal had ordered that the five-day institutional quarantine would mandatorily apply to each case currently under home quarantine. In a city where close to an estimated 80% of the infected patients are under home isolation, the Delhi government had called the decision “arbitrary” and asked it be reconsidered. “The issue of mandatory institutional quarantine was also discussed in detail. As the government has started intensive community-based rapid testing, it is possible that individuals who are positive may have moderate to severe illness necessitating hospitalisation which can be missed if they are home isolated,” the Raj Niwas said. To prevent this from happening, it said, all individuals who are positive would be referred to the COVID care centres for assessment of clinical conditions, the severity and the presence of co-morbidities. Simultaneously, it also said, physical assessment will also be done whether adequate facilities for home isolation like minimum two rooms and separate toilet exists so that the family members and neighbours are protected. “If adequate facility for home isolation exists and the person on clinical assessment does not require hospitalisation, he would be offered to either continue to stay in COVID centre/paid isolation facility [hotels etc] or can opt for home isolation,” the Raj Niwas said. “Those who are in home isolation should follow the guidelines laid down by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and should stay in touch with healthcare providers so that if their condition deteriorates, they can be moved to the COVID hospitals,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-rolls-back-order-on-institutional-quarantine/article31880346.ece
21 June 2020||Bhopal,||Fewer hospital-born babies as women fear virus||Madhya Pradesh recorded a fall of 18.6% in institutional deliveries in April, the first month of the COVID-19 lockdown, casting a shadow on an improving trend, National Health Mission (NHM) data show. Private and government-run health centres recorded 97,881 births in April 2019, around 18.1% more than the previous year. However, the count dipped to 79,619 in the corresponding month this year, the Health Management Information System, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare data showed. Institutional deliveries shot up to 90% in 2019, and were growing by 2-3% each year. Infrastructure diversion Diversion of health infrastructure for the pandemic, including accredited social health activists and auxiliary nurse midwives, and the 108 ambulance service, and disrupted transport network contributed to the decline, said an official of the NHM State unit. “The pandemic inhibited people from visiting a health centre, fearing they would contract COVID-19. Further, many private health centres shut during the lockdown,” said Saloni Sidana, Additional Mission Director, NHM State unit. In April, private centres in 17 districts registered no deliveries, while in the whole of 2019-20, six districts witnessed no deliveries at private centres.  Witnessing fewer institutional deliveries, tribal districts, most of which have few private units and have low awareness levels, were further hit, said Dr. Sidana. In three districts where at least every second person is a tribal, institutional deliveries dipped by 35% in Alirajpur, 25% in Jhabua and 20% in Barwani compared to April last year. Further, among districts worst hit by the pandemic, Indore saw a dip of 36%, Bhopal 31% and Ujjain 27%. The State government, said Dr. Sidana, had directed district hospitals in all the 52 districts to reserve at least 30% services for non-COVID-19 care and to continue emergency care. “We are strengthening primary and secondary-level health services essential to deliveries,” she said. The State had suffered a decline of 35% in real terms, explained Sachin Jain, a child rights worker with Vikas Samvad. “It is time the State government stopped promoting private health services and provided quality universal maternal and child health services,” he said.  Did the government assume all deliveries would stop during the pandemic, asked Vandana Prasad, community paediatrician and public health professional. “Of course, we had to plan for COVID-19, but there are established forecasts for non-COVID-19 medical situations,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fewer-hospital-born-babies-as-women-fear-virus/article31880454.ece
21 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Health-care professionals from Kerala in high demand||Since the demand for health-care professionals is likely to rise within the country and abroad post COVID-19, the State is gearing up to becoming a major provider of the professionals. Foreign employers have started knocking on the doors of NoRKA-Roots, the licensed agency for migration functioning under the Department of Non-Resident Keralite Affairs, for health-care professionals. The fact that flights were chartered to take them back from Kerala during the lockdown period shows their demand in West Asia and the trust employers place on them. NoRKA-Roots has begun ‘express recruitment’ of nurses for the Health Ministry of Saudi Arabia even as several countries have started clocking a slump in COVID-19 cases and the borders are opened up. “In addition to the demand for doctors and nurses, the post-COVID-19 period will see recruitment of pharmacists, laboratory technicians, and physiotherapists in large numbers. NoRKA is in touch with foreign employers to cash in on the opportunity,” says Harikrishnan Namboorthiri K., Chief Executive Officer, Norka-Roots. Lessons learnt from the pandemic have already forced many countries to invest more on the public health sector. There is high demand for health-care professionals within the State too. “The health ecosystem is going to denote economic growth,” the CEO says. Crisis as opportunity Health-care professionals in the State may make use of the crisis as an opportunity. Hospitals with 25 beds to 2,500 are coming up and this will turn permanent even after the pandemic crisis. Countries will need a pool of health-care professionals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/health-care-professionals-from-kerala-in-high-demand/article31880631.ece
21 June 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan signs pact for smart classrooms||The Rajasthan government has signed a tripartite agreement with the Power Grid Corporation of India and the Educational Consultants India Limited for the establishment of smart classrooms in 100 schools, Minister of State for Education Govind Singh Dotasara said here on Saturday. The initiative has been taken to promote online education during the COVID-19 lockdown. Smart classrooms would be established in 100 government schools at a cost of Rs. 1.85 crore, Mr. Dotasara said, adding that e-content for the curriculum of classes 1 to 12 would be made available to the students. Four teachers in each school would be trained to teach in the smart classrooms, he said. Schools situated in remote areas, where computer teachers and laboratory assistants have already been appointed, would be given priority for establishing the smart classrooms. All arrangements would be made for the upkeep of the classrooms as well as for the continuation of the new mode of education, Mr. Dotasra said. Recently selected The Minister said the 33 government schools recently selected to be converted into English medium institutions would also get digital classrooms. Besides, schools being developed as centres of excellence would be also equipped with these classrooms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-signs-pact-for-smart-classrooms/article31880349.ece
21 June 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Video-conference can be used to record pleas of accused’||Now, trial courts can use videoconferencing facility even to record pleas and examination of accused persons, either lodged in prisons if they are in judicial custody or from their private locations if they are on bail, to ensure progress of trials in criminal cases during COVID-19 pandemic. The High Court of Karnataka upheld the new provision, introduced in the Video Conferencing Hearing Rules, 2020, while holding that it was “lawful” in view of the two recent judgments of the Supreme Court which had directed for stopping of presence of undertrial prisoners before the courts and for using videoconferencing system to reduce physical presence of all stakeholders within the court premises. A Division Bench passed the order while hearing a PIL petition initiated suo motu for addressing the technical and legal difficulties faced in conducting proceedings in trial courts owing to COVID-19 restrictions. The apex court had said that presenting of all undertrial prisoners before the courts must be stopped immediately and videoconferencing must be used for all purposes in view of COVID-19 and High Courts can take steps to resort to videoconferencing system. The order of the court mainly deals with two situations — recording of plea of the accused persons during framing of charges (under section 228 and 240 of the Code of Criminal Procedure) against them; and recording of the statements of the accused under section 313 of the Cr.PC. If the accused are in prison, then the prison authorities will have to produce through videoconference and prison authorities will act as coordinator to enable the court to interact with accused and to record their pleas, the Bench said. In case the accused are on bail, the Bench said, the trial courts will have to appoint a “fit and proper” person” as coordinator to be present at the location of the accused for enabling recording of pleas and statements through videoconference, the Bench said. Important aspect the trial courts will have to ensure during these process is to thoroughly “ascertain whether the accused is clearly audible and whether the accused understood the questions posed to them,” the Bench said. The Bench also said if the trial courts desired to take the signature of the accused on recorded pleas and statements, then the recorded statement has to be sent to the coordinators, who will have to secure the signature after downloading and printing the statement, and send it back to the courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/video-conference-can-be-used-to-record-pleas-of-accused/article31880317.ece
21 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Pinarayi censures KPCC chief Mullappally Ramachandran||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran drew severe disapproval from Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday for his allegedly gender insensitive and derogatory allusion to Health Minister K.K. Shylaja as ‘Nipah princess’ and ‘COVID queen’. Mr. Vijayan leaned heavily on an editorial published by a Malayalam daily widely reckoned to be pro-Congress and anti-ruling front to excoriate Mr. Ramachandran for his comments on Saturday. He said the attempt on the part of the Congress to launch a witch-hunt against Ms. Shylaja for being a woman and a competent Health Minister had compelled him to veer away from the principled position that he would not use the customary COVID-19 news briefings to hold forth political opinions. Quoting from the editorial, Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Ramachandran’s words had brought infamy to his party and also the State. The comments had demoralised front-line health workers who risked their lives daily to keep the epidemic at bay. Remarks anti-women Mr. Ramachandran’s remarks were patently anti-women and condemnable. The newspaper said Mr. Ramachandran’s words defied conventionally accepted standards of behaviour and political propriety. Respect for the Opposition underscored the right to dissent democratically, the newspaper reminded. Mr. Vijayan said the KPCC president was wallowing in his stench. “He is everything a responsible politician should not be,” he said. The Chief Minister condemned the Congress for having orchestrated a protest against Linish, the husband of nurse Lini who had fallen victim to the Nipah virus while saving the lives of those afflicted by the disease in Kozhikode in 2018. Mr. Linish had earned the ire of local Congress workers for having commented on Facebook that Mr. Ramachandran, who was the then local MP, was absent when the pandemic convulsed his constituency. He had praised Ms. Shylaja for her support. Mr. Vijayan said Kerala stood behind sister Lini’s family. Mr. Vijayan condemned the Congress national leadership for not disowning Mr. Ramachandran’s hurtful statements and actions. The Congress had tried to derail Kerala’s highly successful containment strategy by attempting to besmirch those at the helm of the Health Department. It should stop playing politics with the lives of people, the Chief Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pinarayi-censures-kpcc-chief-mullappally-ramachandran/article31880326.ece
21 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Opposition seeks Centre’s explanation||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s concluding remarks at the all-party meeting on Friday and the subsequent clarification issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) the day after, the Congress raised several questions on the government’s position on Galwan valley and the sequence of events that claimed the lives of 20 Indian soldiers. At the all-party meeting, Mr. Modi said, “Neither anyone has intruded into our territory nor took over any post”. The Congress attacked him for his comments, with its former president Rahul Gandhi terming it a “surrender” in the face of the Chinese aggression. At a press conference on Saturday, senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram asked Mr. Modi, “If no Chinese troops were inside Indian territory, where did the clashes take place on June 15-16? Where were 20 Indian soldiers killed and 85 injured?” he said. Chidambaram’s query Mr. Chidambaram flagged the statements made by Minister for External Affairs Jaishankar and the Ministry demanding the “restoration of status quo ante”. “What was the meaning of “status quo ante”? What was the meaning of the “disengagement” that the government said was “underway”,” he asked. The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), in a detailed clarification claimed that the statement made at the all-party meet was a reference that the state of affairs was a “consequence of the bravery of our soldiers”. The Congress called the clarification by PMO “a lame attempt to obfuscate the truth”. Its chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, “First of all, the PMO and the Government need to clearly state their position on the Galwan Valley. Is Galwan Valley not part of Indian territory? Why is the Government not coming forward and strongly rebutting the Chinese claim over Galwan Valley?”  “But what about the intrusions between May 5 and June 15? We refer to several statements of the Defence Minister admitting to the presence of Chinese forces ‘in large numbers’ and the statement of the Chief of the Army Staff on ‘disengagement’,” he added.   Other Opposition parties also attacked the oscillating positions of the PMO. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said, “What else did the PM say in the all- party meeting last evening which he did not mean? Can we trust anything that was said on an issue of such strategic importance, if he changes his statements so quickly,” he asked. CPI general secretary D. Raja called the ‘flip-flop’ from the PMO as “misleading” and “irresponsible”. The Samajwadi Party, despite supporting the government unilaterally during the meeting, appeared unconvinced. “Confused by the Prime Minister's India-China LAC statement, the people are asking that if China did not enter our territory, then under what conditions our soldiers were martyred,” said party president Akhilesh Yadav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-seeks-centres-explanation/article31880342.ece
21 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘1,000 more Vande Bharat flights to bring back Indians’||There are plans to arrange over 1,000 more Vande Bharat flights to bring back Indians from around the world of which 70% will be operated by private airlines, Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri said on Saturday. Under the first three phases of the Vande Bharat mission, Air India had operated 1,170 flights while various private carriers had flown 40 flights until June 18. Air India will operate 300 flights and private carriers 750, Mr. Puri said at a press conference. ‘Not market fares’ “The fares that the private airlines charge will not be market fares but will be predetermined comparable to what Air India and Air India Express are levying,” said Pradeep Kharola, Secretary, Civil Aviation. The Minister said a decision would be taken on the resumption of international flights based on several factors including lifting of airspace restrictions by various countries, quarantine norms and ease of travel within those countries for incoming passengers. The divestment of state-owned Air India seems very much on the cards, Mr. Puri said. “I have never been as hopeful and confident on Air India’s divestment or disinvestment as I am now,” he said, adding that he had always maintained that it was a first class asset.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/1000-more-vande-bharat-flights-to-bring-back-indians/article31880351.ece
21 June 2020||Kozhikode,||IIT-Palakkad develops ultrasound for COVID-19 screening||The IIT-Palakkad has developed an automated lung ultrasound (LUS) for COVID-19 screening and monitoring through cloud-based image analysis and scoring system. The app, the first of its kind in India, is now available for clinicians to perform automated analysis by just uploading the ultrasound video. The institute has developed the app in collaboration with clinical partners at La Paz Hospital, Madrid, Spain (Dr. Yale Tung Chen), Sree Chitra Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology (Dr. C. Kesavadas) and Government Medical College, Kottayam (Dr. Kiran Vishnu Narayan). An IIT team led by Professor Mahesh R. Panicker started investigations using the LUS images provided by Dr. Yale Tung Chen, director of the Ultrasound Division at Hospital Universitario, La Paz. Dr. Yale, who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, shared his own LUS images over the successive 13 days of disease progression. Motivated by the promising results that showed the relevance and importance of LUS in COVID-19 patients, the IIT team conducted LUS analysis of normal, viral, and bacterial infected lungs, using image processing and neural networks and developed an automated LUS analysis tool. Explaining the workflow, Vinod A. Prasad, professor and dean (Industry Collaboration and Sponsored Research), IIT-Palakkad, said a nursing assistant (in the absence of a skilled clinician), following a simple protocol of LUS, acquires the lung images and transfers the images to the cloud (pulseecho.in/alus/). The images are analysed over the cloud and scores are assigned according to certain criteria either for the type of infection or its severity. He said the methodology would be extremely useful in time-critical COVID-19 working conditions, where clinicians have time limitations in manually evaluating ultrasound videos of all patients. According to Dr. Panicker, the approach is not only restricted to COVID-19 detection but also helps to identify other lung infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iit-palakkad-develops-ultrasound-for-covid-19-screening/article31880315.ece
21 June 2020||Kolkata,||Trinamool expels village leader on graft charges||West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress has expelled a pradhan of a gram panchayat in the State’s Hooghly district from the party for allegedly siphoning off Amphan relief funds. Narenra Nath Singh, the pradhan of Garalgacha gram panchayat, was expelled as he put his phone number and that of his family members in the list of beneficiaries who are likely to receive relief. In the list of 166 beneficiaries, there were hundred entries pertaining to the name of his family members, a statement said. “It is very unfortunate that a party person attempted to misuse the State relief fund in this time of crisis,” Dilip Yadav, the party’s Hooghy district president, said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had hinted at strong action against those indulging in corruption during relief efforts. Cyclone Amphan had battered south Bengal on May 20. The State government had announced funds to the tune of Rs. 6,500 crore, and the Centre has given Rs. 1,000 crore for cyclone relief measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-expels-village-leader-on-graft-charges/article31880357.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Drug for mild, moderate COVID-19 cases||Since it is an oral medicine, the patient can stay at home. “It is a significant step in the fight against COVID-19 India. Glenmark is leading the flight. We are not looking it as a business opportunity. The priority is to make the drug available to as many patients and save lives,” said Sujesh Vasudevan, president, India Formulations, Middle East and Africa, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd in a video conference. On Friday, the company received approval from Indian drug regulator for manufacturing and marketing of Favipiravir in oral form in India. The drug is currently under clinical trial on 150 patients at 11 sites in India. “Studies conducted on Favipiravir in Russia, Japan and China point to rapid reduction in viral load, faster fever reduction, faster reduction of chest CT changes and faster clinical recovery,” said Dr Monika Tandon, VP, Head, Clinical Development, Glenmark. Since COVID-19 cases are rising every day and the healthcare infrastructure has come under severe strain, the availability of the drug will help in tracking the spread, she said. “The need of the hour is to help healthcare professionals by enabling patients to get treatment at home and help in faster recovery of patients, save lives,” said Dr. Tandon. Glenmark said it identified Favipiravir as a potential candidate because it has a proven in-virto activity against SARS CoV2 and has wide therapeutic safety margins for COVID-19 dose. “Since it is an oral product, it is a big benefit when hospital infrastructure is under strain,” she said. Glenmark is ramping up production to cater to the growing demand of the drug as India on June 20, 2020 added 14,516 new cases to the total number of 39,5048 confirmed cases. Though the fatality rate in India is low at 3.28% as compared to global average of 5.37%, the constant rise in cases is still a matter of worry. The company has done end to end to manufacturer and market the drug starting from synthesising the API to developing the formulation, getting approval, conducting clinical trial, manufacturing the drug to supplying across India. Oral Favipiravir in oral form has been approved under the accelerated approval process taking into account the severity of the disease. The drug has been cleared under emergency use authorisation which is a provision that allows countries to use drugs that are urgently needed for an emergency situation or health crisis like this pandemic. “It is for restricted use. Its use entails responsible medication where every patient must have signed informed consent before start of treatment,” Dr. Tandon said adding that approval was given based on global evidence and the ongoing clinical trial on 150 subjects. The drug will be available both at hospitals and chemists but will be sold strictly only on prescription. The company is now planning a combination of antiviral drugs Favipiravir and Umifenovir which is applied for influenza for treatment of COVID-19 for which clinical trials will commence soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drug-for-mild-moderate-covid-19-cases/article31880313.ece
21 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Armed forces prepared and vigilant: Air Chief||For the first time in its history, the combined graduation parade of flight cadets at the Air Force Academy in Dundigal on Saturday had a new ‘blue addition’ to the march past -- all cadets wore medical masks on their face as part of compliance with the government mandate for coronavirus restrictions. Moreover, the parents of the cadets watched the ceremony online due to restrictions of physical presence. Due to this, the biannual emotional rapture of parents was missing. Meanwhile in the skies, skydivers, fighter jets, helicopters and other aeroplanes of the Indian Air Force performed stunts that kept spectators on the edge of their seats to mark the induction of 123 flight cadets as Flying Officers, including 19 women officers. Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria reviewed the parade and formally conferred the ‘President’s Commission’ on 123 cadets as well as awarded ‘Wings’ to 11 officers from the Indian Navy and the Indian Coast Guard. Amongst the newly commissioned officers, 61 officers joined the Flying branch while 62 were inducted into the ground duty branches of the IAF. Two Flight Cadets from Vietnam Air Force also successfully completed their flying training at AFA and were presented ‘Wings’ by the Reviewing Officer. Flying Officer Anurag Nain from the Flying branch was awarded the ‘Sword of Honour’ and President’s Plaque for standing first in overall order of merit in the Pilots’ Course, while Flying Officer Aanchal Gangwal was awarded President’s Plaque for being first in overall order of merit in the Ground Duty Branch. Tributes to Colonel Before reviewing the parade, the IAF chief appealed people to join him in paying tribute to Colonel Santosh Babu and his brave men who made the supreme sacrifice while defending the Line of Actual Control in Galwan Valley earlier this week. He also commended the instructors and teaching staff at all IAF training establishments for timely culmination of training under very difficult conditions; while respecting the strict COVID protocols. He reminded the officers that the security scenario prevailing in our region mandates that our armed forces remain prepared and vigilant at all times. Instead of going home for a break, the newly commissioned officers will be proceeding straight to their next units to shoulder their responsibilities for the task at hand. “As the nation fights the adverse effects of COVID-19 pandemic, IAF has taken a number of proactive measures to counter the spread and disruption in our work. We have successfully preserved our combat potential and adjusted our training and operational methodology to resume full operations,” Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/armed-forces-prepared-air-chief/article31880411.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Tahawwur Rana arrested again after release in U.S.||Rana was arrested in 2009 for providing material support to Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), which planned and executed the 2008 attack. The NIA has registered cases of forgery, criminal conspiracy, murder and various sections under the UAPA. The official said that since it was a judicial procedure, it was difficult to give a definitive date for Rana’s extradition. “He could possibly challenge the extradition up to two levels of court that might take time. It is not possible to give a time frame when the case is being tried judicially,” the official noted. Another official said Rana, after his extradition, could be interrogated only by the NIA and not the Mumbai police. The police and the NIA registered separate cases pertaining to 26/11 attack. In 2016, Headley who is serving a 35-year sentence in the U.S., deposed through video link as an “approver” or a witness in a city court in a case registered by the Mumbai police against Zabiuudin Ansari alias Abu Jundal, an alleged LeT operative, who was present in the Karachi control room that gave directions to the 10 terrorists on phone. The NIA refused to make him an approver. Headley held in 2009 An NIA charge sheet filed in 2011 said Headley did not stop at conducting reconnaissance and planning the 2008 Mumbai attacks, but was also involved in “execution of other future planned terrorist attacks [planned attacks on Chabad houses and the National Defence College) at the behest of LeT and HuJI.” He travelled to India again in March 2009 to conduct a reconnaissance for the attacks, before being arrested at O’Hare airport, Chicago, in October the same year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tahawwur-rana-arrested-again-after-release-in-us/article31880328.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Four civilians injured in Pakistan firing||A local official said the shelling from the Pakistani side was intense and the official teams will go to the spot to assess the damage once the fire stops in the area. “Around a dozen villages were affected due to the constant firing and shelling in Baramulla,”he added. J&K recorded over 1,640 ceasefire violations this year. In an anti-militancy operation, the security forces killed an unidentified militant at Kulgam in south Kashmir. “A gunfight erupted when a search party established contact with hiding militants in the Likhdipora area. So far one unidentified terrorist has been killed. The operation is going on,” the police spokesman said. Over 30 militants were killed in south Kashmir this month, as the security forces upped their operations against the Hizbul Mujahideen and the Jaish-e-Muhammad. A total of 103 militants have been killed in Kashmir this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-civilians-injured-in-pakistan-firing/article31880329.ece
21 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Pollution board sends closure notice to OIL||The Pollution Control Board, Assam, (PCBA) has issued notice to Oil India Limited (OIL) to close down all production and drilling operations in the Baghjan area of eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district. The closure notice, issued on June 19, is likely to hit the production of crude oil from 17 wells and natural gas from four in the greater Baghjan oilfield where one of the gas wells — Number 5 — had a blowout on May 27 before bursting into flames on June 9. The PCBA accused OIL of not adopting safety measures and flouting rules of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pollution-board-sends-closure-notice-to-oil/article31880353.ece
21 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam NRC’s rejection orders may be rechecked||Officials at the helm of updating the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam said the rejection orders to be issued to those excluded from the list of citizens may be rechecked. Around 1.9 million out of 33 million applicants were excluded from the final NRC draft published on August 31, 2019. Each of them was supposed to have been issued a rejection order spelling out the reasons for their exclusion. According to the procedures framed under the supervision of the Supreme Court, a person would be entitled to a 120-day window to appeal for inclusion after receiving such an order at the Foreigners’ Tribunals in Assam. Faulty orders Hitesh Dev Sarma, the State Coordinator for the NRC, said some of the orders were found to be faulty. He said ensuring proper reasons for rejection was necessary for the exercise. The process of issuing the rejection orders was to have started from March but has been delayed due to the COVID-19 lockdown. “The pandemic does not make it ideal for people to collect their rejection orders,” he said. Authorities have been utilising the “break” to correct, update and sort the rejection orders. Those involved with NRC-related issues said the acknowledgement of faulty rejection orders have cast a shadow of doubt on the exercise. “It’s been more than nine months and those excluded have not been told why they have been left out. So incorrect orders would have been issued then [had the formality been completed on time]?” said Aman Wadud, an advocate who specialises in cases of people declared foreigners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-nrcs-rejection-orders-may-be-rechecked/article31880355.ece
21 June 2020||Bhopal,||Chouhan asks people to boycott Chinese goods||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has called upon the State’s residents to boycott Chinese products in view of the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in a face-off between Indian and Chinese troops at Galwan in Ladakh. “India will give a befitting reply to China,” Mr. Chouhan told presspersons in Rewa on Friday. His remarks came on a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi told an all-party meeting that no outsider had entered Indian territory in Ladakh nor had any outside forces captured any border post. ‘Break its economy’ “We will break its [China’s] economy,” Mr. Chouhan said. “Like our Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said, adopt swadeshi , boycott Chinese products and give priority to items manufactured locally.” Meanwhile, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Indore Range (City), Harinarayanchari Mishra, on Friday night withdrew an advisory, hours after issuing it, asking personnel to uninstall 50 Chinese mobile phone applications, including Tik Tok and Share it, citing the possibility of data theft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chouhan-asks-people-to-boycott-chinese-goods/article31880361.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Breath of fresh air||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/breath-of-fresh-air/article31880634.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon fury||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/monsoon-fury/article31880334.ece
21 June 2020||New Delhi,||Rajnath Singh to pay 3-day visit to Russia||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will pay a three-day visit to Russia beginning Monday to attend a grand military parade in Moscow to mark the 75th anniversary of the Soviet victory over Germany in the Second World War. The Defence Minister’s visit comes in the midst of escalating border tensions between India and China, particularly after the killing of 20 Indian Army personnel by Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15. “Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will pay a visit to Moscow to attend the victory parade on June 24 to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the victory in the Second World War,” the Defence Ministry said in a statement. Officials said Mr. Singh is going ahead with the visit due to India’s decades-old military ties with Russia. “I wish a safe journey to Defence Minister of strategic partner India @rajnathsingh who is scheduled to depart to Moscow on Monday to witness the Great Victory Day Military Parade on June 24,” Russian Ambassador Nikolay Kudashev tweeted. A tri-service 75-member Indian military contingent has already reached Moscow to participate in the parade. The Indian marching contingent will be led by a major rank officer of the Sikh Light Infantry Regiment, which had fought with valour in the Second World War.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajnath-singh-to-pay-3-day-visit-to-russia/article31880337.ece
21 June 2020||New Delhi,||Draft rules on investment in pension funds||Amid growing border tensions, the Finance Ministry has proposed restrictions on pension fund investments from any of the bordering countries. Foreign investment in funds regulated by the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority is capped at 49% under the automatic route. A draft notification on Friday stated, “A government approval would be required for the investing entity or individual from any of the bordering countries including China. The relevant provisions of FDI policy issued from time to time would apply in all such cases.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/draft-rules-on-investment-in-pension-funds/article31880338.ece
21 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Campaign for Yoga Day launched||With the hope that 10 million people would join in, Union Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel on Saturday urged everyone to perform Surya Namaskar on International Yoga Day, falling on Sunday, and share the images on social media with the hashtag #10MillionSuryaNamaskar. Mr. Patel said he would perform the yoga poses of Surya Namaskar at Purana Qila in Delhi on the occasion. The Ministry’s campaign ‘Namaste Yoga’ to promote yoga as a part of daily life started on Friday and will culminate on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/campaign-for-yoga-day-launched/article31880347.ece
21 June 2020||New Delhi,||Group asks Gorkhas not to fight China||An outlawed political group in Nepal has demanded that its Gorkha citizens do not fight against China on behalf of India. The Communist Party of Nepal, led by Netra Bikram Chand, which is underground but has considerable following among the revolutionary Left urged the leadership in Kathmandu to stop allowing Gorkha citizens from being part of the Indian military. “Amid India-China border tension followed by the killing of Indian troops in the Galwan Valley, India has recently asked Nepali nationals in the Gorkha Regiment who are currently on home leave to rejoin duty. This means the Indian side is preparing to deploy our Nepali nationals in the Indian Army in their battle against China,” said a release by Biplab, an alias of Netra Bikram Chand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/group-asks-gorkhas-not-to-fight-china/article31880352.ece
21 June 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal BJP chief Ghosh sparks a row||West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh has courted a fresh controversy by seeking revenge for the murder of a party supporter in Paschim Medinipur district. “ Bodlao hobey, bodolo hobey (There will be revenge, there will be change),” Mr. Ghosh posted on social media. Mr. Ghosh’s remarks were made in connection with the murder of Pawan Jana, a party worker who was killed at Chokaismailpur on June 17. Another senior BJP leader later threatened to torch a police station over the death of Jana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-bjp-chief-ghosh-sparks-a-row/article31880356.ece
21 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Chief Minister to visit slain Colonel’s family on Monday||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is scheduled to call on the bereaved family of Col. Bikkumalla Santosh Babu at their Vidyanagar residence here on Monday afternoon, Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy informed on Saturday. “KCR garu will be here to comfort the family. He will also hand over the cheque for Rs. 5 crore relief and an appointment letter to Colonel’s wife Ms. Santoshi,” he said. Mr. Reddy along with his wife Sunitha Reddy visited the family on Saturday, to offer words of comfort, and also discuss the family’s interest in the relief offered by the government. He said the Bikkumalla family has welcomed the government’s decision to reach out to martyrs’ families, including those soldiers hailing from outside Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chief-minister-to-visit-slain-colonels-family-tomorrow/article31880602.ece
21 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||At least 1,500 police personnel infected till date across State||At least 1,500 police personnel and an equal number of their family members or contacts have tested positive for COVID-19 over the last couple of months. In Chennai city alone, over 830 personnel, including four IPS officers, have been infected. Many of them are still undergoing treatment in hospitals or are under home quarantine, police sources said. On Saturday, the Joint Commissioner of Police (JCP), Chennai South, and the Inspector of Police, Royapuram, tested positive for COVID-19 in Chennai. The JCP had been handling three police districts, including Adyar, T. Nagar and St. Thomas Mount. A senior police officer said that the test results returned positive for COVID-19. Earlier, Additional Commissioner of Police, North, and three Deputy Commissioners of Police — for T. Nagar, Anna Nagar and Mylapore — had tested positive. The personnel deployed on front-line duties, mostly vehicle checks, crowd regulation and routine police station duties, had come into contact with infected persons who were asymptomatic. Dozens of ministerial staff working at the police headquarters and in cities/districts had also got infected. “This happened in spite of the police having been provided with adequate face masks, gloves and hand sanitisers. They had also been given immunity-boosting medicines. In most cases, family members or close contacts of the personnel also got infected,” a senior police official said. Reserve force DGP J.K. Tripathy said that at least 25% of the one lakh-plus force had been kept on standby. The reserve force will be deployed during exigencies. Adequate care was being provided to the infected personnel, and a majority of them had recovered and returned to work. A portal had been created to update, in real time, the details of COVID-19-infected persons at the police headquarters, he said. The Tamil Nadu government recently announced that members of the police force who test positive for COVID-19 would be provided treatment at the State’s expense and an ex gratia of Rs. 2 lakh. “Police personnel are on the front line, and more than 50% of the cases have been reported among those deployed in containment areas. Of the 833 personnel who were affected by the disease, 350 have recovered and rejoined duty. Every day, 20-30 personnel are rejoining duty,” City Police Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan said. As many as 184 police personnel are in institutional quarantine centres like the one in IIT-Madras, while 271 are in home quarantine and 325 personnel have rejoined duty following treatment in hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/at-least-1500-police-personnel-infected-till-date-across-state/article31880493.ece
21 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City residents stay home on Day 2 of complete lockdown||The second day of the complete lockdown in the city saw the police intensifying vehicle checks and people preferring to stay indoors. In North Chennai, considered a major COVID-19 cluster, the police strengthened their presence. Additional Commissioner of Police-North R. Dhinakaran told The Hindu , “We booked the maximum number of cases. Around 1,016 people were caught roaming the streets without reason and were booked under relevant provisions. We also booked 400 persons for not wearing masks. Around 96 shops were fined for not following the rules.” Police doubled patrol strength in Washermenpet and Pulianthope areas and drones were used to monitor movement in interior areas while personnel acted on inputs provided by informers. “Complete closure or lockdown was not possible previously as the areas are densely populated. People like to hang out but now we are making them stay indoors. Only a few people move around on the streets now,” he said. The police were constantly moving in autorickshaws fitted with public address systems, urging residents not to step out. They used drone cameras to monitor the movement on the roads, besides intensifying bike patrols on narrow streets. In Tambaram, Inspector General of Police T.S. Anbu went around with health workers who conducted door-to-door thermal checks for fever cases. Chennai Police Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan said, “Over 2,791 cases were booked and 6,421 vehicles were seized. As many as 1,133 cases were booked against people who failed to wear masks and follow other norms. Complete lockdown will be implemented on Sunday without any relaxation.” The streets wore an empty look and markets saw few customers in several areas. Wholesalers at Thirumazhisai noted that many retailers did not turn up at the market on Saturday and sales dipped considerably. The market will remain closed on Sunday. In Poonamallee, Mangadu, Avadi and Ambattur areas, many shopkeepers downed shutters early. The traders themselves used public address systems, appealing to people not to come out on Sunday. Major markets in Ambattur, Mambalam, Mylapore and Teynampet saw few shoppers as people were restricted from travelling, said an office-bearer of the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peravai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-residents-stay-home-on-day-2-of-complete-lockdown/article31880468.ece
21 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||High Court to deliver verdict in Udumalpet murder case on Monday||The Madras High Court is slated to deliver on Monday its verdict on appeals preferred by six death convicts, one life convict and another convict imprisoned for five years in the 2016 Udumalpet Shankar murder case. Marathon arguments A Division Bench comprising Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and M. Nirmal Kumar would also pronounce their judgment on appeals preferred by the State challenging the acquittal of three other accused from the case. The judges had reserved their judgment on the batch of cases in February this year after hearing marathon arguments advanced by the counsel over a span of one year since it involved as many as six convicts on death row. Engineering student V. Shankar, a final year mechanical engineering student belonging to a Scheduled Caste, was hacked to death by an armed gang on March 13, 2016 for having married his collegemate C. Kowsalya belonging to Thevar (Other Backward Class) community. The crime was committed reportedly at the behest of the woman’s father B. Chinnasamy, mother C. Annalakshmi and maternal uncle P. Pandidurai, who had hired contract killers to commit the honour killing which shook the State at that point of time. Full-fledged trial After a full-fledged trial, the Principal District and Sessions Court in Tiruppur had acquitted the woman’s mother, maternal uncle and one of the alleged hitmen, V. Prasanna alias Prasannakumar, from all charges on December 12, 2017. The trial court, however, awarded death sentence to as many as six convicts including the woman’s father, his friend P. Jagatheesan and other assailants M. Manikandan, P. Selvakumar, P. Kalaithamilvaanan alias Tamil alias Kalai and M. Mathan alias Michael. Life imprisonment Two other members of the gang K. Dhanraj alias Tamil alias Stephen Dhanraj and M. Manikandan were ordered to undergo imprisonment for life and five years respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-to-deliver-verdict-in-udumalpet-murder-case-on-monday/article31880538.ece
21 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown is like a speed breaker: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday said that the ongoing 12-day complete lockdown in Chennai and parts of its three surrounding districts was like a ‘speed breaker’. When asked if there was a possibility of the current lockdown being extended further, he said there were no plans of extending the lockdown, as of now. “The lockdown is like a speed breaker. We have implemented it so that people can stay indoors. This will also help the authorities go door-to-door, check people for symptoms and if necessary, provide them the necessary treatment. The lockdown is not to trouble anyone, but to stop the spread of the virus. If those with symptoms go out, it will spread among others as well. If people stay inside during the lockdown, there won’t be any spread of the virus,” Mr. Palaniswami said. Facilities readied The State government is taking all preventive measures against the spread of COVID-19 and the Greater Chennai Corporation has readied 17,500 beds and medical facilities, in case the number of cases go up, he said. “Only God knows when the COVID-19 pandemic will end. This is a new disease for which no cure has been found. But we are treating patients and have a recovery rate of 54%,” Mr. Palaniswami said after visiting a 350-bed hospital facility for COVID-19 at the Guru Nanak College in Chennai. The Chief Minister said that the State was ramping up testing and 27,510 samples were tested on Friday. “To date, we have tested 8.27 lakh samples, the highest in India. We are working on increasing the number of tests every day. The Corporation and the Health Department are making arrangements for it,” he said. Mr. Palaniswami said that Tamil Nadu also had the maximum number of testing centres in India — 83. Of these, 45 were government and 38 were private testing centres, he added. He said that the government had set up 300 medical centres and was planning to increase their number to 450 to check for COVID-19 and other symptoms and provide treatment, accordingly. Reiterating his earlier statement that the virus came to Tamil Nadu from abroad and those who had travelled into the State from outside, the Chief Minister said that the government was taking preventive measures.  “Despite the spread of the disease, our recovery rate is 54% due to efforts of doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers,” Mr. Palaniswami said. He also asked the people to cooperate with the government by following its guidelines, maintaining physical distancing and wearing masks when stepping out. To a question as to whether Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbazhagan had tested positive for COVID-19, the Chief Minister said, “He himself has given an interview that he does not have it, no? What more can I add to that?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-is-like-a-speed-breaker-cm/article31880483.ece
21 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Production at MSMEs hit as supervisors are left stranded||Managers and supervisors working in MSMEs could not reach their manufacturing units in and around Chennai, for a second day during the complete lockdown, as e-passes they had applied for were either rejected or kept pending on Saturday. As a result, many units had to cut production by over 70-80%, while some had to even close their units as they did not want to operate without managers. A.N. Sujeesh, president, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association, said that many units in the industrial estate had still not got the passes. “Certain units that had applied for five passes have been given one. But many e-pass applications were rejected and supervisors could not turn up for work. It is difficult to operate without a person in-charge of decision making,” he said. Mr. Sujeesh requested the government to allot at least one or two e-passes for each unit. According to him, of the over 2,400 units in the Ambattur Industrial Estate, less than a hundred operated on Saturday. “Most MSME units are running without supervisors or a managerial presence/intervention, and it is turning a nightmare for the owners to leave the factory to bottom-line workmen and immediate line in-charges,” said Hariharan Ramamoorthy, national vice-president, Laghu Udyog Bharati- Tamil Nadu. He added, “We request the government to issue atleast two or three car/van passes for each MSME unit.” Most industrial estates had similar concerns. Those in-charge of the units in the Thirumudivakkam Industrial Estate could not reach work on Friday as well as Saturday, as their e-pass requests were rejected. R. Selvam, secretary of the Thirumudivakkam Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association, said, “We had made several plans but could not execute it as supervisors were not around to monitor the workers. We request the State government to look into this and approve the e-pass requests,” he said. Repeated rejections R.G. Chakrapani, secretary of the Thirumazhisai Industrial Estate, said that supervisors in his estate faced similar challenges. “Passes have all been rejected in spite of repeated submissions of applications,” he said. Of the 270 units here, only a handful that are making essentials are functioning. “Workers don’t want to take chances without supervisors. An industry without supervisors and managers cannot run effectively. And if there is any defect in the product made, the cost of rejection will be more than the actual production cost,” Mr. Chakrapani added. The Kakkalur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association (KIEMA) too had issues obtaining e-passes for managers. Its secretary K. Baskaran said that there were issues in movement of goods. “The police and other patrolling agencies are not allowing the free movement of trucks and other industrial goods carriers,” he said. Mr. Ramamoorthy also pointed out that many transport vehicles across the Ambattur Industrial Estate, Tirumullaivoyal and Tiruvallur were being withheld or confiscated, and the police were insisting on e-passes, which were not called for in the G.O.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/production-at-msmes-hit-as-supervisors-are-left-stranded/article31880490.ece
21 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Officials yet to find source of infection for 1,385 index cases||The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has not been able to establish the source of infection (contacts) of 1,385 residents, who have tested positive for COVID-19. “We have 1,385 [such] index cases,” an official of the GCC said. The largest number of index cases have been reported in zones such as Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Anna Nagar, Teynampet and Kodambakkam. City Health Officer Jagadeesan said many residents were not able to recall their contacts. “Some residents do not give proper history. Around 2 to 3% of residents do not give the proper address. Subsequently, we send teams to find their contacts. We have to find out the contacts of all residents who have tested positive for COVID-19,” he said. The GCC has been getting the police to help trace the contacts. But they have also been unable to zero in on many who have tested positive. GCC officials said they would continue to increase the testing in the city. On Friday, 5,500 residents were tested for COVID-19. The number will continue to increase during the lockdown. The civic agency also conducted fever camps at more than 550 locations on Saturday, officials said. According to data compiled by the GCC, the case mortality rate in the city continues to increase. On Friday, the case mortality rate was 1.3%. It increased to 1.4% on Saturday. The number of barricaded containment zones have been reduced to 64 on Saturday. Prominent zones The important roads that have been included on the list of containment zones include Bazaar Road, Saidapet, East Coast Road, Kottivakkam, Lake View Road, Kodambakkam, Motilal Street, T.Nagar, SAF Games Village, Koyambedu and Anna Street, M.G.R. Colony. Zones such as Madhavaram have reported a rise in COVID-19 cases in the past few days, with the number crossing 1,000 this weekend. The number of positive cases in Royapuram has crossed 6,000. Officials said around 75% of the 40,000 streets in the city were free from COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-yet-to-find-source-of-infection-for-1385-index-cases/article31880466.ece
21 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The discom bailout package dilemma facing T.N.||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco), which has applied for the Central government’s Aatmanirbhar Bharat package of Rs. 90,000 crore for electricity distribution companies (discoms) across the country, may require special permission from the Centre, as the State government is finding it hard to agree to the condition on bridging the gap between the Average Cost of Supply (ACS) and the Average Revenue Realisation (ARR). The timeline for reducing the ACS-ARR difference is three-four years. The condition can be fulfilled only through periodic hikes to power tariff, which is too much for the ruling AIADMK dispensation to swallow, given that the Assembly election is due in less than a year. Since the hike in December 2014, there has been no revision to the power tariff. For the State to benefit from the package, special permission from the Centre will be imperative. A section of officials in the know, is, however, hopeful of getting the issue resolved, going by the experience the State government had during 2015-16, in the run-up to the implementation of the Ujwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana (UDAY), meant to facilitate the operational and financial turnaround of discoms. The Central package, to be implemented through the Power Finance Corporation (PFC) and the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC), will help discoms clear dues, outstanding as of March 31, 2020, to Central generation and transmission companies of the Union government, independent power producers and renewable energy generators. Tangedco’s figure is Rs. 20,600 crore. The power utility, which gave its consent immediately after the Central government unveiled the package in May, submitted an application to the agencies about a week ago. The financial assistance will be rendered in the form of loans, which will have a tenure of up to 10 years, including a moratorium period not exceeding three years. The State government’s guarantee, which is a pre-requisite to getting the assistance, will cover the loan amount, along with interest and any other charges. The State government has to endorse a plan for the reduction of the ACS-ARR gap, which will have to be prepared in consultation with the Union Power Ministry, prior to the power utility securing the second tranche of the proposed assistance. There are other “pre-disbursement conditions” for the first tranche, such as digital payment of power bills by consumers and installation of smart meters or prepaid meters in government departments and attached offices. They are not likely to pose any trouble to the State, where 40% of billed consumers are making payments through internet banking. A project to install smart meters in T. Nagar would also have been rolled out if not for the pandemic. As the dues will be settled directly to the power suppliers, there is also little scope for States to negotiate and lower the interest component. Yet, in the interest of its power utility, the State government is likely to go along with the arrangement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-discom-bailout-package-dilemma-facing-tn/article31880488.ece
21 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Work to convert Anna University buildings into care centre begins||The Greater Chennai Corporation has started work on developing a COVID-19 Care Centre on the premises of Anna University. On Saturday, senior officials of Greater Chennai Corporation led by Deputy Commissioner (Works) Kumaravel Pandian visited Anna University and held talks with university authorities, who offered alternative buildings, including the auditorium. The Corporation officials said they were planning to develop a Care Centre with at least 2,000 beds in the university premises for treating COVID-19 patients. At least 1.6 lakh sq.ft. of buildings in Anna University will be used for development. The civic officials said they will take over the Centre of Intelligence, Knowledge Park and four hostel blocks. “We will do it in cooperation with the university,” an official said. Following the issuance of notice by the Corporation under the Disaster Management Act to hand over hostels for development of care centres, Anna University refused to hand them over hostel rooms of students and research scholars as they had left behind theses, research papers and materials, apart from their valuables in hostel rooms. However, Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the District Disaster Management Authority has the powers under the Act to take over any building for disaster response. The Corporation would pack the valuables, videograph them and hand over the materials to the university. But the research scholars and students opposed the move to vacate the rooms in their absence as the risk of damage to valuable materials was high. With a rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in the city, the civic body has started strengthening COVID-19 Care Centres in various parts of the city. Many universities and colleges have been taken over by the Corporation for this purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-to-convert-anna-university-buildings-into-care-centre-begins/article31880463.ece
21 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC to deliver verdict in Udumalpet murder case tomorrow||The Madras High Court is slated to deliver on Monday its verdict on appeals preferred by six death convicts, one life convict and another convict imprisoned for five years in the 2016 Udumalpet Shankar murder case. A Division Bench comprising Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and M. Nirmal Kumar would also pronounce their judgement on appeals preferred by the State challenging the acquittal of three other accused from the case. The judges had reserved their judgement on the batch of cases in February this year, after hearing marathon arguments advanced by the counsel over a span of one year, since it involved as many as six convicts on death row. V. Shankar, a final year mechanical engineering student belonging to a Scheduled Caste, was hacked to death by an armed gang on March 13, 2016, for having married his collegemate C. Kowsalya, belonging to Thevar (Other Backward Class) community. The crime was committed reportedly at the behest of the woman’s father B. Chinnasamy, mother C. Annalakshmi and maternal uncle P. Pandidurai who had hired contract killers to commit the honour killing. After a full-fledged trial, the Principal District and Sessions Court in Tiruppur had acquitted the woman’s mother, maternal uncle and one of the alleged hitmen, V. Prasanna alias Prasannakumar, from all charges on December 12, 2017. The trial court, however, awarded death sentence to as many as six convicts including the woman’s father, his friend P. Jagatheesan and other assailants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-to-deliver-verdict-in-udumalpet-murder-case-tomorrow/article31880480.ece
21 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Since June 1, over 80 persons aged below 50 have succumbed to COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu||Since June 1, 84 persons aged below 50 have succumbed to COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. While more than half of them had at least one co-morbidity, doctors said that a cause for worry was the delay in seeking medical help. An analysis of the Health Department’s daily bulletins showed that 63 men and 21 women, aged 17 to 49, died after testing positive for COVID-19, from June 1 to 20. At least 25 of them did not have co-morbid conditions, and cardiopulmonary arrest, acute respiratory distress syndrome, respiratory failure and COVID-19 pneumonia were among causes of their deaths. This is three times more than the deaths recorded in the age group last month. In May, a total of 28 persons in the age group had succumbed to the infection. Of the 84 persons, 48 were in their 40s, while 25 of them were aged 31-39. Ten persons were in their 20s, while of them was a teenager. Diabetes and systemic hypertension were the commonest co-morbidities among this age group, while a few had morbid obesity, hypothyroidism and kidney diseases. Many of them presented with fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for more than two days.  Causes for concern Though the mortality among this age group is minimal, a few individuals have died without obvious reasons, said officials. For instance, on June 16, a 40-year-old man who had no co-morbid conditions was brought dead to the Government Hospital in Hosur. He had difficulty in breathing for two hours, and the cause of death was acute respiratory distress syndrome. R. Narasimhan, chairman, Respiratory Research Foundation of India, said that hypoxia had become one of the main features and was a silent symptom. “Many young people think they are healthy and that they need not wear masks. Some could have unknown diseases that could predispose them. Whether they have co-morbid conditions or not, they should take precautionary measures such as wearing masks, maintaining physical distancing and washing hands,” he said. A government doctor on COVID-19 duty in Chennai said the deaths were mostly due to very late presentation. “We are now seeing young people who are very sick. They come in seven to 10 days after the first symptoms. By then the disease becomes very severe and there is a dip in the oxygen saturation level on admission. It becomes difficult to treat and they do not respond to medication,” he said. He added that many assumed that it was ordinary viral fever and took paracetamol, that may not be adequate. “When they come, there are complaints of breathing difficulty for three to four days, and CT scans show 60-80% lung involvement. Most of them also have happy hypoxia, that is, they do not know that their oxygen levels are low,” he said. While fever may or may not persist, myalgia is the primary symptom, followed by a loss of appetite and taste and loose stools, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/since-june-1-over-80-persons-aged-below-50-have-succumbed-to-covid-19-in-tamil-nadu/article31880494.ece
21 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Large cache of drugs found drifting at sea||The Coastal Security Group of the Tamil Nadu police on Friday evening seized a huge consignment of methamphetamine drifting at sea in a drum along the shores near Mamallapuram in Kancheepuram district. Acting on a tip-off from local fishermen that some suspicious boxes that looked like tea packets were found in a drum along the shoreline, a special team seized the consignment at Kokilamedukuppam. Preliminary investigation revealed that the drug was in crystal form of methamphetamine packed in small boxes that had the name of a tea brand. “We seized 78 kg of the drug and sent samples to the forensic laboratory for analysis. Initial report suggests that it is a crystal form of methamphatamine used as party drugs or central nervous system stimulants in South-East Asian countries. We suspect that this consignment was meant for smuggling to Sri Lanka for further transshipment to Malaysia,” a senior officer told The Hindu . With COVID-19 lockdown or travel restrictions across the country, the official said smuggling of contraband substances had come down drastically. With acute shortage of the availability of drugs, the international price of substances such as cocaine, heroin, methamphetamine and others had multiplied. “The consignment seized on Friday is worth a few crore rupees. This case is being transferred to the Narcotics Intelligence Bureau CID for further investigation. Efforts are on to locate the suspects involved in the smuggling. Enquiries are being made with local fishermen if they came across any suspicious person or activity in the last few days,” the senior investigator added. Ramanathapuram seizure Three weeks ago, the Ramanathapuram police seized a shipment of drugs procured from several States and moved close to the shoreline for smuggling to Sri Lanka by boat. The seizures include various quantities of methamphetamine, opium paste, heroin, MDMA (Ecstasy), amphetamine and methaqualone, worth about Rs. 10 crore in the international market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/large-cache-of-drugs-found-drifting-at-sea/article31880461.ece
21 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre unwilling to give OBC quota in medical admissions: PMK||The PMK on Saturday charged that the Centre has taken a position against implementing reservation for OBCs in medical admissions under the All India Quota (AIQ). In a statement, party youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss pointed out the Centre had filed an affidavit in the Madras High Court stating that implementing OBC reservation was not possible in the AIQ seats, which was created based on the Supreme Court’s direction. “This shows that the Centre is unwilling to provide reservation for OBCs in AIQ seats. The Centre has also said that since the counselling for seats is under way and that it has to be completed within a specific time, there is no question of implementing reservation in the current academic year,” he said. The Centre was ready to implement State-specific reservation with some conditions, which he said, were “unjust and rigorous”. The Centre has argued that in such cases, the reservation should not exceed 50% and the current reservation must be implemented without disturbing the seat matrix. These conditions were “dangerous”, he said. ‘Pressure tactic’ Mr. Anbumani said that this was just a pressure tactic to make the States confine OBC reservation to 27%. “It is well known that States which provide reservation above 50% for OBCs will not accept this condition. This is a ploy to wriggle out of this case. It doesn’t show [the Centre’s] intent to provide reservations for OBCs,” he said. He said that Tamil Nadu would have to at least double its medical seats and it was not clear if the Medical Council of India would agree to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-unwilling-to-give-obcs-quota-in-medical-admissions-anbumani/article31880473.ece
21 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Psychiatrist honoured||Schizophrenia International Research Society has named Rangaswamy Thara, the 2020 Outstanding Clinical and Community Research Awardee. According to a press release, Dr. Thara will receive the award at the 2021 Congress of the Schizophrenia International Research Society in Toronto, Canada. Dr. Thara is a psychiatrist by training and the co-Founder of SCARF (Schizophrenia Research Foundation), which is a Collaborating Centre of the WHO for mental health research. Dr. Thara pioneered the use of mobile tele psychiatry to deliver high quality care for schizophrenia in resource-less rural communities, which is now serving more than 1,500 patients. She has been largely instrumental in forging collaborations with premier institutions around the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/psychiatrist-honoured/article31880477.ece
21 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure treatment to Varavara Rao, Saibaba’||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder and Chidambaram MP, Thol. Thirumavalavan, on Saturday wrote to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray urging him to provide medical treatment for revolutionary poet, Varavara Rao, who is 81 and lodged in Taloja jail in the Bhima-Koregaon case. DMK MPs Kanimozhi, Thamizhachi Thangapandian, Tiruchi Siva, CPI (M) MPs Su. Venkatesan and P.R. Natarajan, CPI MP K. Subbarayan and VCK MP D. Ravikumar were among those who endorsed the letter. The VCK leader also urged Mr. Thackeray to provide medical attention to G.N. Saibaba, who is in jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-treatment-to-varavara-rao-saibaba/article31880496.ece
21 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fuel sales see an uptick||Oil companies have been witnessing a steady increase in fuel sales, as lockdown restrictions are being relaxed in various parts of the State. In agricultural areas, with farming activities picking up, diesel sales are getting a small push. On the reason for the increase in petrol sales, an official source said that due to the absence of public transport, people were forced to take their own vehicles, leading to the spike. In Chennai region, however, sales figures hover around 40%-50%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fuel-sales-see-an-uptick/article31880491.ece
21 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Consumers get time||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has extended the power bill payment date for domestic consumers till July 15. The extension is for Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu, where the complete lockdown norms have been enforced. In a press release, Tangedco stated that as the State government had announced complete lockdown from June 19 to 30, domestic consumers whose payment dates fall between June 25 to July 14 could pay their bills by July 15, without any penalty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consumers-get-time/article31880495.ece
21 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Honorary director of Balavidyalaya dead||Saraswathi Narayanaswamy, the honorary director of Balavidyalaya, passed away in the city after a brief illness on Thursday evening. She was 78 years old. For over fifty years, she contributed towards early identification and intervention of deafness in children through the Balavidyalaya school for young, deaf children and teacher training institute. The school was started in 1969 with Menaka Parthasarathy as the principal and Ms. Narayanaswamy as headmistress. The school commenced its golden jubilee celebrations in December 2019. Meera Suresh, Ms. Narayanaswamy’s daughter and honorary vice-principal of Balavidyalaya, said her goal and vision had been to help children with hearing loss acquire language and speech skills, and ensure that they are recognised. Students from Balavidyalaya have gone on to be integrated into mainstream schools and are successful in diverse fields and careers, Ms. Meera Suresh added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/honorary-director-of-balavidyalaya-dead/article31880464.ece
21 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Keeping homeless children nourished||A group of people, led by a schoolteacher, is providing healthy food, including dry fruits, to over 100 children living on the city’s pavements. The initiative is spearheaded by S. Prabhakaran, a Tamil teacher in KENC Government Higher Secondary School in Manavala Nagar, Tiruvallur. “We found that the children did not have access to nutritious food. Some of them relied on noon-meal schemes when they used to attend schools. Since they are closed now, they do not get the required nutrition,” said Mr. Prabhakaran, who has provided dry rations to 200 children in his own school. The group identifies homeless children with the help of the Information and Resource Centre for the Deprived Urban Communities . Then they collect money and provide fruit, dry fruits and sathu maavu (multi-grain powder) to the children. “We have been providing food to children in Parry’s and Egmore. We visit them every week and provide them food,” said Ms. Deepa, an advocate. Mr. Prabhakaran said the Corporation helped them by providing the identity cards and vehicle passes. “We are also planning to provide eggs to the children. A few weeks ago, we helped a migrant family. The woman had delivered twins and they were underweight. We provided milk and diapers for 50 days. The family went to Jharkhand and thanked us,” he recalled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/keeping-homeless-children-nourished/article31880470.ece
21 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Experts warn against direct viewing of partial solar eclipse||Skygazers will get to witness a partial solar eclipse in the city on Sunday. But, ophthalmologists noted that it should not be viewed with naked eyes as it would cause retinal damage. In Chennai, the partial eclipse will begin at 10.22 a.m. and the maximum intensity of the eclipse would be around 11.58 a.m. Among the ultraviolet rays A, B, and C - B and C are absorbed by the cornea and lens. “Ultraviolet A rays can damage the cells in the retina that are responsible for vision and potentially lead to blindness,” said Sashwanthi Mohan, consultant at Rajan Eye Care Hospital. Observing the rays for more than 90 seconds without eye protection would lead to retinal damage and the process would be painless. It would take from a few hours to a few days to manifest signs of the damage, she cautioned. The symptoms of damage could be loss of central vision, blurred or distorted vision, altered colour vision, blind spots in vision and frontotemporal headache, Dr. Sashwanthi added. Children and pregnant women can watch the eclipse on the television. According to S. Soundararajaperumal, executive director, Tamil Nadu Science and Technology Centre, one of the safe methods to observe the sun is by projection. Binoculars or a small telescope mounted on a tripod can be used to project a magnified image of the sun on a white card. But, people must not look through the device. The sun can be observed directly with specifically designed filters like shade number 14 welder’s glass, which would be available at welding supply outlets. Pinhole projection using white cardboard with a small hole and use of small mirrors covered with a cardboard with holes are other methods, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/experts-warn-against-direct-viewing-of-partial-solar-eclipse/article31880469.ece
21 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC rejects plea on integrated medicine||The Madras High Court has refused to direct the State government to amend Tamil Nadu Clinical Establishments (Regulations) Rules of 2018 and permit registration of even those clinical establishments where integrated medicine could be practised by combining any one of the systems of Indian medicine with allopathy. A Bench of Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy dismissed a writ petition filed by K.M. Senthamizhselvan, State president of AYUSH Medical Welfare Association, who had sought a direction to amend the rules and also to include the association as a member of State and district-level committees. Opposing the plea, State Government Pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayan told the court that a medical practitioner was entitled to practice either Indian system of medicine or allopathy and not both. He said, the 2018 rules prescribe minimum requirements for registration of clinical establishments and only those which comply with the rules could be registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-rejects-plea-on-integrated-medicine/article31880479.ece
21 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation takes up Kurichi tank restoration work||Coimbatore Corporation on Saturday began the Rs. 52.16-crore Kurichi tank restoration and development work with Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani participating in the ground-breaking ceremony at the tank bund. A press release from the Corporation said that over the next 18 months, the Corporation would restore the tank, including the portion on the east that was truncated by Coimbatore-Pollachi Road. It would construct one or two sewage treatment plant(s) to treat two million litres sewage that flowed into the tank from around 15 inlet channels. The number of treatment plants would depend on how the Corporation chose to bring together the inlet pipelines after connecting the underground sewer lines to the underground sewerage system, said sources familiar with the project. The release said the Corporation would construct 5.5-km bicycling and walking track along the entire length of the bund, install ornamental lights, erect a pole to hoist the National Flag, construct two eco-friendly community halls, build three synthetic turf for children to play, set up 47 shops for eateries and snack bars. It also said the civic body would also place four large solar panels, erect 36 towers for small windmills and provide people with special sunset points. They would be in addition to the seven watch tower for security personnel. The sources said the objective was to turn the Kurichi tank into not just a place of recreation but also a place where the wetland ecosystem was conserved as the development proposal laid emphasis on preserving its environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corporation-takes-up-kurichi-tank-restoration-work/article31880525.ece
21 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CPI stages protest against fuel price hike||Members of Communist Party of India (CPI) staged a protest in Tiruppur and Coimbatore on Saturday against hike in fuel price. In Coimbatore, the CPI members staged the protest in front of Jeeva Illam. In Tiruppur, the CPI cadre pulled a four-wheeler with a rope in front of the Collectorate and raised slogans against the hike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-stages-protest-against-fuel-price-hike/article31880528.ece
21 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Ailing elephant gets medicines in fruits||Forest Department staff started treatment for a male wild elephant aged between 8 and 10 that was found in a weak condition on forest fringes at Anaikatti near Coimbatore on Saturday. Department staff and forest veterinary officer suspect that the elephant might have an injury in the form of a sharp piece of stick or thorn stuck in mouth or the animal might be in one of the stages of molar progression. The elephant was found in a private land, around 50 metres away from forest boundary, at Anaikatti north beat coming under Periyanaickenpalayam forest range on Saturday morning. Department staff led by Periyanaickenpalayam forest range officer S. Suresh and forest veterinary officer A. Sugumar observed the elephant. Dr. Sugumar opined that the elephant might have an injury in mouth or the tusker could be in a molar progression stage due to which it was not able to eat properly. The elephant stood below an elevated platform separated by solar fencing and the veterinarian found it easy to approach the animal from safe distance. According to District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh, the elephant was given pain reliever, antibiotics and other supplements after stuffing them fruits. The elephant ate them besides drinking water from a nearby tank. Dr. Sugumar has decided to continue treatment for the elephant three more days. According to him, elephants may not be able to take proper feed when they are in molar progression stage – the generation of cheek teeth in replacement of worn out ones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ailing-elephant-gets-medicines-in-fruits/article31880520.ece
21 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Sexual assault: Class X, Plus One students held||The All Women Police Station (AWPS), Coimbatore East, arrested a Class X student and a Class XI student on charges of subjecting a Class VII student to repeated sexual assault, allegedly after forcing her to watch porn videos on a mobile phone which one of the minor boys got from his father to attend online classes. The alleged incident happened on various occasions since May 20 at the girl’s rented house near Sundarapuram here and the police were after one more school student, a friend of the two accused, for his role in the repeated sexual assault. The police said the girl used to be alone at home as her father and deceased mother’s younger sister used to go for daily wage works. The girl used to go to the house owner’s residence on the ground floor to watch television. The house owner had handed over a smartphone to his 16-year-old son studying Class X of a private school to attend online classes. As per the statement given by the girl to the police, she found the boy and his 17-year-old friend, a class XI student, watching obscene videos on the smartphone when she went to the owner’s house on May 20. The duo allegedly forced the girl to watch the videos and took her to her house on the first floor where they sexually assaulted her. They also called another boy who also assaulted the girl sexually. The girl was allegedly subjected to sexual assault in similar manner on various occasions later. The incident came to light when the girl was taken to a hospital with complaints of stomach pain a few days ago. During consultation, the girl told the doctor about the sexual assault which was in turn informed to the police. The AWPS arrested the Class X and Class XI students under Sections 5 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) and 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act based on the girl’s complaint on Saturday. The minor boys were produced before the Juvenile Justice Board after which they were sent to the Juvenile Delinquents Observation Home at Lakshmi Mills junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sexual-assault-class-x-plus-one-students-held/article31880517.ece
21 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Programme for entrepreneurs||Nativelead Foundation has partnered with careMe and launched “Thendral”, a teletherapy service for founders of startups and entreprenuers. The programme was rolled out on Saturday. According to a release, it is specifically to support entrepreneurs who face COVID-19 pandemic-related stress, anxiety, depression and eating or sleeping disorders. C.K. Kumaravel, who launched the initiative through a video call, said entrepreneurs should not be scared of problems. They need to note that when there were problems in business, they only need to modify the effort taken to address the issues, he added. Online assessment The press release said the entrepreneurs, who need help, would be taken through an online assessment to identify mental health issues. They would get telephonic counselling from accredited medical health experts, and there would be follow-up interactions. The entire programme would be online and would be completely secure. Manick Rajendran, director of Thendral, said the “Though Flow Wellness Programme” aims at making a tangible difference to the mental well-being of the entrepreneurs as it has a direct impact on their businesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/programme-for-entrepreneurs/article31880516.ece
21 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||PSGR Krishnammal College for Women ranks 10||PSGR Krishnammal College for Women, Coimbatore, was ranked at number 10 among colleges in the country in the ‘College’ category of the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2020 by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India. The college has remained in the top 25 ranks in the country since the inception of NIRF, a release said. Parameters which saw an improvement this year were ‘Teaching, Learning and Resources’ and ‘Graduation Outcome’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/psgr-krishnammal-college-for-women-ranks-10/article31880537.ece
21 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham 4th best in country’||Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham is the fourth best university in the country, as per the latest National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), which the Ministry of Human Resource Development released recently. A release from the deemed university said its Amrita School of Medical Sciences has been ranked the seventh best medical institution in the country.  Mata Amritanandamayi’s vision The release quoting Vice-Chancellor P. Venkat Rangan said the university’s and its medical institution’s ranking were ample testimony to Chancellor Mata Amritanandamayi’s vision. It credited the ranking to the efforts put in by its students and faculty. A release from the Bharathiar University said the Ministry had ranked it the 13th best among universities and 21st among all institutions. The University had improved its ranking by a place from 14 in 2019 to 13 in 2020. The release added that Vice Chancellor P. Kaliraj congratulated faculty and students for their contributions in improving the ranking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amrita-vishwa-vidyapeetham-4th-best-in-country/article31880535.ece
21 June 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||‘Hefty power bill shocking’||The government should waive the high electricity bill as poor people do not have the means to pay as two cycles of bills had been clubbed together, said Communist Party of India (Marxist). Staging a demonstration here on Friday, former MLA Balabharathi said people had been forced to borrow from moneylenders to pay the hefty bill. After giving a meagre Rs. 1,000 as COVID-19 relief to people through ration shops, the State government had taken away Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 10,000 from every power consumer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hefty-power-bill-shocking/article31880685.ece
21 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Potsherd with Tamil-Brahmi script unearthed at Kodumanal||A Tamil-Brahmi script, with the name “Akuran” inscribed on a potsherd, was found during excavation at Kodumanal village in Chennimalai Union on Saturday. A team from the Department of Archaeology, Chennai, led by J. Ranjith, Archaeology Officer and Project Director for the Kodumanal excavation, unearthed the potsherd at the site. “The shard was unearthed at a depth of 80 cm in the trench and the Brahmi letters were carved on the outer side of the shard,” Mr. Ranjith told The Hindu . “The shard contains four letters denoting the name of a person, “Akuran”. The full length of the word is missing as the pottery is broken on both the sides,” he added and said that the person mentioned could be an important person. T. Subramaniam, Assistant Director (Retired), Department of Archaeology and an expert coordinating the excavation, said graffiti marks were unearthed in large quantities in previous excavations in the village that had names of various individuals. “Though there were six letters, only four letters made the word “Akuran”, he said. The expert said that the person mentioned in the shard could be the head of the clan. An artefact unearthed at a trench revealed the usage of an air blower to smelt copper at a unit during those days. Also, pieces of bones, a pot, and bowls were unearthed from the three-chambered burial cists in a megalithic burial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/potsherd-with-tamil-brahmi-script-unearthed-at-kodumanal/article31880522.ece
21 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Action against schools if online exams for admissions held: Minister||Action will be taken against private schools if they are conducting online examinations for admissions to various classes, K.A. Sengottaiyan, School Education Minister, told media persons in Gobichettipalayam on Saturday. “There are reports that a few private schools are conducting online exams for admissions. If violations are found, action will be taken,” he said. He added that the students of government school in Pochampalli in Krishnagiri district came to school only to sign in the progress report and not to write exams. The Minister said that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had declared all Class X students as having passed and marks would be calculated by giving 80% weightage to marks scored in quarterly and half-yearly examinations and 20% to attendance. “All the government schools and 75% of private schools had submitted the mark statements and attendance of the students so far,” he said. The Minister said that if discrepancies were found in marks, inquiry would be conducted. Mr. Sengottaiyan said that 36,842 Plus Two students were unable to write their exam on March 24 due to restrictions in place and a list of students willing to write their exams had been obtained from their parents. “Decision regarding conducting exams for them will be taken soon,” he added. The Minister said that a committee had been formed to study the possibility of conducting online classes for Classes 1 to 5 and after receiving the report, the decision would be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-against-schools-if-online-exams-for-admissions-held-minister/article31880511.ece
21 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Four drown in water spread area of Bhavani Sagar Dam||Four college students, all from Annur in Coimbatore district, drowned in the water spread area of Bhavani Sagar dam on Saturday. The police said that Praneesh, Yaswanth, Kadiresan, Raguram and Suresh Raja, all aged 20 years and from Ganeshapuram in Annur, came to the water spread area at Sithakuttai on two-wheelers at about 11 a.m. When they tried to enter the water, fishermen in the area warned them that there was a well inside the water. The police said that despite the warning, the five entered the water and were taking bath. Praneesh drowned and four of his friends tried to save him. While three others drowned, Suresh Raja escaped and alerted the fishermen. Fishermen entered the waters and recovered two bodies while the police along with Fire and Rescue Services personnel retrieved two other bodies by 3 p.m. All the four bodies were taken to Government Hospital at Sathyamangalam for postmortem. Bhavani Sagar police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-drown-in-water-spread-area-of-bhavani-sagar-dam/article31880531.ece
21 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Four held for attack on ATM security guard||Four persons, including a 17-year-old boy, have been arrested for Thursday’s attack on a security guard at an ATM centre at Thirunagar Colony. According to police, two men, who had come to withdraw money, were asked to leave their footwear and enter the ATM centre by the security guard Karthikeyan. But they refused to listen to him and entered the centre and withdrew cash and came out. Later an altercation broke out between the guard and the two. Two others, who had come to withdraw money, also attacked the guard. He sustained injuries and was admitted to the District Headquarters Hospital. Karungalpalayam registered a case against the four and arrested Vignesh alias Navaneeth Raja, Deva, Muralidharan and the boy on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-held-for-attack-on-atm-security-guard/article31880526.ece
21 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shut down||In view of works to be taken up to remove electric poles at Ashokapuram, power supply will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on June 23 at VCTV Road, Veerabhadra Street, A.B.T. Road, Sakthi Road, Cauvery Road, Annamalai Layout, 16 Road, Veerappanchatiram Theppakulam and Devarayan Kadu areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shut-down/article31880527.ece
21 June 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Shops in Karur to close by 2 p.m. from today||Collector T. Anbalagan on Saturday announced that shops and business establishments could function only up to 2 p.m. under Karur town limits from Sunday. In a statement, he said that there had been sharp increase in the influx of people from other States and districts to Karur district. In view of spread of COVID-19 virus, people had been asked to strictly follow social distancing norms. All should wear face masks. In spite of stringent measures, a section of people had failed to follow the safety norms in Karur town. Hence, it had been decided to enforce time restriction for all shops and business establishments, including textile showrooms and jewellery showrooms from Sunday. They would be allowed to function only up to 2 p.m. No shops would be allowed to function beyond 2 p.m., he said. Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peramaippu has announced that shops in Tiruvarur district will close at 6 p.m. The decision to keep the shops open from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. was taken to prevent spreading of COVID-19 virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-in-karur-to-close-by-2-pm-from-today/article31880727.ece
21 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai sees highest single-day spike of 90 positive cases||Madurai district witnessed its highest spike in a single-day with 90 persons testing positive for COVID-19 here on Saturday. The tally of cases is now 636. The district also recorded its eighth death as a 45-year-old high-risk pregnant woman died on June 19. She was brought to the Government Rajaji Hospital at 1 a.m. on June 16 but her condition continued to deteriorate and she died due to viral pneumonia and COVID-19. The government bulletin stated that all the 90 cases in Madurai were indigenous cases. The count of active cases is currently 261 and it has risen by 63 since Friday. Twenty-two patients were discharged on Saturday. According to Collector T. G. Vinay the patients who tested positive included 13 frontline workers and 14 contacts of patients with COVID-19. The list also included 12 people from Chennai, two from Tiruchi and one each from Nagercoil and Bangalore. A total of 44 people had symptoms of Influenza Like Illnesses (ILI) and six people complained of other symptoms including chest pain. Others were asymptomatic. A total of 1,631 test were conducted in a day according to the data uploaded on the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) portal by ICMR approved labs as the total test count rose to 23,092. The data was made available on the State bulletin and reflected figures as on June 20. The test per million count stood at 6,510. Dindigul In Dindigul district, the number of fresh cases was six taking the total active cases to 278. Officials said that they all had returned from Chennai. In Theni district, except one case, who had a travel history of having returned from Chennai, seven others were indigenous cases. With one medical professional testing positive, the control room opened for COVID-19 related issues functioning at the Collectorate was closed. All the other six persons, who tested positive were found to be contacts of COVID-19 positive people from Theni, Periakulam, Cumbum and Bodinayakkanur. Ramanathapuram In Ramanathapuram, 24 persons tested positive on Saturday, which included a senior officer in the Collectorate in the rank of District Revenue Officer. According to doctors, the officer had recently come on transfer and after testing positive, the officer was shifted to Madurai Government Rajaji Hospital for treatment. The others included four staff in the revenue section at the Collectorate. An advocate aged about 80 years, who was suffering from fever, died and a test showed that he was COVID-19 positive. All the other cases were indigenous and they were from Ramanathapuram Town, Keelakarai and surrounding areas of Paramakudi. In Sivaganga, with 15 more persons testing positive, the total positive cases rose to 95 and 49 persons have so far been discharged. The officials attributed to returnees from Chennai and other cities during the last week, which had caused an increase in positive cases. Tirunelveli Despite sustained efforts being put in by the district administration to curb the pandemic, the district’s COVID-19 tally continues to grow with the addition of 28 more new cases that took the total number of infections to 612 on Saturday. The district’s active cases tally stood at 194 on Saturday. Similarly, Thoothukudi saw a massive spike on Saturday as it recorded 46 more patients, all indigenous cases, to take the district’s tally to 575 and the number of active cases to 212. Kanniyakumari recorded 15 fresh cases including 14 indigenous cases on Saturday that took total number of the infections to 162 and 66 cases are undergoing treatment in the Government Medical College Hospital at Aasaaripallam. In Tenkasi, the COVID – 19 tally rose to 218 with the addition of eight more new cases including seven indigenous cases and the district now has 218 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-sees-highest-single-day-spike-of-90-positive-cases/article31880678.ece
21 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||14 wards contribute to 50 % of cases in Madurai||Fourteen of the 100 wards contribute to 50% of the COVID-19 positive cases in Madurai Corporation limits as on June 18, according to data available for the first time from the local body. A total of 40 wards are COVID-19 free. While there has been a significant rise in the number of positive cases on June 19 and 20, the data in retrospect, continues to prove that a majority of positive cases are focussed in certain pockets. The data states that 177 positive cases have been recorded in the Corporation limits out of a total of 398 indigenous cases reported in the district as on June 18. Of the four zones, zone 2 with 67 cases contributes to 37.9% of the cases while zone 4 with only 21 cases contributes to a little over 11%. The two other zones contribute over 20% each. Sellur in zone 2 has the highest number in all wards with 13 cases. This is followed by Thathaneri (zone 2) and Chinna Anuppanadi (zone 3) with six cases each. The 40 COVID-19 free wards seem to have a number of annexed wards of the Corporation, including Harveypatti, Madakulam, Villapuram, Keeraithurai, Reserve line, Panthalkudi, Parasurampatti, Masthanpatti and Anaiyur. Zone 4 with 26 wards has 14 wards with zero cases. Collector T. G. Vinay said that with the rising number of cases, they have planned to demarcate places with more than three cases as containment zones. He said they are trying to implement a street-level plan to ensure restrictions in movement in areas where COVID-19 spread has been identified. This will contain the spread to COVID-19 areas. Fever clinics have been established in places like Sellur which have recorded a number of cases. Swab samples of those coming into the clinics are being collected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/14-wards-contribute-to-50-of-cases-in-madurai/article31880682.ece
21 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Hearing of cases to resume at district courts||The physical hearing of cases at District Headquarters and taluk-level courts in Madurai district, except in Melur, will resume from Monday, June 22. Only a limited number of cases will be listed and taken up for hearing. According to a notification issued by the court, only those advocates whose cases are posted for physical court hearing will be permitted to enter the court hall and no litigant will be permitted to enter the court premises. Advocates have been asked to maintain physical distancing within the court premises and the court halls in order to avoid congestion. They have been requested to follow the dress code, and not to wear the black gown. The Bar Associations, Advocate Chambers and canteen will remain closed till further orders. Judicial Officers have been instructed to ensure sanitation, thermal scanning, physical distancing norms as well as other precautionary measures are followed. In the event of any untoward incident or problem or complications in the smooth functioning of the physical court hearings, the judicial officers may immediately report the matter to the Principal District Judge for taking appropriate action. There will be thermal scanning of staff members and advocates, and sanitisers will be used on them. All who enter the court campus should wear a face mask, the court notification said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hearing-of-cases-to-resume-at-district-courts/article31880672.ece
21 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||45 sovereigns of gold stolen from house||Unidentified persons broke into the house of a grocery merchant C. Shanmugarajan (50) at Iravathanallur and decamped with 45 sovereigns of gold and Rs. 60,000 in cash on Friday. The police said that Shanmugarajan, a resident of Raja Nagar, was running a grocery shop in the locality. He and his wife used to take care of the business. On Thursday evening, Shanmugarajan locked his house and left for the shop which his wife was managing at that time. When the couple returned home later, their neighbour said that they saw someone jumping out of their home. After they entered the house, they found the side door broken. The cupboard in the bedroom too was broken open and valuables were missing. Stating that as the crime had occurred within a short span of two hours, the police suspect that someone who was aware of the movement of the couple could have found the right moment to strike at the house. The Teppakulam police are investigating the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/45-sovereigns-of-gold-stolen-from-house/article31880671.ece
21 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Serve notice on flat owners: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Tiruchi District Administration to serve notice on 32 flat owners of Mahavir Residency, Tiruchi, after it was said that the building was built in violation of the building plan. After two flat owners moved the High Court for relief, a Division Bench of Justices P. N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi observed that the issue cannot be dealt with piecemeal as there appears to be full-scale violation of the building plan. It was said that instead of building five flats on each floor, the builder had built eight flats in each floor. The other flat owners also have to be brought to the forefront and heard. To give a quietus to the issue all the 32 flat owners will be intimated about the pending writ petitions, the court said. The case was adjourned for further hearing to June 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/serve-notice-on-flat-owners-high-court/article31880687.ece
21 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Dak Adalat on June 30||The Department of Posts will conduct a divisional-level Dak Adalat at the office of the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Madurai Division, at 11 a.m on June 30. Postal customers could send their complaints to J.S. Jawahar Raj, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Madurai Division, by 6 p.m. on June 27.  The complaints should be sent through ordinary/registered post, with ‘DAK ADALAT’ superscribed on the cover, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dak-adalat-on-june-30/article31880674.ece
21 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Fish, meat shops to be shut today||Madurai district administration has said that shops selling meat and fish will be closed on Sunday. A press release by Collector T. G. Vinay said that with Section 144 being enforced, fish and meat shops would be closed. The shops were briefly allowed to open on Sundays when the relaxations were lifted in May. An official from the Revenue Department said there was chaos every Sunday even when the complete lockdown was enforced by the government in April and May. Since the administration was unable to control the crowds thronging markets in Narimedu, K. Pudur, Therkkuvasal and Opulapadithurai, the shops had been asked to close down, he said. There had also been a sharp increase in the number of cases registered in areas including Narimedu and K. Pudur, making them COVID-19 hotspots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fish-meat-shops-to-be-shut-today/article31880676.ece
21 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry sees highest single-day spike in cases||Puducherry on Saturday, witnessed its biggest single-day spike with 52 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of COVID-19 positive cases in the Union Territory to 339. According to Director of Health and Family Welfare Services S. Mohan Kumar, out of the 374 persons tested for the virus at the Government Medical College and Jipmer during the 24 hours, 52 have turned out to be positive. With 13 more discharged on Friday, the active cases stand at 201. The new cases diagnosed were mostly contacts of patients at the mask factory, he said. Of the 11,992 people tested, 11,486 tested negative and the results are awaited for 206, he added. Bedi expresses concern Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi on Saturday said that COVID-19 that was limited to “clusters alone was now doubling rapidly and spreading into the community.” The Union Territory recorded 107 cases in the last six days, Ms. Bedi said, adding that a small region such as Puducherry cannot afford to have a big spike in numbers. In a message to media, the Lieutenant Governor said that many individuals who are infected, from containment zones and hotspots, are entering the territory. Expressing dismay at people not following norms such as social distancing and wearing of masks, the L-G said “everyone is vulnerable to the infection. Being a small population we will be overrun.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-sees-highest-single-day-spike-in-cases/article31880476.ece
21 June 2020||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Bodies of two fishermen found||Bodies of two fishermen from Rameswaram were recovered from the sea by fishermen from Kollumedu in Thanjavur district on Saturday. On June 13, four fishermen - Malarvannan, 55, Regin Baskar, 43, Austin Sujeendran, 18, and Sesu, 60, ventured into the sea in a mechanised boat. When they did not return on Sunday, family members and relatives informed fisheries officials. Later, a search operation was conducted. Sesu was rescued when fishermen near Kottaipattinam in Pudukottai district spotted him hanging on to a boat. He was brought ashore and admitted to the Government Hospital in Pudukottai. The bodies of Regin Baskar and Austin Sujeendran were spotted by fishermen at Kollumedu in Thanjavur district on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bodies-of-two-fishermen-found/article31880686.ece
21 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||47 COVID-19 positive cases in Salem||As many as 47 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Saturday. According to health officials, 34 cases have been reported from different parts of Salem, six persons have travelled to Salem from Chennai, three from Maharashtra, three from Goa and one person from Karnataka. The 34 positive cases reported here include a transgender woman, four pregnant ladies and seven teenagers, who played in carrom board here. The patients are undergoing treatment at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. Krishnagiri Six persons tested positive for COVID in the district on Saturday. All of them were returnees from other districts, with two of them contacts of persons, who had tested positive earlier. They included a 22-year-old male, and a native of Karapatty in Uthangarai, who had returned from Chennai. The person was employed in a vegetable factory in Chennai, before he returned. A 34-year-old male in Bargur, who had returned from Chennai, also tested positive. His pregnant wife had tested positive earlier this week. In Hosur, a husband and wife, both aged 28, had tested positive upon returning from Vellore. The woman’s father had a travel history to a marriage and a funeral in Vellore, subsequent to which he had turned positive. It is suspected that the couple had contracted the infection from the father. Similarly, a 30-year-old male employed in Chennai and a resident of Mathur in Uthangarai, and another 35-year-old man from Uthangarai, both returnees tested positive. The week saw a daily spike in cases in Krishnagiri, with more number of persons returning home. The administration has also enforced strict institutional quarantine for seven days, in addition to a 14-day home quarantine upon completion of the institutional quarantine. The border check-posts that were earlier porous allowing two-wheelers and four-wheelers from Karnataka to pass through have now tightened monitoring.  Erode A two-and-half-year old boy, who along with his parents recently returned from Karur and Pudukottai, tested positive for COVID-19 here on Saturday. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan said that the family had stayed in those districts for two days and had returned to their house in Sampath Nagar on Friday. Swab samples were lifted from them and the boy tested positive, while his parents tested negative. The boy and his parents were admitted to the isolation ward of Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. The street where their house is located was sealed and a fruit and vegetable shop, where they purchased vegetables on Friday was also sealed. Health officials said that the boy's admission in the hospital will be included in the district’s tally on Sunday while the name of the 29-year-old woman, who recently arrived from Chennai and is undergoing treatment at the hospital was removed from the district’s rally and included in Chennai district tally. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan has said that people from other zones will be allowed to enter the district only if they have e-pass and warned of impounding their vehicles if they try to enter the district without e-pass. Since lockdown is in force, people are requested not to venture out from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m., he said. Collector C. Kathiravan in a press release asked the public to inform Collector’s Office control room at 0424-2260211, toll free number 1077 and WhatsApp number 96773-97600 if they have visitors from foreign countries or other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/47-covid-19-positive-cases-in-salem/article31880504.ece
21 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Lack of inter-State transport affects silver jewellery makers in Salem||With the lockdown and lack of inter-State transport severely affecting the business, silver jewellery manufacturing units here are hopeful that the COVID-19 crisis will end before Deepavali this year. Silver jewellery manufacturing is a major business in Salem and over 1 lakh persons are involved in the trade. Silver anklets is the major product manufactured here on job order basis and the units supply finished goods to Karnataka, Maharashtra, and Lucknow and even to foreign countries. Silversmiths and unit owners lamented that their livelihood had been affected due to lockdown and they were pinning hopes on Deepavali orders now. R. Selvakumar, who runs a manufacturing unit, said, “we were completely shut for over three months and we had to borrow money for day-to-day needs. The supply of raw materials has been affected and most of the units are operating to fulfil orders received during January.” He added that most units worked only for a few hours a day. K.V. Chandrapal, president, Salem silver leg chain manufacturers association, said, “though the units have opened up, only 30% of manufacturing works are going on compared to pre-lockdown period. The wedding season is one of the major business period and it got affected during lockdown. Though businesses in places like Lucknow are ready to provide orders, we are not able to travel to collect raw materials or to deliver finished goods. Also, majority of labourers are from Maharashtra and most of them have returned to their native villages.” He added that Deepavali would be the next business season and they expressed hope that normalcy would return by then. The governments should allow business e-passes so that traders could travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lack-of-inter-state-transport-affects-silver-jewellery-makers-in-salem/article31880514.ece
21 June 2020||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||33 cases registered in Salem||The Salem City police registered 33 cases and detained 13 vehicles for violating prohibitory orders here on Friday. Namakkal district police had registered 30 cases for violating the prohibitory orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/33-cases-registered-in-salem/article31880505.ece
21 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Combined court complex opened in Thanjavur||The Combined Court Complex at Thanjavur was declared open through video conference from Chennai by the Chief Justice of Madras High Court Amreshwar Pratap Sahi on Saturday. The complex constructed at a cost of Rs. 39.56 crore on a sprawling 13.13 acre land near the Rajarajan Memorial was declared open by Mr. Sahi. The new building with a plinth area of 1,55,916 square feet houses 18 court halls, rooms for the administrative wing, records, computers and for lawyers. The Madras High Court Chief Justice also inaugurated an Additional District Munsif Court and an Additional Mahila Court (Judicial Magistrate Grade) here and declared open a court building constructed at a cost of Rs. 3.44 crore at Orathanadu and a travellers bungalow for the judges at Thanjavur at a cost of Rs. 1.08 crore on the occasion. Agriculture Minister R. Doraikkannu lit a traditional lamp at the new complex to mark the inauguration. The Principal District Judge V.Sivagnanam, Collector M. Govinda Rao, Superintendent of Police S.S. Maheswaran, senior lawyers and others participated in the inaugural ceremony. The District Court and other courts in Thanjavur hitherto functioned at a two-century old building opposite the Old District Collectorate building on the Court Road in the town. Late Charles Wood Cock took charge as the “Zilla Judge” in 1807 and the Court was bifurcated subsequently as Thanjavur East and West. While the Thanjavur East Court functioned at Tranquebar, the Thanjavur West Court functioned at Thanjavur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/combined-court-complex-opened-in-thanjavur/article31880730.ece
21 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Mutt head extends support||The head of Thirupanandal Kasi Mutt Sri Muthukumaraswamy Thambiran participated in a postcard campaign seeking the formation of Kumbakonam district at Thirupanandal on Saturday. The pontiff dropped a postcard in a postal bag brought to the demonstration venue at Thirupanandal demanding the formation of the new district with Kumbakonam as its headquarters addressed to the Chief Minister. The programme was organised by the Committee for Formation of Kumbakonam District.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mutt-head-extends-support/article31880726.ece
21 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Man, daughter reach Sri Lanka illegally||Central and State intelligence units have started probing the illegal travel of two Sri Lankan Tamil refugees - a man and his eight-year-old daughter - to the island nation by a boat from Thoothukudi in the last week of May during the COVID-19 lockdown. Highly reliable sources in the agencies here said J. Pulendran, 34, who was an inmate of Pooluvapatti Sri Lankan Refugees’ Camp in Coimbatore and his daughter, boarded a boat in Thoothukudi on May 28 at 7 p.m. and landed at Sri Lanka’s Thalaimannar the next day at 3.30 a.m. After taking another dingy to reach Pesalai, they reached Pandivirichan, Madu, where Mr. Pulendran’s father M. Jesudasan is living. “It is puzzling how a refugee and his little daughter managed to reach Thoothukudi from Coimbatore without e-pass to board the boat here,” a source said. The Sri Lankan police came to know about this only when Mr. Pulendran and his daughter went to the Madu police station to give a statement that they had migrated from India to Sri Lanka by sea without permission. On getting information from the Sri Lankan government, the Indian Coast Guard shared it with Central and State investigative agencies. A probe revealed that Mr. Pulendran, had contacted seven persons over phone to ensure his passage to Sri Lanka. The sources said that the Indian Coast Guard had shared this information on Friday with the Commissioner of Customs, Thoothukudi, Superintendent of Police, DSP, Coastal Security Group, Central Industrial Security Force Unit of VOC Port, Intelligence Bureau, Inspector of Police ‘Q’ Branch, Thoothukudi and asked these agencies to conduct independent investigations and send their findings by June 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-daughter-reach-sri-lanka-illegally/article31880675.ece
21 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Manachanallur bypass road work begins||Work on laying a new bypass road around Manachanallur to ease traffic congestion in the town on the outskirts of the city has begun. The State government had sanctioned the project at an estimated cost of Rs. 25.15 crore. The bypass road would run for a length of about 2.62 km averting the need for motorists to go via the town. It would begin near the Panguni Vaical (beyond Nochiyam) and join Thuraiyur Road beyond the Manachanallur Taluk Office. The project is scheduled to be completed in 18 months, Highways Department sources said. The project was announced in the 2012-13 budget session of Assembly. According to sources, the government had then sanctioned Rs. 14.40 crore to acquire about seven hectares of land spread over Manachanallur, Uluthankudi and Poonampalayam revenue villages for laying the road. The construction of the by-pass road would come as a relief to motorists traversing on Tiruchi-Thuraiyur Road and residents of Manchanallur, which witnesses frequent traffic snarls on the Local Fund Road. The narrow road has been bursting at its seams due to heavy traffic and encroachments. Residents of Manachanallur while welcoming the project, have, however, emphasised the need for removing encroachments to ease the traffic flow on the Local Fund Road. Much of the traffic woes of the town would be solved if encroachments were removed on the Local Fund Road and the bus halts were regulated, observed S.Chandrasekaran, a resident. “Most buses heading towards Thuraiyur Road, stop at the entrance of the Thirupainjeeli Road Junction. The authorities should ensure that they stop only at the designated bus halt in front of the Tangedco Office. Similarly, buses heading towards Tiruchi also halt in front of the road junction. They should halt in front of State of Bank of India branch instead,” Mr.Chandrasekaran said. “The construction of the bypass will meet a long pending demand of commuters and residents. Even ambulances often get caught in the frequent traffic snarls in Manachanallur. Once the bypass is laid, heavy vehicles and lorries need not enter the town,” said Saravanan Natesan, a regular commuter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/manachanallur-bypass-road-work-begins/article31880729.ece
21 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Restrained COVID-19 testing raises concern among residents||Limited availability of test kits seems to be restraining COVID-19 testing in the residential areas, where positive cases are reported in the city in recent days. According to the standard protocol, the health department of Tiruchi City Corporation and public health officials normally subject contacts of patients who had tested positive for the virus and disinfect places where the infected persons reside so as to control the spread of the virus. They would initiate the follow up measures based on the laboratory results of positive patients being released on a daily basis. In addition to it, the health officials carry out random sampling, targeted sampling, cluster sampling and quarantine sampling on a daily basis. According to sources, about 20,000 samples have been tested in Tiruchi district since the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) granted nod for COVID-19 testing facility at K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College in April. About 200 samples were tested initially a day. It was scaled up gradually. Depending upon the situation, about 500 samples are tested daily. However, residents in places where fresh cases of COVID-19 emerged have raised apprehensions on insufficient number of testing of contacts and preventive measures. They alleged that the health department of the Tiruchi Corporation had brought down the scale of disinfection measures in and around the affected areas. Citing the visit of two health workers of the Tiruchi City Corporation to an apartment in the State Bank Officer’s Colony on Lawsons Road on Friday after a 40-year-old resident of the apartment was tested positive for the virus, the residents said that the health workers just noted down the details of residents and promised to visit them again to collect swab samples of neighbours of the affected person. During the survey, they told the residents that they would collect samples as soon as they received testing kits as they were in demand. But, the health workers had not returned yet. Residents further alleged that the health officials had not even stuck notice in front of the house of affected persons so as to alert the neighbours or those visiting the apartment. “We expected that the health workers would at least disinfect the places of the affected person and the elevator of the apartment. They have not been disinfected yet. Many outsiders come to the apartment as usual and use the elevator,” said Vimal, a resident of SBI Officer’s Colony. Senior district officials however maintained that about 5,000 kits were available in Tiruchi for COVID-19 testing. But, whether the number was proportionate to the rising demand remained a moot point. When contacted Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramaniam told The Hindu that it had been instructed that testing could be done on those vulnerable and those, who had symptoms of COVID-19 virus. It would turn unproductive if each and every resident of apartments were subjected for testing except those who had been in close contacts of the affected persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restrained-covid-19-testing-raises-concern-among-residents/article31880732.ece
21 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||60 more persons test positive for COVID-19||An office assistant at the taluk office in Sirkazhi was among 60 people who tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Saturday. The taluk office has been sealed. Twenty-three of the positive patients belonged to Tiruchi, seven to Ariyalur, ten each to Thanjavur and Pudukottai, four from Nagapattinam, three from Perambalur, two from Tiruvarur and one hailed from Karur. A 57-year-old junior revenue assistant at the Sirkazhi taluk office in Nagapattinam district tested positive for the viral infection after he suffered from cold and had difficulty breathing a few days ago. He has been admitted to the Periyar Government Hospital in Mayiladuthurai. The other three patients who tested positive in Nagapattinam are two men, a 56-year-old man and a 54-year-old woman from Thirumarugal. Both returned to Nagapattinam from Chennai. They are undergoing treatment at the Nagapattinam District Headquarters Hospital. A 31-year-old man from Sembanarkoil who had also returned to the district from Chennai has also been admitted to the Periyar Government Hospital in Mayiladuthurai. In Tiruchi, 23 patients, mostly cases from within the city limits tested positive. Of the 23, three patients had returned from Chennai, while the rest hail from Thennur, Kattur, Edamalaipattipudur, Uyyakondan Thirumalai, E.B. Road, Woraiyur, K. K. Nagar and Senthaneerpuram within city limits and at Manapparai, Manachanallur and Kallukuzhi. In Pudukottai district, all 10 who tested positive including a 12-year-old boy and six women had returned from Chennai and Kanchipuram districts. Ten persons tested positive in in Thanjavur and two in Tiruvarur districts on Saturday. The total number of positive cases reported in Thanjavur district so far as on Saturday increased to 223 with one death and at Tiruvarur the figure stood at 188. In Ariyalur, an eight-year-old girl and two men aged 35 and 50 who returned from Chennai tested positive for the virus. Two men aged 20 and and 30 returned from Chengalpattu. All have been admitted to the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital for treatment. Meanwhile, 257 new throat swab samples have been lifted from people in the district and have been sent to the K. A. P. Viswanatham Government Medical College for testing. In Perambalur, a 60-year-old man who had travelled to Chennai, a 65-year-old man who had been struggling with chest pain and was to undergo angiography in Tiruchi and a 63-year-old man who had been working as a daily wage labourer in Chennai tested positive. In Karur, a 27-year-old man who was to undergo an appendicitis surgery was asked to undergo a test for COVID-19 before undergoing the procedure. The test returned positive and he has been admitted to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/60-more-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19/article31880734.ece
21 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Expats arrive||About 340 Indians from Kuwait and Male arrived at the Tiruchi International Airport by two separate evacuation flights on Saturday. While 170 passengers arrived by a Jazeera Airways flight from Kuwait, another 170 were flew down in an IndiGo flight. Samples were lifted from all. The Jazeera Airways flight, on its first ever service to Tiruchi, carried 7.3 tonnes of perishables as cargo on its return flight to Kuwait, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expats-arrive/article31880736.ece
21 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||RI, village assistant arrested||Officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Saturday arrested a Revenue Inspector and a village assistant on the charge of accepting bribe for issuing a legal heir certificate. According to sources, the officials arrested Jothimani, Revenue Inspector of N. Poolampatti, and Rajeswari (40), Village Assistant of Thavalaiveeranpatti, when they received a bribe of Rs. 15,000 at the Taluk office in Manapparai from Sivajiganesan of Thavalaiveeranpatti, who had sought a legal heir certificate for her mother Nallammal, whose husband died about 25 yeas ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ri-village-assistant-arrested/article31880733.ece
21 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Sapling plantation initiative enters sixth year||The sapling plantation initiative Vanathukkul Tiruppur by the NGO Vetry, which has planted nearly eight lakh saplings across Tiruppur district, will enter the sixth year on Sunday. First sapling District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan will plant the first sapling at Kangeyam block to mark the sixth year’s inauguration, said the NGO’s founder and president T.R. Sivaram. This year’s target is to plant two lakh trees across the district and attempting to the milestone of ten lakh or one million trees. The tree sapling nursery located on Mangalam Road houses about 40,000 saplings with indigenous species of teak, rosewood, neem, jackfruit and guava. “We do not use any foreign or invasive species,” Mr. Sivaram said. The species and plantation techniques are chosen with the assistance of Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding (IFGTB), Coimbatore. “We focus mainly on Dharapuram, Kangeyam and Vellakoil blocks, which are rain shadow areas and are driest blocks in the district,” Mr. Sivaram said, noting that nearly a quarter of all the saplings are planted in these three blocks. Air quality A study on the environmental impact of this initiative, such as improvement in soil quality and air quality, is expected to be completed by August, he said. Maintenance of saplings in the nursery did not get affected due to the COVID-19 lockdown as the nursery staff were unable to return to their home towns and stayed back, Mr. Sivaram said. As the plantation drive begins in June at the onset of southwest monsoon, there has been no delay in the inauguration this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sapling-plantation-initiative-enters-sixth-year/article31880523.ece
21 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Private school allegedly holds exams, inquiry on||Tiruppur Chief Education Officer (CEO) R. Ramesh inspected a private school at Chettipalayam in Tiruppur Corporation limits after allegations surfaced that the school conducted quarterly and half-yearly examinations for its Class X students on Saturday. A television news report alleged on Saturday that the school asked its students to visit the school and submit the answer sheets and that the school made its students to allegedly retake the quarterly and half-yearly examinations from their homes in an effort to boost their marks. Inspection Based on the information, Mr. Ramesh and a team of officials from the Department of School Education visited the school in the afternoon. Following the inspection, he told The Hindu the officials were unable to conclude immediately whether the school conducted the exams as no parents and students were present on the school premises. “We have taken the progress reports and consolidated mark sheets for inquiry. The school staff will be asked to enter the marks in our presence at the Chief Educational Office from Monday,” he said. Strict action would be taken against the school if the allegations were found true, Mr. Ramesh said. Moreover, the Directorate of Government Examinations had clarified that all Class X students would be promoted irrespective of their marks, the CEO noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-school-allegedly-holds-exams-inquiry-on/article31880512.ece
21 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man held in cheating case||Anupparpalayam police on Friday arrested a man on Friday on charges of cheating nearly Rs. 12 lakh by allegedly selling four cars. Sathish Kumar (37) was working in a private auto finance company run by Sivasamy in Tiruppur for seven years. During his stint, he allegedly sold the cars and borrowed money from the owner. After the accused quit the job, the complainant demanded the money he lent and from selling the cars, for which the accused allegedly threatened him, according to the police. The accused was arrested under sections 294(b) (Uttering obscenities), 406 (Punishment for criminal breach of trust), 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 506(1) (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC and was sent to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-in-cheating-case/article31880499.ece
21 June 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||One nation, one ration card from Oct.||Food Minister R.Kamaraj has indicated that the ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ scheme is likely to come into effect from October 1. Responding to a question on this scheme from reporters here on Saturday, the Minister said that the Tamil Nadu government has informed the Centre that the new scheme might come into force in the State from October 1. The State government had also requested the Union Government to consider distribution of ration free of cost through the PDS for the next three months in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/universal-ration-card-from-october-1/article31880474.ece
21 June 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||One nation-one ration card likely from October||Food Minister R.Kamaraj has indicated that the `One Nation, One Ration Card’ scheme is likely to come into effect from October 1. He said the government had informed the Centre that the new scheme might come into force from October 1. The State also requested the Union Government to consider the distribution of ration free of cost through the PDS for the next three months in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-nation-one-ration-card-likely-from-october/article31880731.ece
21 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Murals to highlight Coonoor’s iconic heritage and history||Tourists driving through Coonoor will soon get a chance to learn the history and heritage of the town through giant murals that are being painted along the side of the main roads. A series of seven murals, charting the history of the town with the opening of the Coonoor ghat in 1833, right through the establishment of the Pasteur Institute in 1905, are being drawn by two volunteer artists for the last two months. Coonoor Municipality Commissioner K. Balu said, “We wanted to get the walls painted to stop people from pasting bills and graffiti. We then chanced upon the idea of telling the history of the town through these paintings. Many of the town’s residents themselves do not know the history of many of the heritage buildings still standing today.” “For instance, the travellers’ bungalow built during the time the Coonoor ghat was opened is now the court building in Coonoor. It is one of the oldest buildings in the entire district and serves a functional role till today,” he said. Apart from the travellers’ bungalow, other iconic Coonoor architecture such as the first church in Coonoor , the All Saints Church, the first library building, which has been turned into a popular sports merchandise store, and the first recreational club are also being featured in the wall paintings. Artists Vidhyashree and Prajwal Acharya from ‘Clean Coonoor’ – an NGO working on waste management and cleaning up the town - have been hard at work for the last couple of months on getting the murals painted, and expect to finish the project in the coming weeks. P.J.Vasanthan, Trustee of Clean Coonoor, said that he hoped that the wall paintings would remind residents about the natural as well as aesthetic beauty of the town and inspire the people to work towards ensuring the preservation of the remaining heritage structures in the Nilgiris.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murals-to-highlight-coonoors-iconic-heritage-and-history/article31880534.ece
21 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tribal woman killed by wild elephant||A 52-year-old tribal woman was found dead on Saturday in the Masinagudi forest range in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR). She is believed to have been killed by a wild elephant. Forest officials identified the deceased as P. Madhevi of an Irula village in MTR. Her injuries were consistent with an elephant attack. Her body was sent to the Gudalur GH for postmortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-woman-killed-by-wild-elephant/article31880518.ece
21 June 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Constable caught ferrying people||P. Bharatraj, an Armed Reserve Police constable of Chennai City police, was detained on Thursday night when he attempted to take a few persons in his private vehicle to Chennai without e-pass. The SUV has been seized and the matter has been taken to the notice of Commissioner of Police in Chennai. When the officials were conducting vehicle check at Chathirareddiyapatti on Thursday night, they intercepted a vehicle that was proceeding to Chennai. The constable was not in possession of any pass for the vehicle and the people travelling with him. When the issue was taken up with the police administration, Additional Superintendent of Police S. Marirajan conducted an enquiry with the constable and the passengers. The police said the constable had borrowed the SUV from his father, a retired Sub-Inspector of Police, a few days ago to bring his family members from Chennai to Virudhunagar. However, he had made multiple trips between the two places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-caught-ferrying-people/article31880684.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation initiates measures to control crowds at markets||The Coimbatore Corporation on Saturday began erecting poles to build barricades in front of the retail fish market on Perur Bypass Road, opposite the Ukkadam Periyakulam, to force people to follow physical distancing norms. According to sources, following instructions from Collector K. Rajamani and Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath, they began building barricades to ensure that people entered the market while waiting in a queue by maintaining physical distance. The move followed complaints of the fish vendors and customer violating the physical distance norms and other COVID-19 restrictions. Until now, customers just walked into the market after parking their vehicles outside. Now, they would not be able to do so. They should wait for their turn in queue, the sources said. At the wholesale fish market in Lorrypet, the vendors had come forward to restrict their business hours by closing shops around 7 a.m. and not entertain retail customers. The Corporation agreed to they voluntarily coming forward. Near the Flower Market on Mettupalayam Road, the Corporation continued to evict hawkers on Saturday. On Friday, the Corporation had placed metal sheets along the western and eastern margins of the road to prevent hawkers from squatting on the road to sell fruits, flowers or other items. The Corporation sources said that on Saturday they had to turn their focus on Siva Shanmugam Road, Mecrikar Road and Mahaliamman Road as the evicted hawkers began squatting on the three streets. The civic body had removed around 150 such hawkers to ensure that they do not encroach upon the road and pave way for violation of physical distance norms. In the Central Zone, the Corporation had also closed the Ramar Kovil Market in Ukkadam to take up repair work. And, near T.K. Market the Corporation had placed barricades on Raja Street and the western end of Big Bazaar Street near Sullivan Street after two COVID-19 positive cases were reported, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-initiates-measures-to-control-crowds-at-markets/article31880498.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Shops to close early in districts||Seven traders associations in Coimbatore have said that their member shops will be open only from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day from Monday. In a joint announcement, the associations said that since there are COVID-19 cases reported every day in Coimbatore district, it was decided to restrict the timing the shops will remain open. It is more as a precautionary measure. The associations that have come together are: Coimbatore Malligai Traders, Bazaar Street branch of Tamil Nadu Traders, Coimbatore Consumer Products Distributors, Coimbatore Cooking Oil Traders, TK Market Traders, Coimbatore Jaggery Traders, and Coimbatore District Plastic Traders. TK Market will be closed on Sunday and if it is open on Monday, it will be only for a restricted timing, said the Market Traders’ Association president M. Rajendran. Krishnagiri/Dharmapuri The Krishnagiri Chamber of Commerce has announced self-regulation for commercial establishments restricting the shopping timings from June 22 in the district. Starting from Monday, shops will be open from 6 a.m. to 3 p.m, in view of the spike in the cases of infections. With the districts seeing an influx in the number of returnees, the number of cases of infections are increasing on a daily basis. To contain the spread, commercial establishments have announced self-regulation, by restricting the number of hours. All shops shall close at 3 pm. In Denkanikottai, a full lockdown has been announced for the town panchayat here and the entire town panchayat area has been declared a containment zone from June 21 to July 4. Public are dissuaded from stepping out. Shops shall be open from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m. and only one member per family shall be allowed to step out to buy provisions. Further, the town panchayat administration has urged public to call 04347-235056; and the tahsildar’s office on 04347-235041 for any assistance. Similarly in Dharmapuri, traders’ associations of Pennagaram, Eriyur and Paapireddypatty have independently announced restrictions on the number of hours. Shops shall remain open only from 6 a.m. to 3 p.m. Those shops violating the restrictions will be fined Rs. 1,000, Paapireddyatty Traders’ Association has warned. Erode Federation of All Trade and Industry Associations of Erode District (FATIA) has said that shops and other establishments would function from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. only from June 22 to 30 in the district. In a press release, its general secretary C. Balakrishnan said that to support the government in the fight against COVID-19, the federation has decided to open shops only eight hours a day for nine days from Monday. The release asked the traders to ensure personal distancing at establishments as a precautionary measure and cooperate with authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-to-close-early-in-districts/article31880500.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Eleven test positive in Coimbatore||Eleven persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday. Those who contracted the disease included two persons from Sowripalayam who travelled from Chennai to Coimbatore on a SpiceJet flight on Friday and two women from Mylampatti near Chinniyampalayam. The two women patients from Mylampatti have a cloth store at Chinniyampalayam. Health Department suspects that the two cases were linked to nearby R.G. Pudur, which is now a COVID-19 cluster. Excluding these two cases, at least 22 positive cases were reported from R.G. Pudur and Chinniyampalayam, all following the death of a 28-year-old man from R.G. Pudur on June 14. Other cases were reported from places such as Annur, Gandhipuram, Big Bazaar Street, Raja Street and Chinnampalayam near Pollachi. The two patients hailed from Gandhipuram amd had travelled to Walajabad in Kancheepuram district to attend a funeral. Another patient, a 60-year-old man from Madurai, came to a private hospital here for a surgical procedure. He was found infected with COVID-19 when the hospital subjected his swab sample to a test before the surgery. As of Saturday, there were 89 active COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore district. The total number of persons tested positive for the disease in the district touched 255 on Saturday. An Egypt returnee was confirmed to have tested positive for COVID-19 at Udumalpet, Tiruppur district on Saturday, making this the first imported case in the district. Health Department sources said that a 26-year-old woman visited Egypt in October 2019 and reached Kochi via Mumbai in a flight on June 16. From Kochi, she reached her residence in Udumalpet in a car through the Walayar check-post at the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border. Her sample was lifted on June 17. Sources added that she was admitted to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore. Meanwhile, the 30-year-old man from Andipalayam in Tiruppur Corporation limits who tested positive on Friday was cross-notified to Chennai due to his travel history. As of Saturday, Tiruppur district has 119 COVID-19 cases, including three active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eleven-test-positive-in-coimbatore/article31880510.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collector orders seizure of private bus for overcrowding||District Collector K. Rajamani ordered the seizure of a private bus that was coming from Tiruppur to Coimbatore for ferrying excess number of passengers in defiance of State government’s directions on Saturday. During his inspection at the Karumathampatti check-post, the bus was found to be packed with nearly 50 passengers, Mr. Rajamani said. The State government has previously said that only 20 passengers will be allowed per town bus and 31 passengers will be allowed per mofussil bus to maintain physical distancing. “The police at the check-post have been asked to register a case against the driver and conductor,” he said. The seized private bus was brought to the premises of Regional Transport Office – Central on Dr. Balasundaram Road. Action against private buses that violate the COVID-19 precautionary norms will intensify across Coimbatore district in the coming days, Mr. Rajamani noted. Besides, vehicles of those who come into the district without an e-pass will also be seized and commercial establishments failing to restrict crowds will be sealed, the Collector warned. Meanwhile, Transport Department officials and traffic police seized three autorickshaws here on Saturday for violating COVID-19 personal distancing norms. A team of Motor Vehicle Inspectors, led by Regional Transport Officer (South) S. Saravanan, and traffic police personnel inspected autorickshaws at Hope College Junction, Vilankurichi and near South India Textile Research Association on Saturday morning. They found three autorickshaws carrying six, seven and eight passengers respectively, while only two passengers are allowed per vehicle as per the State government’s directions. “These autorickshaws had an additional plank to accommodate additional passengers and also allowed passengers to sit beside the driver,” Mr. Saravanan said. The drivers also did not possess documents such as fitness certificates and registration certificates, he said. The seized autorickshaws were taken to the Regional Transport Office – Central premises on Dr. Balasundaram Road. The officials will continue to inspect autorickshaws and buses to ensure they follow the personal distancing norms across the city, according to Mr. Saravanan. State government allowed autorickshaws to ply in Coimbatore district after nearly two months due to the nationwide lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-orders-seizure-of-private-bus-for-overcrowding/article31880501.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery showroom sealed for illegally transporting 30 staff from Chennai||The Coimbatore district administration on Saturday sealed the Cross Cut Road showroom of a popular jewellery chain on charges that the management had illegally transported 30 employees from its Chennai branch. Complaint lodged The administration sealed the showroom under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, Epidemic Diseases Act. The area revenue inspector has also lodged a complaint with the Kattoor Police, said sources who were a part of the team that sealed the showroom. On June 18, the jewellery chain management had moved into Coimbatore 30 of its employees – all men - who worked at its branch on North Usman Road, Chennai and accommodated them in a lodge near the showroom Coimbatore. The management had not obtained the e-pass for movement of its staff. The pass they had was only for movmeent within Chennai. In its response to questions on how it transported the 30 employees, the management was evasive, the sources alleged. Following this, the Coimbatore Corporation sent its health teams to sanitise the showroom and the lodge where the 30 employees stayed. The sources said that the Corporation also sprayed disinfectants in the lodge where the 150 employees of the Cross Cut Road showroom stayed. Health workers from the Department of Public Health lifted swab samples from the 30 persons from Chennai and also the 150 who worked in the Cross Cut Road showroom to test for COVID-19. Coimbatore City Police Commissioner had tweeted that the jewellery showroom by bringing its employees, "without self quarantine" had endangered lives of customers and co-workers "creating risk of spread of corona virus". Hence, the shop was sealed. Kattoor police registered a case against the manager of the showroom and 39 employees for offences under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC and Section 3 (penalty - any person disobeying any regulation or order made under this Act shall be deemed to have committed an offence punishable under section 188 of the IPC) of the Epidemic Diseases Act based on a complaint lodged by a revenue official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-showroom-sealed-for-illegally-transporting-30-staff-from-chennai/article31880507.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Isolation ward reopened at Jaivabai school||The COVID-19 isolation ward was reopened at Jaivabai Municipal Girls Higher Secondary School in Tiruppur on Saturday. In April, 100 beds were set up at the isolation ward. As the Class X public examinations were previously announced to be held in June, the beds were removed from the premises. With the examinations cancelled, the beds have been placed again, according to Revenue Department sources. There are 92 beds in the school on Saturday and the remaining will be placed soon. With new COVID-19 cases being reported nearly every day in the district, more educational institutions will be converted into isolation wards, according to the sources. As of Friday, Tiruppur district had 10 containment zones comprising two in Tiruppur Corporation limits, three in Udumalpet block and one each in Mulanur, Kangeyam, Palladam, Uthukuli and Tiruppur blocks. On Saturday, COVID-19 monitoring officer for Tiruppur district K. Gopal conducted an online meeting with officials regarding the precautionary measures being carried out. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, District Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal, Tiruppur Corporation Commissioner K. Sivakumar and Deputy Director of Health Services (Tiruppur) K. Jegadeesh Kumar participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isolation-ward-reopened-at-jaivabai-school/article31880529.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Police tighten vehicle check in Coimbatore district||The police stepped up checking of vehicles that entered Coimbatore district from other districts and Kerala on Saturday, reportedly after the Revenue Department found that around 30 employees of a jewellery showroom at Gandhipuram arrived at Coimbatore from Chennai without obtaining e-pass. On Saturday, the police sent back people who tried to enter the district without e-pass or other requisite documents. While the checking was minimal in the last several days, the police swung into action on major roads that link Coimbatore to other districts and Kerala. The police also checked whether motorists and passengers wore mask as a precautionary measure against COVID-19 spread. Coimbatore District (Rural) Police conducted strict vehicle checks at 13 places along Kerala border and at 12 inter-district check-posts. Health Department staff were also posted at these places to collect details of persons who enter the district and also to lift their swab samples, if required. Those who enter the district with e-pass were asked to remain in strict home quarantine for 14 days. Rural police said in a statement that action will be taken against those who violate home quarantine based on complaints from the Health Department. Rural police said that action will be taken against shops and establishments that violate precautions against COVID-19. Coimbatore city police also tightened vehicle checks at major entry points of the city. Personnel attached to the city police also engaged in crowd management in busy market places on Saturday. Police personnel ensured that people follow physical distancing at shops. They also gave advisories to people through public addressing system at several places. District Collector K. Rajamani inspected vehicle checking and other arrangements at Thekkalur on Avinashi road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-tighten-vehicle-check-in-coimbatore-district/article31880532.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In biggest single-day spike, 2,396 cases reported in T.N.||A 44-year-old man died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on June 19 due to cardiopulmonary arrest and COVID-19 pneumonia. Both did not have any co-morbidities. A 45-year-old woman from Madurai — a patient with a high risk pregnancy — died at the Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, on Friday due to viral pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Except Erode, Namakkal and the Nilgiris, all other districts reported new cases of COVID-19 that included imported cases. Chennai’s overall tally climbed to 39,641, while Chengalpattu with 180 new cases accounted for a total of 3,620 cases. There were 131 cases in Tiruvallur and 125 cases in Tiruvannamalai. Apart from these districts, there were 90 cases in Madurai, 87 in Kancheepuram, 67 in Ranipet, 48 in Ramanathapuram, 46 in Thoothukudi, 40 in Salem, 36 in Vellore and 32 in Sivangangai. Nine other districts had cases in the range of 10 to 25 each. Till now, a total of 2,495 persons who returned from other countries and States have tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. Two more private laboratories — Meenakshi Medical College Hospital and Research Institute, Kancheepuram and Laboratory Services in Sri Ramakrishna Hospital, Sidhapudur, Coimbatore — were approved for COVID-19 testing.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-biggest-single-day-spike-2396-cases-reported-in-tn/article31880485.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collector warns against travelling to Salem without e-pass||District Collector S.A. Raman has warned that stern legal action will be taken against persons who travel to Salem from other districts and States without e-pass. In a release, Mr. Raman said that check-posts have been set up at district borders and persons travelling to Salem are stopped at these points and medical examinations are conducted. Mr. Raman advised the public to inform about persons travelling from other places here through toll-free number 1077 or to the control room of health services in the following numbers: 0427-2450022, 2450023, 2450498 or 73058-68942.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-warns-against-travelling-to-salem-without-e-pass/article31880515.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Light rain predicted in ghats||A few places in coastal areas of the State and districts along Western Ghats may get light to moderate rains for the next two days, according to the Meteorological Department. Officials of the department said one or two weather stations in the Nilgiris, Coimbatore, Theni and Dindigul districts may receive up to 12.4 cm of rain. Thundershowers  Strong westerlies and convective activity would trigger thundershowers in one or two places of Dharmapuri, Salem and Namakkal districts on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/light-rain-predicted-in-ghats/article31880536.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Loans for SHGs||Minister for Dairy Development K.T .Rajenthra Bhalaji inaugurated distribution of COVID-19 special loan assistance worth Rs. 1.71 crore through Central Cooperative Society and Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies to 3,419 members of 255 self-help groups for women. He gave away the assistance to 14 SHGs in the presence of Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan at a function held at Tiruthangal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/loans-for-shgs/article31880683.ece
21 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Inflow into Krishna’s tributaries reduces||Reduced rainfall in western and south Maharashtra led to reduced release of water into the Krishna river’s tributaries in Belagavi on Saturday. Officials estimate that the released water peaked at 68,000 cusecs by Saturday morning and reduced to around 60,000 cusecs by evening. “If this situation continues, there will be no fresh releases by Sunday evening,” an irrigation officer said. Officials analyse that dry spell for 3-4 days would stabilise the water levels in Doodha Ganga and Veda Ganga rivers, pushing back the water gradient to June first week levels. “However, if the rainfall increases suddenly and the release crosses one lakh cusecs per day, we would be forced to evacuate the low lying villages,” an Irrigation Department engineer said. Rainfall stopped in most places in Belagavi district except in Khanapur taluk that continued to receive rains. But it was less than the amount received on Friday. As many as six bridge-cum-barrages continued to remain under water. Officials said they would be free for carrying traffic if the dry spell continued at least for three days. NDRF teams from Hyderabad and SDRF teams from Bengaluru have arrived in villages along the Krishna banks. The officers are training police and panchayat officials in preparing for flash floods. A team of NDRF officials organised an online training workshop for gram panchayat officials in Athani and Chikkodi taluks on Saturday. Assistant Commissioner Ravindra Karilingannanavar said that there were separate rules for evacuation of villages with old and new COVID cases. “These facts are being brought to the notice of ground level workers, police and panchayat officials,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inflow-into-krishnas-tributaries-reduces/article31880579.ece
21 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Information Commission to start functioning from Suvarna Soudha||The officeof the State Information Commission will start functioning from the Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi from June 22. This is the first of the nine offices that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has promised to shift to Belagavi. The office would have jurisdiction over seven Bombay Karnataka districts. The commission will hear appeals against public information officers and other complaints from Right to Information Act applicants. B.V. Geetha has taken charge as the Commissioner in charge of northern Karnataka. Some staff members have been posted to Belagavi while some others may be transferred in the next few months, officials said. After division of cases, the Commissioner in charge of these northern districts has found that there are around 4,000 pending appeals and complaints. These will be tried in a phased manner, with the oldest appeals being heard first. The commission’s office will not function duringthe period of the winter session of the State legislature at the Suvarna Soudha. That period will be utilised to create awareness programmes and hold sittings in jurisdictional districts, said an official release.  This is first of the nine offices that the Chief Minister has promised to shift to Belagavi The office to have jurisdiction over seven Bombay Karnataka districts Around 4,000 pending appeals and complaints to be heard in a phased manner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/information-commission-to-start-functioning-from-suvarna-soudha/article31880434.ece
21 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Anxiety as doctors test positive||Premier government hospitals in the city have been hit hard by COVID-19 in the last fortnight. After positive cases being reported from NIMHANS, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, and Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology, now five postgraduate doctors from Victoria Hospital and the Head of the department of gynaecology at ESI Hospital in Rajajinagar tested positive on Friday night. Following this, patients who had visited these hospitals in the last few days are now worried. Especially in ESI, as the gynaecologist is also a senior professor at ESIC Medical College, she had not just taken classes for MBBS students till Thursday but also conducted a c-section delivery a day before testing positive. Also, as Thursday happened to be her OPD day, she had seen several patients. ESIC Medical College Dean Jithendra Kumar said the HOD had been isolated and is under treatment at the hospital. Stating that eight persons who were in contact with the doctor had been quarantined, he refused to divulge more details. However, sources said that neither the OBG unit had been sanitised and fumigated nor had any staff members from the unit been quarantined. “The hospital’s isolation ward has both positive and suspected patients under one roof. Postgraduate doctors, who visit the isolation ward, also attend to other non-COVID-19 patients. More than 20 patients and four staff members, including the HOD, tested positive in the last one month here. As the hospital has centralised air-conditioning, we are worried that we may have been exposed to the virus, but none of us have been tested or quarantined,” said a staff member on condition of anonymity. Despite repeated attempts to contact the ESI Medical Superintendent, he was not available for comments. Meanwhile, in Victoria Hospital, although several members from the hospital’s core committee, including Dean and Director C.R. Jayanthi, who function from the COVID-19 war room of the hospital, were in contact with the five PG doctors who tested positive, they have not quarantined themselves. Confirming that the five PG doctors had tested positive, Dr. Jayanthi said 17 staff members from the hospital had been quarantined. Dismissing reports that the core committee members had been exposed to the virus, she said: “We are tertiary contacts and there is no need for us to go into quarantine. We are functioning as usual. Seventeen primary and secondary contacts have been quarantined,” she said. So far, two cancer patients at Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology, three cardiac patients at Jayadeva of which two died, and seven staffers at NIMHANS, who were infected by a mentally-ill patient, have tested positive. Following this, the hospitals had quarantined all staff members, who came in contact with the positive patients, and fumigated the wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anxiety-as-doctors-test-positive/article31880423.ece
21 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minister seeks report from Health Dept. after employee causes panic||The Department of Primary and Secondary Education will seek a report from the Health Department after learning that a 50-year-old employee had dropped off his daughter at a second PU examination centre after taking a COVID-19 test. He tested positive causing panic among students who had sat for the paper on June 18 in the same room as his daughter. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, at a press conference on Saturday, said that he would write to the Additional Chief Secretary and the Commissioner of the Department of Health and Family Welfare seeking an inquiry report. “I will also recommend appropriate action against the staff member as it caused a lot of panic among students,” he said. The girl’s test result came on Saturday and she is not infected. Travelled extensively The Health Department employee is a driver who had travelled extensively in containment zones in the city. He came under criticism from several parents and students as he had dropped his daughter at the examination centre even as he was awaiting his COVID-19 test result. The Minister said, “I will discuss this with the Health Department because such incidents should not occur again and necessary action should be initiated against that person.” He added that disciplinary action will be taken against heads of examination centres where social distancing norms were violated. “We have identified three areas around the examination centres where students were crowding. I will have another round of video conferencing with officials to ensure that these norms are not violated for the SSLC examinations that begins on June 25.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-seeks-report-from-health-dept-after-employee-causes-panic/article31880420.ece
21 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Selection process of labour institute director stayed||The High Court of Karnataka has stayed the notification to fill the post of director of Karnataka State Labour Institute (KSLI) based on the new bylaw on appointing only a retired IAS officer who has served in the Labour Department not below the rank of Labour Secretary or Commissioner. Justice John Michael Cunha passed the interim order on a petition filed by the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh. The petitioner had alleged that several radical amendments to the bylaws, rules and regulations of KSLI, an institute set up by the State government under the Societies Registration Act, were made illegally to suit only retired bureaucrats. Prior to amendment, the rules mandated that a person having a Ph.D with research and teaching experience would be eligible for consideration. Vested interest? It was also alleged in the petition that the entire process of amending the bylaws, rules and regulations, and the astronomical hike in remuneration and luxurious facilities for the director, were all carried out by the then Labour Commissioner K.G. Shantharam and a few other bureaucrats to ensure that Mr. Shantharam got the post of director after his retirement and that later only retired bureaucrats would be appointed to the post. Questioning the legality of the approval granted by the Registrar of Societies to the amendments, the petitioner contended that Mr. Shantharam, subsequent to the amendment, secured the in-charge post of director and continuing even though he retired from government service on May 31. The petitioner also claimed that Mr. Shantharam, who invited applications for the post of director on May 30, would ensure his own appointment to the post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/selection-process-of-labour-institute-director-stayed/article31880430.ece
21 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Now, parks can remain open from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m.||The State government on Saturday authorised local authorities and civic bodies to open public parks, outside containment zones, for any number of hours between 5 a.m. and 9 p.m. Earlier, while relaxing a few restrictions in the third week of May, the government had permitted parks to remain open only from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. to 7 p.m., mainly for walkers. The order also directed departments to adhere to guidelines issued by the State and the Central governments. At present, Lalbagh and Cubbon Park are open only from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. Officials said they will announce revised timings for the public and ticketed entries next week. Rajendra Kumar Kataria, secretary to the government, Horticulture and Sericulture, said, “We will decide on opening Lalbagh and Cubbon Park for extended periods on Monday. Since parks can be open from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m., vehicular movement within and via Cubbon Park may also resume soon,” he said. However, officials said their priority is to frame safety guidelines. “Apart from Lalbagh and Cubbon Park, we maintain gardens at Nandi Hills, Kemmangundi in Chikmagalur district. As they are tourist places, we need to take more precautions,” he added. Chandrashekar M.R., deputy director, Lalbagh, said social distancing can be enforced at Lalbagh given its size. “For now, only morning and evening walkers are allowed and they do not need tickets,” he said. An official in the BBMP, which manages over 1,000 parks in the city, said they will also come out with revised timings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-parks-can-remain-open-from-5-am-to-9-pm/article31880414.ece
21 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Planetarium to webcast eclipse for enthusiasts||At the time of every eclipse, the Jawaharlal Nehru Planetarium is usually abuzz with activities. However, during the solar eclipse on Sunday, there will not be much activity at the planetarium in the heart of the city owing to restrictions due to COVID-19. Pramod G. Galgali, planetarium director, told The Hindu that though no arrangements have been made for the public to view the first eclipse of 2020, online webcast of the partial solar eclipse will be made available on the planetarium website (www.taralaya.org), apart from its channel on Facebook and YouTube. “This, of course, is subject to favourable weather conditions,” he said and added that a special telescope called H Alpha would be used. The partial solar eclipse will be visible from 10.12 a.m. to 1.31 p.m.; the maximum (around 40%) will be at 11.47 a.m. He said just around 10-15 members of the Association of Bangalore Amateur Astronomers will be at the planetarium to record the readings. Stressing again on the fact that the eclipsing sun should not be viewed without protective and safety equipment, Mr. Galgali said the planetarium had sold nearly 1,000 safety goggles till Saturday evening. “Since we do not want people crowding the planetarium for the goggles, there will be no sale on Sunday,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/planetarium-to-webcast-eclipse-for-enthusiasts/article31880416.ece
21 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||518 private hospitals asked to treat COVID-19 patients||Even before fixing rates for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals, the Health Department on Saturday directed the 518 private Medical Colleges/Hospitals in the State, including 44 in Bengaluru, empanelled under ABArK to admit and treat referred COVID-19 patients as per government protocol and criteria. All treatment protocols as laid down by the government from time to time should be followed by private hospitals. The hospitals will be paid appropriate package rate for COVID-19 management, stated an order issued on Saturday. In another order, the department identified 16 government hospitals, including ESI hospitals, in Bengaluru with a total of 2,984 beds to function as dedicated COVID-19 health centres. The department also identified three facilities — Sri Sri Ravishankar Ashram on Kanakapura road, Kanteerva Stadium and Koramangala Indoor Stadium — to function as designated care centres. Nine deaths Meanwhile, Karnataka recorded nine more deaths on Saturday, taking the toll to 133. While three are from Bengaluru Urban, two are from Bidar, and one each from Davangere, Chikkamagaluru, and Udupi. One death has been reported in the “others” category as a 66-year-old female patient who was brought dead to a designated hospital in Bidar from outside the State. In the last 11 days, the number of deaths in the State have doubled. From 66 deaths on June 9, the number rose to 134 (including the constable’s) on June 20. In the last five days alone, 45 deaths have been reported with an average of nine per day. As many as 416 new cases have been reported taking the total to 8,697. With 94 cases, Bengaluru continued to report the highest number of cases for the second consecutive day. With this, the total number of positive cases in the city touched 1,076. A deputy director from the Information and Public Relations Department, posted at Vidhana Soudha, also tested positive on Saturday.  Patients complain Patients in Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD) on Saturday complained about unhygienic conditions in the ward and of not getting food on time. In a video released to the media, the patients, including a policeman from Madivala station, appealed to the Health Minister to intervene and ensure that patients get good care. Refuting the allegations, RGICD Director C. Nagaraj showed another video of patients expressing satisfaction over food and other facilities provided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/518-private-hospitals-asked-to-treat-covid-19-patients/article31880425.ece
21 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||6,929 virtual sittings held||The trial courts in the State have held 6.929 virtual sittings to hear 7,555 cases using videoconferencing system between March 26 and June 6 following the lockdown, stated a press release issued by the High Court. Around 6,700 cases were received through e-filling system during this period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/6929-virtual-sittings-held/article31880426.ece
21 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Blood donation camp held||Residents of Purva Seasons in C.V. Raman Nagar organised a blood donation camp in the society on Saturday with the help of Bangalore Medical Services Trust (BMST), which is run by TTK Group of Companies and Rotary Club. Support staff of the society also came forward to donate blood. Dr. Srivalli of BMST said, “We collected 49 units of blood, which is the highest for us this year. We urge other residential complexes to come forward to organise such camps because demand for blood has gone up during the COVID-19 pandemic.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/blood-donation-camp-held/article31880413.ece
21 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minister’s warning to KHB officials||Housing Minister V. Somanna has warned the Karnataka Housing Board (KHB) officials that criminal cases will be filed against them if they violate rules while sanctioning housing sites developed by the board and during the registration process of sites. During a review meeting on Saturday, the Minister found that 400 sites developed by the board in Vijayapura had been registered in the name of beneficiaries without paying registration fee. Irked over this, the Minister instructed officials to follow rules while allotting sites and houses developed by the board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ministers-warning-to-khb-officials/article31880431.ece
21 June 2020||Bengaluru/Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Constable dies of COVID-19||A 56-year-old constable attached to Kalasipalya police station, Bengaluru, died of COVID-19 on Saturday at Victoria Hospital. The constable had tested positive on June 18. Eight police personnel from the station had tested positive. Earlier, an assistant sub-inspector attached to V.V. Puram traffic police station, who died of heart attack, had tested positive posthumously. Around 40 police personnel have tested positive so far in the city. In Mysuru, 15 Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) personnel tested positive. The personnel were under home quarantine after their return from duty at Padarayanapura and other places in Bengaluru. In Bengaluru, Cubbon Park police station was sealed on Saturday after a head constable tested positive. Wilson Garden traffic police station has been sealed after an assistant sub-inspector of police tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/constable-dies-of-covid-19/article31880422.ece
21 June 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Victim’s son appeals to public to be cautious||A person, who lost his mother to COVID-19, has circulated a video appealing to the public to take care of their health. Expressing his distress over not being able to take part in his mother’s final rites, he wished nobody went through such an experience. A 72-year-old woman from Ajjampura taluk with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness died in Chikkamagaluru on Thursday. She was tested positive for COVID-19. Earlier, she was treated for her respiratory problem in a hospital at Ajjampura, where her son took care of her. “I could take care of her when she was at the non-COVID hospital. However, since she was shifted to COVID Hospital in Chikkamagaluru, I was not allowed to meet her. The hospital staff members told me that she was remembering me repeatedly in her last hours,” he said. “The Health Department staff took me to the hospital to bid farewell to my mother. Later, I was not allowed to take part in her final rites. I wish you don’t miss the chance to take part in your mother’s final rites,” he said. The video has gone viral in the district. So far, 26 people have tested positive in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/victims-son-appeals-to-public-to-be-cautious/article31880583.ece
21 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Woman found murdered in Channarayapatna taluk||A woman was found murdered at Kamanaghatta near Hirisave in Channarayapatna taluk on Friday. The deceased is around 40-50 years old, whose identity is not yet known. Manjunath D.N. of Didaga village noticed the body while he was on his way to Kamanaghatta and informed the police. The body was wrapped in bedsheet. It is suspected that somebody murdered her and threw her body. Based on Manjunath’s statement, the police have registered case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-found-murdered-in-channarayapatna-taluk/article31880578.ece
21 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Cooperative societies for ASHAs will be formed: Minister||Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekhar has said that steps were being taken to form cooperative societies for Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and extend financial assistance to them at subsidised interest rates. He was addressing a gathering after distributing incentives to COVID-19 warriors, the ASHAs, at a programme jointly organised by KCC Bank, Dharwad Milk Union and Karnatak Chamber of Commerce and Industry here on Saturday. Mr. Somashekhar said that various cooperative banks of the State had donated to the tune of Rs. 52 crore to the Chief Minister’s COVID Relief Fund. “There are 42,000 ASHAs who have served as COVID warriors risking their lives. We have collected funds from cooperative banks which are in profit and distributing Rs. 3,000 each to the warriors,” he said. The Minister said that in a phased manner, funds would be collected from district-level cooperative banks to disburse assistance to the ASHAs. He said that as of now ‘Stree Shakti Sanghas’ were given assistance up to Rs. 5 lakh at subsidised interest rates and on the same lines it had been planned to form cooperative societies of ASHAs and extend assistance to them. According to officials, so far 178 ASHAs have been given a total assistance of Rs. 5.34 lakh through various cooperative banks in Dharwad district and on Saturday 100 ASHAs were given an assistance of Rs. 3 lakh. Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar, former Minister Basavaraj Horatti, MLA Prasad Abbayya, MLCs Pradeep Shettar and S.V. Sankanur, and Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Deepa M. were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cooperative-societies-for-ashas-will-be-formed-minister/article31880585.ece
21 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Bidar reports two deaths, 73 new cases||Bidar on Saturday reported two deaths and 73 new cases of COVID-19, taking the district’s toll to 13 and case tally to 484. Of the total 484 cases in Bidar district, 266 persons have recovered and 205 are active as on June 20. The daily increase in COVID-19 cases has remained nearly constant in Kalaburagi district. On Saturday, Kalaburagi reported 34 new cases. Of the total 1,160 cases in Kalaburagi, 688 persons have recovered and discharged. There are 461 active cases. Ballari district recorded 38 new cases on Saturday. Of the total 402 cases, 98 were discharged and 302 were under treatment.  In Dharwad Dharwad district recorded five more COVID-19 cases on Saturday taking the total tally to 183. Meanwhile, 10 patients have been discharged from the designated COVID hospital. So far, 62 infected persons have been cured and discharged so far and at present there are 118 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bidar-reports-two-deaths-73-new-cases/article31880577.ece
21 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Vishwanath authors a script for Council entry||The former Minister A.H. Vishwanath, who was denied BJP ticket to contest election to the Legislative Council from the Assembly constituency, is aspiring to enter the Upper House of the State legislature through a government nomination. Mr. Vishwanath, who has written seven books, told The Hindu that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had assured to nominate him to the Legislative Council. The BJP government is due to nominate five persons to the Council from the fields of literature, sports, science, media, and arts by the month-end, said Mr. Vishwanath before expressing confidence of his nomination from the field of literature. “I am also an author. There are very few politician-writers in India. I have written on State, national and international politics,” Mr. Vishwanath said, citing his works on the evolution of the British parliamentary system in the book Talking Shop , the system of governance in the oldest democratic country, Greece, in the book Athensna Rajyaadalitha , and so on. Mr. Vishwanath said his nomination to the Council would also pave the way for a ministerial berth. He sought to clarify that the Supreme Court order does not come in the way of him securing either a nomination to the Council or a ministerial berth. The Supreme Court order pertains only to the Lower House and not to the UpperHouse. He said the apex court had upheld their disqualification from the Assembly, but said they can qualify again by contesting the elections, which they did. “The tag of being disqualified is no longer there,” he said and even referred to the case of the former Minister N. Nagaraju (MTB), who was recently given ticket by the BJP to contest the Council polls after losing the Assembly byelection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vishwanath-authors-a-script-for-council-entry/article31880432.ece
21 June 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Sharavathi project: Greens want survey suspended during rains||Expressing apprehension that continuation of the survey and geotechnical investigation for the Sharavathi Underground Pumped Storage Project in the limits of the Sharavathi Valley Lion Tailed Macaque (LTM) Sanctuary after the onset of the rainy season may result in landslips and other disasters, environmentalists have demanded immediate suspension of the work. The 57th meeting of the Standing Committee of the National Board for Wildlife held on April 7 had given its nod for the proposal by the Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd. (KPCL) seeking permission for survey and geotechnical investigations at the sanctuary for the controversial project. Following this, the Chief Wildlife Warden of Karnataka gave approval for the survey. Akhilesh Chipli, an environmentalist, told The Hindu that the Department of Forest and Wildlife had permitted survey and geotechnical investigations on the condition that the work should not be executed during the rainy season. He said that though the southwest monsoon has become active in the Sharavathi sanctuary limits, the work has continued. Referring to the landslips reported in the Western Ghat region of Karnataka and Kerala in the recent years during the monsoon season, he said drilling for geotechnical investigations in ecologically sensitive areas may trigger a similar disaster in Sharavathi sanctuary limits also. The sanctuary is known for Myristica swamps, unique fresh water swamp forests that comprise perennial streams and flora networks that are home to wide range of species of reptiles, birds, and amphibians, he said and added that the drilling and geotechnical investigations during the monsoon — the rejuvenation time for the swamps — would upset the ecological balance of the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sharavathi-project-greens-want-survey-suspended-during-rains/article31880436.ece
21 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||13 test positive for COVID-19 in Udupi||As many as 13 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi district on Saturday. According to a health bulletin issued here, the 13 people included eight men, two women, and three children ranging from two to six years of age. Of the 13 persons, 10 were Maharashtra returnees, one patient was a contact of a patient (P-5451), another patient was an inter-district traveller (from Bengaluru), while the contact of a patient was being traced. Meanwhile, G. Jagadeesha, Deputy Commissioner, said that as per government guidelines, all those who returned from Maharashtra had to undergo 14-day home quarantine and their houses would be sealed down. In the first instance of violation of home quarantine, a warning would be given. But after second violation, an FIR would be filed and such a person would be put under institutional quarantine, he said. 16 cases in Hassan As many as 16 people, including two policemen, tested positive here on Saturday. With that, the total number of confirmed cases in the district increased to 287. Among them, 196 have been discharged and 90 people are undergoing treatment. Of the 16 new cases, 13 people had a history of travelling to Maharashtra and one person had been to Bengaluru. Besides them, two policemen had tested positive. It is not clear how they contracted the infection. Those who travelled from Maharashtra were quarantined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/13-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-udupi/article31880582.ece
21 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Movement of heavy vehicles banned on Agumbe Ghat||The district Administration has banned the movement of heavy vehicles of over 12 tonnes on the Agumbe Ghat on National Highway 169A (Tirthahalli–Udupi) till August 15, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/movement-of-heavy-vehicles-banned-on-agumbe-ghat/article31880433.ece
21 June 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||The only women’s varsity should be a model: Sabiha||Sabiha Bhoomigowda, the outgoing Vice-Chancellor of Karnataka State Akkamahadevi Women’s University, said that she was happy to have completed some of the dream projects of the university during her tenure. Having propelled several new projects and trying to bring progressive changes in the functioning of the lone women’s university of the State, Prof. Sabiha also said that she was upset over some incomplete projects. “On June 20, 2014, when I took charge as fourth V-C, I did not conceive huge projects. My plan was to bring changes in the curriculum and functioning of the university to make it more women friendly, job oriented, and to meet the primary objective of women empowerment,” she said. Prof. Sabiha said that as a first step, she decided to revise the language syllabus to make it more women-focussed and inspirational. “Introducing a concept of women achievers in the curriculum is essential to inspire students so that they too could dream and work toward realising it,” she said. “One of the significant works that took place during my tenure was getting four acres of land granted in Bengaluru from the government to establish residential training centre in competitive exams for girls. We can hope that in future, we will see more women IAS and IPS officers coming from our university,” she said. While expressing happiness over several programmes getting realised, she also expressed dismay over reports of the government trying to curtail the jurisdiction of the university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-only-womens-varsity-should-be-a-model-sabiha/article31880581.ece
21 June 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Kakade is acting V-C||Omkar Kakade, Head of the Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, has been appointed as acting Vice-Chancellor of Karnataka State Akkamahadevi Women’s University on Friday. He took charge after the end of the four-year tenure of Sabiha, who was appointed as the fourth Vice-Chancellor of the university in June 2016. Mr. Kakade will hold the post till the government appoints a new Vice-Chancellor, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kakade-is-acting-v-c/article31880580.ece
21 June 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Inflow into Almatti reservoir increases||Incessant rain in the Western Ghats in Maharashtra has significantly increased the inflow into the Almatti dam, with the reservoir receiving nearly 5 tmcft of water on Saturday. On Friday, it received around 3.5 tmcft of water, according to officials of the Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigam Ltd. With this, the total storage in the reservoir has reached 44.894 tmcft. On the same day last year, it was 29.523 tmcft. Water is being discharged at a rate of 530 cusecs. The total height of the dam is 519 m, and the water level is at 512.62 m. This time last year, the water level was at 508.03 m. On June 5, the dam recorded an inflow rate of 12,761 cusecs. This year, inflow started in the first week of June itself. Normally, the inflow starts either in the last week of June or the first week of July. Last year, owing to heavy rains in the Western Ghats, the dam received an enormous quantum of water every day. In June last year, the officials discharged 5 lakh cusecs of water, which led to a flood-like situation in villages located on the banks of Krishna river in Vijayapura district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inflow-into-almatti-reservoir-increases/article31880428.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Education Dept. tries to get its act together for SSLC exams||The possibility of class X students contracting COVID-19 while writing the board examination hit home when government officials learned that a PU student, who had appeared for the English language paper on June 18, was a primary contact of a COVID-19 patient. They spent anxious hours on Friday figuring out damage control protocols. While the crisis was averted after the girl’s test came out negative, the Department of Primary and Secondary Education is on high alert. It has initiated a slew of measures for the SSLC examinations that are scheduled to begin on June 25. Anticipating a spike in the number of cases in the next couple of days, several student organisations demanded that the examinations be postponed. Education officials, however, said the examinations will go ahead as planned with more stringent measures in place. They will work in tandem with the Department of Health and Family Welfare, and cross verify data of people who are in quarantine. “We will make our database available to the Health Department. They can check if any of the contacts of our students are in institutional quarantine. We will then ask these students to appear for the supplementary examinations,” said S. Suresh Kumar, Minister, Primary and Secondary Education. Enormous exercise While the plan seems sound on paper, education officials feel that such an elaborate exercise would require more time and manpower given that the board examination is less than a week away. “It will be difficult to identify all those who are in quarantine and check the database of students,” said one official. Another factor is the rising number of cases every day. Mr. Suresh Kumar said that all examination officials have done mock drills to maintain social distancing. “There will be a minimum of 18 students and a maximum of 20 students in one examination hall,” he said, reiterating that all social distancing measures will be taken. To avoid crowding while entering the examination hall, staff have been asked to reach centres as early as 7 a.m. Students can sanitise themselves and enter the hall by 7.45 a.m. As many as 8.48 lakh students have registered for the SSLC examinations scheduled to be held between June 25 and July 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/education-dept-tries-to-get-its-act-together-for-sslc-exams/article31880418.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Second PU student whose father has COVID-19 tests negative||The second year pre-university (PU) student, who appeared for the English examination earlier this week and whose father had contracted COVID-19, has tested negative for the infectious disease. At a press conference on Saturday, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that the test result for the student came back negative on Saturday afternoon. The student had appeared for the second PU English language examination on June 18 at a centre in south Bengaluru. However, as she has tested negative, the minister said that 23 other students who wrote the examination in the same classroom are not required to remain in home quarantine. “The other students at the examination centre need not worry,” Mr. Kumar said. Several officials of the department heaved a sigh of relief as there was a lot of criticism that social distancing norms were not followed in many of the examination centres. Precautionary measure On Friday, Health and Family Welfare Department officials had asked 23 students to remain in home quarantine as a precautionary measure. V. Ravi, virologist at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS), too, said that there was no need for other students to remain in quarantine as the daughter, who is the primary contact of the patient, has tested negative. Dr. Ravi pointed out that their research shows that the chances of the infection spreading from an asymptomatic patient to another person is very low. “As the father was asymptomatic, there is no cause for concern,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/second-pu-student-whose-father-has-covid-19-tests-negative/article31880421.ece
21 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Girders installed for bypass ROB||Taking another step towards the completion of the Alappuzha bypass project, the installation of girders as part of the construction of a rail overbridge (ROB) at Kuthirapanthy has begun. Officials said here on Saturday that the first girder was fixed around 3.30 p.m. on Saturday in the presence of Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran and other officials. The rest of the girders will be installed in the coming days. Railways have announced regulation of train services along the coastal route till June 25 for carrying out the work. By September Mr. Sudhakaran said that once the girders were placed, concreting work would be started. “It will take two months to complete it. If weather permits, we hope to complete the rest of the works and open the bypass to traffic in September,” the Minister said. The Alappuzha bypass project consists of two RoBs at Malikamukku and Kuthirapanthy. The placing of girders at Malikamukku was completed in January. Earlier, the work on the bypass project had come to a halt after a delay in getting permission from Railways to place girders above the railway track. After inspecting the girders brought for the construction of the ROBs, Railways had recommended structural changes and denied permission for starting the work. Following this, necessary changes were made in the girders of both ROBs. Railways granted permission to place girders at Malikamukku in January. The nod for the work at Kuthirapanthy was received last month. The Alappuzha bypass project was first mooted four decades ago. However, it had remained on paper until the work got under way on April 10, 2015. The project, which was set to be completed in September 2017, got delayed on account of various reasons. The 6.8-km two-lane bypass road will link Kommady on the north and Kalarcode on the south and pass by the western side of NH 66. The project is being implemented at a cost of Rs. 348.43 crore with equal share borne by the Union and the State governments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/girders-installed-for-bypass-rob/article31880719.ece
21 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Four cases in Alappuzha||Four persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Saturday. One of the patients, a 57-year-old man from Mannar, came from Abu Dhabi on June 3. The second person, a youth from Chengannur, came from Abu Dhabi on May 26. Another person, a youth hailing from Chengannur, reached the district from Kuwait on June 13. The fourth person, a 64-year-old man from Chengannur, came by train from Mumbai on June 8. All four have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, for treatment. Meanwhile, 12 people who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 have tested negative for the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-cases-in-alappuzha/article31880717.ece
21 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Traffic may resume soon on Gap Road||Traffic on the Gap Road stretch of the Kochi-Dhanushkodi National Highway may resume soon with the district administration considering an alternative route in the area where a major landslip destroyed nearly 200 metres of the road on Wednesday. District Collector H. Dinesan will visit the area on Sunday to look into the option of a temporary route to resume the traffic. Since the road-widening works were launched on the Gap Road in 2019, over 15 major landslips have been reported, apparently due to the unscientific works. The works were indefinitely suspended in July 2019 after a major landslip took the lives of two workers. An expert team from the National Institute of Technology, Calicut, (NIT-C), inspected the area and the works were allowed after ensuring safety measures such as a retaining wall. Rex Felix, Assistant Executive Engineer, NHAI (National Highways Authority of India), said there was a massive formation of rocks with different plates which could fall any time. The landslip brought down the entire rock formation. The area would be strengthened by constructing a retaining wall, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-may-resume-soon-on-gap-road/article31880720.ece
21 June 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Wild elephants trigger panic in Wayanad||A herd of wild elephants that strayed into various human habitats at Punjavayal, Mararkadavu and Puthanangadi, near Panamaram, in Wayanad district on Saturday morning triggered panic among local people. Forest Department sources said a herd of four tuskers entered a village at Punjavayal around 2 km from the Neykuppa section of forest under the South Wayanad forest division. The herd was sighted inside a private coffee plantation in the area around 5.30 a.m. A team of forest officials led by Chethalayath forest range officer T. Sasikumar reached the spot. No damage to property When the animals entered some thickly populated areas, it raised anxiety among people. Later they entered the adjoining villages of Marakadavu and Punjavayal. But no destruction of property was reported. The elephants did not try to attack anybody, though they crossed two major roads. After six hours of chase, the team managed to send the elephants into the Pathiri reserve forest. Thirty front-line forest staff members took part in the operation, supervised by South Wayanad Forest Divisional Officer B. Ranjith Kumar.  Villagers in tenterhooks The straying elephants had been triggering panic in the Punjavayal and Ammani areas for the past two weeks, said villagers. The recurring incidents caused huge crop loss for farmers, they added. A huge granite lamp installed on the premises of a Ganesha temple at Punjavayal was destroyed last week in an elephant attack, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wild-elephants-trigger-panic-in-wayanad/article31880659.ece
21 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||KSIDC to invite fresh tenders for legacy waste rehabilitation||The Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) will float fresh tenders for the rehabilitation of legacy (old) waste at the dump site of the Kochi Corporation at Brahmapuram next week. The decision to float fresh tenders was taken as only one agency had qualified the minimum eligibility criteria when an e-tender was floated on March 20. The tenders for the waste-to-energy (WTE) plant at Brahmapuram will also be floated next week, according to KSIDC officials. Zonta Infratech Pvt. Ltd. and a consortium of GJ Nature Care and Energy Pvt. Ltd. and Equipo, Polland, (GJ Nature Care and Energy Pvt. Ltd. as the lead member) had submitted bids for the rehabilitation of legacy waste at Brahmapuram in response to the first tender. A meeting of the State Level Advisory Committee on Waste Management held in Thiruvananthapuram on May 18 decided not to consider the bid submitted by the consortium of GJ Nature Care Pvt. Ltd. and Equipo, Polland, as the consortium had not provided mandatory and adequate supporting documents to prove the minimum eligibility for technical and financial criteria as specified in the request for proposal (RPF), according to the minutes of the meeting. The committee had accepted the consolidated turnover submitted by Zonta Infratech Pvt. Ltd. to meet the financial criteria for minimum eligibility and directed that the technical evaluation of the bid may be done by the bid evaluation committee. The decision to float fresh tenders was taken on the basis of the fact that only one of the two agencies qualified to meet the minimum eligibility criteria mentioned in the RPF document. WTE plant The tenders for the waste-to-energy plant at Brahmapuram will be floated next week. The government had rejected a plea by GJ Eco Power Ltd. to review the decision to cancel its agreement with the Kochi Corporation for setting up the plant. The government had issued an order on June 5 directing the KSIDC managing director to take immediate steps to float a request for proposal to select a suitable concessionaire for setting up a centralised waste treatment plant at Brahmapuram. The proposed WTE plant having a capacity to process minimum 300 tonnes per day will be implemented on Design, Build, Finance, Operate and Transfer (DBFOT) basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksidc-to-invite-fresh-tenders-for-legacy-waste-rehabilitation/article31880646.ece
21 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Chellanam faces wrath of sea again||As many as 30 houses in Bazaar area of Chellanam have been flooded as several coastal stretches in the panchayat saw sea incursion from Thursday night. Companippady, Bazaar, Kattiparambu, Ganapathikkadu, Reethalayam, and Velankanni faced the wrath of the rough sea as rains intensified. There is a lot of apprehension among people about the coming days, said Babu Kaliparambil, a resident of Companippady. He pointed out that high waves and the rough sea condition had seen several homes near the coast facing the threat of flooding. ‘Situation grim’ The situation is quite grim in the south of Velankanni, said Mr. Babu. Jinson Veluthamannungal from Velankanni also said the early weeks of the monsoon had plunged Chellanam into gloom considering the prospects of flooding. He added that efforts to line up geo textile bags along the most vulnerable coastal stretches like Companippady, Bazaar, Velankanni, and Ganapathikkad in the panchayat had suffered a setback as rough sea conditions caused a dredger, meant to be engaged in sand filling in geo textile tubes, came loose from its mooring and was washed ashore last week. The dredger sunk almost totally early this week ending any hope of resumption of coastal protection work in the coming days. Geo textile bags with sea sand were being laid to prevent sea erosion in places like Velankanni, Bazaar, Vachakkal, and Companippady along 1.10 km of the coastal strech. Cyclone Ockhi The demand for coastal protection has grown loud after Cyclone Ockhi hit the shores of Chellanam in December 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chellanam-faces-wrath-of-sea-again/article31880644.ece
21 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fahadh’s new film faces early hurdles||A decision by actor Fahadh Faasil and editor-director Mahesh Narayanan to start the shooting of their new movie See You Soon created a buzz in the film circles on Saturday. The Kerala Film Producers Association (KFPA) opposed the move stating that there was a prior understanding among producers not to start shooting of new films as the release of 66 films was pending following the COVID-19 outbreak. These included Malik starring Fahadh and helmed by Mahesh.  To use mobile devices Fahadh, who is producing See You Soon , sent an e-mail to the association saying that he had no plans for a theatre release of the movie to be shot using mobile devices. The shooting will be done in a controlled environment with limited crew and complying with the safety protocols prescribed by authorities, said the letter. Mahesh termed it a creative experiment at a time when the film industry across the globe was struggling to overcome the impact of the crisis triggered by the COVID-19 outbreak. “We cannot even call it a full-length feature film. It’s only a random exercise, where we are experimenting with a new format,” he said. The makers of the project pointed out that such new efforts will give a push to young talents and encourage out-of-the-box thinking in filmmaking. B. Rakesh, treasurer of the KFPA, said the decision not to start the shooting of new movies was taken in the interests of the entire film industry. “The cinemas have not yet opened. We are worried about the fate of the pending films and adding to that list by shooting new movies is not practical,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fahadhs-new-film-faces-early-hurdles/article31880660.ece
21 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held for bid to murder infant||In a gruesome incident, a 54-day-old infant suffered serious head injuries after being allegedly slapped by her father on Thursday night. The Angamaly police arrested Shaiju Thomas, 40, a resident of Kannur, in connection with the incident. He was produced before court and remanded. The infant remains in the ICU of the Kolancherry Medical College Hospital. According to the police, the accused, suspicious of the parentage of the child, used to slap her whenever she cried. The infant fell unconscious after she was slapped on Thursday night. Her mother, of Nepali descent, was also allegedly beaten up by the accused. The infant was initially taken to Little Flower Hospital, Angamaly, from where she was referred to the Kolancherry Medical College Hospital. The doctor at the Kolencherry hospital was reportedly told that the child had been injured after falling from the bed. However, the doctor was not convinced and alerted the Angamaly police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-bid-to-murder-infant/article31880645.ece
21 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Public transport votaries welcome flexi-fare at night||Votaries of public transport, who have for long been demanding flexi-fare for travel by bus during late-night hours, have welcomed a proposal of the KSRTC to increase night-time travel fare by up to 30%. The long-pending demand was reiterated by Biju Prabhakar, the new KSRTC managing director. It can be implemented if the government agrees, he told The Hindu . Experts in the transport sector have for long been demanding incentivising the KSRTC and private bus operators by permitting higher fare for night trips since nil or wholly inadequate services during night time is a headache for people without private vehicles. Women commuters and the elderly are the worst hit. A senior KSRTC official said commuters would any day prefer buses even if the night fare was hiked nominally since the other alternative would be to spend high amounts on fuel for using private vehicles. “Else, they would end up being fleeced by autorickshaw drivers or would be forced to hitch a ride in cars or goods carriers, which is a risky proposition. On its part, the KSRTC will be able to check its loss which hovers around Rs. 40 crore per month,” he added. Public transport buses are practically unavailable in some locales after 8 p.m., and cities like Kochi are no exception. This was not the case a few years ago, when at least skeletal services were available in most cities and towns. Most private bus operators prefer not to conduct their last trips to save on expenses, said a senior Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) official. Another crucial issue that bus operators have been highlighting is bus crew fatigue since most drivers and conductors begin their duty as early as 6.30 a.m. The KSRTC is reluctant to operate trips although it has multiple shifts, citing inadequate fare collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/public-transport-votaries-welcome-flexi-fare-at-night/article31880642.ece
21 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||24 more test positive in Kollam||The district reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases on Saturday with 24 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2, taking the total number of active cases to 130. Among the patients, 22 persons are from abroad, including a three-year-old boy, and one case is from Maharashtra. There are 11 persons who had travelled from Kuwait, 8 from Saudi Arabia, and one each from Doha, Abu Dhabi, and Nigeria. According to district administration, the source, contact details, or route map of the last patient, a 52-year-old Mayyanad resident is not available. Persons who tested positive include residents of Chadayamangalam, Karunagappally, Chavara, Paravur, Pavithreswaram, Mynagappally North, Anchalummoodu, Thazhathu Kulakkada, Ayathil, Kollam West, Panayam, Perinad, Peringalam, Nallila, Pattazhi, Ezhukone, Thodiyoor, Pooyappalli, and Ezhamkulam. While the Kollam West resident and Ezhamkulam resident are undergoing treatment in Thiruvananthapuram, all others have been moved to Government Medical College, Parippally. More tests Taking into account the recent spike in the cases, more tests will be held in the district and more TrueNat tests will be conducted with the help of MLAs, said Minister J. Mercykutty Amma. Speaking at the COVID-19 review meeting, she added that it would be used for autopsies too. The district also reported two recoveries on Saturday, including that of a 58-year-old Kulathupuzha resident who was tested positive on May 24 and a 35-year-old Vettikavala resident who tested positive on June 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/24-more-test-positive-in-kollam/article31880721.ece
21 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||11 cases in Kottayam||The district continued to report fresh cases of COVID-19 with 11 persons, including two children who landed from Saudi Arabia along with a caretaker, being tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. According to officials, the persons who were tested positive during the day comprised six persons who landed from abroad while the remaining five persons returned from other States. Among the patients, there are two female nurses who returned from New Delhi on June 16 and in home quarantine at Manimala, a ten-year-old boy and his six-year-old sister who landed from Riyadh on June 8, a 51-year-old Erattupetta native, a 38-year-old from Erumely, a 46-year-old Karukachal native who landed from Kuwait, a 30-year-old Manimala native who landed from Riyadh, a 26- year-old woman from Karikkattur who returned from Maharashtra, a 30-year-old male nurse who returned from New Delhi, and a 25-year-old Karukachal native who returned from Mumbai. Among them, nine persons were admitted to the Pala General Hospital while the remaining two were shifted to the Government MCH, Kottayam. One person tested positive on SARS-CoV-2 in Idukki on Saturday. The 32-year-old man reached Kanjiramattom, near Thodupuzha, from Kuwait on June 12. He was in home quarantine and was admitted to the District Hospital, Thodupuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/11-cases-in-kottayam/article31880724.ece
21 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode Corpn. office to work with half the staff strength||The Kozhikode Corporation is reducing the number of staff on duty to 50% from Monday onwards based on a State government order to do so. The change may affect the speed at which services are rendered at the civic body office, Secretary Binu Francis has said. The changes will be in effect from June 22 to 30 and will continue if required. The Secretary has asked officials who do not turn up at office to work from home and be on call during the period. During the lockdown, only staff members who had conveyance issues failed to turn up for duty. At least 80% of the staff were always on duty and hence, the officials needed to get used to the sudden change, said Mr. Francis. The public has been requested to visit the office only if necessary and to make use of online facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-corpn-office-to-work-with-half-the-staff-strength/article31880638.ece
21 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Congress protests against Lini’s husband||Congress and CPI(M) activists were found to be involved in a scuffle outside a primary health centre (PHC) at Koothaly in Kozhikode district on Saturday following a dharna staged by the former in protest against P. Sajeesh, a staff there and husband of P. Lini, who died in the line of duty during the Nipah outbreak. It was in the wake of his criticism against Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran’s recent outbursts against Health Minister K.K. Shylaja. Mr. Sajeesh, through a Facebook post, had picked holes in Mr. Ramachandran’s statement that Ms. Shylaja had done little to contain the outbreak and was claiming credit for it. Mr. Sajeesh pointed out that it was Ms. Shylaja who stood with his family during their hour of grief and thereafter. Mr. Ramachandran, despite being the local MP then, had not even bothered to call him up after his wife’s death, he had alleged. The scuffle happened when the staff at the PHC came out in defence of Mr. Sajeesh and were reportedly joined by local CPI(M) activists. ‘Injured’ In a release, CPI(M) Kozhikode district secretary P. Mohanan alleged that Mr. Sajeesh and another staff at the PHC were manhandled by the protesting Congress activists, and one of them was injured in the melee. Mr. Mohanan also sought action against those behind the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-protests-against-linis-husband/article31880663.ece
21 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Tribal children deprived of chance to learn online||Around 30 tribal children of the Punchakkolli Adivasi colony near Vazhikkadavu inside the Nilambur forest were left in the lurch after officials of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) disconnected temporary power supply to a community hall where classes were being aired to them through Victers channel. It was on June 10 that a television set was donated by a non-governmental organisation to the Punchakkolli colony. Since the construction of a new community hall in the colony is incomplete, classes were held at the old community hall with a temporary power connection from a neighbouring house. SSK initiative The Samagra Siksha Kerala (SSK) had offered academic support for the programme, and civic officials actively supported by the Forest Department staff had made power supply available to the hall. However, the happiness of the children was short lived. “A KSEB staffer disconnected power supply on Wednesday. “It is terrible and sad. Those children need our special attention,” said S.S. Sindhu, SSK State Programme Officer. Meanwhile, the KSEB office at Vazhikkadavu said it was not aware of the development. “They [KSEB officials] came and disconnected power supply, saying it was illegal,” Sindhu M., anganwadi worker at Punchakkolli, told The Hindu . She had been in charge of classes in the colony. Unsafe zone “The children cannot move out of their colony without the help of elders as the colony is in the middle of the forest. “Their future will be hit if power supply is not re-established,” Ms. Sindhu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribal-children-deprived-of-chance-to-learn-online/article31880641.ece
21 June 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||Palakkad records 23 COVID-19 cases||Palakkad registered 23 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total number of infected people currently under treatment in the district to 135. District Collector D. Balamurali said all the new cases were found to be returnees from other States and from abroad. While two persons had returned from Delhi, five had come back from the UAE, one from Rajasthan, one from Saudi Arabia, two from Karnataka, five from Tamil Nadu, three from Qatar, one from Bahrain, two from Maharashtra, and one from Kuwait. In Kozhikode A dozen people were declared positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode on Saturday and 11 others recovered from the infection in the district. According to a release by District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, they include a 31-year-old woman from Atholy, and her three children. They had returned from Kuwait on June 11. There is also a couple from Panangadu, aged 38 and 30, respectively, who returned by the Rajdhani Express on June 19. The other patients are from Meppayyur, Onchiyam, Thalakkulathur, Azhiyoor, Nanmanda and Eramala. The number of active COVID-19 cases stands at 104.  In Wayanad The district reported five COVID-19 cases and two recoveries on Saturday. Of the new cases, two persons had returned from abroad and three from other States. A 45-year-old from Mananthavady and a seven-year-old child from Arepetta near Meppadi who returned from Thane in Maharashtra, a 22-year-old from Thalappuzha who returned from Bahrain, a 35-year-old from Vaduvanchal who returned from Dubai, and a 24-year-old from Pachilakkad near Panamaram who returned from Delhi tested positive for the virus. In Thrissur Six COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur district on Saturday. Three persons who tested positive arrived from Kuwait, one from Jeddah, one from Madhya Pradesh and one from Uttar Pradesh. As many as 126 people are undergoing treatment at various hospitals. In Ernakulam Three more persons were diagnosed with COVID-19 in Ernakulam on Saturday. The patients are a 49-year-old from Thammanam, a 22-year-old from Elamakkara, and a 38-year-old from Vengola. A 35-year-old woman from Edathala has recovered from the disease.  (With inputs from Kozhikode, Wayanad, Thrissur and Kochi bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkad-records-23-covid-19-cases/article31880637.ece
21 June 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||CM opens renovated Moolathara regulator||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the refurbished Moolathara regulator on the Chittur river on Saturday through videoconferencing. Speaking on the occasion, the Chief Minister said the work on the Chittur-Moolathara right bank canal would start soon. He added that the right bank canal would be constructed with the help of KIIFB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-opens-renovated-moolathara-regulator/article31880647.ece
21 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||17 new cases in Pathanamthitta||Pathanamthitta witnessed the highest single day spike of 17 SARS-CoV-2 positive cases, one of them a woman health-care worker at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, on Saturday. The health-care worker who was on duty at the isolation ward at the hospital had been in quarantine after completion of duty for the past few days. However, eight health-care workers who were in close contact with her during the hospital duty too were placed under observation, according to an official bulletin. The 16 others who tested positive on Saturday are a 30-year-old man who came from Kuwait on June 14, a 49-year-old man (Maharashtra, June 14), a 14-year old girl (Maharashtra, June 14), a 50-year-old man (Saudi, June 14), a 56-year-old man (Saudi, June 15), a 35-year-old man (Maharashtra, June 7), a 52-year-old man (Kuwait, June 15), a 55-year-old man (Dubai, June 5), a 53-year-old man (Maharashtra, June 8), a 41-year-old man (Kuwait, June 12), a 27-year-old man (UAE, May 26), a 22-year-old man (Uttar Pradesh, June 6), a 38-year-old man (Kuwait, June 11), a 48-year-old man (Maharashtra, June 10), a 47-year old woman (Maharashtra, June 10), and a 39-year-old man (Kuwait, June 13).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/17-new-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article31880723.ece
21 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Man, wife found dead||A 55-year-old partially paralysed woman, who was bedridden for the past few years, was found dead under suspicious circumstances on Saturday forenoon. She was identified as Ramani of Maniyanpara Colony at Attachackal near Konni. The body of her husband, Gananathan, 67, was also found in Kavumpurathu kadavu in the Achencoil river later in the day, the police said. Local people told the police that Gananathan had informed them about Ramani’s death around 8 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-wife-found-dead/article31880722.ece
21 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Five fresh cases in capital||Five people were diagnosed with COVID-19 and two recovered from the disease in the district on Saturday. While four of those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 came from abroad, one contracted the infection through contact. Among them, the 18-year-old daughter of an Iranimuttom native autorickshaw driver whose diagnosis sparked panic in the city has also tested positive. The driver’s wife and younger daughter were also diagnosed with COVID-19 a day ago. The other patients include a 55-year-old Uchakkada native who came from Sharjah on June 17, a 35-year-old Perunkuzhy native who returned from Kuwait on June 12, a 35-year-old man hailing from Palode who also returned from Kuwait on June 13, and a 27-year-old pregnant woman from Kallara who arrived from Riyadh on June 13. Barring the Uchakkada native who was hospitalised soon after arrival as she displayed symptoms, the three others who came from abroad were quarantined at homes. Meanwhile, stringent restrictions have been imposed in containment zones, viz. Kalady Junction, Attukal, Manacaud Junction, Chiramukku-Kalady road, and Iranimuttom. District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said the entry point to the containment zones had been barricaded. Areas including Manacaud Junction, the Bund road, Manacaud-Kulakkada road, Manacaud-Attukal road, Manacaud Valiyappally junction, Bund road-Padassery Bhagam, Konchiravila temple road, Kalladimukham bridge, Rajiv Gandhi library road, Kuriathy Ammankovil junction, Kuriathy driving school junction, Kuriathy LPS road, Karthika Nagar road 1 and 2, Kalady Thaliyil road, and Soman Nagar in Kalady have been closed. Access has been barred for vehicles and the public. All shops except those coming under the ambit of essential services will remain closed.  Screening centres Access will be permitted only through screening centres established on the Manacaud Kulakkada road, Maharani junction, Maruthoorkadavu bridge, and Thaliyil road. The City police directed autorickshaw and taxi drivers to maintain trip sheets to record the contact details of passengers. In order to streamline public movement, the police will also shut down the Ambalathara-East Fort, Maruthoorkadavu-Kalady, Jagathy-Killipalam, Kaithamukku-Chettikulangara, and Kumarichantha-Ambalathara roads from Monday until further notice. A 50-year-old Vandiperiyar native was booked for leaving the premises of General Hospital without the knowledge of the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-fresh-cases-in-capital/article31880668.ece
21 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||High alert sounded in district||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has called for the strict enforcement of COVID-19 containment norms including physical distancing in the State capital in light of the high alert sounded by the district administration. The call for greater caution comes a day after an autorickshaw driver from Iranimuttom tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 along with his wife and one of his two daughters. Besides, a Special Branch report has highlighted the blatant violation of the prevailing norms in shopping complexes and other public areas. He added that the uncontrolled rush in shops could compel the government to close them down.  Risky situation Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said that the district stared at the threat of a community spread of the disease with large sections violating restrictions. Funerals and weddings have also begun to attract large crowds in contravention to the ceiling fixed for such occasions. He also took a dim view of numerous agitations in the city. The Special Branch has also hinted at the possibility of people from containment zones in other districts participating in demonstrations. Mr. Surendran alleged conscious attempts were being made to push the city into a state of community transmission. He added that a meeting of MLAs in the district would be called to deal with the crisis. The district authorities faced difficulties in identifying the contacts of the driver, including his passengers, and preparing the flow-chart to identify travel history. Plying services from an autorickshaw stand in Konchiravila, the patient is also believed to be associated with the television serial industry. He had also visited several shops in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-alert-sounded-in-district/article31880665.ece
21 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ineligible pensioners under scanner||The State government is set to crack down on 2,500-odd employees and service and family pensioners who are pocketing a chunk of the welfare pensions meant for the weaker sections by fudging documents. The Finance Department issued a circular on June 8 directing secretaries of local self-government institutions to weed out ineligible beneficiaries from the pensioners’ list. Earlier, the Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation, after evaluating the welfare pension schemes that cover 40% of the households in the State, had found that about 10-30% persons availing themselves of the benefits by understating income, falsifying age, widow status, and disability criteria were ineligible. Many below 60 years receive old-age pension. Cases of beneficiaries fudging details for securing widow and disability pension are aplenty. Employees of the State government and public sector undertakings figure on the list of such beneficiaries. The government spends about Rs. 5,000 crore for disbursing pensions and has now resolved to curb the duplication of beneficiaries following the stress on the State finances. Two expert committees have been appointed to recommend expenditure rationalising and resource mopping measures. Directive to employees The Finance Department had earlier issued a circular directing the government employees, service pensioners and family pensioners to inform the local governments for removing their names from the list and also prescribed a system for repaying the amount they had drawn in violation of norms. The employees were directed to intimate their heads of departments, who would deduct the sum from their salary. Since the response was tepid, the Finance Department has again initiated steps. But Local Administration Department sources are sceptical about the move. For, local body secretaries are engrossed in COVID-19 containment activities and the elections are due in October. Hence, they may not have adequate time to bring such erring staff and pensioners to book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ineligible-pensioners-come-under-scanner/article31880662.ece
21 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Trains’ upgrade to hit students, office-goers||Short-distance passengers, especially office-goers and students, in the State will be hit by the Railway Board’s decision to convert all passenger trains, MEMUs and DEMUs running for more than 200 km into express trains. As part of the conversion, the speed of the 502 identified trains will be increased and this will result in reduced number of halts. Moreover, fares of express trains are higher than that of passenger trains. Seventeen pairs of long-distance passenger trains running across Southern Railway will be converted into express trains when normal operations resume. Kannur-Thrissur-Kannur Passenger (56602/56603) that runs for 209 km and Kottayam-Nilambur Passenger (56362/56363) that covers a distance of 231 km fall in the category. Once they are converted into express trains, the halts are likely to be reduced. From small stations The passengers who board from small stations in the morning will be left with no other alternative public transport mode. Thrissur-Kannur Passenger is the only passenger train from Thrissur towards north in the morning. Some of the trains found a place on the list as they have been formed by merging two or three passenger trains. Kottayam-Nilambur Passenger (56362/56363) was formed by combining Kottayam-Ernakulam, Ernakulam-Shoranur and Shoranur-Nilambur Passengers. The train caters to the needs of passengers in the Kottayam-Ernakulam-Shoranur sector in the morning and evening. Doing away with any of the halts of this train will deprive transportation facility for many. ‘Provide alternatives’ “Railways should take a judicious decision considering the interests of ordinary citizens from small railway stations. Alternative arrangements should be worked out for travel before the passenger trains are upgraded,” P. Krishnakumar, ZRUCC member and general secretary, Thrissur Railway Passengers Association, said. Poor revenue from these trains and efforts to increase the speed are cited as the reasons for the move.  Move to upgrade trains running more than 200 km to express trains||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/upgrade-of-trains-to-hit-short-distance-passengers/article31880661.ece
21 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Misogyny trait of CPI(M) politics, says KPCC chief||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran said on Saturday that misogyny was the hallmark of the politics of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and not his as alleged by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. He counted communist veteran K.R. Gouri and Congress leaders Remya Haridas, MP, Shanimol Usman, MLA, and Lathika Subash as targets of sexist attacks by the CPI(M). He said Ms. Gouri had said the fate of the mythical Draupadi in the court of the Kauravas compared better to her experience at the hands of the party she built.  Mr. Ramachandran said he had used the analogy to question Ms. Shylaja’s claim that she had triumphed over COVID-19. Credit for workers He said that the credit of keeping the disease at manageable levels in Kerala went to front-line health workers and not the Minister who merely chaired review meetings. He had not called Ms. Shylaja a ‘rock star’. It was a reference used by a British newspaper. Ms. Shylaja had repeatedly used the pandemic as a cover to burnish her personal and political credentials and that she was no defeater of the plague as widely claimed. Mr. Ramachandran said as MP he was at the forefront of the fight against the Nipah outbreak in Kozhikode in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/misogyny-trait-of-cpim-politics-says-kpcc-chief/article31880653.ece
21 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Contributions accounted for, says Mayor||City Corporation Mayor K.Sreekumar dismissed allegations of lack of transparency raised by the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party and United Democratic Front (UDF) in a council meeting here on Saturday. Placing the figures of advances and spendings in each health circle and at every community kitchen on the table, he said the figures from each region were vetted by the councillors too. The BJP and UDF leaders raised the allegation regarding lack of transparency by pointing at the contributions received from the public as well as religious and private institutions. They alleged that these were not properly accounted for in the figures presented to the council. Mayor’s reply   “We have presented the details of the amount advanced as well as the amount spent in each health circle. The details of the contributions received for community kitchens are maintained at the local level. These were vetted and signed by the councillors and handed over to the Corporation. If any councillor has doubts regarding the contributions or spendings in the community kitchen attached to their ward, they are free to check these. The money received in the Mayor’s account is still there in the account,” the Mayor said. The council meeting also decided to form a monitoring committee for overseeing the construction and running of the modern slaughterhouse at Kunnukuzhy. The project was recently awarded to the Kerala Electrical and Allied Engineering Company Ltd.. The Opposition said the project was delayed due to tardy decision-making.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/contributions-accounted-for-says-mayor/article31880669.ece
21 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Steps for viewing eclipse online||Online arrangements have been made for viewing the annular solar eclipse on Sunday heeding COVID-19 social distancing norms. Since it will not be possible to arrange public viewing of the spectacle, which will be visible in the State as a partial eclipse, the Breakthrough Science Society’s State chapter has made online arrangements for the same. A webinar with live-stream of the eclipse and discussions involving experts in the field of astronomy will also be held. Partial eclipse People in other States will experience partial solar eclipse. In the city, the partial solar eclipse will begin at 10.14 a.m. and end at 1.15 p.m. The eclipse can be viewed using sun filters and projection methods such as pinhole camera. It should not be viewed with naked eyes. There is no harm in venturing outside, cooking, or eating during eclipses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-for-viewing-eclipse-online/article31880649.ece
21 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Containment zone maps||With new containment zones being notified daily as part of the COVID-19 prevention measures, the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has started publishing district and Statewise maps depicting them for easier public understanding. Local self-governments with containment zones will be classified as ‘local self-governments requiring special attention’. If more than 50% of the wards in such local bodies are notified as containment zones, they will be regarded as ‘red colour-coded local self-governments’. On the KSDMA maps, local bodies that have less than half of its wards as containment zones are shown in yellow. The KSDMA has started publishing the maps since Friday, its member secretary Sekhar L. Kuriakose said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/containment-zone-maps/article31880655.ece
21 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree support for returnees||The Kudumbashree district mission has rolled out a programme ‘Mission Rejuvenation’ to provide support to expatriate Keralites returning home in the wake of COVID-19.  Those coming from abroad could be under mental stress owing to various reasons. The Mission Rejuvenation would benefit those who have lost their jobs, those coming alone or with children while leaving their loved ones behind, and pregnant women. For details and support, call 1800 425 885 (toll-free), 0471 2430661, 8547885497, and 8089616321.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-support-for-returnees/article31880664.ece
21 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Licence must for sale of sanitisers||Hand sanitisers manufactured under the allopathic drug manufacturing licence will require a permit from the Drugs Controller for sale. A pressnote said unlicensed sale of hand sanitisers would invite action under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940. Sanitisers manufactured under the cosmetic licence will not be allowed to be sold in the State. However, sanitisers manufactured under the licence for Ayurvedic drugs have been exempted from the requirement for licence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/licence-must-for-sale-of-sanitisers/article31880651.ece
21 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||1338 held for violation of Covid restrictions||The police on Saturday registered 1,172 cases and arrested 1,338 persons from different parts of the State for violation of the restrictions imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19. The police also seized 342 vehicles. Another 19 cases were registered for flouting quarantine norms and action was taken against 4,929 persons for not wearing masks in public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1338-held-for-violation-of-covid-restrictions/article31880657.ece
21 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Award for Thrissur panchayat||Thrissur district panchayat has been selected for the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar instituted by the Ministry of Panchayati Raj for the best performing panchayats. The district panchayat secured the award for its performance during 2018-19. Only Thrissur won the award from the State this time. This is the first time that the district panchayat is winning the award. The Vigyan Sagar Science and Technology Park, the ‘She pad’ project, and the ‘child-friendly district’ project played a key role in the panchayat getting selected for the award, said district panchayat president Mary Thomas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-for-thrissur-panchayat/article31880639.ece
21 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Positive cases cross 1,000 in Anantapur district||Anantapur district is preparing for another round of complete lockdown from Sunday with close to 100 cases getting reported everyday. Third place in State The cumulative total number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district reached 1,137 and 50 persons got discharged on Saturday. The district now figures in the third place in the State for the highest number of COVID-19 cases. The district tested more than 60,000 samples so far and is aggressively campaigning among people on wearing masks and maintaining social distance. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu and Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu announced that shops in the district would be open from 6 a.m. to 11 a.m. only from Sunday. Beyond 11 a.m., only medical shops would be allowed. With a large number of cases getting reported everyday, the Collector said people coming in trains and getting down at Kadiri, Guntakal, Gooty, Anantapur and Dharmavaram were adding to the number of positive cases. The relaxations given after Lockdown 4.0 had contributed to the significant rise in the number of cases, the administration believes. Sale of masks and face shields too has picked up in the district with shops providing several options. Meanwhile, vulnerable groups with symptoms are being given priority in COVID-19 tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/positive-cases-cross-1000-in-anantapur-district/article31880742.ece
21 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur bags three SKOCH awards||Anantapur district won two gold and one silver SKOCH awards in the District Governance category at the 65th summit on Saturday. District Rural Development Agency’s Employment Generation and Enterprise Development in Andhra Pradesh (SEEDAP) and APMIP’s Drip Irrigation promotion activity on Saturday won the Gold Merit in District Governance category. Anantapur unit of A.P. Micro Irrigation Project won the Gold Award, while the Agriculture Department got the silver award for implementation of Rythu Bharosa effectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-bags-three-skoch-awards/article31880741.ece
21 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 more held in BS-III vehicles’ case||The Tadipatri police on Saturday arrested three more persons in the case pertaining to registration of BS-III compliant lorry-trailers as BS-IV vehicles. DSP A. Srinivasulu, in a release, said the arrested were Ambati Nageswara Reddy, Akula Ramesh, Gutta Somasekhar. They had six, two and four vehicles respectively registered in their names. Mr. Reddy is a close associate of former MLA J.C. Prabhakar Reddy, said Mr. Srinivasulu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-more-held-in-bs-iii-vehicles-case/article31880758.ece
21 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||150 fresh cases registered in Chittoor||Uneasy calm prevailed in several parts of Chittoor district on Saturday, with emergence of 150 fresh COVID-19 positive cases in the last 24 hours, with the total number of cases crossing the 800-mark, which included five deaths. The sudden spurt of record number cases has kept the official machinery on its toes, with COVID-19 task force personnel undertaking disinfecting works at residential areas, shifting the positive cases to COVID hospitals at Tirupati and Chittoor, and suspect cases to quarantine facilities at their respective mandals. Majority of the fresh cases were reported from Tirupati, Puttur, Karveti Nagaram, Renigunta and B. Kotha Kota. The other mandals included Chittoor, Piler, Nindra, Nagari, Pichatur, Yerpedu and Srikalahasti. The first case of COVID-19 was reported in Kuppam mandal on Saturday. A youth who had come from Tamil Nadu tested positive after his neighbours complained about his presence. In Puttur, five cases with travel history from Chennai were shifted to COVID hospital at Tirupati. The cases included two infants below the age of one year, with travel history to Vijayawada and Chennai. At Peddapanjani mandal, a youth tested positive was a returnee from Chennai. In Puttur, lockdown is in place from 11 a.m. onwards, after the town witnessed close to 30 cases in a week, and one death. Puthalapattu town, and constituency headquarters on Chittoor-Bengaluru national highway too witnessed positive cases, leading to declaration of containment zone. New red zones were formed in Chittoor city, after three new cases surfaced on Saturday. Mobile labs Meanwhile, District Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta, who conducted inspections at the COVID ospitals in Tirupati, told the media that three vehicles (intelligent Monitoring Analysis Services Quarantine – Covid-19) were kept at the disposal of the District Medical and Health Officer in Chittoor in view of the heavy vehicular and public movement across the borders of Chittoor with Tamil Nadu. District Medical and Health Officer P. Penchalaiah said the three vehicles would be deployed at the border check posts with Tamil Nadu. Both regular and random checks would be conducted among public entering the district from Tamil Nadu. The specially designed buses were equipped with COVID-19 test facilities and the results too would be recorded in few minutes after testing. The official said that the medical and paramedical staff were put on alert in all mandals, which had been recording steady number of positive cases, to identify cases based on their travel history. Apart from the area hospitals, the swab test facilities were made available at the primary health centers also, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/150-fresh-cases-registered-in-chittoor/article31880745.ece
21 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP hoodwinked weavers: Minister||A.P. Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy on Saturday said the YSR Nethanna Nestham scheme was a boon to weavers, and that it would pave the way for providing succour to migrant workers at the looms. The Minister was speaking after disbursing cheques to beneficiaries under the scheme at a programme in Tirupati. Mr. Reddy said the scheme would help impoverished weavers overcome their financial difficulties and develop their looms further. In this context, he appealed to those who had migrated to Tamil Nadu and Karnataka to return to the State, particularly in the weavers’ belt of Chittoor, and seek work in the looms, apart from getting benefited from the various welfare schemes of the government. Mr. Reddy said the Nethanna Nestham scheme would be a continuous process, and new beneficiaries would be included from time to time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-minister-tells-weavers-to-return-from-karnataka-tn/article31880320.ece
21 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deer rescued from well||A spotted deer (chital) was rescued on Saturday from a farm well at Veernagudi village of Gangadhana Nellore mandal, 15 km from here, after it had strayed from the forest. A farmer, Lokanatham Naidu, saw the animal close to the farm well in the early hours of Saturday. On seeing the farmer, the deer tried to rush to the bushes but fell into a 100-ft-deep well. Luckily, it was not injured and swam to the staircase. Forest personnel rescued the deer and released it into the forest as it had only suffered a bruise near the mouth. It is suspected that it strayed into the fields in search of water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deer-rescued-from-well/article31880772.ece
21 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 Forest officials suspended in Kuppam range||The State government on Saturday suspended four forest officials of Kuppam forest range in Chittoor district on charges of corruption in the forest department works in Kuppam range. The four are K. Kalappa Naidu, forest range officer (Kuppam), who is set to retire on June 30; G. Madhusudhan, Forest Section Officer at Naniyala section in Kuppam range; K. Paramesh and S.A. Munna, both forest beat officers of Nadumuru beat in the range. The officials are facing charges of corruption in executing road works at Mallappa Konda and Betraya Konda hills and trench works at Niniyala section. Mr. Kalappa Naidu was reportedly involved in a case pertaining to the disputed forest land issue in Kuppam. An inquiry would be held against one Gangaiah, who retired as Deputy Range Officer in 2019, Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor East Wildlife) Narentheran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4-forest-officials-suspended-in-kuppam-range/article31880773.ece
21 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Many contenders for ministerial berth||With Minister for Marketing Mopidevi Venkata Ramana Rao getting elected to the Rajya Sabha, a ministerial berth has fallen vacant in the State. Guntur district is being represented in the Cabinet by Home Minister M. Sucharitha (Prathipadu-SC) and Mr. Ramana Rao (MLC), both of them long-standing loyalists of the YSRCP. There are quite a few aspirants for the berth in the district. A YSR loyalist MLA Ambati Rambabu, who won against former Speaker Kodela Siva Prasada Rao at Sattenapalli, is among them. A loyalist of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, the MLA has held several key positions in the party. Till recently, he was an official spokesperson. He continues to be the party’s vocal voice in the media. The vacancy also raised the hopes of several first time MLAs. First-time MLAs Vidadala Rajani, who emerged as a giant killer by defeating former Minister Prathipati Pulla Rao at Chilakaluripet, is another contender. Having consolidated her position in the constituency, the MLA has attracted attention by reaching out to people during the lockdown. Meruga Nagarjuna from Vemuru is another aspirant. Having won from a reserved constituency, he has little chances, as there is a Dalit as a Home Minister. Pinnelli Ramakrishna Reddy is a senior MLA from Macherla, having won for three consecutive terms, but he has been made a chief whip. Alla Ramakrishna Reddy, who defeated Nara Lokesh, is another contender. But chances are that he could be given the mantle of a corporation. Key aspirant In this situation, Deputy Speaker Kona Raghupati has emerged as a key contender. Mr. Raghupati, who was elected from Bapatla, has completed one year in office as Deputy Speaker. Mr. Raghupati, son of former Governor Prabhakara Rao, has been with the YSRCP ever since its inception. Despite denial of ticket by the Congress in 2009, he had contested the elections and secured more than 20,000 votes. He also won the elections in 2014 and 2019. After the YSRCP stormed to power, he was rewarded with the post of Deputy Speaker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/many-contenders-for-ministerial-berth/article31880761.ece
21 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yoga helps find balance in life, says expert||Yoga can be an antidote to stress, depression, anxiety, bipolar disorders, alcohol addiction etc., say experts, even as practice of yoga yoga has emerged as a way to find a balance in life. A dentist-turned-Hatha yoga trainer Srividya Koneru says that yoga is a perfect mix of fine arts and science which brings balance into our system. “Yoga is not just about twisting and turning. Scientific evidence around the world has shown that a simple pranayama or deep breathing exercise can do wonders. If we go deep into science, the vagal nerve in the brain controls the functions of various important visceral parts of the body like heart, lungs, stomach, intestine, kidneys and urinary bladder,” she explains. Yoga can improve the functioning of frontal lobe and improve attention, concentration, happiness, creativity and rational thinking of human beings. Yoga can also activate the pituitary gland, the key to growth, metabolism, thyroid functioning, adrenal gland functioning and stimulate sexual hormones. “It improves the alpha activity in the brain and makes us more alert and watchful and helps us to stay young besides enhancing the strength of spine,” says Dr. Srividya, who has trained professionals in the Amaravati region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yoga-helps-find-balance-in-life-says-expert/article31880390.ece
21 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mee Seva operator found murdered||A Mee Seva operator was found murdered at Adigoppula in Durgi mandal on Saturday. The police said they found the body of Thota Vasu with stab injuries. Based on a complaint by the deceased’s wife, the police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mee-seva-operator-found-murdered/article31880387.ece
21 June 2020||KANCHIKACHERLA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Gutkha worth Rs. 55 lakh seized||Sleuths of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and the police busted an inter-State gutkha, ganja and foreign cigarettes smuggling racket on Saturday. The banned products were being smuggled from Hyderabad to Puducherry via East Godavari district, said Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu. Police spotted the accused shifting the stocks from a van to an autorickshaw near Donabanda village and took them into custody, said SEB Additional SP Vakul Jindal. Based on the information provided by the accused, police raided a godown at Ravulapalem in East Godavari district and seized the gutkha stocks, Mr. Jindal said. “The seized material included gutkha worth Rs. 54.90 lakh, foreign cigarettes worth Rs. 68,000, 5.5 kg of ganja, a van, an autorickshaw and five mobile phones,” said Mr. Ravindranath Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gutkha-worth-rs-55-lakh-seized/article31880397.ece
21 June 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||51 cases emerge in Prakasam, Nellore districts in 24 hours||There was no relief for people from Coronavirus in south coastal Andhra Pradesh as 51 more persons, some of them with travel history to Hyderabad and Vijayawada and Chennai, tested positive for the dreaded disease in the last 24 hours. In Prakasam district, 28 persons, including some of them who had returned from Hyderabad and Vijayawada, contracted the disease. The disease continued to spread to rural parts of the district as Reddycherla, Ponnaluru, V.V.Palem, Cherukuru, Chundi, Vemulakota, Choolaveedu reported one case each. In a positive development, 13 persons were discharged in Ongole during the period. Integrated plan Integrated containment plan was unveiled in Ongole as the disease spread to newer areas in the city. A complete lockdown was also implemented in Chirala, which witnessed 11 more fresh cases during the period. 23 caes in Nellore In SPSR Nellore district, 23 more persons got infected. Sullurpeta bordering Tamil Nadu accounted for six fresh cases followed by Nellore city with five new cases. Atmakur reported three new cases, Vinjamur two cases and Kondapuram, Sangam, Bogolu, Kavali, Gudur and Muthukur one case each. One of the newly-infected person hailed from neighbouring Chittoor district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/51-cases-emerge-in-prakasam-nellore-districts-in-24-hours/article31880746.ece
21 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Weavers thank CM for support||Weavers in Chirala thanked the State Government for providing Rs. 24,000 to each weaver in the second phase of the YSR Nethanna Hastham Scheme, on Saturday. Around 30,000 weavers, who were badly affected by the market glut in the wake of the lockdown in Chirala , were benefited by the scheme, their representative Goli Ananda Rao said at Epurupalem. “We are grateful to the Chief Minister for fulfilling his poll promise made during his padayatra,” said another representative J. Srinivasa Rao. Weavers with looms who have been left out of the scheme for any reason will also be provided with financial assistance, said Weavers’ State leader Meda Venkat Rao. Meanwhile, All India Handloom Rights Forum president Bandaru Jwala Narasimhan urged the government to enhance the financial assistance to weavers to Rs. 50,000. Many of the cooperative societies are defunct and are embroiled in corruption, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/weavers-thank-cm-for-support/article31880750.ece
21 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||National award for Prakasam police||Prakasam district Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal was conferred with the prestigious “Atmanirbhar Bharat 65th National SKOCH Award- 2020” for the woman-friendly initiative, ‘Abhay’, on Saturday. The award in the District Governance Category was conferred online by SKOCH group Chairman Samir Kochar. After the gangrape and murder of Hyderabad veterinarian, the SP started the pilot ‘Drop home’ and ‘Escort home’ services for stranded women between 9.00 p.m. and 5.00 a.m., taking inspiration from the DISHA Act enacted by the State Government. The SP also won SKOCH Award-2019 for Junior Investigation Officers Project, 7th G-Files Award and Tech Sabha Award in the past. Andhra Pradesh Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang appreciated the SP for winning the award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/national-award-for-prakasam-police/article31880748.ece
21 June 2020||SANGAMESHWARAM (KURNOOL DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Sangameshwara shrine not to close for eclipse||The Sangameshwara temple, located on the banks of the Srisailam Reservoir, will remain open during the solar eclipse on Sunday, while most of the temples in the State will be closed. Aruna Homam will be performed after the eclipse time of 10.13 a.m. to 1.37 p.m. in Kurnool district, said Sanghameswara temple chief priest Telakapalli Raghurama Sarma. Special puja and archanas will be conducted for the public interested in availing such services during the eclipse, which is a rare occasion, he said here on Saturday. The temple is located near Muchumarri, at the confluence of the Krishna and Bhavanasi rivers, and will be open for public along with the Srikalahasti temple. Aruna Homam is performed for the good of the public so that they remain healthy during this pandemic. ‘Kalasarpa dosham’ is believed to be wiped away by performing the Homam, priests said. Post solar eclipse, he predicted a significant improvement of general health of the public and said that the pandemic is unlikely to cause any lasting economic damage. Silting of the temple takes place every year during its re-emergence in summer, he said, but this year the quantum of silt was 2.5 feet high - the highest ever since its reappearance in 2003. Poor facilities The temple was submerged for the first time in 1981 after the construction of the power generation unit at Srisailam. The temple witnesses large crowds every day, but the Endowment Department or the Tourism Department are yet to put facilities in place for devotees. A restaurant has been built by the Tourism Department, but it has been closed ever since the 2016 Krishna Pushkarams. As a result, devotees find it difficult to spend time at the picturesque location. The temple was submerged in the backwaters of Srisailam dam on July 20 last year and resurfaced on March 6, but due to COVID-19, devotees were not allowed to visit till June 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-shrine-not-to-close-for-eclipse/article31880591.ece
21 June 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Civic officials to test water from Meghadrigedda reservoir||Post styrene monomer vapour leak from LG Polymers plant in RR Venkatapuram, the Meghadrigedda reservoir was closed for water supply and fishing. The reservoir is located in close proximity to the chemical plant. There was apprehension that styrene monomer vapour, which is said to be heavy, might have settled down on the surface water of the reservoir. Based on caution from the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), the GVMC and the district administration had closed the reservoir for all activity. Now after about 50 days after the incident, the NEERI, which had collected samples from the reservoir, has given a green signal to draw water from the reservoir, after conducting a number of tests to ascertain the toxicity of the water. Speaking to The Hindu , GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said that even though the NEERI has given its clearance, civic officials would conduct another round of test and if required supply would be resumed from Monday. The 1.1 tmcft capacity reservoir is a storage reservoir for the city and water is drawn from it only when required. “Right now we may not draw water from the reservoir, as we have seen through the summer and there are other regular sources of supply. But the water from the reservoir is absolutely safe for consumption after the normal filtration process,” she said. Speaking to The Hindu , environmentalist Bolisetti Satyanarayana said that styrene monomer does not dissolve in water. But after the incident, it settled down on the surface of the water. But immediately there was heavy rains for a couple of days, and the settled styrene was washed away. It is happy to hear that the NEERI has given a green signal, he said. Speaking about the filtration process of the water at the reservoir, GVMC Superintending Engineer (Water) K. Venugopal said that the water when supplied would go through a proper filtration process. After the basic filtration, the water is subjected to alum and chlorine treatment, before the supply, and it is absolutely safe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/civic-officials-to-test-water-from-meghadrigedda-reservoir/article31880792.ece
21 June 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to perform yagnam today||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) has resolved to embark on a ‘Japa Yagnam’ programme on Sunday at Tirumala in connection with the solar eclipse. The yagnam will be organised at the temple pushkarini (tank) between 10.18 a.m. and 1.38 p.m. coinciding with the astronomical event, also referred as ‘Choodamani – Solar Eclipse’. The event is followed by ‘Sri Sukhta Parayanam’ by vedic scholars of S.V. Veda Vignana Peetam between 11.30 a.m. and 12.00 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-perform-yagnam-today/article31880751.ece
21 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online teaching: IIIT Sri City trains 160 faculty from across country||With online teaching becoming the order of the day, the Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT) Sri City conducted a five-day programme to train 160 faculty members from 22 IIITs across India on ensuring a smooth switch-over to the new mode. Rakesh Ranjan, Additional Secretary with the Union Ministry of HRD, in his inaugural address, saw a great potential in the plethora of powerful and innovative digital devices and tools in improving educational outcomes. NITTTR (Chennai) Chairman V.S.S. Kumar said the 21st century learning required global classroom and ‘not necessarily within the confines of four walls’. IIIT Sri City Director G. Kannabiran spoke explained how the pandemic situation had thrust a new option of online teaching on the academic fraternity. IIIT Sri City Chittoor, as the Secretariat of IIIT Coordination Forum, took the lead in conducting the programme along with IIITDM Kancheepuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-teaching-iiit-sri-city-trains-160-faculty-from-across-country/article31880752.ece
21 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Weavers disbursed aid under YSR Nethanna Nestham||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday announced the launch of an e-marketing platform for handlooms and handicrafts on October 2, and remitted a sum of approximately Rs. 195 crore into the bank accounts of 81,024 weavers under the YSR Nethanna Nestham-II scheme from his camp office. Addressing the beneficiaries through a video-conference, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said financial assistance was being disbursed to the weavers six months in advance to help them cope with the crisis precipitated by the outbreak of coronavirus. A sum of Rs. 600 crore was given to the weavers in the last 13 months, whereas the TDP government did not even disburse Rs. 200 crore in five years, he said. Under the YSR Nethanna Nestham scheme, Rs. 24,000 was being given to each weaver family owning a loom, at the rate of Rs. 2,000 per month. Those left out can register through the ward and village secretariats to avail themselves of the assistance next month. Dues cleared Besides, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy released Rs. 103 crore to APCO to clear the dues of the weavers’ cooperative societies and Rs. 109 crore towards the cost of masks procured from them. The Chief Minister said he had personally witnessed the plight of the weavers during his ‘Praja Sankalpa Padayatra’, and wanted to make raw material available to them at affordable price and in marketing their produce. ‘Path-breaking initiative’ He went on to list the slew of welfare schemes being implemented by his government, and claimed that the ward and village secretariats were a path-breaking initiative aimed at taking governance to the people’s doorstep. Later, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy interacted with the beneficiaries in the presence of Ministers Mekapati Goutham Reddy, Botcha Satyanarayana and M. Sankaranarayana, and senior officials concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/weavers-disbursed-aid-under-ysr-nethanna-nestham/article31880754.ece
21 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gunadala shrine remains closed||The famous Gunadala Mary Matha church has not been reopened for pilgrims as it is located in a containment zone and hence devotees are requested not to visit the shrine in wake of the pandemic situation, according to the church authorities. Thousands visit the shrine from different places in the State and the neighbouring States every day and have darshan of the Goddess. The church has remained closed for the last three months due to COVID-19 lockdown. After the government allowed reopening of shrines across the State from June 8, many churches have opened with necessary precautions but facilities like dormitories and ceremonies like ‘anna prasana’ and ‘nama karanam’ have not been resumed. Vijayawada Bishop Rev. Telagathoti Raja Rao said of the 863 churches in Krishna district a few were located in red and containment zones. “Services resumed in about 800 shrines as per COVID-19 protocol. However, the churches in containment and red zones have not been opened and public are requested not to visit such shrines,” the Bishop said. Gunadala Mary Matha shrine Rector Fr. Eleti William Jayaraju said as per the instructions of the government, the Collector and municipal authorities, the church was kept closed as a precautionary measure. Online services “We are offering services online and through different television channels. Those who want to perform prayers and take blessings of the Goddess can watch the channels. Prayers are being performed for the well-being of the society and global peace,” he said. Vicar-General Muvvala Prasad said that only a limited number of pilgrims were being allowed into the churches for prayers and steps were being taken to sanitise the premises regularly. “Instructions have been given to devotees not to bring aged persons and those suffering from fever, cough and other symptoms to churches,” he said. No ‘prasadams’ and ‘teerthams’ were being offered at the shrines and no celebrations were allowed, the Bishop said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gunadala-shrine-remains-closed/article31880396.ece
21 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mahila panel chief lashes out at Telugu Desam||Andhra Pradesh Mahila Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma on Saturday criticised the TDP for supporting party leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu who had allegedly used foul language against Narsipatnam Municipal Commissioner K. Krishnaveni. Addressing the media here, Ms. Padma said, despite the fact that there was audio and video evidence to show that the former Minister had used abusive language against the woman officer, the TDP was trying to protect him. She took exception to TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu writing a letter to the Governor on the issue alleging that his party leader was being framed, and said the opposition party was politicising the issue. ‘No respect for women’ The TDP leader was booked under Nirbhaya Act, she said, adding that the Opposition leaders ought to get a proper understanding of the Act. She said the support being shown to the former Minister was proof that the TDP was anti-women and had no respect for a woman officer. In this context she also referred to the case of MRO Vanajakshi, who was attacked allegedly by TDP leader Chintamaneni Prabhakar. Condemning the Opposition’s “high-handed behaviour,” she said one could imagine what would be the plight of women had TDP come to power. Demanding that the Telugu Desam suspend Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu, she said the Opposition party throwing its weight behind a person who had behaved in such derogatory way against a woman official was very unfortunate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mahila-panel-chief-lashes-out-at-telugu-desam/article31880765.ece
21 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adhere to COVID norms, vehicle operators warned||Deputy Transport Commissioner (DTC) of Krishna district S. Venkateswara Rao on Saturday warned private bus operators, maxi cabs and auto-rickshaws against neglecting COVID-19 protocols. Mr. Venkateswara Rao said that keeping in view the transport needs of the public, the department had given permission to private vehicles to operate after the lockdown. But operators must ensure all safety norms such as use of thermal scanners and sanitisers, he said, adding that the department would not hesitate to seize vehicles of those found to be flouting COVID guidelines. He said the Collector, in collaboration with the Police Department, had earmarked areas with several COVID-19 cases as containment zones, and said vehicle operators must strictly adhere to norms in these high-risk zones. Seating capacity Warning against allowing people more than the capacity of the vehicle, the DTC said buses should take in more than 50% of the seating capacity. He said Motor Vehicle Inspectors were being engaged in awareness drives aimed at educating the vehicle operators on the need to adhere to the fundamental guidelines during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adhere-to-covid-norms-vehicle-operators-warned/article31880392.ece
21 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna dist. inches closer to 1,000 cases||Krishna district and Vijayawada city continue to witness a huge number of fresh COVID cases and deaths daily. As of Saturday morning, the district reported 51 fresh COVID cases and two more deaths, taking the tally close to the 1,000-mark at 982. In the past week alone, the district reported 317 cases, which is 32% of the total cases. So far the district witnessed 33 deaths and in the past two weeks, 10 patients succumbed to the virus. Meanwhile, the district administration is yet to notify the revised list of containment zones in the city as well as in the district even as nearly 400 cases were reported since the zones were notified last time on June 10. Recently, Dstrict Collector A. Md. Imtiaz said a revised list of areas under containment zones would be released soon, but no such announced was made so far. Confusion reigns This has left people in confusion about the areas under containment zones. Commercial establishments and shops too were opened and closed irregularly during the day time. At a review meeting on Saturday, Mr. Imtiaz asked officials concerned to increase COVID testing capacity to 3,000 per day in the district and test 2,000 samples in urban areas and 1,000 samples in rural areas. He said so far various tests were conducted on 65,150 samples in the district. He asked officials to increase the bed capacity at Nimra Institute of Medical Sciences which has been recently designated as COVID hospital from 200 to 600 beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krishna-dist-inches-closer-to-1000-cases/article31880389.ece
21 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Don’t view the solar eclipse with naked eye’||Jayarami Reddy Konda, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Science City of Andhra Pradesh, has appealed to the public not to look at the sun with the naked eye during the solar eclipse. Mr. Reddy said the solar eclipse will begin at 10.37 a.m. and continue till 1.37 p.m. on Sunday (June 21). “The solar eclipse will be visible at its peak at 12.20 p.m. People are requested to watch the eclipse with the help of skygazers, box projectors, binoculars or telescopes,” he said. Science City of A.P. is not conducting the safe viewing of the solar eclipse this time due to the pandemic, the CEO said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-view-the-solar-eclipse-with-naked-eye/article31880775.ece
21 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan hails cancellation of SSC examinations||Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan has welcomed the government’s decision to cancel the SSC examinations due to the spread of coronavirus. In a press release on Saturday, Mr. Pawan Kalyan said conducting the examinations at a time when hundreds of new COVID-19 cases were being registered every day would have serious consequences. It would be difficult for the students to keep distance at the examination centres, and there was always the risk of contracting the virus. “The decision to cancel the exams is, therefore, a wise one as the safety of lakhs of students will be ensured,” he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawan-hails-cancellation-of-ssc-examinations/article31880756.ece
21 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP virtual rally tomorrow||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy will address the BJP’s Rayalaseema zone ‘Jan Samved’ on June 22, according to a press release by State party president Kanna Lakshminarayana. Mr. Kishan Reddy will highlight the achievements in the first year of the BJP government at the Centre. This virtual rally was scheduled to be organised on June 18, but had to be postponed due to the hostile situation on the Indo-China border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-virtual-rally-tomorrow/article31880766.ece
21 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 constables injured||Two constables of Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) suffered injuries when they tried to prevent sand smuggling on the banks of Swarnamukhi River, at Kota mandal in Nellore district. The constables were admitted to a hospital in Gudur, and their condition is stated to be stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-constables-injured/article31880398.ece
21 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||All high-risk people to be tested in containment zones||In the wake of increasing COVID-19 cases in the district, the district administration has decided to test all high-risk category people living in containment zones. In a review meet held at the Collectorate here on Saturday, District Collector V. Vinay Chand instructed the officials to test all people above 60 years of age irrespective of their health status. Test will be mandatory for people with health issues like blood pressure, diabetes, heart, kidney issues and pregnant women. He said those, who test positive, should be immediately shifted to hospital for treatment. Mr. Chand said that there were 116 clusters in the district in which 33 were very active and 39 were active. Measures should be taken on a war-footing in the very active clusters. Tests should be conducted for high-risk people by Tuesday, he said. He also asked the officials to make sure the district does not report any more death. Awareness programmes The Collector also instructed DRDA, MEPMA, UCD and Self-Help Groups (SHGs) to start awareness programmes by placing hoardings and distributing pamphlets over precautionary measures. Use of masks, sanitisers and maintaining physical distancing should be stressed. Services of women organisations, ward secretariat staff and volunteers can be used for the programmes, he said. Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana, Joint Collectors Arun Babu and Govind Rao, Special Officer for COVID-19 P.V. Sudhakar, District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) S. Tirupathi Rao and a few others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-high-risk-people-to-be-tested-in-containment-zones/article31880790.ece
21 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Singaporean firm to fund Vizag startup||A city-based startup has secured funding from a Singaporean firm, bucking a trend of economic decline precipitated by the COVID-19 pandemic. Verbindung Geschaft India Pvt. Ltd, a startup developing innovative products for the SME sector, has received funding from Govin Capital Pte Ltd to accelerate the development and commercialisation of a software product called Connetin across India, Singapore and the United States. The startup is incubated at Startup Accelerator India in the city. Veteran tech and healthcare investor Anand Govindaluri said they are funding Connetin for its innovative product considering the SME sector in India. With the help of Connetin, he said they are looking at creating transparency in operations and to help businesses get credit from financial institutions. Connetin said it has successfully raised financing from Govin Capital, a leading digital healthcare and tech investment firm, based in Singapore. The funds will be used to support product development, product marketing and working capital. The new investment would enable Connetin to further capitalise on its position as a pioneer in servicing the SME sector in India and globally, where there was an unmet need for affordable business operational tools (Connetin BOT) and enhance their business opportunities, Mr. Anand told The Hindu . “We are really excited for this wonderful opportunity to invest and partner with the vision of the Connetin team to provide credit to the SME sector in India and outside,” he said. Connetin has expanded its product to sectors like books, cylinder manufacturers, business traders and small industries. CEO of Connetin Umesh Bharadwaj said, “We at Connetin are working towards a vision to provide right-time finance to SME units as a credit line system. To achieve this, we choose to work with unorganised businesses to organise operations.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/singaporean-firm-to-fund-vizag-startup/article31880774.ece
21 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Conduct safety mock drill every 3 months, industries told||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has instructed the management of various industries to conduct safety mock drill once every three months. He was speaking to officials from oil, petrochemical, chemicals and several other industries to discuss the safety aspects and measures being taken due to COVID-19 crisis during a meet at the Collectorate here on Saturday. Mr. Chand said that in the wake of increasing COVID-19 cases in the district, the industries must have thermal scanners and sanitisers. Employees must wear masks and maintain physical distancing, he said. In the light of LG polymers styrene monomer gas leak incident, all the industrial units manufacturing hazardous materials should always be equipped to deal with any mishap, he said. Very soon, a meeting will be organised with representatives of such units, the Collector added. The units need to give a detailed presentation on their storages, manufacturing process, safety management and others, he said. Mr. Chand said that after the LG Polymers incident, the State government had set up high-level committee. He warned that any faults by the managements of industries would be viewed seriously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/conduct-safety-mock-drill-every-3-months-industries-told/article31880787.ece
21 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seasonal diseases scare patients in COVID time||The onset of monsoon, amidst the growing number of COVID-19 cases, is scaring the common people out of their wits. Diseases like malaria, dengue, flu, diarrhoea, conjunctivitis and fevers are common during the rainy season and have symptoms similar to that of COVID-19. A simple cold or cough is causing unnecessary anxiety not only in the patient but also his family members and those around him. Patients seem to prefer home remedies or consuming drugs at home, rather than going to a doctor. For example, the only difference in the symptoms between COVID-19 and common flu is that the patient loses his sense of taste and smell in the former but in the latter case, these two are normal. Private practitioners are said to be averse to treating such cases in view of the pandemic and the lack of PPE either due to scarcity or high cost. Patients are also wary of visiting a government hospital for treatment due to the fear of exposing themselves to COVID-19 cases. Many ophthalmologists and dentists have stopped seeing patients in view of higher risk of catching an infection. On the decline “Dengue and malaria cases which exceeded last year’s figures during May have declined this month and are lesser than that of June last year. The medical officers at the PHCs have been given vehicles and medical camps are being conducted in rural areas,” Dr. S. Tirupathi Rao, DMHO, told The Hindu . “Dengue cases are less this year and this may be due to desiltation of drains, extensive fogging and anti-larval operations done to check spread of COVID-19. Sanitisation and door-to-door surveys for monitoring the health conditions are being undertaken in a big way,” said Dr. K.S.L.G. Sastry, GVMC Chief Medical Officer of Health (CMOH).  Sanitisation and door-to-door survey for monitoring the health conditions are being undertaken in a big way K.S.L.G. Sastry GVMC Chief Medical Officer of Health||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seasonal-diseases-scare-patients-in-covid-time/article31880767.ece
21 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||26 new cases take tally to 408 in Vizag district||The number of COVID-19 cases crossed 400-mark with 26 new COVID-19 cases being reported from the district, here on Saturday. With this, the total number of cases in the district is 408. The death toll from the district also rose to two, as a COVID-19 patient died from Malkapuram area. A 42-year old woman from AKC Colony, Malkapuram, 45th ward was infected with COVID-19 recently. Health department officials said that the woman was already a T.B patient. Earlier one persons died from Chengalraopeta area. On Saturday, for the first time, a case was reported from Chintapalle in Visakha Agency area in the district. A 45-year-old woman tested positive. The total number of active COVID-19 cases in the district as on Saturday is 207. 18 discharged Meanwhile 18 more patients were discharged after testing negative. The total number of discharged persons stands at 199. Special Officer for COVID-19, P.V Sudhakar, said that as on Saturday, the total number of very active clusters is 33, while active clusters are 39.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/26-new-cases-take-tally-to-408-in-vizag-district/article31880783.ece
21 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rail stadium gets floodlights||Floodlights were provided at the Waltair Railway Football Stadium. The facility was commissioned by Divisional Railway Manager, Waltair, Chetan Kumar Shrivastava in presence of both the ADRMs Akshay Saxena and P. Ramanachandra Rao. Mr. Shrivastava said the stadium was aiming to be one of the Centres of Excellence for football.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rail-stadium-gets-floodlights/article31880785.ece
21 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||259 weavers from district to benefit from scheme||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao along with District Collector V. Vinay Chand formally handed over cheques to the tune of Rs. 62.16 lakh to 259 beneficiaries as part of YSR Nethanna Nestham from the district. To extend a helping hand to weavers, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday released the promised annual aid of nearly Rs. 200 crore, about Rs. 24,000 for each weaver’s family. The State government has provided the aid six months ahead of schedule considering the problems and losses suffered by the handloom weavers due to COVID-19 crisis and lockdown. The amount will be directly credited to bank accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/259-weavers-from-district-to-benefit-from-scheme/article31880786.ece
21 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 patient gives birth through C-section||Doctors from the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) successfully performed Caesarean section on a 23-year-old pregnant woman, who is a COVID-19 patient and was admitted to hospital, here on Saturday. At about 5.20 p.m. on Saturday, a baby girl was born to the woman, a native of Srikakulam, said VIMS Director Satya Varaprasad. Both the baby and the mother are doing well, he added. “A COVID-19 test will be conducted on the baby after 24 hours to check whether there was any mother-to-child transmission,” he said. District Collector V. Vinay Chand appreciated Dr. Satya Varaprasad and his team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-patient-gives-birth-through-c-section/article31880784.ece
21 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ordinance on G.O. 3 sought||Members of the G.O. No. 3 Sadhana Committee submitted a memorandum to the ITDA Project Officer at Paderu in the Agency area of the district on Friday, demanding that the Central government issue an ordinance implementing the G.O. that provides 100% reservation for tribal people in the recruitment of teachers in the Scheduled areas. The committee members noted that the G.O. was struck down by the Supreme Court on April 22, 2020, based on a civil petition. The Tribal Advisory Council, at its meeting on June 18, 2020, had resolved that 100% reservation for tribal people should be continued, they said, and urged the President and the Governor to recommend issue of an ordinance in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ordinance-on-go-3-sought/article31880757.ece
21 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spike in cases causes concern for officials in Vizianagaram||Many positive cases are being detected every day in rural and semi urban areas of Vizianagaram district, causing tension among officials. The number of cases has already gone up to 126 and the figure may go up in a couple of days as test results of many migrant labourers are yet to come from laboratories Around 30 cases were found in Bobbili, Parvatipuram, Merakamudidam and other places in the last few days. A 30-year-old person of Neyyalaveedhi of Bobbili was tested positive. With this, the district administration declared the street as containment zone. All the business activity and regular movement of people have been restricted. A 25-year- old person of Laxminarayanapuram village of Parvatipuram was tested positive after returning from Vijayawada. Another labourer of Merakamudidam village has been suffering from coronavirus for the last few days. He had also returned from Vijayawada. District Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal asked the officials to increase the number of tests and get reports quickly from laboratories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spike-in-cases-causes-concern-for-officials-in-vizianagaram/article31880780.ece
21 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coronavirus deals body blow to businesses in Vizianagaram||The COVID-19 pandemic has taken the sheen off markets in Vizianagaram, with major markets like P.W. Market, Balaji Textiles Market, Ulliveedhi market and newly-developed shopping areas on Ring Road wearing a deserted look throughout the day. Normally, PW Market used to witness brisk business from 7 a.m. till 9.30 p.m. as it is a major wholesale market for essential goods. Traders from Odisha, Visakhapatnam and Srikakulam would come to buy goods in this market that was established during British rule. Till March 23 this year, people used to struggle to walk through the crowded market. Now, the situation has changed significantly, and even four-wheelers are seen moving freely during peak business hours from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., with a drop in sales in almost all the shops and establishments. The clock tower junction to Sri Kanyakaparameswari temple area is witnessing dull business. Many jewellery showrooms, hardware, electrical shops and hotels were open only in the morning session due to lack of transactions. “The decline in economy has taken a toll on all sections. Due to lack of money, and fear of the pandemic, many people have completely stopped coming to shops. They are going out only to buy essential commodities once a week. Some of them are going to local shops in their vicinity instead of coming to PW Market. These have led to a drop in transactions. The situation may not improve unless the COVID-19 situation is controlled in the country,” said Kapuganti Prakash, president-elect of Vizianagaram Chamber of Commerce. Many shopkeepers are also unable to pay rents which range from Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 1 lakh in main roads. The big showrooms located in prime areas have to pay up to Rs. 2.5 lakh rent per month to property owners. Fortunately, some owners have agreed to reduce the rents and are allowing late payments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coronavirus-deals-body-blow-to-businesses-in-vizianagaram/article31880763.ece
21 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Yoga improves immunity, helps fight coronavirus’||International Yoga Day on Sunday (June 21) is expected to be a low-key affair this time with the ban on mass gatherings in parks and stadiums. However, experts and yoga practitioners advise people to do yoga regularly to improve immunity, which is considered be the medicine to fight the dreaded COVID-19. Former MP and senior doctor of Maharaja Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS), Vizianagaram D.V.G. Sankara Rao says that health and fitness help protect people from coronavirus. “I have been practising yoga for the last two decades. It makes us active and helps us take up new challenges. I made many doctors and friends practice it regularly at home during the lockdown period. In the absence of a vaccine for COVID-19, improving immunity is the only way to fight the virus,” he explains. A retired teacher and yoga guru Borra Kaleswara Rao, who trained nearly 1,000 people in Cheepurupalli of the district, urges parents to practice yoga and explain its importance to children on Yoga Day. “Coronavirus is said to damage the respiratory system, Pranayamam, the breathing exercise, improves functioning of lungs and helps pumping of oxygen-rich blood to all cells of the body. Plenty of online content is available to learn yoga,” says Mr. Kaleswara Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yoga-improves-immunity-helps-fight-coronavirus/article31880782.ece
21 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 awards for Vizianagaram||Vizianagaram district administration bagged one SKOCH gold medal and three silver medals for its remarkable achievements in water conservation, dealing with the pandemic and constructing an hostel for tribal pregnant women. In a virtual conference organised from New Delhi on Saturday, the representatives announced the awards and congratulated Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal. Speaking on the occasion, the Collector said that they could achieve the recognition because of the united efforts of officials, representatives of NGO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4-awards-for-vizianagaram/article31880776.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mind over matter||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mind-over-matter/article31880769.ece
21 June 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Temples to remain closed||The portals of Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple in Bhadrachalam were closed at 8 p.m. on Saturday ahead of the partial solar eclipse, which is slated to occur on Sunday. The temple will remain closed till 2.30 p.m. on Sunday. The temple doors will be reopened at 2.30 p.m. for purification rituals such as Samprokshana and Shanthi Homam . Devotees will be allowed to have darshan of the temple deity for one hour from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. on Sunday evening. Nalgonda Staff Reporter writes: The Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Devasthanam at Yadagirgutta will also remain closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/temples-to-remain-closed/article31880618.ece
21 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC seeks government stand on welfare of disabled||Was the State government ready to allocate a separate fund of Rs. 10 crore as requested earlier by the Director and Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities, the Telangana High Court sought to know in a PIL plea on the welfare of physically challenged persons during COVID-19 pandemic. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy instructed Advocate General B.S. Prasad to inform it by Wednesday the government’s stand on the issue. Hearing the petition recently, the bench requested the government to enhance the allocations to District Welfare Officers taking into consideration the large number of differently-abled persons in different districts. In a report filed earlier by the AG as per the bench’s direction, it was stated that Director and Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities B. Shailaja had moved a proposal to establish an exclusive fund of Rs. 10 crore for the welfare of physically challenged persons in the State. The government had not taken any decision on it so far. The petitioner’s counsel K. Pavan Kumar said there was massive variation in allotment of funds to different districts. For example, while the districts of Medchal-Malkajgiri and Rangareddy provided with Rs. 5 lakh each, other districts were given Rs. 1 lakh each. There were nearly 45,000 physically challenged persons in Warangal (Rural) and Warangal (Urban) districts. The amount allotted for these districts was Rs. 1 lakh each. Mr. Pavan Kumar argued that government needs to come to the rescue of such persons since majority of them were unemployed. In a few cases, family members may perceive them as a burden. Even as the plea was being heard for over past two months, the government failed to respond to the proposal for allocation of additional funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-seeks-government-stand-on-welfare-of-disabled/article31880609.ece
21 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fresh norms to check COVID-19||As cases of government employees working at the State Secretariat and other offices in Hyderabad contracting coronavirus keep spiking, the State government has issued a fresh set of guidelines to contain the spread by regulating the physical attendance of various categories of staff. In an official memo issued by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on Saturday, heads of all government offices in the city have been instructed to implement fresh guidelines from June 22 (Monday). Alternate basis According to the new guidelines, 50% of office subordinates, data entry operators and other class IV employees have been told to attend offices (duties) on an alternate week basis. Similarly, 50% of the clerical staff and circulating officers have been asked to attend duty on an alternate day basis. However, officers having separate chambers allotted to them shall continue to attend office regularly. Section officers, assistant section officers, clerical staff, office subordinates, data entry operators and other class IV employees, who are not on duty on a particular day, due to the new guidelines, should be present at the headquarters as they may be called on a short notice for any work in the office. Visitors’ entry No entry to visitors to offices unless there is an authorisation by the officer concerned and a prior appointment would continue and a maximum of three persons in addition to the lift operator would be allowed at a time. Regular disinfection of office premises and vehicles need to be ensured by officers concerned. Further, the staff have been directed to ensure physical distancing norms at all times, including lunch breaks. They are advised to get lunch from home and avoid sitting together during lunch hour. In addition, all protocols like regular hand washing or sanitisation, and wearing of masks have to be adhered to by the staff strictly. All drivers have been instructed to sit in concerned peshi and not along with other driver colleagues in the parking area. Officers have been advised to refrain from using air conditioners in their chambers/rooms and ensure adequate ventilation. Director of Public Health and Vice-Chancellor of Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences have been told to prepare points for educating the government staff on COVID preventive measures. Any officer or staff having vulnerabilities such as pregnancy or co-morbidities could stay at home on leave, but should be available at the headquarters and attend to any urgent duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fresh-norms-to-check-covid-19/article31880594.ece
21 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Do not depend on Chinese products: CREDAI||The Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI), which represents 20,000 developers across the country, has called upon its members not to depend on products manufactured in China and encourage Swadeshi goods. President of CREDAI National Satish Magar, in a release, said that the initiative was a mark of respect to the Galwan valley martyrs. It was time for member-developers to embrace ‘Made in India’ as a way of life and business. CREDAI requested all the 250 allied industries that were linked to the real estate sector to manufacture these products locally, especially the ones that were currently being imported from China and hence support the economy at large. Due to COVID-19, there was a disruption in supply chain emanating from China, which led to delay in completion of projects. Local production and purchase would lead to reduced procurement time, minimal loss of production hours and increased employment opportunities. Most of the raw materials being used were already being manufactured by the MSME sector in the country. “CREDAI is ready to extend its support to local manufacturers for production of goods currently being imported and make a shift from Videshi to Swadeshi,” the CREDAI president said. The sector had already employed more than 52 million workforce in the country and this move would further multiply employment opportunities and give the required stimulus to the economy. Additionally, this move would give a boost to the more than 250 allied MSME industries linked with the realty sector and would increase the overall contribution to GDP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/do-not-depend-on-chinese-products-credai/article31880592.ece
21 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sky’s the limit for them||Suresh Gangwal, a tea stall owner at Neemuch district of Madhya Pradesh, was a proud man while watching his daughter on TV. His daughter, Flying Officer Aanchal Gangwal, who graduated from the Indian Air Force Academy on Saturday, bagged the President’s Plaque. A Computer Science graduate from a government degree college in Neemuch, Ms. Gangwal joined the Madhya Pradesh police department as a Sub-Inspector. Later, she quit the job after being into merit as Labour Inspector. “I worked there for eight months before joining the forces,” she said. Soon after graduation, she started appearing for AFCAT, and got recommended in SSB in her sixth attempt. Basketball court to cockpit A national level basketball player, Flying Officer Antara Mehta, who will soon fly fighter jets, always wanted a ‘life of adventure’ and learn from experiences. “So, I joined the IAF in the flying branch and got commissioned in the fighter’s stream,” the newly commissioned officer, who hails from Nagpur, said. She is the first woman fighter pilot from Maharashtra and 10th in the country. “I will be the first one from my family as well,” Ms. Mehta said. Childhood dream Born in a Fauji family from Kathua district in Jammu and Kashmir, Flying Officer Keshav Sharma was always fascinated by the ‘big flying toys’ since his childhood. His father retired from the Indian Army, while his elder brother was still serving the country. “If you need to be motivated to do something, it tells you that you are not motivated enough. Internal desire is what counts. My fascination for defence forces is attributed to the experiences of my life,” he said. Lazy no more Always chided for his lazy attitude by his parents, Flying Officer Umesh Girimallanavas was equally confused to choose his career, while he was in the final year of engineering. A native of Sankeshwar in Karnataka, he is now a proud son. “I saw the pride in my father’s eyes when he told his parents that I could earn money in any profession, but only as a soldier I could earn respect and serve the nation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/skys-the-limit-for-them/article31880622.ece
21 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Test positivity rate up by over 100%||The test positivity rate (TPR) in Telangana has increased by 100% in over one and half month indicating the higher prevalence of COVID-19 in the State. The test positivity rate, which is percentage of samples that tested positive, was around 5.2% on April 28. This increased to 12.9% on June 1. Suggesting the way forward, epidemiologists say that preventing deaths should be the goal apart from surveillance on influenza-like illness (ILI), “Early identification of poor oxygen saturation is important for referral to centres with high flow oxygen,” said Giridhara R Babu, professor and head of Lifecourse Epidemiology at Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH), Bengaluru. According to the official information from the State Health department, of the 19063 coronavirus tests performed till April 28, 1009 samples tested positive. The test positivity rate was 5.2%. And 50,569 tests were performed till June 19 and 6526 samples tested positive. The positivity rate is 12.9%. The data on number of tests in a day has been mentioned in the medical bulletin only in the past four days. According to it, test positivity rate per day in the past four days ranged between 17% and 24.5%. Another epidemiologist, on condition of anonymity, said that the data should be categorised into positivity rate among asymptomatics and symptomatics to know what steps should be taken. The State government has undertaken to perform 50,000 coronavirus tests from Monday, which is slated to be completed by June 25. One objective of ramping up the the tests is to know prevalence of the disease. Going by the testing rates, more testing is bringing out more cases. On June 19, 499 cases were detected in a day which, is highest till now. The tests are conducted 1) in containment zones 2) on contacts of positive cases 3) on frontline staff involved in COVID-19 management 4) on those with symptoms 5) on those who need the test before a medical procedure such as delivery. Dr Giridhar said the increase in test positivity rate indicated that the State was witnessing higher prevalence of COVID-19. “At this stage, weekly survey of ILI should be conducted in the community and isolate all symptomatics. Quarantining of contacts should take precedence over all other measures. Strict compliance of non-pharmacological interventions should be implemented,” Dr Giridhara Babu said. BR Shamanna, professor of Public Health, School of Medical Sciences, University of Hyderabad, too said safe distance, hygiene and healthy lifestyle were way forward till at least the year-end. Health Minister Eatala Rajender on Monday said they received permission to recruit more health workers to conduct fever survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/test-positivity-rate-up-by-over-100/article31880596.ece
21 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Soyabean farmers forced to shell out more on seeds||As intense lobbying by seed companies to get the germination percentage of soyabean seed reduced to 60% from 80% succeeded, farmers planning to grow the crop this vaanakalam are being forced to shell out Rs. 45 crore more on just the seed to cultivate in a little over 4.68 lakh acres. The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare had issued orders on Friday night reducing the germination percentage of soyabean seed being sold by private firms to 60% from a minimum of 80% on the grounds that production of seed and its quality were affected due to untimely rains in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh last year. With reduced germination percentage being official now, the requirement of seed is likely go up by a whopping 50%. According to officials of the Agriculture Department, the seed required for cultivating soyabean, one of the major vaanakalam commercial crops, in over 4.68 lakh acres, as part of the regulated farming, would be about 1,40,500 quintals at 30 kg per acre. However, this would increase seed requirement to nearly 2,10,700 quintals with the Agriculture department advising farmers to sow about 45 kg seed per acre now.  Regulated farming According to regulated farming norm, soyabean crop is supposed to be cultivated in about one lakh acres each in Nizamabad, Kamareddy, Nirmal and Adilabad districts and the remaining extent in another eight districts. Sources in the department said with regular germination percentage of 80%, the farming community would have spent over Rs. 55.41 crore on subsidised seed supplied at Rs. 3,945 per quintal after deducting the subsidy component of Rs. 2,701 per quintal. However, the Telangana State Seed Development Corporation could procure only up to 90,000 quintals of seed for the purpose due to non-availability following damage in producing states — Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. The officials said that the farming community was forced to depend on private seed to the extent of about 1.21 lakh quintals with a price of at least Rs. 7,500 per quintal. As a result, farmers have been left with no choice but to depend on private seed and bear additional cost on the key input.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/soyabean-farmers-forced-to-shell-out-more-on-seeds/article31880607.ece
21 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rythu Vedikas’ construction gains momentum||As part of its move to empower the farming community, particularly those with landholding, by educating them on the emerging practices and providing information on markets, the State government has speeded up the process of construction of Rythu Vedikas, platforms to mobilise farmers, with an estimated cost of about Rs. 575 crore. A total of 2,604 Rythu Vedikas have been planned to be constructed at a cost of Rs. 22 lakh each with facilities, including a meeting hall with about 250 members seating capacity, an office room and other basic amenities. In response to a call given by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, over 100 philanthropist families have come forward to bear the expenditure so that the platforms could be named after their parents/family members. At some places, farmers have come forward to donate the land for the purpose. Minister for Agriculture Singireddy Niranjan Reddy said the Rythu Vedikas would act as decision making centres at cluster-level on the choice of crops to be raised and commanding good rate for the produce. “The farming community has been unorganised so far but the Rythu Vedikas would mobilise them as a force to reckon with,” the Minister said adding that the platforms would evolve into centres of collective decisions at cluster-level. The Rythu Bandhu Samithis at mandal level would play an active role in the construction of the Rythu Vedikas, which are planned to be built with funds from Agriculture Department and also linking with Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. Mr. Niranjan Reddy laid foundation stone for the construction of Rythu Vedikas at several places in Wanaparthy district on Saturday. He announced that the Rythu Vedikas at Wanaparthy and Pangal would be constructed with his personal funds in the memory of his parents. He conducted ground-breaking ceremonies for the construction of the platforms at Chandapur, Sawayigudem, Peddagudem, Nagavaram and other places. In Narayanpet district, Minister for Excise V. Srinivas Goud along with Kodangal MLA Patnam Narender Reddy laid foundation stone for the construction of Rythu Vedika at Kosigi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rythu-vedikas-construction-gains-momentum/article31880605.ece
21 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Four slip/link roads to be inaugurated tomorrow||Four slip/link roads constructed by HRDCL during lockdown in the city will be inaugurated by Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister K.T. Rama Rao on Monday. These include the 2.7-km stretch between Serilingampally zonal office and GSM Mall, one-km stretch along the HT line in Kukatpally zone up to Miyapur Road, a half kilometre link between Prashasan Nagar Road No. 70 and Road No.78.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-sliplink-roads-to-be-inaugurated-tomorrow/article31880593.ece
21 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||546 more test positive||The sharp spike in COVID-19 cases continued in Telangana as 546 more swab samples tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. This is the highest number of COVID cases recorded to date. The total cases crossed the 7,000-mark. The cumulative cases stands at 7072. Five more COVID-19 patients died, taking the toll to 203. On Saturday, 3188 samples were tested and 546 tested positive. The test positive rate for the day is 17%. On the whole, 53,757 tests were conducted in the State till June 20. As more tests are being conducted as part of ‘50,000 tests in 10 days’, more cases are being detected. The cases are expected to rise with increase in tests. The 546 new cases include 458 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, 50 from Rangareddy, 13 from Karimnagar, 10 from Jangaon.Of the total 7,072 cases, 3363 are active cases, 3506 were discharged, and 203 died. While 2698 cases were detected from March 2 to May 31(91 days), 4,374 cases were detected from June 1-20 (20 days). Number of cases in Telangana month wise –. March – 95 cases. April – 943 cases. May – 1660 cases. June (1-20) – 4374||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/546-more-test-positive/article31880597.ece
21 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||30 buildings demolished by GHMC||The GHMC has cracked the whip against dilapidated buildings in the city in view of the current monsoon season, when the buildings may collapse and harm inmates. On Saturday, Town Planning officials brought down a total of 30 buildings which are in a ramshackle condition across several circles, besides having one more vacated. Circles including Kapra, Malakpet, Uppal, Mehdipatnam, Karwan, Goshamahal, Musheerabad, Malkajgiri, Jubilee Hills, Yousufguda, Serilingampally, Kukatpally, Qutbullahpur, Gajularamaram, Begumpet and Secunderabad were covered in the drive. Instructions were issued to conduct quick survey and identify dilapidated structures and take action towards assessment of the structure, a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/30-buildings-demolished-by-ghmc/article31880598.ece
21 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ray of hope for soyabean ryots||A fresh advisory issued by Centre on Friday has raised hope among soyabean farmers who otherwise were depressed by, first, shrinkage in crop area as recommended by State government to access its investment support and, second, germination issues due to adverse weather conditions. The State government had originally planned soyabean cultivation on 4.6 lakh acres but slashed it to three lakh acres due to nationwide seed shortage. Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh which are the major seed growing States experienced heavy rains at the time of harvest, resulting in wet yield. As it is, soyabean seed is highly sensitive and vulnerable to deterioration in germination not only due to environmental issues but even mishandling. In these circumstance, soyabean farmers faced germination problems all over the country in this season. The same was experienced over 2,000 acres in Adilabad, Nizamabad and Nirmal districts. Hence, the Centre on Friday advised farmers to step up rate of sowing from 30 kgs per acre to 40–45 kgs per acre to recover a germination percentage of 60. Otherwise, the actual germination percentage is 70 with a sowing rate of 30 kgs per acre, said K. Keshavulu, Director, Telangana State Seed and Organic Certification Authority. The percentage was reduced from 70 to 65 and now further to 60 in the circumstances. The percentage could be tested on trial basis by sowing 100 seed and seeing to it that 60 of them germinated.  Seed scarcity In view of shortage of seed in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh and subsequent transportation problems due to coronavirus and lockdown, the State government brought down the acreage from 4.6 lakh acres to 3 lakh acres as part of its regulated farming. Incidentally, the seed suppliers in the two States also did not participate in tenders floated by Telangana to meet requirement for 4.6 lakh acres. Therefore, the Telangana State Seed Development Corporation arranged seed for 3 lakh acres and proportionately brought down the cultivable area. Where the farmers went for inter-cropping, it was suggested that the farmers remove soyabean crop that did not germinate and replace it with red gram or cotton because all three crops were almost of same duration and fetched similar returns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ray-of-hope-for-soyabean-ryots/article31880612.ece
21 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Government urged to fill in job vacancies||National Backward Classes Welfare Association has requested Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao not increase the superannuation age for government employees from the present 58 years to 60 years since such a decision would have an adverse impact on the unemployed youth in the wake of shrinking job opportunities due to COVID-19 impact. President of the association R. Krishnaiah has, however, said that they would have no objection to increase in retirement age if government fills two lakh existing vacancies first.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/government-urged-to-fill-in-job-vacancies/article31880606.ece
21 June 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Colonel’s ashes immersed at Sangamam||Col. Bikkumalla Santosh Babu’s ashes were immersed at the confluence of rivers Krishna and Musi – Sangamam, at Wadapally, amid prayers in the district on Saturday. Anirudh, the Colonel’s three-and-half-year-old son and wife Santoshi, along with grandfather Upender sat in prayers and performed the rites on the ghat. They later embarked on a boat ride into the waters to immerse the ashes carried in the urn. Meanwhile, Telangana Jana Samithi founder M. Kodandaram along with district leaders met the Colonel’s family. He welcomed the government’s decision to reach out to the family with the relief package, and also said it should consider building a Sainik School in Suryapet as a lasting tribute to the colonel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/colonels-ashes-immersed-at-sangamam/article31880619.ece
21 June 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||Work begins at country’s largest floating solar power plant at NTPC||The NTPC Ramagundam started construction work on the country’s largest floating solar power plant of 100 MW capacity at its balancing reservoir on Saturday. The project costing Rs. 432.8 crore and coming up on 450 acres of the water surface, was awarded to BHEL. NTPC Ramagundam Executive Director Raj Kumar performed the ground-breaking ceremony for the construction of Central Monitoring and Control Station on Saturday along with ED-PPP&M (designated) Prem Prakash, GM (Medical) Sasmita Das, GM (TS) P.K. Laad, GM (Maintenance) Soumedra Das, GM (Operation) B.C. Polai and other officials of NTPC and BHEL. Mr. Raj Kumar urged officials to complete project on time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/work-begins-at-countrys-largest-floating-solar-power-plant-at-ntpc/article31880614.ece
21 June 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||Farmer ends life||A farmer, M Rajireddy (60) of Reddypalli village, ended his life by consuming pesticide at MRO’s office on Saturday alleging revenue officials failed to issue passbook in his name for his land, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmer-ends-life/article31880599.ece
21 June 2020||new delhi,||‘Firm counselling patients in isolation to work till tomorrow’||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday said that after making five days’ institutional quarantine mandatory for COVID-19 patients, Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal had also stopped the work of the company which was counselling the patients at home. He said the facility will continue till Monday and other options will be discussed then. The revocation of the order making five days’ institutional quarantine mandatory for COVID-19 patients came after several tussles throughout the day. After the first meeting, Mr. Sisodia said they could not reach a consensus with Mr. Baijal during a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority. He said they would meet again at 5 p.m. “The State Disaster Management Authority meeting did not agree on both issues — rate of private hospital beds and L-G’s order to end home isolation. Now the meeting will be held again at 5 p.m.,” he said in a tweet. Earlier in the day, AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said, “According to our calculation, by June 30, 15,000 beds would be required [in Delhi]. But after this order [to end home isolation] by the BJP, 90,000 beds would be required. From where will these 90,000 beds come? Who will get these beds? Delhi is the only state in the country where this order is being implemented.” After the first DDMA meeting happened, AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh termed the L-G’s order a “dictatorial decision”. “ I want to ask what dictatorial order is this? One rule for the country and another rule for Delhi. Is the BJP government taking revenge on the people?” Mr. Singh said addressing media. “The Centre is saying that in Delhi even if one is a mild case, the person will be put in a railway coach. Is the railway coach liveable? In this 47 degree Celsius, the coach is like a furnace. There is no facility of AC in it and the BJP says go and stay in it. I feel it is an unjust order.” After the second meeting, Sisodia said, “The Central Committee had advised 60% COVID beds in private hospitals at a lower rate. Very few beds would have been available at a lower price in that case. Now 100% beds will be available at a lower price. Decision — 100% COVID beds shall be subsidised up to an upper limit of 60% of hospital capacity.” Meanwhile, Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy, on the sidelines of inspecting Antigen Detection Testing Center in north east Delhi on Saturday, said Mr. Baijal might have issued the order — making five days’ institutional quarantine mandatory for COVID patients — for the benefit of those who do not have space in their homes. “Delhi L-G might have ordered institutional quarantine for the benefit of those who do not have space in their homes. But I think that he will issue another info by today evening for people who can create an isolated separate room in their homes [sic],” he told reporters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/firm-counselling-patients-in-isolation-to-work-till-tomorrow/article31880562.ece
21 June 2020||New Delhi,||City sees 3,630 new COVID-19 cases||The Capital reported 3,630 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 56,746, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. This is the highest number of cases reported in a single day in the city so far. Also, 77 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 2,112. Of the total cases, 31,294 people have recovered and there are 23,340 active cases. Meanwhile, an AAP source said that Delhi Minister Satyendar Jain, who had tested positive for COVID-19 earlier this week, has been administered plasma therapy and his condition is comparatively better. Mr. Jain was admitted to the government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital on Tuesday after he experienced high-grade fever and a sudden drop in his oxygen levels. He had tested positive on Wednesday. He was shifted to Max Hospital, Saket, a private hospital, on Friday after his condition worsened. Doctor dies A 39-year-old doctor working at National Health Systems Resource Centre, who was tested positive, died at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital on Saturday. “The doctor, hailing from Odisha, was admitted at the hospital a week ago and died today,” an official said. An order issued on Saturday said that the Health Department is in the process of purchasing oxygen cylinders and concentrators and directed hospitals to not procure them directly. On June 9, the government had ordered the hospitals to arrange oxygen supply and directed them to procure the necessary equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-sees-3630-new-covid-19-cases/article31880557.ece
21 June 2020||New Delhi,||Deployment of final-year students for COVID-19 duty may take time||The Delhi government’s decision to deploy final-year medical students to COVID-19 hospitals here for six months to increase manpower is not easy to implement as there is no clarity on whether this will be done before or after their exams, said sources. The final-year MD, MS, and Diplomate of National Board students are currently working as resident doctors in different hospitals and their exams, which are usually held in April-May, have been postponed due to the outbreak. An official source told The Hindu that there are a lot of limitations and they are analysing the situation. The students are already working and cannot possibly be called back, the source said, adding that if implementing the decision proves too difficult then an alternative solution will have to be found. When contacted, a Delhi government spokesperson did not comment on the issue. Meanwhile, the Federation of Resident Doctor’s Association (FORDA) on Saturday wrote to the chairman of the Medical Council of India (MCI) to consider “internal assessment” to pass these students and deploy them as senior resident doctors. The FORDA added that in this case, six months will be counted as their work experience too. “The students are already stressed that their exams are postponed and after Friday’s order there is a lot of confusion. Neither the students nor the association were consulted by the government before passing the order to deploy them,” said FORDA president Shivaji Dev Barman. “It would be mental harassment if they are asked to work for six months before their course is over. The government should consider our demands,” he added. “Immediate deployment of all final-year MD/MS/DNB graduate doctors in various PG medical Institutions of Delhi to be engaged for a period of six months in Delhi government COVID hospitals. Similarly, final-year PG (Nursing) and UG (Nursing) students also be deployed for ICU duty for a period of six months,” read the government order issued on Friday. The head of department of a Delhi government-run medical college said that the government is yet to formally communicate the decision to them, adding that the students should ideally be deployed only after they have sat for their exams.  It would be mental harassment if they are asked to work for six months before their course is over Shivaji Dev Barman President. Federation of Resident Doctor’s Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/deployment-of-final-year-students-for-covid-19-duty-may-take-time/article31880560.ece
21 June 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. caps per-day package rates of private hospitals||The Delhi government on Saturday issued an order capping per-day package rates for COVID-19 treatments in private hospitals between Rs. 8,000 and Rs. 18,000. The per-day rates, including cost of PPE, in hospitals accredited by the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) are Rs. 10,000 for isolation bed, including supportive care and oxygen; Rs. 15,000 for ICU without ventilator; and Rs. 18,000 for ICU with ventilator. For the same, the rates in non-NABH accredited hospitals will be Rs. 8,000, Rs. 13,000, and Rs. 15,000 respectively. The rates would be applicable to all COVID-19 beds of private hospitals, subject to an upper limit of 60% of the total hospital bed capacity. “The Delhi Disaster Management Authority accepted the recommendations of the committee under V. K. Paul, member, NITI Aayog,” read the government order. What is included “The rates will be all inclusive as a package. This will include, but is not limited to: bed, food and other amenities, monitoring, nursing care, doctors’ visits/ consults, investigations including imaging, treatment as per the national protocol for COVID care and standard care for co-morbidities, oxygen, blood transfusion etc.,” the order said. The rates also include costs of medical care of underlying co-morbid conditions, including supportive care and cost of medications, for the duration of care for COVID-19. For pregnant women, costs for delivery (normal or C-section) and care of the newborn will be charged by the hospital extra as per prevailing Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana rates of relevant packages, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-caps-per-day-package-rates-of-private-hospitals/article31880556.ece
21 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC allows public viewing of virtual hearings||The Delhi High Court on Saturday allowed public viewing of hearings conducted through videoconferencing due to the COVID-19 outbreak. A circular issued by HC Registrar Manoj Jain said links will be offered for public viewing so long as the stability of the system is not disturbed, that is, consistent with the available bandwidth. “Therefore, all those who are interested in obtaining links for viewing court hearings can contact the concerned court master/court official on their mobile phone numbers published in the cause list...,” the circular said. Those who are given a link for viewing the court proceedings will ensure that their mic is kept on mute and the video on switch-off mode, it said. The high court has restricted physical court functioning since March 25 and has been conducting proceedings through video conferencing due to the COVID-19 epidemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-allows-public-viewing-of-virtual-hearings/article31880558.ece
21 June 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra sees highest spike with 3,874 new cases||Maharashtra recorded 3,874 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, its highest surge in a day, pushing its tally to 1,28,205. The State also recorded 160 fatalities, its second-highest single-day rise, taking its death toll to 5,984. Nearly 51% of Maharashtra’s cases and 59% deaths are from Mumbai. Of the latest deaths, 136 were recorded in Mumbai, 10 in Jalgaon, six in Aurangabad, five in Pune, and one each in Solapur, Jalna and Beed. Of the 35 districts in the State, only three — Bhandara, Gondia and Chandrapur — have not reported a single death yet. Wardha and Gadchiroli, which had not reported any positive cases in the initial weeks of the outbreak, have now reported one death each. Surge in cases in MMR In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), with nine municipal corporations — Thane, Navi Mumbai, Panvel, Kalyan-Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi Nizampur, Mira Bhayander and Vasai-Virar — the case load is inching towards the 95,000 mark. As on Saturday, the tally of cases in the MMR was 94,165. After Mumbai and Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli and Vasai Virar have emerged as hotspots, with the civic bodies reporting a huge rise in positive cases within their limits. The data reconciliation exercise is under way in many parts of the State. “Barring Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Palghar districts, the reconciliation of deaths in all districts and municipal corporations in the State has been completed,” a State health official said. On Saturday, 1,380 patients were discharged, taking the total tally of recoveries to 64,153. The State’s recovery rate stands at 50%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/maharashtra-sees-highest-spike-with-3874-new-cases/article31880701.ece
21 June 2020||Mumbai,||Deadliest day yet in Mumbai||Mumbai on Saturday recorded 136 COVID-19 fatalities, its highest in a day, taking its death toll to 3,561. The city also reported 1,190 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, pushing its tally to 65,329. Of the latest deaths, 75 were reported between June 16 and 19, and the remaining before June 16, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials said. Among the victims, 92 had co-morbid conditions such as diabetes and asthma. Bed crunch eases Even as civic officials face the dual challenge of containing the spread of COVID-19 and tackling monsoon-related ailments, the city’s hospital bed crunch has eased with more vacant beds being made available. A BMC official said the availability of beds has increased because a greater number of people living in high-rises have opted to receive treatment at home. Nearly 16,000 patients are being treated at home. As per the BMC’s dashboard, of the 11,906 beds in dedicated COVID-19 health centres and dedicated COVID-19 hospitals, 2499 (21%) were vacant as on Saturday. Even the availability of intensive care unit (ICU) beds has increased, with the occupancy rate dropping from 99% to 92%. As on Saturday, 72 of the 1,219 ICU beds were lying vacant. The city’s recovery rate stands at 50%. In all, 32,867 patients have recovered. Of these, 610 were discharged from hospitals on Saturday. The city’s case doubling time is 34 days. Lowest rise in Dharavi On Saturday, the city’s densest slum pocket, Dharavi, recorded only seven new cases, its lowest single-day jump, taking its tally to 2,158. The BMC officials attributed the decline to intensive contact tracing and containment efforts. Dadar and Mahim, also located in G North ward, recorded nine and 18 new cases respectively. 10 deaths in Navi Mumbai Navi Mumbai reported its highest-single-day death toll and second-highest surge in COVID-19 cases on Saturday. While 10 more fatalities took the death toll to 157, an additional 172 cases pushed the cumulative tally to 4,687. The latest positive cases include 11 children in the six to 15 age group. A senior police inspector with the Navi Mumbai Police has also tested positive. Eighty patients were discharged on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,683. So far, 16,634 people have been tested for COVID-19, of which the results of 11,274 have returned negative, while the reports of 673 are pending. Till now, 37,382 people have completed home quarantine and there are 1,847 active cases in Navi Mumbai. The city’s recovery rate is 57% and case fatality rate stands at 3.34%. Panvel reported its highest spike in cases on Saturday. A total of 73 new cases has pushed the tally to 1,267. Two more fatalities were also recorded, pushing the death toll to 55. With 37 patients being discharged, Panvel’s total tally of recoveries has risen to 849 and the recovery rate has improved to 67%. Till now, 4,278 people have been tested for COVID-19, of which 80 reports are pending. There are 363 active cases in Panvel and the area’s case fatality rate stands at 4.3%. Panvel Rural reported 21 new COVID-19 cases, pushing its case load to 543. The death toll remains at 12. As many as 12 recoveries were recorded, taking the total to 413. Till now, Panvel Rural has tested 1,075 people for COVID-19, of which 22 reports are pending. There are 118 active cases and the case fatality rate stands at 2.2%.  (With additional inputs from Raina Assainar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/deadliest-day-yet-in-mumbai/article31880699.ece
21 June 2020||Mumbai,||HC seeks State help for fishermen||The Bombay High Court on Friday directed the State Disaster Management Authority to ameliorate the grievance expressed by fishermen to the extent possible, upon due assessment of the loss and damage that might have been suffered by them due to Cyclone Nisarga, within three weeks. Fishermen in distress A Division Bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice K.K. Tated was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Damodar Tandel, a fisherman and the chairman of Akhil Maharashtra Macchimar Kruti Samittee, a registered association of fishermen. The PIL, filed through advocate Rakesh Bhatkar, said there has been large scale destruction in the coastal districts owing to Cyclone Nisarga, leaving several fishermen in extreme distress. Mr. Tandel’s grievance is that the State authorities assessed the damages due to the cyclone and issued guidelines for providing standards of relief to persons affected on June 10, and declared the amount of compensation on June 11. The State has considered damage caused to farmers, residential damages and small scale sellers however, there is no relief for fishermen. Even though the fisheries department of each districts separately carried out survey to asses damage/losses sustained by fisherman. The PIL said fishermen are not included in the list of beneficiaries though they have sustained considerable damage due to the calamity and are the most affected as the cyclone has directly affected their livelihood. It seeks for a direction to National, State and District Disaster Management Authority, to carry out survey to assess damages/losses sustained by the fisherman across Maharashtra due to the cyclone and submit reports regarding the same. Mr. Tandel also sought compensation and relief to fisheries community. Representation to CM The court noted that Mr. Tandel is the chairman of an organisation for fishermen and a representation had been made on June 13 to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. However, the representation, according to the petitioner, is yet to receive consideration. The court directed the State authority to ameliorate the grievance by fishermen upon due assessment of the loss and damage that might have been suffered them within three weeks.  Fishermen are not included in the list of beneficiaries though they have sustained damage Public interest litigation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/hc-seeks-state-help-for-fishermen/article31880696.ece
21 June 2020||Mumbai,||Taxi, rickshaw unions urge CM to ease passenger norms from July 1||Black and yellow taxi and autorickshaw unions in Mumbai have written to the government to permit drivers to take any passengers from July 1, and not limit services only to essential workers or emergencies. In a letter written to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, A.L. Quadros, general secretary, Mumbai Taximen’s Union, said drivers have had literally no source of income for three and half months under lockdown. These people are self-employed and have no other source of income for their families and their livelihoods, he said. “The government has allowed the traders and offices to function. They are the main users of taxis and autorickshaws. The taxi and rickshaw operators have not been allowed to take the traders and office employees in their taxis and rickshaws. Very few essential passengers are hiring their vehicles,” the letter said. The letter also said taxi drivers were being targeted by traffic police, who were indiscriminately harassing them, detaining their vehicles and issuing huge e-challans. It added that the police were also discriminating against black and yellow taxis and rickshaws and were not taking action against cabs on app-based aggregators such as Ola and Uber. Panna Lal Yadav, a rickshaw driver living in Virar, said he had been challaned twice in the last week. “The police just issue a challan worth Rs. 300 and ask us to collect our vehicle from the chowki. When we ask what is the reason behind this, they said that we are not allowed to run rickshaws,” he said, adding that with business already low, the fines were leaving with him little money after working nearly 12 hours.  Taxi and rickshaw operators have not been allowed to take the traders and office employees A.L. Quadros General secretary, Mumbai Taximen’s Union||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/taxi-rickshaw-unions-urge-cm-to-ease-passenger-norms-from-july-1/article31880695.ece
21 June 2020||Mumbai,||Body of 70-year-old found by roadside||The body of a 70-year-old man was found lying on a roadside on the outskirts of Ulhasnagar in Thane, police said on Saturday. The body was recovered on Friday evening, they said. “Police had received information that the body was lying along a road leading to a brick kiln on the outskirts of Ulhasnagar,” an official of Hill Line police station said. The victim was later identified as Sejumal Ramnanai and it came to light that he was a resident of Ulhasnagar. Police suspect it to be a case of murder as strangulation marks were found on the neck. “Somebody might have strangulated the elderly man using a wire,” the official said. The body was sent for post-mortem and an offence under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/body-of-70-year-old-found-by-roadside/article31880697.ece
21 June 2020||Mumbai,||1,000-bed hospital to come up in Byculla||A 1,000-bed COVID-19 hospital is being set up on the premises of Richardson and Cruddas Ltd in Byculla and will be ready by the end of the month, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. The hospital will be equipped with 300 ICU beds with oxygen supply. Over 300 staffers, including 50 doctors, 100 nurses and 150 ward boys and other personnel, will run the facility. Ambulances will also be provided depending on the requirement. The civic body has built such facilities at NSCI dome in Worli, Bombay Exhibition Centre in Goregaon, and MMRDA grounds in BKC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/1000-bed-hospital-to-come-up-in-byculla/article31880706.ece
21 June 2020||Mumbai,||State’s TB alerts dip drastically||According to Dr. Udwadia, weekly counts of reported cases dropped by 75% in the country in the three weeks since the lockdown started. An average 45,875 weekly cases were recorded before that. China, too, reported a 20% drop in its TB case detection rate this February as compared to the same period last year. Dr. Nerges Mistry, director of Foundation for Medical Research, said the follow-up of patients has been hampered with many suffering adverse drug reactions. “The movement of migrants has also led to a slight decline. We will know in the next few months how things pan out as they return” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/states-tb-alerts-dip-drastically/article31880694.ece
21 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Child’s cries save woman in nick of time||A 27-year-old woman, who tried to end her life as she was upset due to job loss and marital discord, was saved in a the nick of time by a patrolling team from NRI coastal police station. The incident occurred on Thursday night when constables Kiran Swar and Pandurang Kawte, who were patrolling at Sector 5 in Ulwe, got a call from Navi Mumbai police control room around 8.30 p.m. They were informed that a resident had alerted the control room about a house where a woman stayed alone with her 4-year-old daughter. The caller said the child had been crying loudly for a while and there has been no response to repeated knocking on the door of the house, which was locked from inside. “We thought that the child would have got locked inside accidentally and immediately informed the fire brigade. The fire brigade reached the spot within minutes and broke open the door,” Mr. Swar said. On entering the house they saw a four-year-old girl in the hall, crying continuously and pointing towards the bedroom door. Movement in finger The police and the fire brigade found the door of the bedroom to be locked from inside and knocked twice. Since there was no response, they broke open this door too and found a woman lying unconscious. Since Mr. Swar noticed some movement in the victim’s finger, the team gave her CPR for two minutes, and managed to revive her. She was then taken to D.Y. Patil hospital and saved in the nick of time. “She had not left any note before attempting suicide. Later, when we spoke to her, she revealed that she worked in a private firm and had lost her job during the lockdown. The financial crisis and the marital discord lead to her making such a decision,” senior police inspector Tanvir Shaikh, NRI Coastal police station, said. The woman’s brother in Hyderabad was intimated about the incident. While the victim was in hospital, her child was taken care of by the house owner who stays in CBD Belapur.  We thought that the child would have got locked inside accidentally Constable Kiran Swar NRI coastal police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/childs-cries-save-woman-in-nick-of-time/article31880693.ece
21 June 2020||Palghar,||Tribals to work in COVID-19 hospitals||Tribals from Palghar district will work in hospitals treating COVID-19 patients, an official said on Saturday. At least 30 tribal volunteers, including six women, who are part of an NGO, have undergone basic training in nursing. They will serve at Golden Park Hospital at Vasai in the district, and the civic-run Indira Gandhi Hospital at Mira-Bhayandar in Thane district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/tribals-to-work-in-covid-19-hospitals/article31880707.ece
21 June 2020||Pune,||Pune district crosses 14,000 cases; toll rises to 560||The number of COVID-19 cases in Pune district crossed the 14,000 mark, after 542 more people tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours, a State health official said on Saturday. The COVID-19 case count of the district now stands at 14,292, the official said. With the virus claiming eight more lives in the district, its death toll has reached 560, he said. “Of the 542 cases, at least 359 were reported from the areas controlled by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), where the count has reached 11,554. However, 157 recovered patients were discharged from hospitals, the official added. With a surge of 32 cases in neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad, the COVID-19 tally in the area has grown to 1,381, he said. The number of positive cases in rural parts of the district, areas under the Pune Cantonment Board and the civil hospital has increased to 1,246, the official said. 85 new cases in Nagpur At least 85 people have tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Maharashtra’s Nagpur district in the last 24 hours, taking the tally in the region to 1,228, a district official said on Saturday. No new casualties were reported in the district, where 18 persons have succumbed to the infection so far. As per a release, swab reports of 85 people returned positive on Saturday morning. Of the 1,228 cases recorded in the district, 784 patients have recovered from the virus so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/pune-district-crosses-14000-cases-toll-rises-to-560/article31880703.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Charitable hospital treated just four poor patients in lockdown: HC told||Despite reserving 20% of its beds for the poor and needy, a charitable hospital in Mumbai had treated only four such patients — three in May and another in June — during the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown, the Bombay High Court has been told. However, it is not clear if these patients were infected by COVID-19. The State charity commissioner revealed this detail in an affidavit following a probe into an alleged incident of K.J. Somaiya Hospital charging Rs. 12.5 lakh from some ‘poor’ patients for COVID-19 treatment. However, the affidavit also stated the petitioners — seven residents of an SRA building in Bandra — have not disclosed their income status, supported by any documentary evidence, which would make them eligible for free treatment. The petitioners have sought refund of their hospital bills. During the inquiry, the hospital contended that the government resolution (GR) capping the prices for COVID-19 treatment, reserving 20% beds and offering free treatment for the poor, came into effect on April 30 and May 21 respectively, which was after these patients had been discharged. Last week, the seven residents had approached the High Court alleging that the hospital had charged them Rs. 12.5 lakh for treatment and had threatened to stop their discharge if they failed to pay the money. Demand for refund In their plea, filed through advocate Vivek Shukla, the petitioners had sought a refund saying that the hospital was bound to reserve beds for the poor and provide them free treatment since it was run by a charitable trust. A Bench of Justices R.D. Dhanuka and Madhav Jamdar had then directed the State Charity Commissioner to conduct an inquiry in the matter. In an affidavit submitted before the High Court on Friday, the charity commissioner said while the hospital had reserved 20% beds for persons from indigent and economically weaker sections, it had treated only four such patients since the start of the lockdown on midnight of March 24. According to the State charity commissioner, the hospital had treated three patients under the scheme for indigent and poor patients during the lockdown period till the end of May, while one such patient was treated in June. However, there were no complaints about the hospital denying treatment to any patient during this period, the affidavit stated. “The full inquiry report is awaited. However, it is clear that the hospital is not adhering to State’s mandate on providing free COVID-19 treatment, and free or subsidised non-COVID-19 treatment for the poor,” Mr. Shukla claimed. On April 30, the State government had issued a GR capping prices for COVID-19 treatment in private and charitable hospitals and on May 21, it had issued another resolution mandating that such hospitals reserve 20% beds and offer free treatment to the poor and needy. The treatment of six of the petitioners was already over on April 28 before the GRs dated April 30 and May 21 were passed, the affidavit stated. The court is likely to hear the matter further on June 23.  It is clear that the hospital is not adhering to State’s mandate on providing free COVID-19 treatment Advocate Vivek Shukla Bombay HIgh Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-mumbai/charitable-hospital-treated-just-four-poor-patients-in-lockdown-hc-told/article31880708.ece
21 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha records 72.77% recovery||Odisha recorded a recovery rate of 72.77% following the discharge of 237 persons from COVID-19 hospitals in the past 24 hours. “The untiring efforts of our COVID warriors have led to an all-time high recovery of 237 patients in a day. We salute the dauntless spirit of our frontline workers,” the Health and Family Welfare Department said on Twitter on Saturday. The number of people discharged has increased to 3,354. Cuttack district led the table with 70 persons discharged, followed by Khordha, 54, Jagatsinghpur, 20, Kandhamal, 19, and Ganjam, 17. The State continued to register a steep increase in cases. It reported 179 fresh cases from 15 districts on Saturday. Of them, 150 were reported from quarantine centres and the rest from community. Eighteen personnel of the National Disaster Response Force and the Odisha Fire Service, who had returned from cyclone-relief duty in West Bengal, tested positive. Bhubaneswar reported 15 local cases. Five infections were found in a slum cluster which was declared a containment zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-records-7277-recovery/article31880573.ece
21 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Villagers allege attack by CRPF men||Tribal residents in a remote village of Jharkhand’s West Singhbhum district alleged that Central Reserve Police Force personnel attacked them when they could not extract information about movement of Maoists. According to the villagers, 11 persons were seriously injured as a result, and three persons with leg fracture and waist injury still admitted in hospital. “On June 15, when villagers in the Chiriabera hamlet of Anjedbeda were assisting a fellow resident in erecting a tiled roof, security forces came and asked about Naxalites. As the villagers don’t understand Hindi, they could not respond properly. It made the CRPF men angry,” alleged Turam Tamsoy, a resident of Anjedbeda. “The forces then resorted to indiscriminate thrashing. Even an elderly woman who tried to defuse the situation was beaten up and sustained a waist injury,” said Mr. Tamsoy. Manki Tubid, a local social activist, said the injured villagers were shifted to a hospital in Chaibasa, the district headquarters, on June 16. ‘No complaint initially’ “Initially, local police discouraged villagers from lodging a complaint against the security forces. The Muffasil police station of Chaibasa refused to accept a complaint. When villagers backed by activists did not relent, the Chaibasa police assured to investigate into the incident,” claimed Mr. Tubid. Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a network of social activists, expressed its shock over reports that appeared in local newspapers. Siraj Datta, a JJM activist, said the reports suggested Left-wing ultras had beaten up villagers and the CRPF personnel had no role in violence. When asked, West Singhbhum police said it was a standard ploy of Left-leaning social activists to keep blaming security forces with unsubstantiated allegations. “Extremists groups obviously do not want the presence of security forces in remote villages. It is happening in Bastar and also happening in other regions affected by Naxalism. However, we are investigating into the circumstances under which villagers sustained injuries,” said the West Singhbhum Additional Superintendent of Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/villagers-allege-attack-by-crpf-men/article31880575.ece
21 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Incentives fail to lure migrants back||Amid shortage of workforce with many labourers migrating to their native places during the nationwide lockdown following COVID-19 outbreak, several industries are finding it tough to get back on track in Punjab and Haryana. With easing of lockdwon restrictions, several industry owners are making efforts to bring back the labour force by facilitating their travel, offering hike in wages along with free accommodation and food. Yet many migrant labourers are unwilling to come back as COVID-19 fear looms large. “We are facing an acute shortage of labour. Most of our labourers were from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and most of them have returned to their native places. In one rice mill, on average we need 50 labourers for efficient work. Close to 800 mills across Haryana are operating currently, but almost all are finding it difficult to manage,” said Jagdish Rai, vice-president of All India Rice Millers and Dealers “Most of the workers are not willing to come on account of COVID-19 fear. We are offering them higher wages, free accommodation and food... ,” he said. Jitender Malik, chief patron of Carpet Manufacturers Association in Haryana, said until migrant labourers come back in full strength it will be difficult to revive work. In neighbouring Punjab, the small, medium and large industries — in manufacturing rice, textiles and woollen and synthetic fabrics — are suffering due to shortage of labour. Industry players are urging them return by offering better pay scales and other incentives besides compensating for rail and bus fares. Rice Millers’ Association director Ashok Sethi has asked the State government to arrange transport to bring labourers back on priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/incentives-fail-to-lure-migrants-back/article31880569.ece
21 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana scraps tender process drawing Chinese firms bids||The Haryana government has decided to float fresh tenders for installation of pollution control equipment at two of its thermal plants in the State, after it scrapped the process of assigning contract for the work that elicited tender bids from a few China-based companies. An official statement from Haryana Power Generation Corporation Ltd on Saturday said that the government had initiated the process to instal “Flue Gas Desulphurization” system in its plants at Hisar and Yamuna Nagar, for which the HPGCL had invited bids through international competitive bidding. The statement added that against the tender for Deen Bandhu Chhotu Ram Thermal Power Station in Yamuna Nagar, five bids were received, of which three were from Chinese bidders and the remaining two from Indian bidders. Against the tender for Rajiv Gandhi Thermal Power Station in Hisar, three firms participated of which two are Chinese firms while the third is a domestic company with foreign collaboration. “In both the above tenders, L-1 bidders are Chinese and the prices received are competitive. Though the rates received were competitive, however, the government of Haryana has decided to cancel these tenders and to float fresh tenders seeking domestic bidding on the pattern of NTPC,” said the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haryana-scraps-tender-process-drawing-chinese-firms-bids/article31880574.ece
21 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Court orders raids on mask, sanitiser makers||Taking suo motu cognisance of substandard quality masks and overcharging of hand sanitisers, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the State governments and the Chandigarh Union Territory administration to conduct raids and initiate legal action against the culprits. In a hearing during Raman and Weil Pvt. Ltd. and others versus State of Haryana and another, Judge Amol Rattan Singh, on Friday took suo motu cognisance of the matter that a large number of brands of facial masks as had been purchased were of highly substandard quality. The court directed that raids be conducted and “masks be tested as regards basic issue of breaking of strings, and if such breaking is found, or the masks are otherwise found to be of substandard quality, proceedings as per law shall be taken against all concerned”. The court also took suo motu notice of the fact that most companies manufacturing and selling hand sanitisers were showing the maximum retail price to be far above Rs. 250 for 500 ml in violation of the Central government orders on March 21. “The Additional Chief Secretaries/Principal Secretaries/Secretaries in the Departments of Health, and Food and Supplies of the States of Haryana, Punjab and UT Chandigarh, are directed to have ‘raids’ conducted at chemist shops and manufacturing units, to obtain samples of hand sanitisers/hand disinfectants; and wherever those manufactured after March 21, 2020, showing MRP above Rs. 250 for 500 ml or more than Rs. 100 for 200 ml, proceedings shall be initiated,” said the court. The court has directed both States and the Union Territory to file separate affidavits along with a report on the raids on July 6, the next date of hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/court-orders-raids-on-mask-sanitiser-makers/article31880572.ece
21 June 2020||Lucknow,||Statements of Babri accused via video: court||A Special CBI court hearing the Babri mosque demolition case on Saturday directed the National Informatics Centre (NIC) to make arrangements for videoconferencing to record statements of nine accused, including including former Deputy Prime Minister L.K. Advani. “The NIC should be written to ensure the videoconferencing facility at the residence of the accused whose list is enclosed along with this order,” Special Judge S.K. Yadav said. The list comprises the names of BJP veterans Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, former Uttar Pradesh Chief Msinister Kalyan Singh, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, Acharya Dharmendra Dev, R.N. Srivastava, Jai Bhagwan Goel, Amar Nath Goel and Sudhir Kakkad. These accused have to depose under section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The court prepared a list of about 1,000 questions to be asked from almost all the accused. The trial court framed the questions on the basis of evidence produced by the prosecution agency CBI regarding the complicity of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/statements-of-babri-accused-via-video-court/article31880568.ece
21 June 2020||Mumbai,||Convict moves HC against transfer to Yerwada jail||A cancer survivor and heart patient, serving a life term at Arthur Road jail in Mumbai, has moved the Bombay High Court challenging the decision to shift him to Yerwada Central Prison, Pune. Manoj Lohar (46) has applied for an emergency parole on medical grounds through advocate Samir Vaidya. In his bail plea, Lohar has said that Yerwada jail is COVID-19 infected and the entire Pune city is a containment Zone. The matter was heard on Friday by Justices A.A. Sayed and V.G. Bisht through video conferencing, and State prosecutor S.R. Shinde sought an adjournment on the ground that the officer who was to present the report on Lohar had tested positive. The petition says that “at Arthur Road jail, there are almost 184 inmates and 26 police personnel have tested positive for corona virus and the Jail Administration is not adequately equipped to deal with the situation in as much as there have been few deaths of inmates and also the testing of inmates and police personnel has been stopped.” As per directions from the Chief Justice of Bombay High Court which has permitting prisoners to call their families, Lohar called his wife on June 16 and said he had been shifted to Yerwada jail and did not know the reason. Mr. Vaidya had, on June 15, told a Division Bench of Justice Ujjal Bhuyan and Justice R.I. Chagla that Lohar had undergone heart surgery, while in custody, at J J Hospital on February 25 and has undergone AICD implantation in his heart to avoid sudden cardiac arrest. He said Lohar needs constant medical attention and treatment which is not being provided by jail authorities. On June 17, Lohar wrote to the Superintendent of Prisons, Arthur Road, regarding his missing medical reports from the jail as informed to him by the chief medical officer (CMO). The letter says, “As per the requirement of the Aurangabad Bench of HC where he has filed for bail, Mr. Lohar’s medical reports pertaining to various ailments are needed, however the CMO called me at 1.30 p.m. and said all the reports and documents from private and government hospitals with pre-existing medical conditions have been inadvertently misplaced.” Mr. Vaidya moved court on Saturday requesting for urgent hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/convict-moves-hc-against-transfer-to-yerwada-jail/article31880715.ece
21 June 2020||Mumbai,||In lockdown, postal employees deliver against all odds||While crores of Indians stayed indoors after the lockdown to contain the COVID-19 pandemic came into force, around four lakh postal department employees across the country worked day in and out to keep essential services running. These unsung heroes risked their lives not only to deliver parcels and letters but also cash to pensioners, elderly citizens who could not visit the banks to withdraw money, and direct benefit transfer (DBT) beneficiaries. As regular flights and passenger trains remained suspended, they deployed special measures like using the postal mail motor service to ferry letters, parcels, answer sheets, mangoes, medicines, personal protective equipment (PPE) suits, COVID-19 test kits, and ventilators. As per data procured from the Department of Post, India Post as of Thursday had conducted 8.8 crore post office savings bank (POSB) transactions worth Rs. 1.53 lakh crore and 3.8 crore India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) transactions worth Rs. 9,166 crore, of which 1.17 crore were Aadhaar-enabled Payment System (AePS) transactions worth Rs. 2,196 crore. During the lockdown, India Post made 1.5 crore DBT payments worth Rs. 1,210 crore through POSB and more than 51 lakh DBT payments worth Rs. 610 crore. Over 80.1 lakh money orders worth Rs. 857 crore and more than two crore mails and articles weighing 5,000 tonnes were delivered. India Post, during the nationwide lockdown, leveraged its vast network of over 1.56 lakh post offices to provide essential services to people at their doorsteps even in the remotest corners of the country. “The focus was on the supply chain and the last-mile delivery of essential services as well as the provision of basic postal and financial services,” Pradipta Kumar Bisoi, secretary, Department of Post, told The Hindu . India Post used cargo flights, Lifeline Udan flights, and its own fleet of mail motor vans to deliver essential items, including medicines, COVID-19 testing kits, and medical equipment. Since there was no private courier services during this period, a lot of citizens ordered life-saving medicines and postal employees delivered these with care. The department also made special intra-State and interstate mail arrangements like hiring transport vehicles. In the absence of rail and air services, the department started a road network with its existing fleet, which was primarily used for intra-city delivery. Special road network  It also developed a national road transport network with 22 long routes of over 500 km, interspersed with 34 inter-State and intra-State schedules, touching over 75 cities. Mr. Bisoi said, “This initiative was taken to ensure that there was a movement of essential items within the country so that the Department of Post could be able to deliver parcels containing such items.” Through the national road transport network, the department could deliver more than 2,000 tonnes of life-saving medicines and medical equipment, including COVID-19 testing kits, PPE kits, masks, sanitisers, and test samples, in tie-ups with the Indian Drug Manufacturers Association, Directorate General of Health Services, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and online pharma companies. ICMR had tasked India Post to deliver testing kits from depots to 200 labs. During these trying times, the department helped disburse pension payments and the social benefits of the government at the doorsteps of citizens. The AePS could facilitate withdrawal of cash from any scheduled bank through the IPPB. “More than two lakh postal personnel and gramin dak sevaks could deliver cash up to Rs. 10,000 to citizens at their doorsteps,” he said. In Telangana, Asara Pension Payments worth Rs. 1,293 crore were made to around 56 lakh benificiaries. In Karnataka, around 70 lakh divyangjan, elderly and widowed beneficiaries received pensions through money orders worth around Rs. 600 crore at their homes during the lockdown period, officials said. Similarly, in Gujarat, it delivered Rs. 159 crore to four lakh beneficiaries of Ganga Swaroop Yojana (widow financial assistance). The department allowed the public to withdraw cash from its ATMs. Around 17.7 lakh transactions worth Rs. 585 crore took place through its ATMs during the period. It also pressed mobile post offices into operation in the country. Proving to be the saviour to farmers, the department despatched fruits, in partnership with various State horticulture departments. In Bihar, 6,280 kg of Shahi litchis were delivered to customers, while 92,382 kg of mangoes were delivered in Bengaluru. In Maharashtra, the India Post Kisan Rath Service helped farmers from Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg deliver 105 tonnes of Alphonso mangoes in Mumbai and Nashik, when the regular transportation network was unavailable. It also provided logistic support to district administrations and NGOs to deliver food items and rations to migrant labourers and the needy. Besides, postal employees distributed more than six lakh food packets and dry rations through voluntary contributions and in partnership with various NGOs and gurudwaras. The employees have also contributed Rs. 42 crore to PM CARES Fund.   “Call them unsung heroes or by any other superlatives, the fact is, it is the working class — the invisible masses — doing their job without pomp and show, amidst danger, that sparks the hope that humanity is not dead,” said Powai resident Prakriti Sharan, a research scholar at the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London. Now that the lockdown is being lifted gradually and customs flocking to post offices, the focus would be shifting to personal safety and hygiene.  Over two lakh postal personnel and gramin dak sevaks could deliver cash up to Rs. 10,000 to citizens Pradipta Kumar BisoiSecretary, Department of Post||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/in-lockdown-postal-employees-deliver-against-all-odds/article31880710.ece
21 June 2020||Mumbai,||Will discuss Rana’s extradition with Centre: Deshmukh||The Maharashtra government will discuss with the Centre the extradition process of Tahawwur Rana, recently re-arrested in the U.S. for his alleged involvement in the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks, State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Saturday. Rana had been declared a fugitive by India. Pakistani-American terrorist David Coleman Headley had told investigators that he had acted as an agent of Rana during the 26/11 attacks, Mr. Deshmukh said. “We will discuss Rana’s extradition process with senior police officials in Maharashtra and at the Central-level,” he said. Meanwhile, special public prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam said on Saturday that Rana’s extradition will throw more light on the activities of ISI. Rana, 59, was recently released from jail on compassionate ground after he told a U.S. court that he has tested positive for COVID-19. However, he was rearrested in Los Angeles on June 10 based on an extradition request by India. Mr. Nikam, the special public prosecutor in the 26/11 case, said Rana has been charged with larger criminal conspiracy for carrying out terror activities in India. “Pakistani-American terrorist David Coleman Headley, during his deposition before a court here via video link, had accepted that Rana knew the entire criminal conspiracy of 26/11 Mumbai attacks,” Mr. Nikam said. “Headley had also admitted that Rana used to finance him,” he added. According to Mr. Nikam, Headley had then made “sensitive revelations” involving the terrorist activities of Lashkar-e Taiba (LeT) and its links with ISI. A Mumbai court had issued a warrant against Rana on August 28, 2018. According to federal prosecutors in the U.S., between 2006 and November 2008, Rana conspired with Headley, his childhood friend, and others located in Pakistan to assist LeT and Harakat ul-Jihad-e-Islami, to plan and carry out the Mumbai terrorist attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/will-discuss-ranas-extradition-with-centre-deshmukh/article31880712.ece
21 June 2020||Mumbai,||Sushant case: YRF hands over copies of contract||Yash Raj Films (YRF) on Saturday submitted copies of the contract signed by late actor Sushant Singh Rajput to the Mumbai Police. Rajput (34) was found dead in his Bandra apartment on Sunday. The Bandra Police had sent a letter to Yash Raj Films seeking details of the contract on June 18, a police official said. “Accordingly, the Investigation Officer (IO) has received a contract copy from the YRF which was signed by Sushant Singh Rajput,” said Abhishek Trimukhe, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone-IX. So far police have recorded statements of 15 persons, including family members of the actor, his staff, his close friend actor Rhea Chakraborty and of casting director Mukesh Chhabra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sushant-case-yrf-hands-over-copies-of-contract/article31880713.ece
21 June 2020||Mumbai,||‘Centre must respond to China’s claim’||Shiv Sena deputy leader Priyanka Chaturvedi on June 20 said the Centre must respond to China’s claim over the Galwan Valley area in Ladakh. After India asked Beijing to confine its activities to its side of the LAC, China’s foreign ministry on June 19 claimed that the Galwan Valley was on their side. Taking to Twitter, Ms. Chaturvedi said, “Yesterday PM Modi assured the nation that no posts/territory have been ceded to China, but here China claims Galwan Valley as theirs. This is unacceptable and the government needs to clarify or respond to this. Have we ceded our Galwan valley or ousted the PLA from there?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/centre-must-respond-to-chinas-claim/article31880716.ece
21 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||State gives more funds for Raigad||The State government has increased the relief package to the districts affected by Cyclone Nisarga on June 3. Guardian Minister for Raigad, Aditi Tatkare during a visit to the district on Friday said the State government will get an additional Rs. 301 crore. “Till now, we have disbursed Rs. 373 crore for relief work,” said Nidhi Choudhary, Raigad district collector. Of the relief granted, Rs. 278 crore is for repair work of houses and for loss of crops, cattle and fisheries. Meanwhile, a six-member team from the National Disaster Management Authority visited the cyclone-affected areas on June 16 to assess the damage. “The central government procedures are prolonged and it will take time to know the amount that would be granted,” Ms. Choudhary added. Fishermen will now get Rs. 5,000 instead of Rs. 2,500 for damage to fishing nets, and Rs. 25,000 instead of Rs. 9,000 for damage to boats. Private schools, not receiving grants, will now be eligible for compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-gives-more-funds-for-raigad/article31880711.ece
21 June 2020||Patna,||Manjhi threatens to leave alliance||Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) leader and former Chief Minister Jitan Ram Manjhi on Saturday issued an ultimatum to Mahagathbandhan partner Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) for the formation of coordination committee by June 25, failing which an another alliance would be formed ahead of the Assembly elections due in October-November. “I’ve been demanding formation of a coordination committee among all five alliance partners of the Mahagathbandhan since 2019…the other four parties are ready for it but, only RJD doesn’t want to talk on this,” Mr. Manjhi told reporters, adding that, “if it has not been formed by June 25, there will be another alliance in the State”. He said apart from the HAM(S), the Upendra Kushwaha-led Rashtriya Lok Samata Party and Mukesh Sahni-led Vikashil Insaan Party were ready for the new formation. “We’ll try to take along Congress too with us and to make up the RJD void we’ve spoken to the Communist Party of India and they are ready for it,” he claimed. However, “if the RJD agrees to form the committee then there is no problem”. State Congress leaders have echoed Mr. Manjhi’s demand for the formation of a coordination committee to discuss issues like seat distribution. Recently, leaders of the HAM(S), RLSP and VIP had also held closed-door meetings in Delhi and Patna. Though Tejashwi Yadav has not responded in seriousness to Mr. Manjhi’s demand, RJD leaders have said a coordination committee will be formed at the appropriate time and “Mr. Manjhi should not act in haste to benefit the NDA alliance”. “If there has not been any coordination among Mahagathbandhan, how could the RJD send Mr. Manjhi’s son to the State Council from its own quota,” said RJD leader and party spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari. Meanwhile, the NDA allies — BJP and JD(U) — have already begun their poll campaign by digitally connecting with party leaders, workers and voters, with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and JD(U) president Nitish Kumar holding virtual meetings. “The sooner the Mahagathbandhan parties would sort out their seat distribution, the better electoral dividend they could reap,” said political analysts Ajay Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/manjhi-threatens-to-leave-alliance/article31880571.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Cooling effect||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cooling-effect/article31880567.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||From the Jhapa revolt to the seat of power||Khadga Prasad Oli knows the meaning of ups and downs that very few politicians in this part of the world have experienced. The Prime Minister of Nepal and the Chairman of the Nepal Communist Party is today at the helm of one of the most stable governments in the country since it moved away from absolute monarchy in 1990, after having become the Prime Minister for the second time in February 2018. It is almost an anomaly for a government to last more than two years without turbulence or a shuffling of the decks of power in Nepal, which has seen 25 different governments led by 13 individuals as Prime Minister. Only Girija Prasad Koirala of the Nepali Congress had a longer uninterrupted tenure for three and a half years from May 1991 to November 1994. Mr. Koirala was among the key leaders in the first Jan Andolan that marked the end of absolute monarchy . Mr. Oli, on the other hand, did not quite represent the forces of change during the second Jan Andolan that helped accelerate the demise of the institution of monarchy itself. But he did manoeuvre himself into becoming the dominant voice of the status quo as the post-monarchy polity fought bitterly over versions of a federal, democratic republic. It is this role of being the most committed voice against greater devolution of power based on identity and that of a figure representing “Nepalese nationalism” that has catapulted Mr. Oli into his current role as the Prime Minister, who orchestrated the change of Nepal’s official map by adding 335 sq. km to its territory. This decision has exacerbated a recent strain in relations with India with whom Nepal shares intricate and dependent ties, but which have slowly eroded over time. Born in 1952 in the hilly Tehrathum region of eastern Nepal into a Brahmin farming family, Mr. Oli migrated to Jhapa in the Terai plains in south-eastern Nepal as a 10 year old while his father pursued better prospects. Thrust into the communist party as a young teenage activist, Mr. Oli as a 19 year old was soon participating in a violent movement against the Panchayat regime that was inspired by the Naxalbari agitations in India. Naxalbari wasn’t very far from Jhapa. The Jhapa movement organising armed rebellions was short-lived and put down by the government quickly. Mr. Oli, a foot-soldier in this movement, was sentenced to prison in 1973 and remained in jail for 14 years, which included, according to him, long periods of solitary confinement. Unlike the Naxalite parties that underwent splits and declined over time, the factions that organised the Jhapa movement merged into a larger party — the Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist-Leninist). It brought together functionaries who believed in the parliamentary path and were later engaged in struggles to transform Nepal’s governance from an absolute monarchy into a democratic and constitutional monarchy. The UML’s role in the first Jan Andolan helped it become a major political force, second only to the Nepali Congress. By the 1990s, the UML had committed itself firmly into parliamentary politics. The UML, which lost its prominent leader Madan Bhandari in a car accident also enjoyed short stints in power. Mr. Oli served as the Minister of Home Affairs in Manmohan Adhikari’s cabinet between November 1994 and September 1995. Changes in polity The rise of the Maoist movement from the mid-1990s, the royal massacre in 2001, the return to absolute monarchy under Gyanendra in late 2002 all paved the way for significant changes in Nepal’s polity, leading up to the second Jan Andolan in 2006 led by a coalition of forces that included the mainstream parties and the Maoists. This coalition was forged with Indian support and soon Nepal became a republic. In the elections leading up to the new constituent assembly, Mr. Oli lost in two constituencies and the UML finished third behind the Maoists and the Nepali Congress. The polity following the CA elections developed fissures on two distinct questions — the integration/rehabilitation of Maoist combatants into Nepal’s security forces and the federal restructuring of the country. On both these questions, Mr. Oli presented a strident line of opposition. In 2014, Mr. Oli became the party chairman of the UML and opposed any concession to the Madhesi aspirations of identity-based devolution of power and restructuring. Mr. Oli became Prime Minister for the first time on October 11, 2015 as yet another turbulent period over the state restructuring issue came about. The Madhesis launched an agitation that resulted in an embargo over goods transit to the hills via the plains from India and this was tacitly supported by the Indian establishment. The move fuelled anger and a nationalist surge in the capital. As Prime Minister, Mr. Oli visited China in 2016 and signed a number of pacts, which included a transit and transport agreement. Using Nepalese nationalism, loosely translated into a strong position against Indian interference in the country, as a plank, Mr. Oli emerged as the most popular leader in the hills and he consolidated his position following a decisive victory for the UML in the 2017 parliamentary elections with support from the Pushpa Kumar Dahal-led Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist Centre). In a significant move, the UML and the CPN(MC) merged into the Nepal Communist Party, garnering a two thirds majority in Parliament after Mr. Oli entered his second stint as Prime Minister. The China factor The NCP’s tenure in power has seen greater expansion of ties between Nepal and its northern neighbour, with China increasing aid and participation in development projects. The Indian government released a new political map in November 2019, following the changes in the status of Jammu and Kashmir, which removed the label “Kali river”. This, besides the inauguration of a road towards Lipu Lek in what Nepal considers its territory, raised the hackles of the Nepali government. Soon, Mr. Oli, giving voice to resentment within Nepal about the disputed status of Kalapani, promoted the move to redraw Nepal’s official map, showing Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh of Uttarakhand as part of its sovereign territory. This move was ratified by both Houses of Parliament in Nepal and led to a new impasse with the Indian government, which refused any dialogue following what it termed a “unilateral gesture”. Nepal has considerably diversified relations beyond its deep ties with India but history has shown that close ties between the two countries have been beneficial for both. Mr. Oli has yet again consolidated his position in Nepal’s fragile polity, but how his brinkmanship resulting in antagonism in ties with India will play itself out can only be answered in the medium term.  In Focus  As a teenager, Oli was a footsoldier of the Jhapa uprising in the early 1970s  After spending 14 years in jail, he became active in UML and rose fast through its ranks  Now, after merging the UML with a Maoist faction, Oli heads the most stable government in the post-monarchy Nepal   Oli’s tenure in power has seen greater expansion of ties between Nepal and its northern neighbour, with China stepping up aid and participation in development projects||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/from-the-jhapa-revolt-to-the-seat-of-power/article31880289.ece
21 June 2020||Rio de Janeiro,||Brazil’s virus count crosses one million||The World Health Organization (WHO) warned on Friday of a “new and dangerous phase” of the COVID-19 pandemic, as infections continued to surge in the Americas, with Brazil registering more than one million cases. Colombia and Mexico also passed bleak milestones, as their death tolls topped 2,000 and 20,000, respectively, showing how the virus continues ravaging the Americas and parts of Asia even as Europe starts to ease out of lockdown. ‘A new, dangerous phase’ The measures imposed to halt the spread of the disease have caused crippling economic damage, but the WHO warned against giving in to isolation fatigue. “The world is in a new and dangerous phase. Many people are understandably fed up with being at home... but the virus is still spreading fast,” WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a virtual press conference. The virus has now killed more than 4,58,000 people and infected 8.6 million worldwide. Brazil, which has the second-highest number of infections and deaths after the United States, reported a one-day record of nearly 55,000 new infections, becoming the second country to pass one million cases. The Health Ministry said the jump was caused by “instability” in its reporting system, which delayed previous days’ figures for some States. Brazil’s death toll now stands at nearly 49,000, and has risen by more than 1,000 each of the past four days — though its curve finally appears to be starting to flatten. Authorities in Mexico City meanwhile pushed back a planned reopening of the economy from next week to the following, saying the rate of infection was still too high. And Argentina, which is reeling from the economic impact of the health crisis, bought more time to negotiate its $66 billion debt restructuring with creditors, who agreed to extend the deadline once again, to July 24. The U.S. has the highest death toll by far, at more than 1,19,000. Top U.S. expert Anthony Fauci said in an interview he was optimistic America would not impose a new lockdown. He predicted it would instead focus on “trying to better control those areas of the country that seem to be having a surge of cases.” Normality is returning to cultural and sporting events disrupted by the virus. France said it would reopen cinemas from Monday and stadiums from July 11, though with a 5,000-fan limit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/brazils-virus-count-crosses-one-million/article31880300.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||A spur in the grand rivalry||The deadly clash at patrolling Point 14 on a ridge line overlooking the fast flowing Galwan river in eastern Ladakh, in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed, echoes episodes of the Great Game — the late 19th century tussle where colonial Britain worked feverishly to block Russian influence from permeating through the mountainous “gates” of India. There were multiple fronts of the Great Game, including Central Asia and Afghanistan, but Ladakh, starting from Leh, known for its lucrative trade through the lofty Karakoram Pass, into the heart of Xinjiang, had become an important spur in this grand imperial rivalry. But two decades into the 21st century, India and China — two aspirational Asian nations — are following this trail of rivalry at strategic pivots along their contested mountainous borders. New road Point 14, overlooking the Galwan river valley, is one of these key fulcrums, over which the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army of China brutally clashed with barbed wired rods, stones and rocks on the night of June 15. The area, from where the Chinese were supposed to withdraw, following a June 6 understanding, is of considerable strategic value. India’s newly built Darbuk Shyok Daulat Beg Oldie (DSDBO) road, which leads to the base of the legendary 18,176-feet high Karakoram Pass, is within striking distance from this vantage point in the high mountains. In case the Chinese manage to build an observation tower in this area, they can disrupt traffic over an under-construction bridge along the DSDBO road, using heavy weapons. Understanding the strategic value of this location, it is hardly surprising that the soldiers following Col. Santosh Babu laid down their lives in a bid to prevent a permanent Chinese encampment near Point 14. Traditionally, the Galwan Valley area has been part of the winter trade route that linked Leh with Yarkand and Kashgar across the Karakoram Pass, when frozen rivers allowed caravans to progress towards their destinations. From Leh, the caravans breached the Ladakh range at Chang La pass, reaching Darbuk, Shyok village on their way to the Karakoram Pass via Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO). Once the pass was crossed, traders, often in company of monks and scholars, headed for Yarkand and Kashgar, where British India had opened a consulate in a building complex called Chini Bagh. Much later, a motorable road was built from Leh. It entered the Nubra Valley, cutting through the Ladakh range via the 18,600-feet Khardungla Pass and heading to the base of Saser Kangri. Thereafter, a track headed to Murgo — linking up with the DSDBO route. But the Galwan Valley is also not far from Aksai Chin, which is occupied by China. China’s highway number G219 passes through Aksai Chin, which is a vital artery linking the sporadically restive Tibet and Xinjiang, the gateway to Beijing’s ambitious Belt and Road Initiative, heading in the direction of Central Asia en route Europe. The Chinese have long established Heweitan — 48 km northeast of the LAC as the crow flies — as their main base servicing the Galwan Valley posts. Incidentally, Heweitan was also a launch pad for mounting an offensive during the 1962 India-China war. Chinese claim line In order to protect their strategic road in Aksai Chin built in the 1950s, the Chinese have unilaterally expanded their territorial claim line along commanding heights, including the Galwan Valley. In response, India, in mid-1962, established a post opposite Samzungling, an area from where the 80-km-long Galwan river originates before joining the Shyok river, which in turn merges with the Indus. During the 1962 war, a Chinese battalion destroyed this hopelessly outnumbered Galwan Valley post, after fierce combat, which lasted 24 hours. Despite bouts of violence in its recent history, Galwan Valley was so named during the less brutal encounters of the Great Game. The Galwan river was named after Ghulam Rasool Galwan, a Ladakhi adventurer and explorer, who had been part of many European explorations, including two in 1890 and 1896 led by Francis Younghusband — a British explorer and Army officer, who became famous for his role in blocking Russian advances in Tibet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/a-spur-in-the-grand-rivalry/article31880287.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||In solidarity with recovery||It is only appropriate that any pandemic the size of COVID-19 is matched by almost equivalent human effort to counter it. A range of treatments have been proposed, but only extensive population based-trials will provide evidence on their safety and efficacy. The need to fast-track development of drugs and a vaccine, and subsequently, the necessity to scale up manufacturing processes have naturally spurred vast, global efforts involving a large number of people, and in one instance, many nations. The World Health Organisation’s (WHO) Solidarity Trial and the U.K.’s RECOVERY Trial are two of the world’s leading scientific efforts pivoting cutting edge research in the battle against COVID-19. These past weeks have brought these two trials into the limelight, the latest being the study by the RECOVERY Trial that showed success in reducing mortality with low doses of a steroid — dexamethasone — to target lung inflammation. WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus explained the rationale of the Solidarity Trial: “The pressure COVID-19 puts on health systems means that WHO considered the need for speed and scale in the trial. While randomised clinical trials normally take years to design and conduct, the Solidarity Trial will reduce the time taken by 80%.” It started out to compare four treatment options against standard of care, to assess their relative effectiveness against COVID-19: Hydroxycloroquine (HCQ), Remdesivir; Lopinavir with Ritonavir; and Lopinavir with Ritonavir plus Interferon beta-1a. On June 17, however, the WHO announced that the HCQ arm of the Solidarity Trial was being stopped. The decision was based on evidence from the Solidarity Trial, the RECOVERY Trial and a Cochrane review of other evidence on HCQ. Data showed that HCQ dId not result in the reduction of mortality of hospitalised COVID-19 patients. While it came with its own controversy over the validity of data sets used in papers published in two peer-reviewed journals, as the clouds cleared, ultimately the generation of conclusive evidence to suspend HCQ is proof of concept. In the process of moving towards the end point of COVID-19, it is also important to move on to treatments that will work, leaving by the wayside those that are just diversions. Timeline for a vaccine The WHO also anchors the Solidarity Vaccine Trial, to evaluate the safety and efficacy of several preventive candidates under development. In a recent webinar organised by Project Echo, Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist, WHO, said the expected timeline for a possible vaccine is between 12-18 months. Further, it is important “ultimately to ensure that the vaccine is available to a large number of people.” Solidarity II promotes the implementation of serological surveys of SARS-CoV-2. “Understanding the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 infection is critical for the world to know how frequently infection occurs among different populations, how many people have had mild or asymptomatic infection, how many have been infected but may not have been identified by routine disease surveillance, and what proportion of the population may be immune from infection by SARS-CoV-2 in the future,” the WHO explained. The RECOVERY Trial was reportedly set up in record time, taking just nine days from conception to launch, and has recruited over 10,000 patients in 176 U.K. hospitals in just two months. Deputy Chief Investigator of the trial, Martin Landray, said: “What we have achieved with RECOVERY is unprecedented, but it couldn’t have been done without the support and commitment of everyone involved .” It tests existing drugs on hospital in-patients with suspected or confirmed COVID-19. Each participant is randomised to receive either standard hospital care, or one of four active treatments. Besides its recent success with Dexamethasone, it also uses Lopinavir-Ritonavir, Azithromycin, Tocilizumab, and convalescent plasma. The HCQ arm was dropped. Ed Juszczak, associate professor - director, NPEU Clinical Trials Unit, Oxford university notes the path-breaking nature of such trials. “For this trial, the timeline has been re-written. The timescales have gone from months and years to hours and days, which is just phenomenal, and shows what’s possible.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-solidarity-with-recovery/article31880291.ece
21 June 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka’s Easter bombings probe is at final stages, say police||Sri Lanka’s probe into the April 2019 Easter terror bombings is in its “final stages”, authorities have said, while raising suspicion that the suicide bombers were funded by “two foreign outfits”. The Colombo Crime Division, Criminal Investigation Department (CID) and the Terrorism Investigation Department (TID), who are investigating the attacks of last summer, have arrested over 200 suspects since.  The coordinated bomb blasts at three luxury hotels in Colombo and three churches in Colombo, nearby Negombo, and the eastern city of Batticaloa, were the deadliest attacks in Sri Lanka’s post-war decade, claiming 279 lives. On what remains to be found out in the ongoing probe, police spokesman Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Jaliya Senaratne said investigators are focusing on the financial networks connecting the suicide bombers. “We have to trace the flow of finances. We have nearly established the network within Sri Lanka. Once that is completed, we may seek INTERPOL’s support to look into the two foreign organisations that we suspect funded the suicide bombers,” he said, speaking to The Hindu at the police headquarters. So far, police have seized millions — in Sri Lankan rupees and U.S. dollars — in cash, some 130 acres of land and eight vehicles. Bank accounts with funds over LKR 134 million have been frozen. “We hope to complete the basic investigation within the next month,” Mr. Senaratne said. The current investigating team took charge after the November 2019 presidential elections that President Gotabaya Rajapaksa fought on the plank of national security and won decisively, with 52.25 % of the vote. Proceeding with the investigations, Mr. Rajapaksa’s newly formed government recast the CID. Soon, more arrests began making news. Taking it forward The outgoing CID team had arrested some 100 suspects already. With support from the Australian Federal Police and the FBI, its officers had also recovered and analysed data from all the phones and gadgets seized from the suicide bombers’ network, according to a former official. It helped the CID map out the command structure, he told The Hindu . A ‘supreme council’ led by radical preacher Zahran Hashim — the mastermind of the IS-inspired Easter attacks — had a second rung of “military leaders” in Sri Lanka’s nine provinces. In addition to coordinating the April bombings, they had identified a few more targets, the CID had then deduced, corroborating evidence from the huge cache of explosives they unearthed in Wanathawilluwa town, near Wilpattu national park, in January 2019. Once “all key suspects” were nabbed, the CID “was reasonably certain” that a second attack by Zahran’s group was unlikely, though they were watching other “potential radical networks”, a top source familiar with the probe told The Hindu . The then CID made submissions on the eight key suspects to the magistrate court. Three files were submitted to the Attorney-General’s Department on what in retrospect are seen as preludes to the deadly bombings — the killing of two police constables in Vavunathivu, Batticaloa in late November 2018; the vandalising of Buddha statues in the central Mawanella town in December 2018 and the shooting of Mohammad Razak Taslim, in Mawanella in March 2019, after he helped investigators probe the statue incident. Despite multiple attempts, The Hindu was unable to obtain a comment from the AG’s Department on the status of the files. 'There is continuity' Meanwhile, the new CID team has said Zahran’s radical Islamist outfit had “planned a second attack”. The bombers had attempted to mislead intelligence agencies by staging split in group, police spokesman Mr. Senaratne told media in April this year. All the same, the current investigators were drawing upon the findings of the outgoing CID team, Mr. Senaratne told The Hindu , adding: “so there is continuity.” Unanswered questions However, a few crucial questions remain. One, how and where exactly did the lapse occur, leading to the failure of the former government acting on prior intelligence? Two, what were Zahran Hashim’s specific motivations to carry out the attack? While the network reporting to Zahran Hashim has been established, was there a structure above him? On the first question, a Presidential Commission appointed by President Maithripala Sirisena continues to investigate the attacks. Its members — mostly senior and retired judges — have submitted at least two reports to President Rajapaksa. Further, a parliamentary panel set up last year released a report on the Easter attacks in October 2019, based on testimonies from 55 persons, collected over 24 sittings. It accused President Sirisena of “actively undermining” government and security systems, leading to serious lapses ahead of the Easter attacks. But Mr. Sirisena has refused to take any blame. “Why should I take responsibility? Those who are responsible should take responsibility,” he told BBC Sinhala in a recent interview. A year after the Easter bombings, for which his government was blamed, Mr. Sirisena has realigned with his former rivals, the Rajapaksas, and is widely expected to contest from their coalition in the parliamentary elections scheduled in August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lankas-easter-bombings-probe-is-at-final-stages-say-police/article31880303.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||White House likely to issue immigration restrictions||A potential executive order from U.S. President Donald Trump restricting, for a limited period, several visa categories, including the H1-B skilled worker programme, is expected in the next few days as per multiple industry sources. Mr. Trump and his advisers met with stakeholders from U.S. government departments on Tuesday, as per sources, to finalise an executive order on immigration — the second since April 22. The new order is likely to renew the first one, which restricted new immigrant visas from outside the U.S. and is due to expire on Monday. It is also likely to include additional visa categories. An announcement on the new order is expected early next week but possibly as early as Saturday evening U.S. time at Mr. Trump’s MAGA (Make America Great Again) rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma, as per the sources . Several media outlets have been reporting an extension and broadening of April’s executive order since mid-May. The extensions are likely to include H1-B visas, H-2B visas (temporary non-agricultural workers), L1 (intra-company transfers), H4 (immediate relatives of H1B visa holders), J1 exchange visitor visas and optional practical training authorisation given to foreign students already in the U.S. Last week’s meetings indicate that the order is taking shape. The individuals at the meeting included White House advisers Stephen Miller and Jared Kushner (who is the President’s son-in-law), National Economic Council head Larry Kudlow as well as principals from several government departments such as the Department of Homeland Security, Citizenship and Information Services (USCIS), the Department of State and the Department of Labour, industry sources told The Hindu . The U.S. issues 85,000 H1-Bs each year. Just over 70% of H1-B visas (initial employment and continuing employment) have been allotted to Indians in the last two fiscal years. The bulk of these go to IT consulting firms and big tech — Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple and others. Google and Amazon topped the list of new H1-B visa receipts in FY19. Implications of order With implications for U.S. employers and knock-on effects on companies serviced by these employers, some U.S. businesses are concerned about the implications of the order. “Policies that would, for example, impose wide-ranging bans on the entry of non-immigrant workers or impose burdensome new regulatory requirements on businesses that employ foreign nationals would undermine that access to talent, and, in the process, undercut our economy’s ability to grow and create jobs,” CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Thomas Donohue, said in a letter to Mr. Trump earlier in June. Unemployment rates in ‘computer occupations’ was 2.5% in May 2020 — much lower than the 13.5% unemployment rate for that month all other occupations, according to Bureau of Labor Statistics analysed by the National Foundation for American Policy, a non-partisan research organisation. The Trump administration has progressively made legal immigration to the U.S. harder via a number of executive orders. It has generally adopted the line that that foreigners are taking American jobs and at lower wages. A central driving force behind this position is Senior White House adviser Stephen Miller. There are also others in the administration such as USCIS acting head Ken Cuccinelli, who are known to be hawkish on immigration while Mr. Kushner and Mr. Kudlow are known to take a softer line. The State Department, whose representative was present at the meetings during the week, is also aware of the importance of visas, the sources said. Visas are an important driver of income for the Department. Also, as the point of contact with other countries, the Department will have to deal with the fallout of any restrictions on visas. Some of those crafting the new order will likely have two dates in mind as per discussions The Hindu had with those tracking the issue. The first is October 1, when the USCIS fiscal year begins and employment for new H1-B visa holders may begin. The second date is November 3, when the U.S. has a general election.  Policies that impose wide-ranging bans undercut our economy’s ability to grow Thomas Donohue, CEO, U.S. Chamber of Commerce||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/white-house-likely-to-issue-immigration-restrictions/article31880305.ece
21 June 2020||Washington,||Protesters topple Confederate general’s statue||Protesters in Washington toppled a statue of a Confederate general late on Friday, after nationwide rallies to demand racial justice on a day heavy with symbolism — the Juneteenth holiday commemorating the end of slavery in the United States. Demonstrations were held in Atlanta, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York and Washington against a backdrop of weeks of protests fuelled by the deaths of African Americans at the hands of police. In a stark illustration of the tensions roiling the nation, President Donald Trump issued a solemn White House statement commemorating Juneteenth, while also threatening protesters on Twitter ahead of his controversial rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma on Saturday. End of slavery Juneteenth marks the day — June 19, 1865 — when a Union general arrived in Galveston, Texas and informed slaves that they were free — two months after the Civil War had ended and two-and-a-half years after president Abraham Lincoln had issued the Emancipation Proclamation. The date is generally celebrated with prayer services and family gatherings, but comes this year amid a national soul-searching over America’s legacy of racial injustice.  Late on Friday, a statue of Confederate general Albert Pike was torn down by demonstrators in the capital and set on fire, in an act labelled a “disgrace” by Mr. Trump. Earlier, several thousand demonstrators marched across New York’s Brooklyn Bridge to Manhattan, chanting the names of black men and women killed by police in recent years. Protesters in Atlanta, where a police officer was charged with murder this week for shooting a black man in the back, marched on the Georgia State Capitol. More gathered in Washington outside the Lincoln Memorial and near the White House, while thousands marched in Chicago and danced at festive rallies in South Los Angeles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/protesters-topple-confederate-generals-statue/article31880311.ece
21 June 2020||Beijing,||China to set up ‘security agency’ in Hong Kong||China will set up a “national security agency” in Hong Kong to oversee a forthcoming new law aimed at cracking down on dissent in the city, state media said on Saturday. The new law also would override any existing Hong Kong laws that may conflict with it once it is implemented, Xinhua news agency said in a report. The report followed the conclusion of a meeting in Beijing of China’s top law-making committee that reviewed draft provisions aimed at snuffing out the pro-democracy movement that has rocked the city. The future security agency would be established by China’s Central government and would “supervise, guide, coordinate, and support” the maintenance of national security in the territory, Xinhua said. Xinhua said the eventual law would criminalise “secession, subversion of state power, terrorism, and colluding with foreign and external forces to endanger national security.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-to-set-up-security-agency-in-hong-kong/article31880302.ece
21 June 2020||New York,||Prosecutor who probed Giuliani refuses to quit||A U.S. prosecutor who investigated allies of President Donald Trump insisted on Friday that he had no intention of quitting after the Attorney-General issued a press release announcing his resignation. Geoffrey Berman oversaw the prosecution of former Trump lawyer Michael Cohen and probed advisor Rudy Giuliani’s efforts to discredit the President’s political opponents since he was appointed to head the powerful Southern District of New York attorney’s office in 2018. Attorney General William Barr announced Mr. Berman’s resignation late on Friday. But Mr. Berman said he first learned of his apparent departure from Mr. Barr’s press release. “I have not resigned, and have no intention of resigning,” Mr. Berman wrote. “I will step down when a presidentially appointed nominee is confirmed by the Senate. Until then, our investigations will move forward without interruption.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/prosecutor-who-probed-giuliani-refuses-to-quit/article31880309.ece
21 June 2020||Islamabad,||Pak. records 153 new deaths||Pakistan on Saturday reported 153 COVID-19 deaths, the highest spike in a single-day in the country, while the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases crossed the 1,71,000-mark, health officials said. According to the Ministry of National Health Services, the total number of confirmed cases rose to 1,71,665 after 6,604 new infections were recorded in 24 hours. The total toll stands at 3,382 after 153 deaths were registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-records-153-new-deaths/article31880304.ece
21 June 2020||Washington,||Washington, June 20, 2020 (AFP) -||U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Saturday a UN Human Rights Council vote condemning racism amounted to hypocrisy. “The council’s decision to vote yesterday on a resolution focusing on policing and race in the U.S. marks a new low,” he said.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/washington-june-20-2020-afp/article31880307.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Apparel exports slide 73% in April-May||Textile and apparel exports during April and May this year declined 73.1% (in dollar terms) compared with the same months last year, according to quick estimates of exports released recently by the Ministry of Commerce. Textiles and apparel worth $6,066 million were exported in April-May 2019 while it was $1,634 million this year. Cotton textile exports during April and May this year were 64.6 % lower compared with the same period last year. Export of manmade (MMF) yarn, fabrics and made-ups was 71.1 % lower during April-May 2020 compared with the same period last year while ready-made garment exports declined 78.1 %, according to the data shared by the Cotton Textiles Export Promotion Council (Texprocil). Texprocil chairman K.V. Srinivasan said in a press release that export of cotton textiles between April and February last financial year was $9,405 million against $11,262 million during the year-earlier period. Export of cotton yarn declined steeply, almost 28%, during this period and in April and May this year too, export of cotton yarn fell sharply. Buyers in the U.S. and European Union (EU), the two major destinations for Indian cotton textiles and clothing, were cancelling orders or invoking force majeure clauses within their contracts. Buyers of cotton yarn were demanding a 15% to 20% price reduction. Raise competitiveness “This is a matter of concern and the government should support the industry,” Mr. Srinivasan said. “It should cover cotton yarn and fabrics under the scheme to reimburse State and Central levies. It should also enhance the overall competitiveness of the textile industry so that India becomes a hub for fabric and yarn production to serve the domestic and export markets,” he added. Siddhartha Rajagopal, executive director Texprocil, said the government should come out with clear measures to boost exports so that India does not lose out to competing countries. “Textile and clothing exports were already weak last year and then came COVID-19,” he said. “Buyers are cancelling or re-negotiating orders. Textile and clothing exporters need production-linked incentives so that they are able to compete in the international market. Cotton yarn should also get the 3% interest subvention benefit”. Observing that exporters were awaiting a nod to export PPEs and MMF masks, Mr. Rajagopal said there were opportunities that India must not lose out on as countries such as Bangladesh and Vietnam already had advantages in the international market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/apparel-exports-slide-73-in-april-may/article31880275.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Consumer demand needs a financing fix’||Two years ago, when the going seemed good, Srivats Ram , MD, Wheels India Ltd., had said his industry was cyclical and that what goes up typically comes down. In the midst of a pandemic, he takes a tempered view, suggesting that things could look up soon. Excerpts from an interview:  Is the government taking the right steps? Does spurring consumer demand without looking at the supply side risk fanning inflation? With companies working at a fraction of their capacity, industrial inflation is not a major concern at the moment. When we came out of the lockdown, supply chain was very visible as an issue but this is likely to be more short term in nature. Longer term issues are really demand related. One concern in the passenger cars segment is about getting customers to come to the dealerships and buy cars. The issue that could come up there is the credit rating of individual customers. The banking sector has been risk averse. Given the current situation of lower prospects for most people, banks are likely to be even more risk averse. Demand is a question of aspiration and of financing. After the financial crisis of 2018-19, the banks have started looking into credit history even more. In the current scenario, when most people are struggling, if banks continue with tough norms, then financing of consumer demand could be an issue. Last year, a lot more loan applications were rejected as a result of the tougher norms and it will be even worse now. This needs to be addressed. If the financing issue is not fixed, it will be harder for the passenger vehicles sector to look at reviving demand. Some suggestions that came up in discussions with ACMA leadership include rationalisation of GST for the auto industry for a brief period; localisation benefits for importers by way of lower duties on their remaining imports; and similar incentives to importers for increased exports. You had said global firms looking to de-risk were exploring locations outside China. Has India failed to capitalise on the trend? Even pre-COVID, a lot of investors had been asking the global companies to look at ‘sourcing’ portfolio de-risking. This is not a knee jerk reaction but had started a couple of years back. So, the opportunity is there for Indian companies; but in the current situation there are limitations as well. The possibility of international travel is limited. When an Indian firm becomes a supplier to a new global customer, an audit is conducted by the overseas firm. With travel restrictions, that could still take a while. But if you are an existing part of the [vendor] mix and if they are looking to change, then Indian companies could stand to gain as they may give more [business] to the existing suppliers. Has Wheels India benefitted from this de-risking strategy? Yes, for some of the newer products where we are just making investments, we are aligning with the strategy of some of these companies that are moving away from a particular geography. The opportunities were there even earlier but the current scenario has speeded it up and kind of given it a fillip. In the last couple of years, the global firms have been looking at redistributing their sourcing. Post COVID, because the uncertainties are more, a few more companies are now looking at distributing their sourcing. One of the industry segments that Wheels India is present in is looking at this redistribution of sourcing but for it to fructify, it will take 1-2 years. In the windmill industry where we are becoming more and more of a global player, we are looking at customers and their de-risking strategy and seeing if we can align with that and get business from some of these companies who are looking at changing the mix. Exports seem to have given you some lift... A lot of what we export comes under ‘industrial’ and what are deemed essential services such as windmills, construction equipment and even trucks. These have been less hit by the lockdown than the other sectors. If the situation becomes better globally and if operations become more streamlined in those countries, then exports could improve, with monthly economic activities picking up there. What is the scenario on CVs? There was already a cyclical downturn last year. The axle load norms suddenly increased the load carrying capacity in the country significantly. Unfortunately, it happened just prior to lot of the financial hiccups that we had in our system which also started slowing down the economy. Thus, there was excess capacity that built up. At some point, we will have to return to public transport. The social distancing in public transport will mean the need for more buses. A nationwide bus building scheme will give a shot in the arm to the CV sector as well as the components sector. The Government has an ambitious 5-year plan for the construction sector. If construction activity starts happening, this will result in demand for tippers and construction equipment and that will also be a boost to the CV sector. What about prospects of the defence segment? Government has launched many defence programmes but most have a long gestation period that involves testing and validation and these will come to fruition in course of time. And the auto sector will benefit from that.  If banks continue with tough norms, then financing of consumer demand could be an issue||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/consumer-demand-needs-a-financing-fix/article31880284.ece
21 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Hikes helping refiners recoup BS-VI capex||State-owned oil marketing companies (OMCs) have used the latest round of fuel price increases to begin recovering a part of the combined Rs. 35,000 crore investment made in upgrading their refineries to BS-VI fuels. “The revised fuel prices have an inbuilt element of [recovery on] expenditure that we have made towards upgrading to BS-VI fuels,” said a top official at an OMC, speaking on the condition of anonymity. The official, however, declined to provide details on how much the OMCs were recovering per litre of petrol and diesel sold. State-owned refiners had invested more than Rs. 35,000 crore on upgrading their refineries, pipelines and marketing and distribution network to be able to introduce BS-VI fuels, directly leapfrogging from BS-IV fuels. The ‘Auto Fuel Vision and Policy 2025’ of 2014 had recommended a 75 paise cess to recoup the additional investments projected for producing cleaner fuels. “The OMCs are recovering up to Rs. 1 per litre of petrol and diesel sales from the consumers,” said another senior official at an OMC, who declined to be identified. “However, it is not reflected in the price buildup,” the official added. During the launch of BS-VI fuels in late March, OMC officials had sought to address concerns that consumer prices of petrol and diesel could be raised to recover the investments made in upgrading refineries by pointing to the fact that the prices of automobile fuels had remained unchanged since March 16. Upgradation cost “The element of BS-VI upgradation cost had to be built into the cost of petrol and diesel as BS-VI has enhanced operating expenditure besides the capital expenditure of Rs. 35,000 crore,” said a director at an OMC, speaking on the condition of anonymity. OMCs, on Saturday, revised fuel prices for a 14th consecutive day with a 51 paise increase in the price of petrol and a 61 paise increase in diesel prices, taking the cumulative increase in the rates of the fuels in two weeks to Rs. 7.62 and Rs. 8.28, respectively. A litre of petrol now costs Rs. 78.88 in New Delhi, while diesel costs Rs. 77.67 a litre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hikes-helping-refiners-recoup-bs-vi-capex/article31880279.ece
21 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Piramal Pharma to buy G&W’s U.S. drug unit||The pharma solutions business of Piramal Enterprises Ltd. (PEL) has entered into a pact with G&W Laboratories Inc. to acquire its solid oral dosage drug product manufacturing facility located in Sellersville, Pennsylvania.   “This acquisition broadens the offering of Piramal Pharma Solutions (PPS) by adding solid oral dosage form capabilities (tablets and capsules) in North America,” PEL said in a statement. Currently, PPS’ capabilities in solid oral dosage forms are all located in the U.K. and India. The site can also produce liquids, creams, and ointments, further expanding the PPS portfolio.  PPS expects to further grow the site’s current strength to support development services as well as any COVID-19 management drug opportunities, PEL said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/piramal-pharma-to-buy-gws-us-drug-unit/article31880277.ece
21 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. invites global vessel owners to flag ships in India||The government said it has invited global vessel owners to flag their ships in India to take advantage of the Make in India policy. The government has recently revised its ‘Make in India’ policy for public procurement under which no global tender enquiry will be issued, except with the approval of the competent authority, for procurement of services with an estimated value of below Rs. 200 crore. “It is estimated that the ‘Make in India’ policy will provide an opportunity to at least double the number of Indian flag vessels in the immediate term — from the present approximately 450 to at least 900 and more over a period of three years — leaving further scope for additional investment in the Indian flag tonnage,” Ministry of Shipping said. With a modern maritime administration, continuous supply of trained seafarers, ship management skills already available, ship owners worldwide are invited to now flag their ships in India to take advantage of the ‘Make in India’ policy in respect of transportation of government cargoes. Shipping Minister Mansukh Mandaviya has reviewed the readiness of Indian shipping for implementation of the Cargo Transportation Policy, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-invites-global-vessel-owners-to-flag-ships-in-india/article31880281.ece
21 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||PNB Q4 loss narrows as bad loans ease||State-owned Punjab National Bank (PNB) has said its standalone net loss narrowed to Rs. 697.20 crore in the fourth quarter ended March 31, on lower bad loan provisioning. The lender had posted a loss of Rs. 4,750 crore in the year-earlier period. Total income rose to Rs. 16,388.32 crore from the Rs. 14,725.13 crore in the year-ago period. Addressing the media, PNB MD S. S. Mallikarjuna Rao on Saturday said the bank was expecting recovery of Rs. 6,000-8,000 crore during the current fiscal and the recovery will gather momentum from the third quarter onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pnb-q4-loss-narrows-as-bad-loans-ease/article31880282.ece
21 June 2020||LONDON,||United manages a draw||Manchester United’s Bruno Fernandes’ late goal rescued a point for the visitor in a lively 1-1 draw at Tottenham Hotspur in the Premier League on Friday. It had looked as though Steven Bergwijn’s strike would prove enough to revive Spurs’ hopes of qualifying for the Champions League before Fernandes’ penalty evened things. Stalemate Meanwhile in LaLiga, Barcelona dropped points for the first time since the season re-started as it was held to a goalless draw at Sevilla on Friday. The Catalans are on top of the standings with 65 points but Real Madrid (62) can move ahead if it beats Real Sociedad on Sunday as it has a superior head-to-head record. Robert Lewandowski, who struck twice as Bayern Munich beat Freiburg 3-1, became the first foreign player to score 33 goals in a Bundesliga season.  The results: Premier League: Watford 1 (Dawson 90+3) drew with Leicester 1 (Chilwell 90); Brighton 2 (Dunk 75, Maupay 90+5) bt Arsenal 1 (Pepe 68). Friday: Norwich 0 lost to Southampton 3 (Ings 49, Armstrong 54, Redmond 79); Tottenham 1 (Bergwijn 27) drew with Manchester United 1 (Fernandes 81-pen).   LaLiga: Espanyol 1 (D. Lopez 28) lost to Levante 3 (Mayoral 14, Bardhi 67, Pedrosa 87-o.g.). Friday: Granada 0 lost to Villarreal 1 (Gerard 11); Real Mallorca 1 (Salva Sevilla 9) drew with Leganes 1 (Rodriguez 87); Sevilla 0 drew with Barcelona 0.   Bundesliga: Bayern Munich 3 (Kimmich 16, Lewandowski 24, 37) bt Freiburg 1 (Hoeler 33); RB Leipzig 0 lost to Borussia Dortmund 2 (Haaland 30, 90+3); Hoffenheim 4 (Bebou 11, Kramaric 39, Dabbur 45+2, Baumgartner 68) bt Union Berlin 0; Hertha Berlin 2 (Cunha 22, Lukebakio 54) bt Bayer Leverkusen 0; Mainz 3 (Quaison 25, Boetius 30, Fernandes 85) bt Werder Bremen 1 (Osako 58); Schalke 1 (Matondo 71) lost to Wolfsburg 4 (Weghorst 16, 56, Mbabu 59, Victor 69); Cologne 1 (Kainz 45-pen) drew with Frankfurt 1 (Dost 72); Paderborn 1 (Michel 54) lost to Monchengladbach 3 (Herrmann 4, Stindl 55-pen, 73) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/united-manages-a-draw/article31880406.ece
21 June 2020||MUMBAI,||IPL GC to review Chinese sponsorship deals||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has changed its stand on Chinese sponsors for the Indian Premier League (IPL) by announcing that the IPL Governing Council will “review various IPL sponsorship deals” next week. “Taking note of the border skirmish that resulted in the martyrdom of our brave jawans, the IPL Governing Council has convened a meeting next week to review IPL’s various sponsorship deals,” read a tweet on the IPL’s verified handle late on Friday night. The move is in stark contrast to the Board’s stand on Thursday when treasurer Arun Dhumal had said that the BCCI had no plans to revisit the IPL and BCCI sponsorship deals. At least four of BCCI’s major sponsors have substantial Chinese investors. IPL title sponsor VIVO, the mobile phone manufacturer, is a Chinese company, while online fantasy game entity Dream11 — an associate sponsor of BCCI and IPL — has Chinese investment. Similarly, e-learning platform Byju’s and Paytm — India’s team sponsor and the BCCI’s title sponsor for cricket in India respectively — are also funded by Chinese entities. Despite the fate of IPL-2020 continuing to remain uncertain, all the sponsorship deals are long-term. If the BCCI decides to terminate the deals and invite new bids for the next edition — be it 2020 or 2021 — it may severely dent BCCI’s coffers. Despite broadcast deals dominating cricket’s revenue model, sponsorship deals are vital for the IPL and international cricket. According to Impact of COVID-19 on revenues of world cricket and Indian sports , a paper published by former IPL chief operating officer Sundar Raman, 18% of global cricket revenue is generated through sponsorship. When it comes to the IPL, Raman noted that sponsorship makes up 30% of the annual revenue, with broadcast deals (65%) and gate receipts (5%) making up the rest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-gc-to-review-chinese-sponsorship-deals/article31880401.ece
21 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Russell makes a mark with his coaching||Russell Mark competed in six Olympics, winning gold in Atlanta (1996) and silver in Sydney (2000). But he is more familiar in India as the coach who guided Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore to the double trap silver at the Athens Games in 2004. Entrepreneur In an entertaining conversation with Ritika Singh, as part of the Manav Rachna Happy Times series on the web, the 56-year-old Mark charmed everyone with the understandable versatility of a successful entrepreneur. Mark has a hotel business in Melbourne and is in the process of strengthening online coaching of shooters. “‘Chilly’ was one of the toughest competitors I ever shot with,” said Mark, praising the former Union Sports Minister Rathore, fondly called ‘Chilly’ in his close circles.  Even though he missed the Athens Olympics as a shooter, Mark said that he was proud of Rathore’s success and happy to see the relief on the Indian’s face when he stepped on the podium. Mark recalled Rathore’s fantastic shooting at the Commonwealth Games in 2002, when he won the individual gold with 49 out of 50 in the final, after securing the pairs gold with Moraad Ali Khan, defeating the formidable Aussies — Mark and Michael Diamond. He said that the seeds of excellence for India were sown in the 1994 Commonwealth Games in Victoria, Canada, when Mansher Singh won the trap gold. He was equal in praise for another of his wards, former World No. 1 and Asian Games champion Ronjan Sodhi. Technically better “Ronjan was technically better. In 2010, 2011, he shot better than anyone. He could have made the London Olympics final and anything was possible after that,” said the Aussie. “I was a mentor, giving them the confidence and belief,” said Mark, about his friendly approach to coaching. Mark recalled that it took him his third Olympics to win a gold medal. “Shooting became an obsession and I was hungry to get the gold,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/russell-makes-a-mark-with-his-coaching/article31880453.ece
21 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Grant Elliott recalls his magical knock||Former New Zealand all-rounder Grant Elliott played the most defining innings of his career in the 2015 World Cup semifinal against South Africa. Elliott carded the penultimate delivery of the match from Dale Steyn for a six to bring up a thrilling win for New Zealand which entered the final for the first time. The 41-year-old recalled his magical knock (84 not out off 78 balls) while speaking as an international expert in a webinar organised by SAI-LNCPE on Saturday. “I wasn't even sure of playing the World Cup in 2015. A few days before the World Cup was to begin a close relative got seriously ill. I was disturbed and wanted to spend time with him and decided to pull out of the tournament. But my family told me this was the biggest event in my life and no way I was going to miss it. I reluctantly agreed and spoke to Brian McCullum, the captain, and Mike Hesson, the coach, who asked me to take a call after the two practice games. After playing in that I felt good and decided to continue,” he told the participants. High-pressure “The World Cup semifinal was easily the most high pressure situation I ever faced on the cricket field. The fear of failure was there and when I hit that six off Steyn it was a feeling of relief more than anything else even if it meant I was missing my sister’s wedding which was to take place on the day of the World Cup final,” he said. Elliott said the key to New Zealand team's fine run in the 2015 World Cup was the team spirit. “We had some good players but to me it was the selflessness of the team members which contributed to our success. Throughout the tournament we played with the same team and there were four players, who were always on the sidelines. “However, the four were very much involved with everything and enjoyed success of others. They didn't show any displeasure while carrying the drinks. The coach Hesson created an environment for us to learn and to be better players,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/grant-elliott-recalls-his-magical-knock/article31880625.ece
21 June 2020||KOCHI,||Getting players into competition mode||With no one sure when tournaments would resume, it is a very difficult period for sportspersons everywhere. But Joy T. Antony is trying out something which could brush away badminton players’ anxiety in a small way. An Indian team coach at the under-17 and under-15 junior Asians in Indonesia last December, Joy plans to conduct a series of tournaments at the Regional Sports Centre here, where he trains a promising bunch of players. Motivation “I’m planning to have tournaments between our academy players once a month. That will keep the players, especially the juniors, motivated. We will try to give them small prizes too,” said Joy, an Olympic Gold Quest coach who has been trained by greats like Prakash Padukone and Morten Frost, in a chat with The Hindu on Saturday. Joy’s bunch, which includes a few National campers and players from the Gopi Chand and Prakash Padukone’s academies as many of them are unable to return to their training base, resumed training after the coronavirus lockdown a month ago. He is happy to note that all the fitness training he had made them to do, and supervised online, during the lockdown is bearing rewards. Good fitness level “Their fitness level is good but to bring them back to normal on-court shape, to get proper racquet contact, it will take about two weeks. And a month to get back to full shape,” said Joy, a former senior Worlds bronze medallist (above-40) and the Kerala team coach the last few years. Son of a prominent chemistry professor T.C. Antony, Joy stayed close to former international Vimal Kumar’s house in Thiruvananthapuram. “Vimal’s brother Vinod introduced me to professional badminton,” said the 45-year-old, employed with the Cochin Port Trust in the sports section. A former multiple State singles silver medallist, Joy has been playing tournaments for the last 30 years. And it is this supreme fitness that he is trying to transfer to his trainees. He is active in the National-ranking circuit even now. “Since I’m training the elite players and play with them, it helps me maintain my competitive standard. It helps my form,” he said. It is also helping his many trainees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/getting-players-into-competition-mode/article31880624.ece
21 June 2020||Coimbatore,||‘Was born tough… but the pandemic is tougher still’||Ever since he won the marathon Olympic gold at the Rio Games in 2016, Eliud Kipchoge of Kenya has been smashing records with authority. He planned to crack a few more this year before the pandemic struck and halted his progress. “The postponement of the Tokyo Games [to 2021] has turned everything, from preparation to planning, upside down for me,” he told The Hindu in an exclusive chat from Kenya on Friday. The World record holder, who has won 11 of the 12 official marathons he has taken part in, said he is tackling the tough days by staying positive and setting safety as his first priority.  “I have never been in a hard situation like this. This one is completely different and has hampered my training in a big way,” he said. “It has not only affected my training but my fitness too. Training in isolation is not easy and, without your teammates around, it is hard to gauge your fitness as well. Consistency and setting your goal is another recipe.” Big lesson But Kipchoge was quick to point out that the pandemic has taught him life’s big lesson: “To treat the uncertainties and accept the change as it happens.” Having run 3.2kms to school on a daily basis, the Kenyan has moulded himself into a tough nut to crack. “Yes, I was born tough and have also gone through some tough situations in life but the pandemic is tougher still,” he said. How about defending the marathon title at the Tokyo Games? “It’s not easy to clinch the gold as it needs total dedication and patience and, above all, consistency,” said the 35-year-old, who won at Rio with the biggest margin of victory (70 seconds) in the Olympics since 1972. The Kenyan had bagged a silver at Beijing (2008) and bronze at Athens (2004), both over 5000m. Despite his advancing years, Kipchoge, who ran the world’s first ever sub-two-hour marathon by clocking 1:59:40 at a special event in Vienna last year, is determined to run many a mile. Besides the Olympics, he is eyeing a fifth London Marathon title. He may have to wait for things to settle down before getting back on the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/was-born-tough-but-the-pandemic-is-tougher-still/article31880404.ece
21 June 2020||Melbourne,||Fans will be allowed to watch T20 World Cup action, says Hockley||If 15 teams can be allowed to enter Australia for the T20 World Cup, then fans will not be stopped from watching live action from the stadiums, Cricket Australia’s (CA) interim CEO Nick Hockley said on Saturday. Different possibilities are being worked out for the T20 World Cup to go ahead as scheduled later this year and one of them is to host the tournament before empty stands in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Complex However, Hockley said crowds will be allowed, though, hosting 15 teams with players, officials and support staff is “complex” as of now, hinting that probably the ICC flagship event could be pushed back. “The reality is, and we’ve got much more understanding about this in recent weeks, is crowds are most likely to come back before international travel. “Our biggest challenge is getting 15 teams into the country,” Hockley told cricket.com.au when asked if he would like to see the World Cup proceed without fans. “If I compare it with the prospect of a bilateral tour, you’re talking about bringing one team in and then playing individual matches. “But the prospect of bringing 15 teams in and having six or seven teams in one city at the same time, it’s a much more complex exercise.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fans-will-be-allowed-to-watch-t20-world-cup-action-says-hockley/article31880446.ece
21 June 2020||Karachi,||Shoaib Malik given time for family reunion||Pakistan all-rounder Shoaib Malik, who plays only the T20 format, was on Saturday granted permission to join the national squad late in England so that he can spend some time with his family members, whom he has not seen for nearly five months. Malik has been in Pakistan since the COVID-19 outbreak while his wife Sania Mirza and one-year-old son Izhaan have been in India. A 29-member Pakistan squad will depart for Manchester on June 28 but Malik has been allowed to reach England on July 24 after the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) agreed for his late arrival. “Unlike the rest of us, Shoaib Malik has not seen his immediate family for nearly five months due to his commitments and the subsequent international travel bans,” PCB chief executive Wasim Khan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shoaib-malik-given-time-for-family-reunion/article31880440.ece
21 June 2020||Bengaluru,||BFC signs Cleiton Silva||Bengaluru FC (BFC) has signed Brazilian striker Cleiton Silva on a one-year deal, having the option to extend it by another year. The 33-year-old, who started his career with Brazilian side Madureira, moved to Thailand where he spent a better part of the decade playing for Muangthong United and Suphanburi.  Silva is BFC’s first new foreign signing of the season, after the club handed extended deals to Juanan Gonzalez, Dimas Delgado and Erik Paartalu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfc-signs-cleiton-silva/article31880399.ece
21 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Artemiev trumps Harikrishna||Young Russian speed-chess specialist Vladislav Artemiev converted a slight middle-game advantage into a 40-move victory over debutant P. Harikrishna in the opening round of the $150,000 Chessable Masters on Saturday. Before Hikaru Nakamura fought from a pawn-deficit against Magnus Carlsen to draw in 73 moves in the most-watched game of the evening, Harikrishna paid the price for overestimating the value of his pawn-move on the 21st turn. Thereafter, for the second part of the game, Artemiev did not lose sight of victory.   The results (first round):   Vladislav Artemiev (Rus) bt P. Harikrishna.   Hikaru Nakamura (USA) drew with Magnus Carlsen (Nor); Daniil Dubov (Rus) drew with Alexander Grischuk (Rus).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/artemiev-trumps-harikrishna/article31880400.ece
21 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||ICA raises Rs. 78 lakh, helps 57 cricketers||Boosted by significant contributions, Indian Cricketers Association (ICA) has managed to raise Rs. 78 lakh and will provide financial assistance to 57 needy cricketers as they battle COVID-19. The ICA had originally planned to help 25 to 30 former players. “We were expecting to help 20 to 25 cricketers but with the support of fellow cricketers we have managed to provide assistance to 57,” association president Ashok Malhotra said.  Sunil Gavaskar and Kapil Dev are among the ones who have made financial contributions to the cause.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ica-raises-rs-78-lakh-helps-57-cricketers/article31880442.ece
21 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Certification courses on COVID-19 safety||In a first of its kind, an online certification course for COVID-19 safety for sports coaches and managers will be available for several disciplines. These free-of-cost courses are available in golf, tennis, football, cricket, badminton, swimming and indoor sports. A brainchild of golfer Inderjit Bhalotia, a multiple-time winner on the domestic tour, these courses will be available on champsforlife.in from Sunday. Topics include awareness, protection, facts, myths, and staying safe while training, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/certification-courses-on-covid-19-safety/article31880441.ece
21 June 2020||Dhaka,||Mortaza tests positive for COVID-19||Former Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Mortaza, in pic. , has tested positive for COVID-19, becoming the second high-profile cricketer to be infected with the deadly virus. Last week, former Pakistan captain Shahid Afridi had tested positive for the contagious disease. Nafees Iqbal, former cricketer and elder brother of ODI captain Tamim Iqbal, and Nazmul Islam have also tested positive, according to a media report.Agencies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mortaza-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article31880444.ece
21 June 2020||Hyderabad,||‘Ring of fire’ will be visible in parts of north India today||A rare celestial event, an annular solar eclipse, which is popularly known as the “ring of fire” eclipse, will be visible on Sunday in parts of India. The annular phase will be visible only in few places of northern India, while the rest of the country will observe this event partially, said a press release from Planetary Society, India. Across the world, the eclipse in various phases will occur between 9:16 a.m. and 3:04 p.m. “In India depending on the location of a person from the central path, the eclipse, mostly in the partial phase, will be visible between 9:56 a.m. to 2:29 p.m.,” the release said. Across the world the eclipse will be visible in the region covering Africa except western and southern parts, southeast Europe, Asia (except north and eastern Russia) and Indonesia, among others. Though the central path of the eclipse begins it journey in Congo (Africa), in India it traverses from Suratgarh (Rajasthan), Sirsa and Kurukshetra (Haryana), Dehradun, Chamoli and Joshimath in Uttarakhand, thus giving people in these areas the opportunity to observe the Sun as a ring of fire, when the Moon comes between the Earth and the Sun. In a total eclipse, the disc of the Sun is fully obscured by the Moon. In partial and annular eclipses, only a part of the Sun is obscured. People in Tamil Nadu will get to witness a partial solar eclipse. This year, the Tamil Nadu Science and Technology Centre has not made arrangements for people to view the partial solar eclipse in Chennai. Its executive director, S. Soundararajaperumal, said arrangements were not made due to the lockdown in view of COVID-19. The partial eclipse would begin at 10:22 a.m. and end at 1:41 p.m. in Chennai. Scientists have advised people that it is unsafe to observe the sun directly as it may lead to eye injury. One of the safe methods to watch the eclipse is through projection. Binoculars or small telescopes could be used to project a magnified image of the sun on a white piece of card.  (With inputs from      K. Lakshmi in Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/ring-of-fire-will-be-visible-in-parts-of-north-india-today/article31880438.ece
22 June 2020||June 21 2020 07:36 IST,||Sudoku - June 21, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-21-2020/article31880847.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The jungle Rail||Sometime in the late 1800s, a British-Indian Railway Company headquarters received a curious telegram: ‘Tiger jumping about platform, men will not work; please arrange’, it said. Then in 1892, an artist turned this little note into a sketch and published it in The Graphic , a popular British weekly illustrated newspaper. It was captioned, ‘An Awkward Visitor at an Upcountry Railway Station in India’. The cartoon immediately catapulted this incident into popular imagination and it became a Victorian pop-culture legend. Dozens of authors have since speculated on the precise location of this ‘upcountry’ railway station: one strong candidate was ‘Khundwa’ railway station (Khandwa, now in Madhya Pradesh). According to Val C. Prinsep’s book Imperial India, 1879: An Artist’s Journals, the said tiger was shot the next day, proving that the telegram was not a bluff. Somewhere in Bengal, also in the late 19th century, a similar incident was reported, albeit probably with some embellishments. ‘The native station master of an out-of-the-way Indian railway station was suddenly pounced upon by a man-eating tiger. The startled assistant, remembering the orders given in the cases of an attack being made by robbers, or the like, immediately rushed to the telegraph office, and wired to the European official at the next place on the line — ‘Tiger on platform eating our respected stationmaster; please wire instructions’.’ The report says that by the time help could be sent, the tiger had not only ‘wolfed the master,’ but also ‘got away with ‘our respected assistant’. A few years earlier, this time near Jaipur, a Bengali station master working in a lonely wayside railway station surrounded by forests had been waylaid by a wandering tiger. The rude interruption forced him to telegraph an urgent missive to his British superior at Jaipur: ‘Tiger in charge, I on roof, please arrange’. The story goes that the British officer immediately went to the station, shot the tiger, and the station master descended from his perch and resumed ‘charge’ of the station. All the many variations of this story hark back to a time in India when two great forces crossed paths for the first time — the modernising force of the Great Indian Railways and the ancient ways of great Indian jungles. The first railway lines ploughed through forests and hills, rivers and swamps. The natural world pushed back. Disease and accidents killed hundreds of labourers and engineers, and so did wild animals. The creatures of the forests, especially tigers, fought against this strange intrusion into their turf. Attacks on railway labourers and staff during the construction of the lines and immediately after were very common. In 1889, a tigress that inhabited the area around the railway tunnel close to the newly constructed Darekasa railway station, now in Gondia district of Maharashtra, was reported to have killed around 40 railway employees.  Wild vs. modern Artists of the late 19th and early 20th centuries often interpreted such incidents of conflict as a clash between two opposing worlds: the ‘wild’ and the ‘modern’, the ‘old’ and the ‘new’; the Indian ‘wild’ pushing back against British ‘civilising’. This produced an array of very interesting artworks. There are sketches of a tiger chasing a pointsman up the semaphore signal at the end of a platform as he comes to signal an oncoming train; two fleet-footed sub-adult tigers are running off a railway line, somewhere between ‘Sutna’ (Satna, Madhya Pradesh) and Manikpur, startled by a train; an engineer inspecting a line on a trolley is spooked out of his wits as he nearly bumps into a family of four tigers including two cubs. There were encounters with other wildlife too. A sketch published in a French journal in 1907 depicted a herd of blackbuck running helter-skelter off a line with an approaching train engine in the background. It was titled ‘ Un défi à la Civilisation’ (A challenge to civilisation). Was the artist referring to the ‘civilisation’ of humans depicted by railways or was he alluding to the ‘civilisation’ of the wild animals being challenged by human enterprise? Artists also used the imagery of wildlife and railways for satire, to mostly reinforce imperial positions and stereotypes. However, the most enduring imagery of this brewing conflict between the ‘old’ and the ‘new’ was that of the forest’s behemoth, the Indian elephant, gallantly facing off against the mechanical behemoth. In January 1869, a little more than 15 years after the inauguration of the first passenger train in India, the first elephant collision was reported in The Penny Illustrated Newspaper . ‘A… very serious accident… perhaps unheard of since the establishment of railways, not only in India, but throughout the world, happened.... between Sahebgunge and Mirzapore, about two miles from the latter station. At that time the No. 5 down goods’ train was approaching a mangoe tope [grove], in which some seventy elephants [evidently these were domesticated elephants] were stationed. The red lights glaring in the distance, and the noise and smoke of the engine, would seem to have caused an awful consternation among the poor brutes… One large male, however, the strongest and most courageous of the lot, became so infuriated that he broke his chain and rushed forward to intercept and encounter the supposed enemy… He encountered it [train] with head and tusks; but animal strength proved no match for steam and machinery — the poor brute was knocked down and killed on the spot, and the engine, rebounding, ran off the line, and it and eleven carriages were capsized into a ditch. The fireman luckily managed to jump off in time, and the guard did the same; but the poor driver, named Smith, remained in his place, and received injuries from which it is not expected he will recover’. Such incidents were not limited to India. Near the little town of Tapah in Malaysia, an old tusker defended his herd by charging at an oncoming train and died in the process. So moved were railway officials by this elephant’s bravery that a memorial sign, which still survives, was erected at the spot he fell with the inscription “There is buried here a wild elephant who in defence of his herd charged and derailed a train on the 17th day of September, 1894”. Upcountry stations As the railways penetrated further into the forests and hinterlands, they also brought with them a new breed of British men and women to these ‘upcountry stations’, in the form of railway employees and travellers. This gave birth to a new genre of literature — stories, poems and non-fiction writings set at the intersection of railway lines and the forest and its denizens. These writers ranged from big names like Rudyard Kipling to lesser-known ones such as J.W. Best, an Indian Forest Service officer. Railway magazines of the time (each railway company in British India usually had its own illustrated monthly magazine) were also replete with accounts of shikar along railway lines or fiction set in some quaint ‘ jungli ’ station. A little known book of 1934, The Wheels of Ind by John W. Mitchell, a senior officer of the Bengal-Nagpur Railway Company (which would become South-Eastern Railway zone after Independence), was about his adventures along the ‘ jungli ’ railway stations and lines around Bilaspur. Writers such as Ruskin Bond have expertly carried forward this genre, often drawing upon the imagery of quaint railway stations set amidst jungles and wildlife. Today, more than a century later, the railways of the Raj, which were an amalgamation of more than half a dozen British railway companies, have become the monolithic Indian Railways. Most of those old forests that once posed such a formidable challenge to the fledgling railways have now bowed out, and with them have been edged out those thousands of tigers and leopards and elephants that once protested the intrusion of men, iron and machines into their world. There are more lines, more trains. The huffing and puffing steam engines of yore have been replaced with electrified beasts. The ‘war of civilisation’ has been decidedly won by men and their machines. In recent years, the most visible casualty of the Railways has been that old adversary of the railways, the elephant. As railway lines continue expanding and intruding into their habitats, more than 60 elephants have been mowed down by trains over the past four years, around 300 in the past three decades. West Bengal, Assam and Odisha are the worst affected. Between 2010 and 2019, as many as 51 elephants were killed on the tracks in West Bengal, 44 in Assam and 24 in Orissa. Many such accidents happen when elephants come to the rescue of a herd member stuck on the lines, and die in vain trying to stop the engine just like their forefathers did more than a century ago. Besides elephants, in the past four years alone, nearly a dozen tigers, more than half a dozen lions, and scores of leopards have died on the tracks. Plan Bee The Railways and forest authorities have tried a number of different approaches to mitigate this conflict. Some are fairly straightforward, such as reducing train speeds when passing through wildlife habitats; keeping the sides of the tracks clear of vegetation and food waste that might attract elephants and other wild animals; and sensitisation programmes for railway staff. But there have been some novel efforts as well, such as ‘Plan Bee’, the brainchild of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR), the area where a majority of elephant-train collisions occur. This involves installing an audio device with a range of 600 metres, which produces the buzzing sound of a swarm of bees, a sound that spooks elephants and keeps them off the tracks. NFR has also constructed underpasses, overpasses and ramps to facilitate elephant crossings and fenced off vulnerable stretches. But these efforts haven’t put an end to the killings, and stories of train-animal collisions continue to come in. Yet, despite all these conflicts, a slice of the gentler side of the railways, one that inspired writers and artists, did survive into the new millennium. These are the last remnants of several small gauge lines that once cut across the forests of peninsular and northern India. Many of those lines, such as the Satpura narrow gauge lines, which once served the tribal hinterlands of southern Madhya Pradesh and eastern Maharashtra, have now been decommissioned under Project Unigauge. Some still survive. It is on these lines that you can still spot a pointsman precariously walking towards the edge of the platform to light the oil lamp on the semaphore tower as the evening shadows of the towering sal trees begin to lengthen. And here tigers and leopards still sometimes decide to play the part of the ‘awkward visitor’. The trains move slowly, the lines don’t bulldoze through the landscape but quietly snake through forest and hill, meandering like a forest stream. Deer trust the trains enough to graze beside the lines and the clinking wheels of the train are almost a part of forest sounds. These may be the last remnants of a forgotten world where the railways and the wild are not adversaries. Where the two exist in amity. Where the clash of the behemoth and the beast finally ends. The writer is a Jharkhand-based conservationist and an avid collector of antiquarian books on natural history.  Today, deer trust the trains enough to graze beside the lines and the clinking wheels of the train are almost a part of forest sounds. These may be the last remnants of a forgotten world where the railways and the wild are not adversaries   Railway magazines of the time were replete with accounts ofshikaralong railway lines or fiction set in some quaint ‘jungli’ station... Writers such as Ruskin Bond have expertly carried forward this genre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-jungle-rail/article31880225.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Too many ideas spoil the plot||In Uday Prakash’s short story collection, The Walls of Delhi (translated into English by Jason Grunebaum), the titular story follows Ramnivas, an impoverished Delhi sweeper, who finds a mountain of cash hidden behind a gymnasium wall. The windfall not only transforms the man’s life, it also seems to make Ramnivas a better friend, a more attentive husband, a superior lover even. So much so that his long-suffering mistress Sushma, hitherto indifferent to him, suddenly feels “as if she were rolling around on a flowerbed of the prettiest blossoms in the world”. In a satirical segue, Prakash helpfully informs the reader (this is the literary equivalent of Jim Halpert’s fourth-wall-breaking glance at the camera in The Office ) about the palliative effects of hard cash on one’s disposition: “The roots of happiness lie hidden away in money. From there, the tree of pleasure can grow, and flourish, and bear the fruit of joy. Maybe the best qualities of men, too, lie locked inside a bundle of cash (…)” Before-after Anurag Kashyap’s latest film Choked: Paisa Bolta Hai (released on Netflix earlier this month) features a similar plot conceit at its heart. Sarita Pillai (Saiyami Kher), a Mumbai bank teller, finds a seemingly bottomless pit of money in her clogged kitchen sink. For Sarita, the money means a chance to paper over the cracks in her marriage — her unemployed husband Sushant (Roshan Mathew) is an irritable, often petty little man, hopping from one job to another, peddling small-scale insurance schemes with his carrom-playing neighbours. November 2016, however, brings with it demonetisation; a move that threatens to render Sarita’s newfound bounty null and void — or worse, land her in legal trouble.  Choked has a lot going for it, to be honest. The depiction of lower middle-class Marathi life is affectionate and lit up by Kashyap’s signature brand of humour, à la Gangs of Wasseypur — absurd and grouchy, surreal and yet informed by an earthy pragmatism. The performances are commendable for the most part. Kher, a promising young actor who made her debut in Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra’s 2016 grandiose dud Mirzya , is given most of the heavy-lifting in Choked , and she passes with flying colours. Two modes Her malleable eyes just about manage to sell an under-cooked backstory — how Sarita and Sushant were singers in a reality show, how she ‘choked’ in the spotlight, costing them their one shot at show business. In the aftermath, she took up a bank job to support Sushant’s singing dreams, and there too Kher does a fine job of communicating Sarita’s quiet despondence — an early scene sees Sarita expertly skewering a casually sexist customer without changing her demeanor or raising her voice. Mathew starts the film off on a hammy note before coming into his own gradually. Amruta Subhash is dependable as ever, playing Sharvari Tai, Sarita and Sushant’s kind-hearted but meddlesome neighbour, whose daughter’s wedding plans are poleaxed by the demonetisation. And yet, the whole thing never really comes together satisfactorily. Choked starts off as a simmering deconstruction of marriage, co-dependence and how financial upheavals influence the trajectory of a relationship. Midway through, however, Kashyap decides that he also wants to make a grand allegorical statement about the evils of demonetisation; the panic, the impact on crores of middle-class Indians who felt betrayed and attacked. In one of the first scenes that depict this, Sarita firmly tells off a teary-eyed customer who begs her with folded hands for more money, “ Bank mein paise milte hain, sympathy nahi milti. Unke haath jodiye jinko vote diya tha .” (This is a bank; you get money here, not sympathy. Go and beg before those you voted for.) Discordant notes There’s no harm in ambition, of course — Kashyap has been one of India’s most ambitious filmmakers for close to two decades now, after all — but the movie’s screenplay just cannot keep pace with its protean objectives. Worse, the discordant notes struck by the film’s two ‘modes’ — the personal, marked by the Pillais’ domestic space, and the political, marked by its demonetisation scenes — end up cancelling the good work done by the film’s first 30-odd minutes. It’s almost as if Kashyap were trying to squeeze in a Netflix series-like pacing within the confines of a 100-minute movie. Had Choked been a series, of course, the scenes directly confronting demonetisation and its aftermath could have been siphoned off into a separate episode — the mid-season ‘standalone’ episode that has become de rigueur in the streaming era, a concept borrowed from comic books that gave writers breathing space to focus on sidekicks and nemeses instead. Alas, Choked suffers because of its distinct lack of breathing space (pun unintended). The screenplay, which promised so much in the first half, begins to fall apart under the burden of its on-the-nose economic metaphors (politicians, plumbing, clogged drainpipes, corruption — we get it, thanks). All of which is a shame, because after the many disappointments of Bombay Velvet , Kashyap delivered three solid films — Raman Raghav 2.0 , Ugly and Mukkabaaz , not to mention the Netflix series Sacred Games . Unfortunately, with Manmarziyan , the insipid Ghost Stories and now Choked , Bollywood’s pre-eminent stylist has lost considerable ground. In The Walls of Delhi , Prakash describes the suddenly rich Ramnivas’s overnight happiness using a Bollywood metaphor: “Gone was the poor, broken, sorrowful Jitendra. Now he was the gregarious, colourful, radiant Govinda, always ready to flash a smile.” How long before an Anurag Kashyap film makes us feel like that again? The writer and journalist is working on his first book of non-fiction.                 Chokedhas a lot going for it, to be honest. The depiction of lower middle-class Marathi life is affectionate and lit up by Kashyap’s signature brand of humour||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/too-many-ideas-spoil-the-plot/article31880257.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Four rules of safe dissent||The most important thing in life is safety. You have to be safe no matter what you do. Which is why we’ve seen so many campaigns about safe sex. Though Indians are world famous for population, sex isn’t the only thing we do. We also indulge in other activities, such as breathing, for instance. How do you breathe safely in front of a man who is coughing, feverish, and has lost his sense of smell as well as ventilator? By wearing a mask, obviously. But there is one risky activity where a mask won’t save you, and for which there are no safety guidelines: dissent. In today’s India, one of the most dangerous things anyone can do is criticise the government. It can get you trolled, jailed, or even summarily atmanirbhar -ed. Every day brings fresh reports of people getting slapped with sedition, UAPA, and all kinds of FIRs just because they criticised the government. I’m not interested in victim-blaming. But these people — the so-called dissenters — should have known that if they criticise the government, the government is bound to come after them. Why? Because the government, like the coronavirus, is neither good nor bad — it’s just something for which there is no vaccine. If you go and hug a COVID-19 patient and tell her bad things about coronavirus, obviously the coronavirus will get angry and come at you. No point complaining then. Suit yourself Look, it’s true that, according to the Constitution, India is a democracy. On the one hand, according to the Constitution, everyone has a right to criticise the government. But on the other hand, if the Constitution asks you to jump into the well, will you jump into the well? That’s my point. I am not saying don’t criticise the government. Personally, I believe there are no valid grounds to criticise the government, but hey, that’s just me. If you want to criticise the government, suit yourself! All I’m saying is: if you want to stay out of jail, practise safe dissent (like safe sex). For the benefit of India’s intrepid dissenters, I am sharing below the Four Rules of Safe Dissent.  Rule 1: Avoid. In a true democracy like India, the first rule of criticising the government is: don’t criticise the government. Think about it: do you like it when the underling who reports to you criticises you? No. So, avoid dissent.  Rule 2 : But some people can’t control themselves. If you are one such, here’s a tip: divide your criticism into two parts. Shift all the criticism to the second part. In the first part, say good things about the government. Like, for example, how well it has handled COVID-19, or how it has taught China a lesson. Once you’ve finished praising the government, sit in the lotus position and do Vipassana for half an hour. You will find your mind automatically purging the second, critical part of your criticism. Your heart, simultaneously, will forgive the government all its atrocities, leaving you in a mental state of peace, tranquillity and harmony.  Rule 3: Some people find it impossible to do even Vipassana. If you are one such, here’s a tip: offer concrete help privately to the government instead of insulting it publicly. For example, don’t go on social media and say, “What a moron government we’ve elected! It can’t get a single thing right!” Instead, compose a covering letter explaining that you are donating six months of your brutally reduced salary to PM-CARES. Then put the letter and the cheque in a sealed envelope and mail it to the government. Your criticism is done, and you are safe, too!  Rule 4: This is the most important rule: Timing is everything. I’ve said this before, and I’ll say this again: this is not the time to criticise the government. In fact, it’s never the right time to criticise the government. But right now, a deadly virus is stalking the streets. Locusts are stalking our crops. The Chinese are stalking our borders. And recession is stalking our economy. The last thing your elected masters want is their 130 crore slaves to start acting like they know everything and their masters are idiots. Flush out But if you absolutely must do it, then the safest time to criticise the government is between one and two in the morning, when everyone is asleep. Walk quietly to your desk, open your secret diary, and write down your criticisms. Once you’ve written everything down, read it carefully to make sure it doesn’t contain any defamatory allegations. Now tear these pages from your secret diary and burn them one by one in a deep blue flame. Then take the ashes and flush them down the toilet. If you follow these Four Rules of Safe Dissent, rest assured, not even a surveillance-obsessed, majoritarian-psychotic government will dare to throw you in jail. On the contrary, it may actually reward you for your honesty with a lucrative post in the IT Cell.  Once you’ve finished praising the government, sit in the lotus position and do Vipassana for half an hour||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/four-rules-of-safe-dissent/article31880260.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||‘There’s a fine line between ambiguity and confusion’||In one memorable promotional still for Prateek Vats’ Eeb Allay Ooo! , his protagonist Anjani — in half-sweater, white sports shoes, scarf — is framed against the six-pointed star of the Jaipur column, and beyond it, Edwin Lutyens’ dome for the presidential palace, both made to appear more distant than they are by two infamous factors: Delhi’s February smog, and the gradient of Rajpath on Raisina Hill, once and forever home to troops of monkeys. For Anjani, it is no pleasure stroll in the corridor of power. He is at work — one of several young migrant men who take the precarious (and dangerous) contract job of ensuring that the monkey menace in the country’s preeminent PIN code is under control. British author Jan Morris wrote that the imperial capital in Delhi was built at a time when it was too late for arrogance but too soon for regrets. Vats’ film is about an India in the middle of sunning its arrogance while throwing a blue tarpaulin over any lingering feelings of remorse. Perhaps enthused by the topicality and thumping endorsements from directors like Anurag Kashyap, Zoya Akhtar and Vikramaditya Motwane, more than 1.5 lakh viewers watched Eeb when it recently premiered — only for 24 hours — on YouTube as part of the We Are One Global Film Festival. We spoke to Vats following the screening. Edited excerpts: What has the response been like? Has your phone been ringing off the hook? Overwhelming — so nice to see it resonating with people for so many different reasons. You hope when you make a film that people can make their own meaning, you don’t want it to be didactic and restrict interpretations. And the open ending of the film is helping with that? Absolutely. There’s a fine line between ambiguity and confusion. So it helps that our ending is ambiguous and not confusing. The title is fitting because this is really a film of sound. What was the philosophy behind the sound design? The sound designer Bigyna (Bhushan Dahal) and I are classmates from film school, so there was a great level of comfort. Because we were planning to shoot in real locations, we realised we couldn’t fish out the boom rod at any time. We planned it very carefully — how many lapel mics, how many boom mics, the camera’s unit direction, need for stereo recorders. A lot of thought went into it because these days, it’s not hard to get a shot, but to get the sound is almost impossible. The film is meant to make you feel like you are on location with the characters, and sound is a way to suggest that. It helps create that certain kind of psychological space. It also gives me the option of using very little music. What is your relationship with Delhi like? I see it as my first city, since I grew up there. It is home in a lot of ways. At the same time, I have a certain distance now because it has been a while since I left. My parents have also left. Yaar , I feel the city fundamentally changed around the time of the Commonwealth Games in 2010. Suddenly, a lot of public spaces were taken over by the authorities. Cameras were installed and there were armed guards everywhere. At the time, the city displayed a very ugly side of itself. They picked up people and left them at the border. They erected metal sheets around the bastis . So you needed people to work but they shouldn’t be seen, much like it happens in West Asia. That left a lasting impact on Shubham (writer of the film). Getting permission to shoot so extensively in the New Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) area would have been quite a nightmare? Actually, because these are such important areas from a security perspective, there were processes in place to get permissions. But it is a whole gamut of things. Permission had to come from different places: the police, the Ministry of Home Affairs, North Block, South Block, Nirman Bhavan. And the real problem is not so much getting permission but actually shooting in these locations. You arrive all ready to shoot and you are told it is not possible that day because of some VIP movement, or a foreign leader is in town, or Parliament is in session. How did you shoot during the Republic Day parade? That sequence is remarkable. Because we see Anjani watching those people in langur costumes on the Karnataka float and that inspires him to get a langur costume for himself to scare away the monkeys. We knew that Republic Day had a significance to the kind of film we wanted to make — a full-blown military parade in an area with a monkey problem. You let accidents happen but you prepare for them. You pre-empt that there will be tanks, floats, people in Hanuman costumes, wildlife costumes. It is one thing for there to be a float with something interesting on it, something we can use to drive the narrative. But the other thing is capturing the shot — it needs to be in focus, the lens has to be right, you need to have counter-shots. That is the paradox of shooting fiction films — it makes you feel like you are in control. This idea of letting go of control is very unnerving, but till we do that, we won’t be able to get something truly magical. What about the film’s influences? Was there something you were thinking about while scripting, while shooting? A few things: there was the film called ID by Kamal K.M a few years ago, there was Ektara Collective’s Turup , Anamika Haksar’s Ghode Ko Jalebi Khilaane Le Jaa Riya Hoon , Ken Loach’s I, Daniel Blake . But mostly, the biggest influence has been trying to engage with the world around us. If that is not there, the film will splinter out. It will shoot away into space into this funny, dark, absurd kind of film. And what’s next for the film? There is interest from streaming platforms but I can’t say how it will go. We’ve had to quickly recalibrate a lot of stuff since all the festivals have been shut down due to Corona. So, along with the films that have been travelling with us, we’ve been thinking about how to go about it. The interviewer, a lawyer by qualification and afternoon napper by inclination, is at home everywhere and nowhere.  I feel the city fundamentally changed around the time of the Commonwealth Games in 2010. Suddenly, a lot of public spaces were taken over by the authorities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/theres-a-fine-line-between-ambiguity-and-confusion/article31880205.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The Peshwa’s tax holiday||The scale of the migrant labourer exodus from the precariousness of cities to the security of their home villages has few parallels in Indian history. Economist Chinmay Tumbe estimates that by the end of May, no fewer than 30 million Indians had moved across State lines, travelling hundreds of miles on foot, bicycle, or any available means of transport. This displacement considerably overshadows the other mammoth resettlement in living memory, the Partition, which uprooted over 15 million people. People abandon homes mostly when livelihoods evaporate, when choices are circumscribed, and when the only alternative is hunger. The workers trekking on our country’s arterial highways left their cities because of the jobs they lost, the rents they could no longer afford, and the real prospect of deprivation. Yet, such an exodus is not altogether new. Diverse regimes in Early Modern India often saw the distress migration of rural inhabitants when, much like today, displacement became the forced choice between hope and hunger. Between the 17th and the 19th centuries, millions of peasants were compelled to relocate due to famine or war. In 1630, after the monsoon had failed for two years, the Deccan famine erupted and lasted two years. Abdul Hamid Lahori’s Badshahnama recorded that starvation was so rife that “life was offered for a loaf”. Other desperate forms of survival were not unknown: “Men began to devour each other, and the flesh of a son was preferred to his love.” The English merchant Peter Mundy, travelling near Surat, confirmed that parents sold or consumed their own children, or sometimes gave them away to anyone who would feed them. Ravenous subjects accosted others walking in public to prey on them. Given these wretched circumstances, many chose migration. As Lahori recalled, “Every man whose dire sufferings did not terminate in death and who retained the power to move wandered off to the towns and villages of other [provinces].” Imperial largesse The Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan organised food and cash transfers to urban residents of Gujarat and the Deccan as well as to rural migrants who had come into the towns. He set up langars to feed them, in much the same way that some State governments and civil organisations have done during the lockdown. Shah Jahan disbursed money to the poor on Mondays, the day he had acceded to the throne. Over 20 weeks, Shah Jahan spent 150,000 rupees in those two regions. Today, the central government is still vacillating over substantive cash transfers to migrant workers. In the Early Modern age, violent military conflict was a regular feature of rural life. Generals and officials frequently exacted food and provisions from peasants for their armies, spurring starvation and flight. The Maratha King Shivaji displayed a peculiar sensitivity towards such depredations. Mindful of the potential for distress migration, in the summer of 1674, he cautioned bureaucrats in the Konkan that reckless consumption by the military would exhaust rations before the monsoon ended and fresh demands would crush the farmer. “When you act that way,” the sovereign warned, “the peasants, who have barely held onto their homes and lives, will begin to flee. Some will perish from starvation. They will then consider you worse than the Mughals, who have seized the countryside. You will encounter such rage that the curses of the ryots and the horses will descend upon you.” Left to rot Shivaji also exhorted his officials against negligence in grain warehouses, which could cause “incalculable damage”. Tragically, during the pandemic, even as migrant labourers combat hunger, reports have emerged of tonnes of wheat stocks rotting in open granaries. It reeks of callousness on two levels: of public servants who have ignored storage norms and of governments failing to distribute stocks during an emergency. As the pandemic wanes, governments will undoubtedly have to devise strategies to attract labourers back to kick-start economies. In the Early Modern era, when peasant desertions occurred, rulers encouraged their return by sometimes invoking ideologies that allowed farmers to believe they were active contributors to state building. Historian André Wink details how, in 1690, the Maratha King Rajaram granted revenue privileges to ryots in order that they hold a “stake in the country”. While such participatory doctrines are useful, contemporary governments must ensure that they do not slide into the comfort of nativism. Some States today are contemplating restricting medical services to local residents, while others plan “sons of the soil” campaigns to spur production, all of which may prove counter-productive in the long run. In the 18th century, the Peshwas offered abhaypatras or letters explicitly promising security to encourage migrants to return. They exempted ryots from land revenue. In 1752, the Nizam’s army encamped near Pune destroyed crops and scorched homes, pushing villagers to migrate. To induce their return, Peshwa Balaji Bajirao’s abhaypatra promised to forgo revenue collections the next year, increasing it to the full rate by the fourth year. An end to disorder The Peshwa urged villages to invite trading families, promised an “end to disorder”, and instructed them to “cultivate, grow abundant, and live happily”. State governments will have to find similar ways to attract and retain workers by assuring them of steady incomes and job security, instead of diluting labour laws as some are doing. The Peshwas, however, did not have a uniformly lenient policy. They sometimes threatened cultivators to return. Government records in Persianised Marathi note two frequently occurring terms to describe truant farmers, paraganda and farar , both of which signify fugitives, implying that the peasant had shirked his responsibility of contributing to the exchequer. Seeing cultivators primarily as taxpayers meant the Peshwas could arm-twist them to return. In 1753, ryots in Khandesh, perhaps in conflict with their revenue collector, migrated to the protection of a neighbouring pargana’s collector. A dispute arose between the two collectors, the former demanding that they be returned, and the latter suggesting that they be persuaded to come back consensually. News of this reached Balaji Bajirao, who turned apoplectic. He challenged the idea of peasants’ consent, writing, “How may those obliged to pay revenue to the government be permitted to flee? Ryots who migrate to other parganas must be warned and commanded to return to their own villages.” Serfdom and inhumanity Constraints on the freedom of movement of labourers are repeated today, as some States attempt to keep migrant workers captive or mandate that prior approval will be needed for their hiring. The greatest heartlessness, however, was shown during the Raj. Distress migrations during this era were heightened by the inhuman attitude of the British towards the struggling farmers. In the midst of the great famine of 1876-78, Viceroy Lord Lytton organised a grand Imperial Assemblage in Delhi — where Queen Victoria was proclaimed Empress of India — at the cost of a million rupees; much like the Rs. 20,000-crore Central Vista plan notified during the pandemic. Lytton said, “The task of saving life irrespective of cost is one which it is beyond our power to undertake.” Historian Mike Davis noted that the famine “befell a peasantry already ground down by exorbitant taxation and extortionate debt.” Many farmers migrated from the British-administered Bombay Presidency to the princely state of Hyderabad, where Nizam Asaf Jah VI provided assistance. For those who stayed, colonial “relief” came in the form of hard coolie labour on railway and canal projects for pitiful wages. Many took to petty crime, preferring the relative luxury of prison where they would be better fed than in famine relief camps. Post-colonial India, one hopes, won’t repeat this reckless imperialist approach, but for that, our governments have to be more attentive to the real suffering of those whose lives the pandemic and lockdown have affected the most. The writer, a Ph.D. student of history at Rutgers University, is interested in the Deccan and Western India, and histories of religion, caste, gender and sexuality.  Shah Jahan organised food and cash transfers to urban residents in Gujarat and the Deccan as well as to rural migrants who had come into the towns||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-peshwas-tax-holiday/article31880209.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Sound of music: The rest is noise||For most of us, the vast and variegated landscape of music in India provides joy and stirs deep emotions that defy dissection. Yet those with eclectic musical curiosities cannot but note the profusion of genres, their distinct identities and interconnecting threads; and their history with continuities and ruptures. When colonial India engaged powerfully with modernity, music was a significant interface. It was expressed through a major shift — the recasting of existing genres to align with the needs of nationalism. The other was a technological shift (still evolving), from amplification and the gramophone record to digitalisation and the remix. Reaching out Earlier contexts and content of performance have been dramatically transformed — audience, transmission, pedagogy, and quite simply the character of musical sound and its reach. The old classification of the arts into classical, folk and popular has long frayed, with seepages between categories through collaboration, fusion and technology. But within this canvas of broad strokes lie many intricate, non-linear, contradictory trends. Without these micro-tales that give texture and character, the big picture remains hazy. The volume edited by Tejaswini Niranjana weaves these multitudinous aspects around the idea of music publics and ‘publicness’ from the late 19th century onwards. This is a serious enterprise that frees music study into interdisciplinary terrain: 10 articles by accomplished scholars traverse Carnatic (Lakshmi Subramanian) and Hindustani classical music (Adrian McNeil, Tejaswini Niranjana, Urmila Bhirdikar, Amlan Das Gupta), film music (Vebhuti Duggal, Abhija Ghosh), political songs (Kaley Mason), Kabir songs (Aditi Deo), and the business of early recorded music (Vibodh Parthasarathi). Recent scholarship has explained how the monopoly of hereditary artistes — Muslim ustads, devadasi, kalavant and tawaif communities — was broken by a wave of reform movements. Under the powerful drive of Paluskar, Bhatkhande and others, modern institutions were established for systematising, codifying and teaching. Temple and court as venues surrendered to the closed concert hall; audiences and patronage changed. The five chapters here offer fresh insights on this encounter. Whiff of change In her sharply argued piece, Niranjana maintains that the standard history of reform focuses on ideology, not actual engagements between musicians. The story of assembling a ‘national’ music with Hindu features, she avers, is neither unidirectional nor complete. With growing immigration, diversities, commerce and entertainment markets, Bombay became the hub of what she labels lingua musica — a shared musical culture and sensibility. The gharana system emerged as a countervailing force linking the past and the contemporary. McNeil too reiterates the point. Ustads migrating to Calcutta catered to a new public formed amidst rising forces of coloniality, modernity and Hindu nationalism. And they established gharanas open to students from non-hereditary families; they did not reproduce the notion of ancient Hindu glory. Bhirdikar’s meticulously researched piece shows the powerful role of Govindrao Tembe, musician, actor, composer and critic, in educating public taste and allied social and moral judgment in Maharashtra. Yet, closely examining his use of rasa terminology, Bhirdikar concludes that Tembe’s writing did not engage seriously with the basics of music knowledge. In Madras, the great educators of public taste were sabhas, with overlapping communities of artists, organisers and rasikas who, Subramanian argues, originated from the same elite social universe. Performances were shortened into the newly minted ‘kacheri’ or concert format. The pioneering Madras Music Academy, established in 1928, locked horns with the Tamil Isai movement, which criticised the monopoly of Telugu and Sanskrit compositions and campaigned for reviving Tamil music. Even though concerts started including Tamil compositions, the movement stopped short of becoming a genuine countervailing force, in part due to the indifference of the Dravidian movement. From the late 1950s, Hindustani music started travelling to the West, and Das Gupta speculates on the consequences of this foray into a totally uninitiated audience. It made no particular impact on Western music, but did initiate fusion genres, a trend that has since ballooned enormously. With the Kabir festival now a prominent annual event, Deo tracks the Kabir Yatra in Bikaner to find that the universal appeal of Kabir has combined with new technologies of recording and mixing to transform the quality of sound and transcend urban-rural, local-cosmopolitian and folk-popular divides. Songwriters and performers are key agents of political movements, says Mason, while examining how popular songs in Kerala generated democratic support for radical politics of land reforms and labour rights. The song Balikudeerangale (‘Oh Monuments of Martyrdom’) is believed to have helped the Communist Party win elections in 1957. Pull of movie songs Two pieces provide glimpses of our ubiquitous film music. Duggal describes the ‘inter-mediality’ of film songs between 1955 and 1975: how they jumped media into printed song books, magazines and literature. This mobility — cutting across caste, class, gender, values and media — made it a popular currency of communication well before the digital age. Ghosh cuts to the video cassette age, following the afterlife of the romantic Hindi film song of the early 1990s. Considered lowbrow then, it now proliferates in digital formats, straddling audio, video streaming and social media. In the current nostalgia for ’90s Bollywood, this genre has become a precious, memorialised artifact. Parthasarathi tracks the ‘marketed sound’ that appeared in India in the early 20th century with the gramophone record. He integrates analysis of recorded music as a cultural form with the wider entrepreneurial and industrial dynamics in which this business unfolded, differentiating it from the other articles. This piece, along with two others on technology, highlights the tricky business of curating varied articles into a single volume, a common academic practice. Even though they are all about music, the articles draw from vastly different knowledge bases and technical vocabularies that may not all resonate with a reader. The inexorable push to keep pieces brief and the irresistible pull of using technical grammar and smart-naming of concepts make the exercise heroic for the writer and the experience kaleidoscopic for the reader. The writer is a sociologist based in Mumbai.  Music, Modernity, and Publicness in India Edited by Tejaswini Niranjana Oxford University Press  Rs. 1,495     Recent scholarship has explained how the monopoly of hereditary artistes — ustads, devadasi, kalavant and tawaif communities — was broken by a wave of reform movements||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sound-of-music-the-rest-is-noise/article31880243.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1Since 2005, June 21 has been celebrated by a certain field of researchers with the support of the United Nations. This branch of science deals with the measurement and description of the physical features of water bodies such as oceans, seas, lakes and rivers, as well as the prediction of their change over time. What is the term given to this field which comes from the Greek words for ‘water’ and ‘to write’? 2Antipodes are points on the Earth’s surface which are diametrically opposite each other. They would be the extreme ends of a straight line through the Earth’s centre. There is one entity that is so large that at one point it is its own antipode. If you were to tunnel directly under the point you would still come out in the same entity. What huge entity is this? 3This is the deepest hypersaline lake in the world. It is well below sea level; hence there is no outlet for water and the only way water leaves is evaporation. This means that with every single day more salt gets left behind leading to its water becoming 9.6 times saltier than the water in the ocean. As a result, no plants or animals can flourish here, which led to its name. It is sinking so fast scientists believe it will soon disappear. What is the name of this lake? 4The name of this sea lying between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan means ‘Sea of Islands’, which used to refer to over a thousand islands that used to be in the sea. It used to be the fourth largest lake in the world but has been shrinking since the 1960s after the rivers that used to feed it were diverted by Russian irrigation projects. By 2014, the lake had almost completely dried up leaving behind a giant ship graveyard where camels walk around rotting remains of fishing vessels. Which sea is this that has become a desert? 5The Sargasso Sea has a strange and unique distinction. It has no land boundaries and is surrounded further by more water on all sides. It is distinctive for its deep blue colour and exceptional clarity which sets it apart from the water surrounding it. Inside which water body is the Sargasso Sea, whose boundaries are the Gulf Stream and three other currents? 6At one point in time, the city of Tenochtitlán was the largest in the American continent. It was built on an artificial island in the middle of Lake Texcoco. It contained huge pyramids, floating gardens, aqueducts, and was connected to the shore by three causeways. It was eventually destroyed by the Spanish in 1521. Which great civilisation built this city on the lake? 7Lake Chagan in Kazakhstan is an artificial lake which was created on January 15, 1965, as part of an experiment by the Soviet Union. This 350 million cubic feet lake was initially a dry bed but the experiment, followed by filling in by the Irtysh River, made it into a lake. Locally known as The Atomic Lake, what experiment created this lake? 8Lake Titicaca is the highest navigable lake in the world and the largest lake in South America. Found in the Andes, it is on the border of Bolivia and Peru. Humans have been living on the lake from before the Inca civilisation and till today the Uru people consider themselves owners of the lake and its water. They live on what they call ‘Balsas’, which can house up to 10 families. What are Balsas, which are made from the reeds of a giant bulrush plant? 9This city has the third highest number of skyscrapers in North America and is referred to as the birthplace of the skyscraper. Skyscrapers in the downtown area are air-conditioned through frigid water pumped from the bottom of the nearby Lake Ontario. This is known as Deep Water Source Cooling and reduces electricity costs by 75%. In which city would you feel DWSC at work inside the skyscrapers? 10The Rotomairewhenua (a.k.a Blue Lake) is in a national park in New Zealand. It is fed by underground seepage from another nearby lake. This unique refilling system filters out all the particles in the water leading to the lake having a characteristic that reveals the natural blue-violet colour of water. What is special about this lake which makes it one of the most beautiful in the world? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article31880262.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||History whodunnits||Here’s an enduring question that has gained particular resonance in our times, one that could be the start of an action-packed Indiana Jones type series on your favourite streaming platform. Who killed truth? And buried under that, the even more perplexing thought: What, exactly, is truth?  In the manner of a 40s-style trench-coat-wearing sleuth, the persistent historian doggedly searches all manner of records to find the answer. She tunnels through basements of cavernous libraries, and dusts the cobwebs off scratched vinyl records. She breathes the air of forgotten cemeteries and burrows into voluminous legal records. And the stories emerge, one by one, on a podcast, pointing to an array of unlikely suspects. The historian in question is Harvard professor and The New Yorker staff writer Jill Lepore. The podcast is The Last Archive , produced by Pushkin Industries. I must admit that Lepore is among my favourite writers, one who skillfully traverses the academic-popular divide, as comfortable talking about the history of the American Constitutional as that of Wonder Woman. So, I began listening to her latest creative (and no less scholarly) venture, predisposed to like it. I wasn’t disappointed. At the heart of the show are a series of intriguing and timely questions: How are truth claims evaluated? What are the tools that allow us to know what we know? The Last Archive claims to be “a show about how we know what we know and why it seems, lately, as if we don’t know anything at all.” Current matters That last sentence sums up how many of us feel about the current moment, but it’s also an indication of how Lepore deals with any subject she takes up — not with the weight of authority, but with the light touch of curiosity. Each episode takes up a singular case — a murder, a legal conundrum, a spectacle, an icon, an invention — and draws from it lessons about how we perceive what’s true and what isn’t. In the first episode (‘The Clue of the Blue Bottle’), Lepore and her team open up a cold murder case to “uncover the history of evidence itself” and seek answers using old photographs, newspaper stories, a private detective’s notebook and even the trial record itself. This interrogation of what makes evidence continues in the next episode, where an ingenious new instrument — the polygraph — was used to distinguish between truth and lie. In Episode 5 (‘Project X’) we get to hear about the U.S. Presidential election of 1952, the birth of the political advertisement and the introduction of technology into election forecasting. Radio drama The stories are told in the manner of 1930s radio drama, with some authentic sound effects (including, in Episode 4, the voice of writer Ralph Ellison of The Invisible Man fame) and the rest made up by some pretty skillful theatre. The Last Archive adroitly exploits the medium of sound, making full use of audio artefacts while also recreating an aural landscape befitting the period in question. Links to original sources on the web site make this an excellent resource for teachers of history — and historiography — as well. The show sets out (as the web site tells it) “to make arguments about history. The nation-state, social movements, cultural history, the history of politics and technology, science and medicine — and especially the history of knowledge.” And in doing so, they “wanted the show to sound like history, too.” If you thought history was boring, Lepore — and The Last Archive — will make you think again. The Hyderabad-based writer and academic is a neatnik fighting a losing battle with the clutter in her head.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/history-whodunnits/article31880272.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Let there be chaos||Jenny Offill’s Weather , shortlisted for the 2020 Women’s Prize for Fiction, asks a single, all-important question: How do we channel our existential dread into action? In an online interview with Joe Dunthorne, Offill says that “action is the antidote to dread”. She seems to exemplify this belief in Weather : We are not only asked to imagine a better world but also to put it together “block by block”.  Weather wants us to embrace the need to act, to step up, at least to try. It is at times solipsistic, too fragmented, but its self-awareness is sobering. It congeals the peculiarities of the current moment: of coexisting crises, continuities between politics, and a life that isn’t single-issue any more. It is a multi-layered, nuanced portrait of the inner experience of being at the heart of a rumbling world while accommodating within oneself the crisis of living in this moment of the ‘holocene’. Crowded margins At one level, the novel is domestic fiction. Lizzie Benson, the protagonist, is a librarian without a “proper degree for it”. She is also a “fake shrink” to her brother, who is in recovery. As the novel progresses we are introduced to other fragments of her life — the banality of the quotidian, her tense relationships, the challenges of motherhood and financial stress. At another level, Weather is a subtle portrait of a crumbling anthropocentric world of which the domestic life of Lizzie is a part. But these are bare bones of a plot: remnants of a first draft overwritten many times over. It is remindful of Walter Benjamin’s comment on Proust’s painful proofreading habits: “The galleys always went back covered with marginal notes, but not a single misprint had been corrected; all available space had been used for fresh text.” Offill’s margins speak of burnt erasers and worn-out pencils. Was it a disaster? An important secondary character is Sylvia Liller, referred to as the “enlightened one” in the opening lines. Lizzie’s former mentor, Sylvia is an academic who delivers public talks on climate change. Sylvia hires Lizzie to respond to her emails. Through Sylvia, we receive snippets that draw the novel out of its domestic space into a larger, complex context. For instance, somewhere in the novel, we have Sylvia describing the period after every disaster in which people wander around trying to figure out if there truly was a disaster. “That’s the name for what we’re doing,” Sylvia says, referring to the tumultuous current moment of escalating climate crisis. This is where the novel’s splintered style becomes even more crucial, because to run a linear teleological narrative would be to placate, to offer a solution, which does not exist. Weather , with its spindly sentences branching out into multiple digressions,  does none of this — it simply exists. It survives. For the most part, that is. While reading Weather I was constantly thinking of Elizabeth Hardwick’s Sleepless Nights : a novel that is as fragmented and wispy as Weather. But where the discontinuous texture breathes life into Sleepless Nights , in Weather there is something that stops it from being truly alive.  Weather runs faster than its ideas, missing out on the granular intricacies of the very ideas it claims to speak to. Towards the end it seems the novel suddenly wants to serve as a survival kit, with Lizzie’s life made into an example. That feels forced, agenda-driven, a gesture towards an easy solution, which it had resisted so far. Perhaps Weather ’s flaw and strength both lie in its ambition, its keenness to leave the reader with a narrative that feels relatable. For a book without order,Weatheris replete with lists: “prepper acronyms”, “tips for dealing with problem patrons”, baby names, and so on. Are these lists parodying the human obsession with order in a world bereft of it? Or is Weather dealing with its own anxiety by sputtering out these tiny lists? Would imagining the worst give us a guideline to surviving the end of the world? At the end, we see Lizzie moving towards chaos, seeking action instead of denial. The novel’s perceptiveness is infectious. It moved me to look outward, outside at the world that is in smithereens as we speak. It is perhaps not the survival novel that we expected or even needed but the one that we have, and I will take it. The reviewer is a lawyer and a student of Gender Studies at Ambedkar University, Delhi.  Weather Jenny Offill  Granta Books  Rs. 615.26 (Kindle price)    Weatherwants us to embrace the need to act, to step up, at least to try. It is at times solipsistic, too fragmented, but its self-awareness is sobering||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/let-there-be-chaos/article31880227.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Burmese Days by George Orwell||Before he debuted as a writer, Eric Arthur Blair changed his name to George Orwell. This duality informed his life forever, as did the reality that he was a child of the British Raj. He was born in India and his father was an official in the Indian Civil Service. Blair was sent back home to study: after a stint at Eton, he didn’t opt for Oxford or Cambridge like many others. Instead Blair/ Orwell returned to work with the Indian Imperial Police in Burma for five years. The experience he gathered morphed into his first novel, Burmese Days , a scathing indictment of imperialism, exposing the dark face of British rule in the subcontinent. The story goes, and Emma Larkin notes this in her introduction to the Penguin Modern Classics edition, that Orwell’s publisher was reluctant to publish the book as he felt some of the characters and the place itself (Katha in Upper Burma, which became the thinly-veiled Kyauktada in his interpretation) were so realistic it could be libellous. So, Burmese Days was first published in the U.S. in 1934 and a year later in the U.K., with changes. Welcome to the club Set in the 1920s, the story revolves around 35-year-old John Flory, a white timber merchant with a “hideous” birthmark on his face he desperately tries to hide. We first meet Flory as he sets off to the Kyauktada Club, “the real seat of British power, the Nirvana for which native officials and millionaires pine in vain.” What’s more, the “proud boast of Kyauktada Club” is that it has “never admitted an Oriental to membership.” Kyauktada is a “fairly typical Upper Burma town, that had not changed greatly between the days of Marco Polo and 1910,” when it was chosen for a railway terminus. Orwell brings Katha alive with the “Irrawaddy glittering like diamonds in the patches that caught the sun,” but is unsparing on both the whites and the natives who are impacted by the colonial system. U Po Kyin, for instance, is perhaps the worst subdivisional magistrate imaginable, corrupt and plotting to smear the reputation of Dr. Veraswami, who is Flory’s friend. The only possible way to save the doctor is to get him a membership to the all-white club, which U Po Kyin is also eyeing. Flory uses his visits to Dr. Veraswami’s home to vent against the Empire: “My dear doctor, how can you make out that we are in this country for any purpose except to steal?” Dr. Veraswami is taken up with the good things the British have introduced and is appalled by Flory’s seditious claims. The two-sidedness of Flory — he both hates and loves his country — becomes apparent when a riot erupts, and he helps quell it. Two Orwells The arrival of Elizabeth Lackersteen shakes up Flory’s world, but not enough to change the circumstances of his end. Flory, who critics have likened to Orwell himself, finds her attractive but cannot bear her snobbery or the fact that she is in search of a husband at any cost. He tries to make her interested in all things “Oriental,” but she shudders at the experiences, which are all “beastly.” “There were two Orwells,” points out Malcolm Muggeridge in his introduction to the U.S. edition, “though in his political attitudes Orwell was ardently anti-imperialist, he continued to cherish a romantic notion of empire builders valiantly bearing the white man’s burden,” as evident in Burmese Days . And yet, many of his ideas, including hatred of injustice, anti-totalitarianism, a socialist outlook, took shape while he worked in Burma. “A lot of Orwell’s future manias are already apparent in Burmese Days — for instance, his excessive loathing of the way of life of the English lower-middle classes, with their domestic bric-a-brac, their aspidistras and brass trays” writes Muggeridge. Indeed, the British saw to it that typical English flowers like phlox and larkspur, hollyhock and petunia, “rioted in vast size and richness.” Larkin says that as a policeman in Burma, “Orwell saw the underbelly of the empire; not the triumphant bugles or bejewelled maharajas, but the drunken sahibs pickled by heat and alcohol in mildewed clubs, the scarred and screaming Burmese in their prison cells. He witnessed firsthand the devastating effects of repressive governance and it troubled him deeply.” In the intrepid travelogue, Finding George Orwell in Burma , Larkin recalls that Burmese acquaintances frequently told her that Orwell did not write one book about their country: actually he wrote three, Burmese Days , Animal Farm and Nineteen Eighty-Four . The writer looks back at one classic every month.  A lot of Orwell’s future manias are already apparent inBurmese Days— for instance, his excessive loathing of the way of life of the English lower-middle classes, with their domestic bric-a-brac, their aspidistras and brass trays||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/burmese-days-by-george-orwell/article31880230.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Art has a significant role in mobilising resistance’||Talking to celebrated Sri Lankan Tamil poet Cheran, you feel as if he has never shouted in his life. He often fumbles and words come out of him in a designed disorder. But his poetry screams and is filled with gore and grief. A wretched loneliness that is as bewitching as it is baffling rules his poetry: “Loneliness and solitude pop up in my poetry as a background and as an underlying theme in the context of love, relationships and breakups,” he tells me, as we sit settle down for a chat in a Kozhikode hotel. He was in town to attend the Kerala Literature Festival that was held in January this year. Cheran lives in exile in Canada. Born in 1960 in Alaveddy, near Jaffna in Sri Lanka, he graduated from Jaffna University with a degree in Biological Sciences. His grooming years paralleled Sri Lanka’s long-drawn ethnic conflict and civil unrest, which birthed the LTTE. Cheran witnessed the burning of the Jaffna Public Library in 1981, in which over 95,000 books were destroyed. Early poet His first book, Irandaam Suriya Uthayam (The Second Sunrise), came out the following year, in 1982. As the anti-Tamil pogrom raged across Sri Lanka, killing thousands, Cheran published Yaman (God of Death) in 1984 and Kanal Vari (Songs of the Sea Shore) in 1989. With the war entering its second phase in the 90s, Cheran wrote Elumbukoodugalin Oorvalam (The Procession of the Skeletons) in 1990 and Erinthu Kondirukkum Neram (In the time of Burning) in 1993. Cheran wrote verse from as early an age as 10 — chiefly because his father, ‘Mahakavi’ T. Rudramoorthy, was a well-known poet. “I was exposed to social realities at a very young age, which influenced my poetry. But I consider myself a poet first,” says Cheran. Bearing witness “When I was 12 years old, the government implemented a new Constitution and changed the name of the country from Ceylon to Sri Lanka without taking into account the opposition by the Tamil parties or the Tamil people.” The new Constitution completely marginalised the Tamils while enshrining the domination of the Sinhala Buddhists. On May 22 of that year (1972), the Tamil areas of Sri Lanka saw huge protests in which people took down the national flag, shut down schools and burnt copies of the Constitution. “That was the year I became politically active under the guidance of my seniors and friends,” says Cheran. His poetry chronicles what has been happening to his community since the 1970s, all the way until May 2009, when the Sri Lankan civil war ended with the assassination of the LTTE leader Velupillai Prabhakaran. “I wasn’t planning to be a witness or a narrator, but that’s how it happened. The situation was intense. My reflections were sharp and dark.” Deep connect Even though his father is considered an iconoclast when it comes to modern Tamil poetry, Cheran points out that ‘Mahakavi’ was writing within the confines of the traditional Tamil poetic metre, the Yappu . “But he made it simple, beautiful and accessible.” Cheran’s generation discarded Yappu and experimented with different forms and syntax. “In my case, I maintain a certain tone, rhythm and sound, unlike many contemporary poets who use prose to communicate the meaning.” But that wasn’t easy. The difficulty here is that Tamil has a long and rich tradition of poetry. So if one wants to be different, one cannot use the same images, words or context. The harrowing experience of war and genocide changed everything for Sri Lankan Tamils, giving them “excruciating pain and a new set of images... This experience is one of the things that has given Tamil poetry all over the world — it is global poetry now — a particular spirit, power and a very unique articulation,” he says. Writing to the heart But can poetry change the world? “I don’t believe poetry can make a revolution; I don’t have that kind of illusion. But I do believe that art has a significant and nuanced role in mobilising resistance in countries where oppression exists. Poetry may not bring about radical change but can appeal to the finer elements of the heart to make things change slowly,” Cheran says. When poetry is performed, it raises awareness. “I have witnessed over time how powerful the change is.” Cheran and his fellow poets organised performances all over Sri Lanka in the years of the ethnic conflict. They performed more than 60 times between 1985 and 1986, taking poetry to villages, city schools, and squares. Just by reciting poetry, without any accompaniment, they were able to connect with the masses. “I am convinced of the power of poetry. We can reach thousands of people, and connect with them in a very deep, emotional and intimate way. That’s why I am not giving up,” he says.  I was exposed to social realities at a very young age, which influenced my poetry. But I consider myself a poet first||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/art-has-a-significant-role-in-mobilising-resistance/article31880232.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||A disconnect between engineering studies and the profession||Till the Information Technology revolution, engineering as a profession was more dependent on hands-on labour. But engineering education in India has always been about accumulation of classroom-based theoretical knowledge, since its inception. What’s interesting is that, this disassociation of the college curriculum from the needs of the profession was intentional and not accidental. The idea to shift technical education from the shop floors to the classrooms came from British planners and their intention was to meet the need for technical expertise without rocking the boat socially. In other words, caste was on their minds. The die is caste This argument forms the basis of Ajantha Subramanian’s The Caste of Merit . She begins by proving this contention using British-era letters and records which confess to the planned exclusion of the lower castes whose “social standing made them ill-suited for classrooms”. Through a series of reports and resolutions passed during British rule, the initial chapters show how the English went about achieving the inclusion of upper-castes in technical education at the cost of lower castes. The most hard-hitting proof of this social exclusion comes to the fore when students were selected for state technical education scholarships around 1901. Subramanian has mined information from the scholarship applications which shows that people from artisanal trading castes who have a long association with the industry were ignored while upper caste students were selected because “...he is a Nayar by caste. He comes from a well-to-do family of good social position”. The book is filled with such examples. What happened at IIT Madras Subramanian then shows how this social exclusion was carried on even after Independence. Here she uses IIT Madras as an example. The choice is interesting as Tamil Nadu was witnessing a surge of anti-caste politics while inside the campus there was relative calm, as until 2008, only the SC/ST quota of 22.5% was extended by the IITs (which was introduced in 1973). So until the 2000s, the campus had high representation from upper castes, due to the relatively small 1973 quota and extreme marginalisation of SC/ST students. Thus it is interesting to listen to those who passed out before the 1970s, about the quota system. An entire chapter titled, “IIT Madras’s 1960s generation” deals at length about this and through their interviews Subramanian explains their worldview about caste, career and difference between “innate capability” and “accumulated knowledge”. A 1968 study shows that most of them were Brahmins or from trading castes and 88% of them were from urban areas and a vast majority from most elite urban schools that offered English medium instruction. To explain the shadow of caste in engineering education, she interviewed many students who passed out through the system. Many of them were upper castes, who chose to stay in India and those who went abroad, Dalits who came in through the quota system and the general stream, and others who entered IIT after training at the coaching centres.  Subramanian’s most striking commentary is on the coaching centres and how it tilted admissions in favour of the lower castes. Interestingly, this created divisions inside the campus: between those who came from such coaching centres and those who had “innate ability”. Many rued that the coaching centre mechanism had spoiled the “IIT brand”. Essentially the book sets out to answer the following: How does privilege become merit? Subramanian chooses to answer this not through data or design. She does not preach or speculate. The book answers this question mostly by interviewing past IIT students. In other words, she elicits answers from the horse’s mouth.  The Caste of Merit Ajantha Subramanian Harvard University Press/HarperCollins  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-disconnect-between-engineering-studies-and-the-profession/article31880247.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||On the highway called life||The cover of Murali Sivaramakrishnan’s Roads to Nowhere seems like a perfect fit for the essays contained within. There is a raging river, with the current drawing a white froth on top. The ford built of large stones and logs of wood is one that requires abundant caution if one plans to use it. If you cross the river, you enter a scrubby area. Was it once a common area, a pasture land that has been turned into a dumping ground like so many across the country? And finally a wall. Does that mean a dead end? Is there a world to explore if you climb over it? In the Preface, Sivaramakrishnan talks about the idea of roads and journeys and how philosophers have interpreted it to apply to life. Today, he writes, “the rapidness with which the social networking system has evolved can be sensed in the spread of innumerable groups across Google and Yahoo. They are the highways and byways of our times.” Uprooting tamarind trees The 28 essays cover a variety of topics. History, ecology, Nature, literature, music... but all of them are reflections on how everyday life has changed and not always for the better. ‘The Flight of the Peacock’ is a rumination on man’s rapacity. Sivaramakrishnan talks about driving down roads lined with tamarind trees, where you couldn’t see the sky thanks to the overhead canopy. “When our roads become wider and wider and the huge spreading tamarind trees uprooted perhaps for a better cause, no doubt, uncaringly we have deprived innumerable other forms of life with very little choice but to flee at our approach,” Sivaramakrishnan writes. In ‘Nudity, Nakedness and an Effete Morality’, the author is awestruck by the statue of Bahubali at Shravanabelagola, which sets him reflecting on attitudes to nudity in our temples. “Instead of seeing the divine in the deity the human eye started seeing only the deity in the divine. This is the corrupted eye that deforms the stately nude into its desecrated nakedness and attempts to cover it up with clothing and garlands lest the worshipper gets distracted!” If ‘Marthanda Varma, King of Travancore’ gives the reader a potted biography of the well-known king, ‘Memories of Poetry — and a Poet’ is a loving recollection of Prof T.K. Doraiswamy. “It is quite a task to befriend a real poet — he is not unreal. He is either a metaphor or simile.” Aborted road trip ‘The Long Walk’ is an account of a road trip that the author and his friend take when still in their early 20s. The two set out on foot to walk along the southwestern coast aiming to reach Goa. By the time they get to Kollur, their fervour was gone and they set off on their return journey. This leads the author to wonder: “How could we ever have understood the true meaning of homelessness and the feelings of wanderers; because after all in our hearts of hearts we always knew we had a home to return to?” This is not the kind of book that can be read at one shot. Take one essay at a time, read and reflect.   Roads to Nowhere Murali Sivaramakrishnan Gutenberg Press  Rs. 500||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/on-the-highway-called-life/article31880245.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||My brain is melting||Respected Madam/ Sir, Human brain is simply unbelievable. Sometimes thoughts and all will come suddenly without warning as if LIC agent. Then non-stop tension only. Whether you have had same feeling? Once two-three years back Mrs. Mathrubootham and myself are sitting in taxi and going to airport. She is having one cousin in Jaipur. He said, please come no need for hotel. We can do tourism activities in Jaipur. We said ok. Suddenly Mrs. Mathrubootham said, “Did you switch off gas cylinder?” I said, “Kamalam what nonsense you are talking? You told me to switch off all the electrical items except fridge. All other departments belong to you, don’t point fingers at innocent people like TV news channel fellows.” She said, “Ok old man, did you switch off all electrical items at least?” I said, no, I forgot due to some important works. She said, “Old man, even during Bank of India days you didn’t have any important works, during retirement from where you will get important works? Tell the truth.” I said, “Ok fine I was choosing novels to pack and forgot.” She took umbrella and gave one hit on my head. Taxi driver started laughing like anything. Professional taxi driver means what? You focus on road and keep quiet no? This is the problem with people in this country. Nose means in other people’s business. Mrs. Mathrubootham said, “Driver sir can we do one u-turn? I want to check LPG gas cylinder.” He said, “Madam, look at traffic. U-turn now means 100% flight is swaha.” She said, but if leak is there? I said, “Kamalam, I will call Dr. Shankaramenon and tell him everyday to come to house and do one smelling. If leak is there he will put phone call. Good idea or no?” Madam/ Sir then what happened? Whole time in Jaipur Mrs. M is thinking of one and one thing only. Gas cylinder. I said, “Kamalam look at Hawa Mahal, so many windows.” She is thinking gas cylinder. We are standing in front of musical fountain in Jawahar Circle. What she is thinking? Gas cylinder. Finally when we returned to Chennai she ran to kitchen like Ashwini Nachappa. Whether any gas leak is there? Zero. I said, “Kamalam, hahahaha, what unnecessary tension you took in Jaipur. Whether you are remembering anything from trip?” She said, yes, I am remembering how in Rajasthan ladies are also using sword and knife. I slowly put reverse gear and left the kitchen. Today what happened? I was standing in balcony and looking at the scenery and suddenly I thought what happened to old SLR camera? “Kamalam,” I said, “you remember one old Yashica camera? We used to take during vacation?” She said, maybe it is in storeroom or almirah? After Jaipur trip I have never seen it. So I spent from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. looking and looking for SLR camera all over the house. Bedroom, bathroom, storeroom, inside drawer, top of almirah,inside almirah, under almirah. Zero camera. Then Mrs. M is telling you’re still looking? Just relax no? I said, Kamalam, what nonsense you are saying? How you can just relax? My brain is melting. During dinner also I could not eat. Then around 10:30 pm Mrs. M came and said look I found the camera. I said oh my god where did you find it? She said, it was behind the gas cylinder in kitchen. I looked at Mrs. Mathrubootham. She looked at me. Then I looked at her. Then she looked at me. I said, thank you Kamalam. She said, no mention please.  Yours in extreme suspicion,   J. Mathrubootham||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/my-brain-is-melting/article31880270.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The fading romance of ageing||It is the young who romanticise ageing. In the middle of our cares, aspirations, ambitions, flagging careers, tiresome bosses and demanding families, in short the general deadly pace of our lives, we envy the old who have seen it all, done it all and called it a day. We long for the day when we can ride into the golden sunset, hang up our boots, put up our feet and let down our hair, for a life of peace and tranquillity and the happy hereafter. The day we can all reminisce, become raconteurs and regale young audiences. Poet Robert Browning said, “Grow old along with me/ the best is yet to be/ the last of life for which the first was made”. We look forward to the days when we grow out of toddler’s tantrums and teenage angst, when we can have a quiet conversation with the spouse or a phone conversation with a sibling or a tete-a-tete with an old friend, without the pressure cooker whistling for immediate attention. Rosy beginning When at last we have arrived, the beginning is indeed rosy. The book shelf looks at you seductively with the unread books and all the time in the world to read, reflect and age gracefully. All the time in the world for loved ones punctuated by hot cups of tea and mouth-watering snacks. All the time in the world to set right those closets overflowing with clothes, and arrange them in neat stacks, easy to locate and no longer an eyesore. All the time in the world to look out of that window and nod to the hibiscus, to watch the sunset and the moonrise. All the time in the world to get creative with that splash of colour or the poem that needs to find utterance. Then unfortunately time takes a painful turn with joints creaking and we go back with dipping concentration to the same line in the book over and over. The near and the dear are busy in the joys and travails of their lives, and the spectre of loneliness looms large with mild blues that can lead to depression and we long for the time we lived a crowded life blissfully unconscious of the approaching “deadline”. We long once again for the shrill voices of children, the footfall of people who cared, the arguments with the spouse about a forgotten grocery list, the endless meetings, the timelines to be adhered to and the stream of files to be attended to. sudhadevi_nayak@yahoo.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-fading-romance-of-ageing/article31880215.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Sage advice in a world struck by pandemic||That change is inevitable is a given. Still I doubt any of us have envisaged such a change: lockdowns that brought life to a grinding halt. Though the globe had seen millions of deaths in wars, pandemics and natural disasters, the attitudes of superpowers have hardly changed. Even after large-scale casualties caused by COVID-19, war of words and accusations between China and the U.S. continues as if this planet and life have been granted to them forever. It’s high time humankind responded positively, changed their attitudes and lifestyles, stopped exploiting nature and initiated steps to mend all the wrongdoings so that our future generations can live on this planet joyfully. At this crucial juncture, it is appropriate to recall the poem Yaathum Oore, Yaavarum Kelir from the Tamil classic Puranaanooru written by Kaniyan Poonkunranaar some 2,000 years ago: Every village is my village and every person is from my kin. Like a lot of things in life, bad and good cannot be attributed to others … they come from within us. Likewise, agony and relief of agony come without any external triggers … but from within us. Death is not unheard-of or new (since death is certain and it happens only once, don’t keep panicking and dying for trivial things in life). It is unnecessary to rejoice that life is sweet or complain that life is bitter. Like rafts drifting along in the rapids of a great river, dashing over the rocks after a downpour, our lives, no matter how dear, follows its own course. We know this from the vision of wise seers who can see. So, we are neither awestruck by the great nor do we belittle the ‘not so great’ (respect and treat everybody, especially the underprivileged, equally. In other words don’t be star-stuck while looking at a celebrity and don’t feel superior to a commoner on the street because you perceive yourself as better). Everything is equal in this world — all people, all emotions, all events … if you learn this important lesson, everything becomes simpler. You eliminate most vices that are ruining the world today — bias (based on almost anything, let it be race, religion, gender or region), greed, envy … ns@joyatwin.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sage-advice-in-a-world-struck-by-pandemic/article31880217.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Another unusual play||West should probably have led a trump against this contract. It was safer than a diamond lead. He chose the king of diamonds, however, as many would. South won this with the ace, drew trumps in three rounds, and exited with a diamond to West’s queen. What now? East had high-lowed on the two rounds of diamonds, showing two, and discarded a high club followed by a low club on the trumps. Accordingly, West led the king of clubs and was not surprised when that held the trick. Should South hold the jack of spades, there was nothing to be done to defeat the contract. The favorable position of West’s spades could not be overcome by the defense. West could cash the ace of spades and lead the queen of spades. This would work provided declarer had three spades without the jack. East would then have an entry for his ace of clubs. But if South had two spades and three clubs, he would win with the king of spades, ruff a spade to his hand, and discard a club on the 10 of diamonds. West found an elegant solution when he shifted to the queen of spades! South couldn’t get back to his hand without using up dummy’s last trump and would end up with three club losers whatever he did. Nice play!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/another-unusual-play/article31880265.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Mexican Gothic||Silvia Moreno-Garcia  Del Rey $27 After receiving a frantic letter from her newly-wed cousin begging for someone to save her, Noemí heads to High Place, a house in the Mexican countryside. High Place is as menacing and alluring as the cousin’s handsome English husband. This Gothic mystery releases at the end of June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mexican-gothic/article31880229.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The Guest List||Lucy Foley  William Morrow $27.99 The scene is set for a perfect wedding in a remote island off the coast of Ireland, with designer dresses, luxe party, boutique whiskey. This is also the setting for the perfect murder. As the champagne is popped, resentments and jealousies bubble up and then someone turns up dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-guest-list/article31880234.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Exciting Times||Naoise Dolan  Ecco $19.92 In this take on modern love, a millennial Irish expat is entangled in a love triangle with a male banker and a female lawyer. Ava seems to be in love with both. She must decide whether she wants the easy compatibility with the banker or leap into the unknown with the lawyer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/exciting-times/article31880236.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Lockdown Liaisons: Leaving and Other Stories||Shobhaa De  Simon & Schuster India Rs. 93.45 (Kindle price) This, along with its second part, No Love Lost and Other Stories, is a collection of short stories chronicling how lives are changed in a world shaken by a virus. People from all walks of life try to adjust to the new normal. Love binds them together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/lockdown-liaisons-leaving-and-other-stories/article31880238.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Candid Tales: India on a Motorcycle||Adithi Rao  HarperCollins India Rs. 299 Based on the actual five-month-long journey of renowned biker Candida Louis, who was spirited and fearless, the writer rides off to the beaten trail to discover eccentric and beautiful people, heart-warming cultures, and secret places in which she left her heart behind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/candid-tales-india-on-a-motorcycle/article31880240.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Inside the Tablighi Jamaat||Ziya Us Salam  HarperCollins India Rs. 399 It is the ‘ideal Muslim organisation’ for some, focused solely on introspection in isolation. It would have remained so had it not been for the coronavirus pandemic that broke out in 2020. An inside view of the organisation that unwittingly became a COVID-19 ‘hotspot’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/inside-the-tablighi-jamaat/article31880249.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Justice Frustrated: The Systematic Impact of Delays in Indian Courts||Edited by Shruti Vidyasagar & Others  Bloomsbury India Rs. 1,199 What happens when justice is delayed? A volume of essays tries to go beyond the price of delay in terms of lost time and money. Instead, it examines the effects of delay at multiple levels through critical data analyses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/justice-frustrated-the-systematic-impact-of-delays-in-indian-courts/article31880251.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The Economics of Belonging: A Radical Plan to Win Back the Left Behind and Achieve Prosperity for All||Martin Sandbu  Princeton University Press Rs. 1,706 This book argues that economics remains at the heart of the world’s widening inequality, and that this can be addressed only by focusing on the right policies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-economics-of-belonging-a-radical-plan-to-win-back-the-left-behind-and-achieve-prosperity-for-all/article31880253.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3105||Across  1 Tricky phrase that might produce stuttering woe? (6,7) 8 Some herbal medicine? (4) 9 Get below platform (10) 10 Extremely fertile cat returned to admit misdeeds (4,2) 11 Burrowing creature loses daughter, runs forward to reach Texan city (8) 12 Piece of British landscape depicted in off-key, sad composition (5,4) 14 Puts on about 500 commercials (4) 15 Very good ... very good ... distinctly average (2-2) 16 Unpleasant haircut that might be seen at tea time (6,3) 21 Alert: ‘Following boundary, Australian captain declared’ (8) 22 Duchess, low in rank, obtaining grand husband? (6) 24 ‘Executive Search’ pro haunted her disturbingly (4-6) 25 Extensive head of hair, we’re told (4) 26 Team Trump rent asunder, leading to explosion of rage (6,7)  Down  1 One that might be brewing or poaching? (3,4) 2 Makes dull songs without hesitation (5) 3 Pursued, trounced, commandeered (7) 4 Primarily, trendy educational disquisition to advance latest knowledge? (3,4) 5 Sort of raid, no? (6) 6 Even now, toady’s hit ferociously (2,4,3) 7 Malodorous, the French starter of snails causes vexation (7) 13 McEwan novel, Decapitated Pet Cuckoo’s Upset (9) 15 Sit around, loiter endlessly with contemptuous expression (5,2) 17 Little bird going round city in direction of very little one (4,3) 18 Instigator of Brexit vote: ‘Country will lose nothing’ (7) 19 A little unwisely, skull cap removed for heavy metal (7) 20 Lunatic overcome by boundless ocean, misrepresented? (6) 23 Perhaps Guitar Hero fan offering a bit of Young Americans (5)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3105/article31880268.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Antibodies against coronavirus start to decrease in 2-3 months, study finds||A few countries, including the U.K., were toying with the idea of issuing some form of a certificate to people who have been infected with novel coronavirus and recovered subsequently, as such people were assumed to be resistant to reinfection. Incidentally, this idea was born even before any evidence about how long the antibodies produced in response to infection would last. Now, a study published in Nature Medicine suggests that antibodies formed against SARS-CoV-2 begin to decrease in number, just two-three months after infection. “We observed that IgG levels and neutralizing antibodies in a high proportion of individuals who recovered from SARS-CoV-2 infection start to decrease within two-three months after infection,” Quan-Xin Long from Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China and others write. In contrast, circulating antibodies against 2002-2003 SARS and MERS coronavirus were found to last more than one year. In the case of the 2002 SARS, sustained IgG levels were seen for more than two years after infection, while antibody response lasted for nearly three years in the case of MERS. This does not necessarily mean that people previously infected with SARS-CoV-2 can be reinfected soon after. Even if the antibody level decreases, it might be protective. “A person with low antibody level can get reinfected but the viral load will be low, infectivity will be less and he/she may not progress to a diseased state,” says virologist Jacob John formerly with CMC Vellore. “Antibodies specific to a virus even when present in low levels will be protective against disease.” Cellular immunity Besides inducing neutralising antibodies, novel coronavirus has also been found to induce cellular immunity. As a result, the immune system’s T cells and B cells are elevated in an infected person. “Generally, when antibody levels are high, the T cells are low and vice versa,” says Dr. John. When infected by a virus, non-specific immune response in the form of macrophages, neutrophils and other cells tend to prevent the virus from causing symptoms. Soon after, the body makes antibodies specific to the virus called the immunoglobulins — IgG and IgM, called the adaptive response. In addition, the cellular immunity kicks in when the body makes T cells that destroy cells that have been infected by the virus. The combination of adaptive response and cellular immunity “may prevent progression to severe illness or re-infection by the same virus. This process is often measured by the presence of antibodies in blood,” WHO says. For the study, the researchers compared 37 asymptomatic people with an equal number of people who exhibited overt symptoms in the Wanzhou District of China. They found that asymptomatic people elicited a weaker immune response to the virus compared with those who developed symptoms. As a result, 40% of asymptomatic individuals had antibody levels at undetectable levels compared with nearly 13% in the case of symptomatic individuals. Nearly 80% of people infected with SARS-CoV-2 show no or very mild symptoms. Implications “The reduction in IgG and neutralizing antibody levels in the early convalescent phase might have implications for immunity strategy and serological surveys,” they write. “These data might indicate the risks of using COVID-19 ‘immunity passports’ and support the prolongation of public health interventions, including social distancing, hygiene, isolation of high-risk groups and widespread testing.”    Another paper published in Nature found that even when the antibodies were present at low levels, it was sufficient to neutralise the virus. The authors say that “most convalescent plasmas obtained from individuals who recover from COVID-19 do not contain high levels of neutralizing activity” yet antibodies with “potent antiviral activity” were found in all these individuals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/antibodies-against-coronavirus-start-to-decrease-in-2-3-months-study-finds/article31880372.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Antibodies from convalescent plasma protect against COVID-19||A team of scientists led by Dennis R. Burton from the Scripps Research Institute has discovered that neutralising antibodies present in the blood of COVID-19 infected who have recovered offers powerful protection against novel coronavirus in animals. The researchers found that passive transfer of neutralising antibodies into Syrian hamsters protects them against the disease when exposed to the virus. The protection was found when antibodies at high dose were transferred to the animals. Role for antibodies The small animals that received high dose of antibodies did not lose weight and the amount of virus in the lungs was low compared with those that received low dose of the antibodies and the control group. “The study suggests a role for neutralising antibodies in prophylaxis, and potentially therapy, of COVID-19. The neutralising antibodies define protective epitopes to guide vaccine design,” they write in a paper published in Science.  Prior to transferring and testing the ability of the antibodies to protect the animals from the virus, the researchers tested it on human cell cultures and found the antibodies to have superior ability to protect against the virus. Two different antibodies in five different concentrations were tested on the small animals to evaluate dose-dependent protection. The highest dose tested was 2 mg/animal and the lowest dose was 8 microgram/animal. The animals were challenged with the virus 12 hours after the antibodies were transferred. Lung tissues were collected to measure viral load on day 5 post virus challenge. In contrast to the antibody to receptor-binding domain of the virus, the less potent and incompletely neutralising antibody showed no evidence of protection at any concentration compared to the control animals. Promising study The authors state that the efficacy of the antibodies in Syrian hamsters is “promising” and suggest that human studies be undertaken based on animal trial results. Incidentally, the researchers also identified one antibody that can neutralise the 2002 SARS virus. According to the release, the antibodies can be injected into patients in the early stage of the disease to reduce the viral load and thus protect the patient from progressing to the severe form of the disease. “The antibodies also may be used to provide temporary, vaccine-like protection against SARS-CoV-2 infection for healthcare workers, elderly people and others who respond poorly to traditional vaccines or are suspected of a recent exposure to the coronavirus,” the release says. The antibodies can then be mass-produced either as a treatment to prevent deterioration of the disease and as a preventive vaccine, as in the case of Ebola virus, the release notes. “If further safety tests in animals and clinical trials in people go well, then conceivably the antibodies could be used in clinical settings as early as next January,” the researchers say in the release. More than 1,000 antibody-producing immune cells called the B cells were first isolated. These antibodies were isolated based on their ability to bind to the virus and prevent it from infecting the test cells. Gene sequence Each of the 1,000 immune B cells produced a distinct antibody against the virus. In order to mass-produce the antibody, the scientists obtained the gene sequence of each antibody. They then screened each antibody and 33 antibodies that could block the virus from binding to the test cells were identified. They identified one antibody that could also protect hamsters against heavy viral exposure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/antibodies-from-convalescent-plasma-protect-against-covid-19/article31880366.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||A struggle to co-exist with humans||In 1968, when the book, The Population Bomb, was published, there were a little over 350 crore people on Earth. Today, the whopping 750 crore human population has made an impact on most flora and fauna. Taking into consideration this lack of abatement in human population growth, an international team of researchers observes how these ecological disruptions affect the life of ungulates (hoofed large mammals). The team notes that humans have brought about changes in the Himalayan realm – there is an increase in cashmere goats, and also, stray dogs have started hunting ungulates including threatened, endangered, and rare ones such as kiang, chiru, saiga and takin. Himalaya and Andes The team also draws similarities between the two giant mountain ranges – the Himalaya and the Andes, both homes to unique ungulate fauna. Both are currently experiencing increased deglaciation, human colonisation, climate alteration, livestock and tourism-induced changes. A paper published in Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution stresses that the “world’s 400 million free-ranging dogs – through disease, predation, and displacement – have changed the face of ungulate communities on every continent.” Dogs prey on saiga, blue sheep, argali, chiru, kiang, goral, ibex, sambar, chital and blackbuck. Joel Berger from Wildlife Conservation Society, the first author, witnessed multiple predation attempts on takin and blue sheep in Bhutan. He writes about seeing up to four dogs in 11 attacks of takin; three of nine calves were individually separated from the groups and disappeared. “Their fates remained unknown... death appeared likely.” The high elevation dogs of Bhutan also harbour tapeworms which when consumed via grasses by yaks can cause coenurosis, a neurological disease that may result in about 10% mortality of young yaks. Human activities such as the seasonal relocation of agro-pastoralists to collect the worm fungus Cordyceps can also have an impact on the ungulates. These high-elevation environments have experienced minimal direct human disturbance, and this movement can lead to the displacement of native species. Previous studies have shown that many apex predators have been lost due to fear, habitat conversion and loss of prey. Key issues The authors write: “Issues of the 19th and 20th century, overharvest, poaching, and wildlife slaughter will not be the most pressing in the 21st century.” Climate change and rapid destruction of habitat will be key. High-elevation ungulates have been known to be affected through changes in ice and snow and the availability of snow patches. They further add, “Conservation practitioners should work fiercely... to protect what we have while simultaneously recognising that disturbed habitat and altered communities still offer important contributions to beta biodiversity.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/a-struggle-to-co-exist-with-humans/article31880362.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Identifying drugs to fight COVID-19||With COVID-19 spreading rapidly across the globe, there is need to expedite discovery of drugs that can arrest the disease and vaccines to prevent individuals from contracting it. In this line, to identify drug candidates, U.S.-based researchers have developed an assay that can measure the effectiveness of candidate molecules in disrupting the invasion of host cells by the virus. From a list of 3,384 candidates in a database, they shortlist 25 small molecules that can be tested further. The preprint on this work was posted in bioRxiv. The preprint has not been peer-reviewed. Mode of infecting When the SARS C0V-2 virus attacks the cells in human body, the first step in the interaction is the way it makes contact and connects. The spike protein receptor binding domain (RBD) of the virus binds to the angiotensin-converting enzyme2 (ACE-2) in the host cell. This initiates the invasion of the host cell by the virus. Knowing this also provides a target for drug developers. If the interaction between the viral RBD and ACE-2 of the host can be disrupted, the host cell would be protected from infection. Major efforts are therefore being made to dentify molecules that can disrupt this interaction. Disrupting the link The researchers from National Centre for Advancing Translational Sciences (NCATS), which is part of the U.S. National Institutes of Health, have developed a method to determine how effectively a drug candidate can disrupt the RBD-ACE-2 interaction. In this assay, the RBD and ACE-2 are tagged with beads that can transmit a signal to each other. “When they are exposed to the candidate molecule, it either disrupts the RBD-ACE-2 binding process or not. So, when ACE-2 and spike are interacting, the beads are also close and pass a signal. When a drug (or antibody) blocks binding, the signal is lost, and this is the basis for the assays,” explains Matthew Hall, Acting Director and Biology Group Lead, Early Translation Branch, NCATS, in an email to The Hindu.  Repurposing drugs that were either approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use against other diseases, or those that were not yet approved but had been shown to be safe in clinical trials, is a way to speed up the process of drug discovery in the case of this pandemic. Other such drugs that have been repurposed are remdesivir and hydroxychloroquine. With such a speeding up in mind, the group tested 3,384 candidates in this assay, and the study yielded 25 high-quality, small molecule hits. “Many of the 25 hits are small molecules. These are longer-lived and easier to handle, which is an advantage,” says Ramakrishnan Ramaswamy from the Department of Chemistry at Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, who wasn’t involved in this study. Many of the 25 molecules identified have been used in other contexts. Further steps “We are now testing these molecules in cell-based assays. The initial study was about sharing an important new biology approach (the assay), and showing it is useful for supporting therapeutic development for this approach. The activity in later assays will be important and give us confidence to develop them further (or not!),” says Dr Hall.  We are now testing these molecules in cell-based assays. Mathew Hall NCATS, NIH, U.S..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/identifying-drugs-to-fight-covid-19/article31880367.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Wild animals in urban clusters||During these days of lockdown across various parts of India, we see reports of ‘wild’ animals coming over to the cities, towns and urban clusters. In Uttarakhand, an elephant was reported to come down unusually near Hari ki Pauri in Haridwar. A leopard was sighted in Almora. In Karnataka, elephants, spotted deer and sambar deer had transgressed into towns, while in Maharashtra, people spotted scores of civet cats, mongooses and porcupines in communities. All these ‘trespasses’ have been happening not only in India but across the world, wherever lockdowns took place and regular human activities have been curtailed. Once these lockdowns are lifted, animals are expected to retire back to their wild environment – wherever and however limited they are. To get a perspective of this, note that of the total land area of the world, which is about 510 million square km, 30% is desert and 24% mountainous, leaving us humans to occupy about 45-50% of the remaining area when we started to live as communities about 17,000 years ago. (Prior to that, humans lived in the wild, along with animals and plants, as hunter gatherers). And over these millennia, particularly during the present one, we have built cities and urban clusters, thus making what was ‘wild’ land into ‘civilised’ land. (Note, too, that even today, adivasis and tribals still live in the wild, along with the local animals and plants). Indeed, geo-zoologists have argued that it is we humans who have transgressed and changed the landscape of Mother Earth. Incidentally, this appears to be true of not only on land, but in water as well. BBC news reported how with a lull in traffic in the Bosphorus marine route during lockdown in Istanbul, dolphins are increasingly sighted near the shores of the city. Likewise, as the Ganga became less polluted in recent days due to decreased industrial and human waste during lockdown, the Ganges dolphins and gharials (fish-eating crocodiles) have been sighted in larger numbers. In mountains, too; Marco Lambertini of the World Wildlife Fund is concerned that COVID-19 could infect mountain gorillas which are likely to be particularly vulnerable as they share about 98% of their DNA with humans. They, like all great apes, are already endangered due to habitat loss, poaching and diseases – only 900 remain in the mountains of Central Africa. Five reasons In an excellent analysis of this situation, particularly in the U.S., Bethany Brookshire, who writes regular columns in Sciencenews.org, has written an article there on June 5, titled “Five reasons you might be seeing more wildlife during the COVID-19 pandemic”. These are: (1) since restaurants are closed and trash collections have moved elsewhere, this ‘human handout’ causes rats and insects to invade towns in search of food; (2) since there are not many humans and their pets are around, the fear that predatory animals and us, ‘super-predators’, are not there; this has caused the increase of wild animals in urban areas; (3) common birds are not scared of us. We see and hear them chattering and singing. During the lockdown, it is nice and quiet and it appears that birds adjust their songs and the times they sing. (The ongoing study called The Sounds of the City supports this idea); (4) the seasons play a role too. In the U.S., springtime occurs during March through May, and birds start migrating, snakes come out of hibernation and look for food and for mates. (In India, the seasonal farming starts around this time as well) and (5) we ourselves are (finally) paying more attention to all these features during lockdown than at other times, and exchange all these observations through social media. Global human confinement experiment Recently, an exciting and doable idea has been suggested by Amanda Bates and coworkers, in the paper: “COVID-19 pandemic and associated lockdown as a ‘Global Human Confinement Experiment’ to investigate biodiversity conservation” in the journal Biological Conservation, June 10; <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biocon.2020.108665>. This experiment is a unique opportunity to identify positive and negative effects of human presence and mobility on a range of natural systems, including wildlife, and protected areas, and to study processes regulating biodiversity and ecosystems. The authors encourage ecologists, environmental scientists, and resource managers to contribute their observations to efforts aiming to build comprehensive global understanding based on multiple data streams, including anecdotal observations, systematic assessments and quantitative monitoring. They argue that the collective power of combining diverse data will transcend the limited value of the individual data sets and produce unexpected insights. We can also consider the confinement experiment as a “stress test” to evaluate the strengths and weaknesses in the adequacy of existing networks to detect human impacts on natural systems. Doing so will provide evidence for the value of the conservation strategies that are presently in place, and create future networks, observatories and policies that are more adept in protecting biological diversity across the world. I believe that India should join this experiment. dbala@lvpei.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/wild-animals-in-urban-clusters/article31880365.ece
21 June 2020||New Delhi,||The human chain of help||Mohammed Ebrahim, 65, from Bhulni village in Araria, Bihar, became a symbol of the migrant crisis when a video of him crying at Gurugram’s Tau Devi Lal stadium went viral in the first week of June. Mr. Ebrahim, like many others from Bihar, was asked to go to the stadium, from where migrants were to be taken to the station to board a train. Due to a delay, they ended up spending about a day and a half there, in the heat. Shalu Johar Sahni, a Gurugram resident and entrepreneur, who is associated with Pure Hearts, a not-for-profit, and Helping Hands, an initiative by civil society, saw him there one morning, when they went on their usual rounds to distribute food. “Most of the time we would ask the people from the crowd to pass around thechhaasand rusk, but that morning I happened to hand it to him. But he wasn’t reaching out in the right direction,” she says. She found that the elderly man was blind, that his grandson-in-law was taking partial care of him, and that he had come to Rewari, Haryana, a few weeks before the lockdown. “He felt he had lost his eyesight because of the smoke from heating the tar to build roads, a job he was doing,” says Ms. Sahni, who promised to help him in whatever way she could. While he made the approximately 20-hour bus journey and the two-hour tempo ride home, many phone calls were being made in Delhi-NCR. Ms. Sahni reached out to former journalist Swati Sinha, another Gurugram resident and fellow volunteer. “I called a relative, Jatin (Singh), because I thought he may know someone in that part of Bihar,” says Ms. Sinha, who hails from the State. His cousin’s wife Pratishtha Singh, a writer, then got in touch with old friend and fellow JNUite Shakeel Ahmad Khan, an MLA from Kadwa in Katihar, Bihar. “He put me in touch with Sibtain Ahmad, who runs a career coaching centre in Araria,” says Ms. Singh, adding that he then arranged for Mr. Ebrahim to be taken to a doctor, and then another for a second opinion, locally. Since the doctors had diagnosed the problem as a retinal detachment, they suggested he be taken to a bigger place like Patna or Siliguri for surgery. “We found out that because of the COVID situation, the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences in Patna was not performing non-essential surgeries,” says Ms. Singh. So they settled on the Retina Institute of Bengal in Siliguri. A transfer of money by Pure Hearts directly to the medical facility and also to Mohammed Saibul, Mr. Ebrahim’s son’s account took place. Dr. Somnath Chakraborty of the Siliguri institute advised against surgery in the right eye, but said there was some chance for the left. On June 15, father and son made the trip in a hired Scorpio to Siliguri, going back home the same day. Partial sight restored “It was probably caused by a combination of old age and a cataract surgery that had complications,” says Dr. Chakraborty, who performed the retinal detachment surgery. The next morning, Mr. Ebrahim could see partially in his left eye, and could go to the bathroom without assistance. “I have done construction work in Ludhiana about 15 years ago,” he says, of time spent away from home in the past. His son says this time there was a fight at home, and his father, who he claims has a temper, left home, his wife, son, daughter-in-law, and six grandchildren in a huff. Mr. Saibul says he had no idea where his father was in Haryana, when he got stuck between a lockdown and losing his eyesight. He says the contractor did not pay him either. “Lockdown mein agar main wahan pohunchta bhi, to maine socha itne bade shahar mein main kaise dhoondoonga. Allah ne mere dua sun liya aur inko farishtey ke roop mein Baba ke paas pohuncha diya ,” he says. It took a trail of people from diverse backgrounds, many phone calls and WhatsApp messages and a ton of coordination to help a man none of them knew. “We are a first world that lives within the third world. Like a lazy middle-class person I thought I could pay my way through everything, but this experience has taught me that if we just come together and talk to each other, we can get a lot done,” says Mr. Jatin Singh, founder-MD of Skymet and founder of Gramcover, in Noida.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-human-chain-of-help/article31880565.ece
27 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Whom does Galwan Valley belong to?||The story so far: On June 15, the worst violence on the India-China border since 1967 claimed the lives of 20 Indian soldiers. The clash occurred in the Galwan Valley, which hasn’t been a site of conflict since 1962. On June 19, the Chinese Foreign Ministry in a statement claimed that the entire valley is located “on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC)”, which followed a statement from the People’s Liberation Army stating that “China always owns sovereignty over the Galwan Valley region”. India has described the claims as “exaggerated and untenable”. Where is Galwan Valley? The valley refers to the land that sits between steep mountains that buffet the Galwan River. The river has its source in Aksai Chin, on China’s side of the LAC, and it flows from the east to Ladakh, where it meets the Shyok river on India’s side of the LAC. The valley is strategically located between Ladakh in the west and Aksai Chin in the east, which is currently controlled by China as part of its Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region. At its western end are the Shyok river and the Darbuk-Shyok-Daulet Beg Oldie (DSDBO) road. Its eastern mouth lies not far from China’s vital Xinjiang Tibet road, now called the G219 highway. Where does the Line of Actual Control lie? The LAC lies east of the confluence of the Galwan and Shyok rivers in the valley, up to which both India and China have been patrolling in recent years. After the June 15 clash, however, China has claimed the entire valley lies on its side of the LAC. Since early May, China has been objecting to India’s road construction activities at the western end of the valley, in the area between the Galwan-Shyok confluence and the LAC. Beijing is now saying the entire valley is on its side of the LAC, which pegs the line further west near the Shyok river. India has rejected the claim as “exaggerated and untenable”. Are China’s claims new? Most Chinese maps show most of Galwan river on China’s side of the line, but short of the confluence. This broadly corresponds with the LAC as India sees it – and in India’s view, as China saw it, until recently. “Chinese maps that I have seen show almost all of the Galwan River as lying within the territory China claims in the area,” said M. Taylor Fravel, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and author of Strong Borders, Secure Nation: Cooperation and Conflict in China’s Territorial Disputes. “The one discrepancy would be the western tip of the Galwan River as it meets the Shyok River. Here, the last few kilometres of the Galwan River are often depicted as lying beyond China’s border.” What do maps tell us? Maps paint a complicated picture. As Manoj Joshi of the Observer Research Foundation notes, in 1959, then Premier Zhou Enlai said a 1956 map portrayed the correct alignment. This showed the entire Galwan Valley as a part of India. However, in June 1960 China put out a map claiming sovereignty over the valley. A Chinese map from November 1962 also claims the entire valley, but subsequent maps have not shown the western tip of the river as a part of China. By citing its territorial claims, can China alter the Line of Actual Control? Territorial claims and LAC claims are not the same. Regardless of whether or not China claims territorial rights to the valley, as one scholar suggested this week, the LAC that both countries abided by until recently ran through the valley. The distinction between territorial claims and LAC claims is sometimes blurred. The LAC refers to territory under the effective control of each side, not to their entire territorial claim. For instance, India’s territorial claims extend 38,000 sq km on the other side of the LAC across all of Aksai Chin, but the LAC India observes runs through the valley. It is true that the LAC has never been demarcated and there are differences in perception of where it lies in more than a dozen spots, but there have not been previous incidents in the valley. By now staking a claim to the entire Galwan Valley and up to the confluence of the rivers, China is, in India’s view, unilaterally altering the LAC here. According to the 1993 Border Peace and Tranquility Agreement (BPTA), India and China agreed to “strictly respect and observe the LAC between the two sides”. This referred to the LAC at the time, rendering irrelevant the line of actual control in 1959 or 1962. It also says that “when necessary, the two sides shall jointly check and determine the segments of the line of actual control where they have different views as to its alignment.” Clarifying the LAC has also been explicitly codified in the 1996 agreement on confidence-building measures and subsequent agreements. China, however, has refused to exchange maps in the western sector to take this process forward. The BPTA also said “the two sides agree that references to the line of actual control in this agreement do not prejudice their respective positions on the boundary question.”  The Line of Actual Control has never been demarcated and there are differences in perception of where it lies in more than a dozen spots, but there have not been previous incidents in the Galwan Valley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/who-does-galwan-valley-belong-to/article31880295.ece
21 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Study portrays a grim picture of labourers after lockdown||Only about 5% labourers earned Rs. 15,000 a month, 90% of those working under contractors didn’t get paid, 20% went completely out of food for seven days at a stretch, were some of the findings which were observed during a study conducted by Jawaharlal Nehru University’s Centre for Equity Studies. Impact of lockdown The study was conducted by the JNU centre in collaboration with Delhi Search Group and Karwan-e-Mohabbat in which 1,405 labourers were interviewed from across the country to access the impact after 45 days of the nationwide lockdown. According to the study, only 5.5% of them earned a monthly amount of Rs. 15,000 and also that women earned less than men. The study claimed that 46.8% of women earned less than Rs. 5,000 in the pre-COVID-19 period as compared to 14.8% of men. Another observation made in the study was that while the popular belief was that migrant labourers were leaving the city thinking of limited employment opportunities, they found that there was negligible difference in the impact of lockdown irrespective of region. “Contrary to expectations, rural and urban areas have very little difference in terms of job loss. This indicates that without adequate State support, it would be extremely difficult for the poor to survive in the lockdown period, irrespective of location,” the study read. The study also claimed that 90% of those working under a contractor were not paid and 94% of those who were not under a contractor remained unpaid. Feeding only children The study also covered problems of hunger and stated that over 10% people went completely out of food for more than seven days while 50% said they were eating less in a day. “At least 28 people [5.1%] reported that parents were skipping meals and they were only providing food for their children,” it said. The study stated that while many people received support and relief material from NGOs, government initiatives and religious organisations, 24.6% did not receive any support at all. Eviction scare Another observation was that labourers were feeling scared of eviction if they went to avail government relief material. “The crowd and mismanagement at the government distribution centres have become a barrier in itself. Even if they are willing to toss social distancing in the air, they are often threatened with eviction if they are found venturing to these centres as the landlord is afraid that they will bring back the virus,” the study read.  Contrary to expectations, rural and urban areas have very little difference in terms of job loss JNU study||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/study-portrays-a-grim-picture-of-labourers-after-lockdown/article31880546.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||How are the Rajya Sabha polls different?||The story so far: Another round of Rajya Sabha elections has been completed. Polls to some seats were postponed in view of the situation caused by the novel coronavirus outbreak. All the 19 seats for which balloting was held had clear winners, but there was a hint of controversy about who ought to have been allowed to vote or barred from voting in Manipur. Such issues arise mainly due to the interpretation of rules and features peculiar to the Rajya Sabha elections. Cross-voting, breach of confidentiality by showing the ballot/vote to a person other than the member’s own party’s agent, and eligibility to vote under certain conditions are common grounds for objections to be raised. There are several features that distinguish elections to the Council of States, or the Upper House of Parliament, from the general elections. What is peculiar to the Rajya Sabha polls as far as the electorate is concerned? Only elected members of the State Legislative Assemblies can vote in a Rajya Sabha election. The legislators send a batch of new members to the Upper House every two years for a six-year term. A third of Members of Parliament in the Rajya Sabha (which is a permanent House and is not subject to dissolution), from each State retire once in two years and polls are held to fill up the vacancies. In addition, vacancies that arise due to resignation, death or disqualification are filled up through bypolls after which those elected serve out the remainder of their predecessors’ term. Voting is by single transferable vote, as the election is held on the principle of proportional representation. In other words, a bloc of MPs belonging to one or more parties can elect a member of their choice if they have the requisite numbers. This is to avoid the principle of majority, which would mean that only candidates put up by ruling parties in the respective States will be elected. The Delhi and Puducherry Assemblies elect members to the Rajya Sabha to represent the two Union Territories. When are the elections held? Polling for a Rajya Sabha election will be held only if the number of candidates exceeds the number of vacancies. Since the strength of each party in the Assembly is known, it is not difficult to estimate the number of seats a party would win in the Rajya Sabha poll. For instance, if there are four seats to be filled up, and the ruling party and its allies command a two-thirds majority, and the Opposition a third, it will mean that the election will go three seats to one in favour of the ruling party. In many States, parties avoid a contest by fielding candidates only in respect to their strength. Where an extra candidate enters the fray, voting becomes necessary. Candidates fielded by political parties have to be proposed by at least 10 members of the Assembly or 10% of the party’s strength in the House, whichever is less. For independents, there should be 10 proposers, all of whom should be members of the Assembly. A single transferable vote means electors can vote for any number of candidates in order of their preference. A candidate requires a specified number of first preference votes to win. Each first choice vote has a value of 100 in the first round. To qualify, a candidate needs one point more than the quotient obtained by dividing the total value of the number of seats for which elections are taking place plus one. For instance, if there are four seats and 180 MLAs voting, the qualifying number will be 180/5= 36 votes or a value of 3,600. Normally, the results are clear after one round itself. The extra candidate is eliminated for want of enough first preference votes. However, counting may go to the second round, if more than one candidate fails to get the specified number. In such a situation, the second preference polled by the candidates (in ballots where the first preference has gone to those already qualified) will be transferred to their kitty, but with a diminished value. The total value of the votes polled by the remaining candidates both as first and subsequent preferences would be used to decide the winner. Why is there no secret ballot in the Rajya Sabha elections? The Rajya Sabha polls have a system of open ballot, but it is a limited form of openness. As a measure to check rampant cross-voting, which was taken to mean that the vote had been purchased by corrupt means, the system of each party MLA showing his or her marked ballots to the party’s authorised agent, before they are put into the ballot box, has been introduced. Showing a marked ballot to anyone other than one’s own party’s authorised agent will render the vote invalid. Not showing the ballot to the authorised agent will also mean that the vote cannot be counted. And independent candidates are barred from showing their ballots to anyone. Why does not ‘None of the Above’, or NOTA, apply to the Rajya Sabha polls? The Election Commission of India (ECI) issued two circulars, on January 24, 2014 and November 12, 2015, giving Rajya Sabha members the option to press the NOTA button in the Upper House polls. However, in 2018, the Supreme Court of India struck down the provision, holding that the ‘none of the above’ option is only for general elections held on the basis of universal adult suffrage, and cannot be applied to indirect elections based on proportional representation. Does cross-voting attract disqualification? No. The Supreme Court, while declining to interfere with the open ballot system, ruled that not voting for the party candidate will not attract disqualification under the anti-defection law. As voters, MLAs retain their freedom to vote for a candidate of their choice. However, the Court observed that since the party would know who voted against its own candidate, it is free to take disciplinary action against the legislator concerned. Can a legislator vote without taking oath as a member of the Assembly? While taking oath as a member is for anyone to function as a legislator, the Supreme Court has ruled that a member can vote in a Rajya Sabha election even before taking oath as legislator. It ruled that voting at the Rajya Sabha polls, being a non-legislative activity, can be performed without taking oath. A person becomes a member as soon as the list of elected members is notified by the ECI, it said. Further, a member can also propose a candidate before taking oath.  A third of MPs in the Rajya Sabha, which is a permanent House and not subject to dissolution, from each State retire once in two years and polls are held to fill up the vacancies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/how-are-the-rajya-sabha-polls-different/article31880297.ece
21 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Special court hearing graft cases becomes defunct||The special court of Additional Sessions Judge Ashwani Kumar at district court here for the trial of cases under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, ceased to exist on Saturday. Set up in January last year, in pursuant of Punjab and Haryana High Court order, the court had passed several landmark orders directingregistrationof first information reports against many senior government officials, including a Sub-Divisional Magistrate, in different corruption cases. Medanta Hospital case Mr. Kumar, had earlier this month, ordered registration of a case against eminent cardiologist Naresh Trehan and 15 others, including companies and unnamed Haryana government officials, on charges of money laundering, corruption, criminal conspiracy, forgery and criminal breach of trust, among other charges, in connection with the allotment of land for Medanta Hospital. The June 20 order of Sessions Judge, Gurugram, M.M. Dhonchak said: “The order dated January 14, 2019, passed by this office, conveyed vide endorsement No. 494 dated January 14, 2019, whereby the court of Shri Ashwani Kumar, learned Additional Sessions Judge, Gurugram, was made exclusive court of trial of cases under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, comes to an end”. Sources in the judiciary termed the order “routine” saying the cases under the Prevention of Corruption Act could now be marked to any additional sessions judge. The source claimed the High Court order pertaining to setting up of special courts for corruption was “old” and “withdrawn”. Special judges Punjab and Haryana High Court advocate Pardeep Rapria, also former law officer in the NIA and CIA, said that as per Section 3(1) of the Prevention of the Corruption Act, the Central and the State government, by notification in official gazette, could appoint special judges under the Act. RTI activist Ramesh Kumar expressed disappointment over the development saying it would weaken the fight against corruption in the district.  The order dated January 14, 2019, whereby the court of Shri Ashwani Kuma was made exclusive court of trial of cases under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, comes to an end June 20 order||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/special-court-hearing-graft-cases-becomes-defunct/article31880542.ece
21 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||When destiny had other plans: a constable’s claim to fame||Rajat Rathor was only 17 years old when his father, a Delhi Police constable, passed away. The incident changed his life. Back then, Mr. Rathor was aiming to become a singer, but is now a constable in the same force. Recently, Mr. Rathor’s rendition of a song, he sung for COVID-19 warriors went viral on social media and it was loved beyond his expectations. “I uploaded the video on Facebook at night and by morning, it already had a few hundred shares. It had gone viral,” he told The Hindu . Since his school days, Mr. Rathor, resident of Bhajanpura, was into music. He started playing harmonium when he was in Class 8 and fought with his father to buy him a guitar in Class 9. Change in plans In the next three years, in Class 12, Mr. Rathor had not only learnt how to play the guitar but had also started teaching it. “The plan was to give auditions for reality shows, perform and venture out on a journey of playback singing. I had even uploaded my videos on YouTube ,” he said. However, Mr. Rathor’s father died of jaundice in 2015, when he was in Class 12. “I wanted to pursue a career in music, but my mother told me that I had to take up a stable government job for the family’s future. So, I applied for my father’s post on compensation ground as soon as I turned 18 the next year,” he said As the process was under way, Mr. Rathor joined Ramjas College. In 2017, he was inducted into the police force. “I didn’t want to join the force. Didn’t want to become a policeman. But destiny had other plans for me. And now, this is the reason which has made me famous,” he grinned. Posted in 2nd battalion and mostly working on computer because of his technical skills, Mr. Rathor has only gone on COVID-19 duty a few times but feels strongly for the ones who are on the job everyday. He said that he’ll continue making music besides work. “I’ll keep putting out the videos. If something has to happen, it will happen. If I love my music, I love my uniform equally”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/when-destiny-had-other-plans-a-constables-claim-to-fame/article31880544.ece
21 June 2020||June 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Google Chrome in spying spot||The story so far: A few days ago, Reuters reported a “newly discovered spyware effort” targetting users of Google’s browser Chrome. The spyware, it said, has been pushed through at least 111 malicious or fake Chrome browser extensions, which have been downloaded some 32 million times. (Browser extensions are add-ons that provide additional capabilities to the user.) The report also said Google had taken off more than 70 extensions from its official Web Store last month after being alerted to their malicious nature by researchers at Awake Security. The rest were never in its web store. How do these malicious extensions get in to the Chrome store in the first place? Short answer: they seem harmless, to being with. According to the report by Awake Security, which brought this issue to light, these “sleeper agent extensions” appear to do nothing in the beginning. The “malicious payloads” are only pushed on to the extensions much after the “clean” versions have been approved. What do the malicious extensions do? They can take “screenshots, read the clipboard, harvest credential tokens stored in cookies or parameters, grab user keystrokes (like passwords),” says the report. How has Google reacted to this? As mentioned above, Google has recently removed the malicious extensions. Reuters reported Google’s spokesman Scott Westover as saying, “When we are alerted of extensions in the Web Store that violate our policies, we take action and use those incidents as training material to improve our automated and manual analyses.” It also said in its report: “Google declined to discuss how the latest spyware compared with prior campaigns, the breadth of the damage, or why it did not detect and remove the bad extensions on its own despite past promises to supervise offerings more closely.” It has been mentioned that some of the fake extensions were never in the Chrome Web Store. How were they made to work then? .This is due to the misuse of an open-source browser project, Chromium, and installing it with malicious add-ons. This works as a rogue browser when users unwittingly give it the okay to run when prompted. Are browser extensions a vulnerability? A significant part of what we do on the computer these days is via the browser. Also, the research report points out that it has been a challenge for security solutions to spot malicious activity that is happening within the browser. The Awake Security report says, “Rogue access to the browser therefore frequently means rogue access to the ‘keys to the kingdom’ — from email and corporate file sharing to customer relationship management and financial databases.” How are users fooled? Watch out for prompts that urge you to make a new browser as default. That is not all, though. The security firm has also documented some standard characteristics of malicious campaigns. For starters, some of these malicious players have professional-looking web sites that peddle false promises. An example recorded is that of a security extension that certifies a page with malicious content as secure. Security experts can visually figure out if an extension is malicious or fake, says the Awake Security report, listing out the following easy identifiers: These extensions, for an unknown brand and little information, have a huge following; the user reviews are always great; these extensions have a huge following despite being relatively new in the market. What other vulnerability has this finding revealed? The Awake Security report ends with a question mark on the conduct and practices of a small Israel-based domain registrar called Galcomm, formally known as CommuniGal Communication Ltd according to Reuters. Its report says 60% of its domains are high risk for organisations. These malicious domains have managed to evade categorisation as unsafe because their actions depend on where the client is connecting to it from. They act maliciously only if the client connects from a broadband or cable network. They act benignly if the request comes from a data centre or virtual private network. It says, “This registrar, who also maintains a Registrar Accreditation Agreement with ICANN (The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers), is responsible for putting far more malicious domains, malware, and exploitative content on the internet than legitimate content. We believe the research and analysis summarized in this report proves that Galcomm is at best complicit in malicious activity.” The bigger issue raised by the report is one of lack of oversight by ICANN, which oversees domain name standards. What has been Galcomm’s response? Reuters reported that Galcomm owner Moshe Fogel has denied any wrong-doing.  Researchers at Awake Security say the malicious extensions can take ‘screenshots, read the clipboard, harvest credential tokens stored in cookies or parameters, grab user keystrokes (like passwords)’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/google-chrome-in-spying-spot/article31880299.ece
21 June 2020||FARIDABAD,||Body goes missing from mortuary, kin protest||The body of a Muslim youth went missing from the mortuary of Civil Hospital here on Saturday, leading to protests by the family of the deceased. A first information report has been registered in this connection against the principal medical officer and other health officials. Kept for autopsy Sonu Khan, a resident of Subhash Colony in Ballabgarh, was stabbed to death in a case of personal enmity late on Friday night and his body was kept at a mortuary in Badshah Khan Hospital for the autopsy to be conducted the next day. When the deceased’s family and the police reached the hospital on Saturday morning for autopsy, the body was found missing. When the body could not be traced after several hours, the family of the deceased created a ruckus inside the hospital, seeking action against the guilty. Sensing trouble, the hospital staff allegedly locked the office and fled the spot. Leaders also join in Soon, local political leaders joined the protest in support of the deceased’s family. Senior officials of the local administration also reached the spot and tried to pacify the protesters. Meanwhile, four persons have been arrested in connection with the murder of Sonu. A case was registered at Adarsh Nagar police station. Faridabad police spokesperson Sube Singh said the investigation in both cases had been handed over to the Crime Branch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/body-goes-missing-from-mortuary-kin-protest/article31880540.ece
21 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Constable found dead||A 34-year-old Delhi Police constable allegedly shot himself dead with his service gun on Friday night in south Delhi’s Vasant Vihar, said an offier on Saturday. No note has been recovered, they said, adding that a call was received at 10.30 p.m. regarding an officer being found dead in a barrack in the police building. He was rushed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead. The constable was upset over his nephew’s death and was on leave for five days to attend the last rites. Inquest proceedings have been initiated and further probe is under way, the police said.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/constable-found-dead/article31880548.ece
21 June 2020||New Delhi,||Noida Metro renames one of its stations ‘She Man’||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) is set to rename the Sector 50 metro station on Aqua Line to ‘She-Man’ to raise awareness about the transgender community. Officials said that the station will have special facilities and employment opportunities for members of the community. “While the ‘She-Man’ station will cater to the transgender community especially, it will also be open for all passengers. It will provide facilities to encourage metro travel among the community members. It will also provide employment opportunities to them,” the NMRC said in a statement. Officials said structural changes, in terms of change in restroom infrastructure and creation of separate check for members of the community, have also been considered. “The NMRC also plans to include members of the transgender community into its system by engaging the services of the members in various aspects of its functioning, such as in ticket counters and other areas through deployed contractors...,”the statement read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/noida-metro-renames-one-of-its-stations-she-man/article31880563.ece
