20-04-2021||Other||‘Be prepared for lockdown if Covid protocols not followed’: Odisha CM||As neighbouring Jharkhand and Chhatisgarh went into lockdown due to a massive surge in Covid-19 cases, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, during a review meeting of Odisha’s Covid preparedness on Tuesday, warned of a possible lockdown if people do not follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks and maintaining social distance.“The cases in Odisha also have been increasing in the last few days. Due to our alert preparedness and proactive measures, we have been able to manage the situation to a large extent. However, we need to be prepared for the worst-case scenario and ensure that every patient is treated with dignity and put in best efforts to save precious lives,” the chief minister said.“I once again request the people of Odisha to please cooperate. It is in the interest of the state and its people that we should manage the covid situation without lockdown. Wearing a mask and maintaining social distance will help us in this,” Patnaik said.The chief minister’s appeal comes a day after the state government announced weekend lockdowns in all urban areas beginning April 24 as the state reported 4,761 fresh Covid cases, its highest single-day surge.“With lockdowns in seriously affected states, the district collectors should be prepared for the return of the migrants. The protocols followed earlier should be reactivated by the collectors immediately based on the existing database,” he said, adding that quarantine norm and testing should be ensured for all returnees from other states.Patnaik ordered a further increase in the number of beds at Covid hospitals and Covid Care Centres across the state and said special focus should be on providing the maximum possible number of beds with oxygen support. “The system has to work on war-footing to ensure this within committed timelines. Our oxygen supply situation has to be closely monitored and ensure that all related accessories at the hospital level are available on priority. Many states are facing critical medicines shortage. Even though we have sufficient medicines in stock, we must ensure buffer stock to tackle higher demand in the coming weeks,” he said.With the R0 value (which indicates how contagious an infectious disease is) reaching 2.38 and the daily positivity rate rising to 14.71 on Tuesday, experts said the state would see a daily surge much higher than the one in the first wave. “I see Odisha peaking in another 2-3 weeks with the daily surge reaching 8,000-9,000 case a day. It would be more, but Odisha is not conducting more RT-PCR tests which would have detected the actual number of infected persons,” said noted microbiologist Dr TM Mohapatra.Meanwhile, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation and Cuttack Municipal Corporation have decided to shut all religious institutions in the two cities for devotees until further orders.On Tuesday morning, several Class 10 students protested before the official residence of the chief minister seeking cancellation of the Class 10 board exam which would be conducted by the Odisha Board of Secondary Education. Last week, the Odisha government postponed all the examinations, including the Class 10 and Class 12 examinations, till June in view of the surge in the Covid-19 cases in the state.“As board exams in several states including Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Karnataka and CBSE, CISCE, we want the Odisha government to cancel the matriculation exam. We are under a lot of pressure as we do not know whether we should study for the Class 10 board exam or prepare for higher studies,” said a student.“The Covid-19 situation has aggravated in the state and the new strain is also affecting children and youngsters. We are not feeling safe to appear in the board exam.”Later, school and mass education minister Samir Dash said his department is reviewing all aspects and all options are open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/be-prepared-for-lockdown-if-covid-protocols-not-followed-odisha-cm-101618942299071.html
20-04-2021||Other||Kanpur gasps for oxygen but brass says all is well!||The Kanpur administration maintains that there is no scarcity of oxygen in the city despite incidents to the contrary and doctors accepting that the demand and supply gap was huge.In a late night briefing district magistrate Alok Tiwari and municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi addressed reporters and maintained that the oxygen availability was adequate and the situation was being monitored closely. Contrary to their claim, Swaroop Narayan Srivastava, 82, was taken to LLR Hospital suffering from pneumonia and in desperate need of oxygen. His relative, Deepak Srivastava, said that doctors told him to bring his own oxygen cylinder. “Now, we are moving him to a non-Covid private hospital. We are lucky, we got a bed. LLR people were not ready to begin treatment without the cylinder,” he said. LLR Hospital, the biggest hospital, has seen oxygen demand shoot up to 12,000 litres in a day, said the doctors, adding that the situation became critical in the early hours of Tuesday. Somehow it was managed. The LLR Hospital arranged for some 100 cylinders from Bharua Sumerpur in Hamirpur and one tanker is coming from Dehradun daily, said doctors, on condition of anonymity. They said still the supply was not enough considering the influx of patients. Meanwhile, at Anurag Hospital in Sharda Nagar, an announcement was made for people to take away patients or arrange for oxygen cylinders. The hospital had run out of oxygen and it was not made available. A patient, Ashutosh, was also allegedly assaulted when he registered his protest with the hospital staff. He had to call the police to save himself as the guard allegedly held him at gunpoint. SHO Kalyanpur Vir Singh confirmed the incident said it was being looked into. Oxygen consumption in Covid-19 hospitals has also risen to 53 tonnes in Kanpur. While the city had 12 tonnes in stock, 16 tonnes was made available additionally. Another 25 tonnes was on the way from Chandauli. “At the most it will last less than 24 hours; we need consistent supply,” said a hospital owner whose hospital ran out of essential items for treatment at 3 am on Tuesday. At present, the overall demand was of 8,500 cylinders and the availability was roughly between 5,500, and thus, a shortfall of 3,500 cylinders, said doctors of GSVM Medical College and private hospital owners. In his briefing, the Kanpur DM said that he had deputed magistrates at four oxygen plants to ensure that the oxygen reaches the right places. Similarly, magistrates have been deployed in all Covid-19 hospitals to check ‘black marketing of beds’ so that patients get a bed conveniently. Meanwhile, a private company has been hired to run the integrated command centre more efficiently, and it will take over the centre in a day or two, municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kanpur-gasps-for-oxygen-but-brass-says-all-is-well-101618941338255.html
20-04-2021||Other||Student wings of political parties join efforts to help the Covid-hit||Lucknow: Student wing of major political parties have started efforts to help people suffering from Covid-19 in the state capital. Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has appointed four office bearers to coordinate support measures in Lucknow district on Tuesday. “We have appointed 30 members in 15 major districts of Uttar Pradesh (UP) to help people infected with Covid-19. These people will work with young volunteers in the city for arranging help for such people,” said Devesh Sahu, a senior office bearer of ABVP. “These members will distribute food and other relief items to people in their respective areas,” Sahu said. Before this the National Students Union of India (NSUI), the student wing of the Congress Party, appointed 28 people and released their contact details to help people. “We are in touch with local authorities and have extended support for helping those in need. More than 200 volunteers of NSUI are working in different parts of UP to help those in need. We have also decided to set up open kitchens in Lucknow to distribute free food for marginal people,” Sahu said. Samajwadi Chhatra Sangh, the student wing of Samajwadi Party (SP) is in touch with students enrolled in various colleges in the state to help anyone in need. All India Student Federation (AISF) members are using social media to help people. “We have a three-member dedicated team which is scanning social media platform and arranging help for people seeking help. A 20-member team is assisting the online team in arranging help for needy. We are currently active in Lucknow, Kanpur and Prayagraj cities only,” said Sudhir Singh, an office bearer of AISF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/student-wings-of-political-parties-join-efforts-to-help-the-covidhit-101618938518072.html
20-04-2021||Other||Varanasi neurologist claims Favipiravir helpful in mild Covid||Professor Vijay Nath Mishra, a neurologist at IMS-BHU, on Tuesday, urged people to not run after Remdesivir and said in mild to moderate covid infection, Favipiravir is helpful. He, however, cautioned the masses against taking it on their own. “People should take it only on the advice of their physician,” he said. Prof Mishra said that Favipiravir was given to several Covid patients in last one week and results on patients have been very good and effective. Prof Mishra appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is also the MP from Varanasi, to post IAS officers with medical background in health departments of state and the centre. “Such bureaucrats would be able to better understand the medical needs and requirement for management of pandemic,” he said. He said that bureaucrats with medical background would better understand the medical requirements and help in taking decisions quickly to control the spread of covid infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-neurologist-claims-favipiravir-helpful-in-mild-covid-101618938458034.html
20-04-2021||Other||Gradation exams on hold, students set to miss BEd entrance this year||PATNAFinal-year students stuck in various bachelor courses are likely to suffer because of delayed examinations as they might miss the chance of admission into BEd course this year.In view of sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, all state varsities and colleges have deferred their scheduled exams till further notice, which will not be conducted before May 15 as per state government’s guidelines.Meanwhile, Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU), Darbhanga, which is the nodal university for conducting BEd CET 2021, has commenced accepting online admission applications, which will end on May 7.In this scenario, all bachelor students of academic session 2018-21, aspiring for teaching profession, will miss the chance of getting admission into BEd course for the want of final marks of graduation.As per available status of examinations in the state, no varsity has completed final exams yet. Pragati Kumari, a third-year BA student of Magadh Mahila College, said, “I was preparing for getting enrolled in BEd course this year. However, there is no hope of completion of pending exams and results announcement anytime soon. By the time, admission in BEd course will be closed.”Another student Riya Singh, BCom student of Impact College, said, “It’s not our fault if the varsity has not completed the final exams. Why should we suffer the loss of one year? Either the varsity should promote us on the basis of previous marks or date for BEd admissions should be extended for students’ sake.”Bihar BEd-CET is conducted for admission to BEd courses offered by different colleges affiliated with 15 state universities. There are around 354 government and self-financing BEd colleges in Bihar with 35,000 seats approved by National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE).Ashok Kumar Mehta, state’s nodal officer of BEd CTET, said, “As per guidelines of NCTE, a candidate applying for the course must have secured at least 55% in bachelor degree. There is no provision for taking admission of ‘appearing’ bachelor students as aggregate marks of graduation is a mandatory eligibility criterion.”“Entrance test will be conducted on May 30 across 11 cities. Candidates will have to answer 120 objective question carrying one mark each,” he said.Last year, more than 1.22 lakh candidates applied for admission in the course.Aspiring teachers hit a wallEligibility A candidate applying for the BEd course must have secured at least 55% in bachelor degree. The hurdleDeadline for applications for BEd CET 2021 is May 9, while graduation exams are deferred till May 15.Up for grabsThere are 35,000 approved seats in 345 government and self-financing BEd colleges in state.Students wantEither BEd admissions be postponed or final-year students should be ‘passed’ basis past performance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gradation-exams-on-hold-students-set-to-miss-bed-entrance-this-year-101618937438086.html
20-04-2021||Other||Over 10K cases in last 24 hrs, Patna worse hit||PATNAAs Bihar registered the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, reporting 10,455 cases in 24 hours, the state government requested the Centre to provide 72 metric tonnes (MTs) of liquid oxygen on a regular basis. “The state is producing 32 MT of Oxygen and if we get 72 MTs, we can make 104 MT of oxygen, which will easily meet the demand,” said Manoj Kumar, special secretary and executive director of Bihar State Health Society. Several state government hospitals and private hospitals have been facing acute shortage of oxygen for the last few days although the state received four tankers of oxygen from Jharkhand in the last 24 hours and five tankers of oxygen in last three days. Patna continued to record highest number of cases, reporting 2,186 on Tuesday, followed by Gaya (1081), Muzaffarpur (544) and Saran (530). The total number of active cases rose to 56,354 from 49,527. Recovery recovery fell from 84.52% on Sunday to 82.99% on Monday. The state, which is also facing the shortage of Remdesivir, got 1200 vials on Monday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-10k-cases-in-last-24-hrs-patna-worse-hit-101618937378550.html
20-04-2021||Other||38 inmates test positive at juvenile home||PATNAAs many as 38 inmates of a juvenile home in Saran district tested positive for the Coronavirus late Monday night, Chapra civil surgeon Dr J P Sukumar said on Tuesday.The home, run by women and child development department, has inmates from three districts of Saran, Gopalganj and Siwan.While it has a sanctioned capacity of 80, the home currently has 113 inmates lodged in it, said an official. At present, all inmates are healthy and none of them has symptoms of Covid-19, said district project manager Arvind Kumar, who oversees functioning of juvenile and protection homes, adding that positive inmates have been shifted to an isolation ward of Sadar hospital for treatment. Sources in the juvenile home said one of the officials deputed there had tested positive earlier and was shifted to Patna.District magistrate Dr Nilesh Ramchandra Deore has instructed that the home be sanitised within two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/38-inmates-test-positive-at-juvenile-home-101618937378003.html
20-04-2021||Other||3-day lockdown from every Friday in Muzaffarpur||Muzaffarpur/ARAThe Muzaffarpur district administration on Tuesday announced a three-day lockdown every week beginning Friday following a surge in Covid-19 cases in last one week.Grocery shops will, however, remain open.The decision was taken during an emergency meeting of district magistrate Pranav Kumar with trade and commerce representatives on Monday evening.Kumar said the lockdown would be continued till further orders. He said the lockdown would be in force in municipal areas, nagar panchayats and headquarter towns of blocks.There will be no restrictions over transport, banking, postal, health and fire services, e-commerce and industrials services.At Bhojpur, vegetable vendors have been asked to shift to Ramna Maidan and wholesale vegetable sellers to Gola Bazar, which have sufficient space for maintaining social distancing, DM Roshan Kushwaha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3day-lockdown-from-every-friday-in-muzaffarpur-101618937317958.html
20-04-2021||Other||Bihar looks for fresh treatment protocol to catch up with virus||PATNAThe state health department has been asked to formulate a fresh treatment protocol to deal with burgeoning load of Covid patients in view of the challenges the state is grappling with during the second wave of pandemic.A special task force, led by industries director Panka Dixit, has been set up to monitor production of oxygen and its supply from the neighbouring states and ensure adequate availability of the vital gas to all hospitals, particularly those treating Covid patients.This was decided on Tuesday at a meeting of the crisis management group (CMG) on Covid, led by Deepak Kumar, principal secretary to chief minister Nitish Kumar.Officials said the treatment protocol would be changed in view of accelerated speed of virus infection among human being in its new avatar. The new treatment regime would stipulate early scanning of lungs and application of emergency drugs.The health department is likely to issue a fresh set of standard operation protocol very soon. Along with it, the district authorities have been asked to refurbish all health centres across the state with necessary infrastructure so that treatment of Covid-infected patients could be undertaken at the lower level after proper diagnostics.Chief minister Nitish Kumar had already directed the officials of health department to ramp up RT-PCR test and drastically curtail the reporting time so that fatalities could be cut significantly. The instruction was given by the CM after the death of former minister Mewalal Chaudhary, who died due to Covid for want of timely diagnosis of the disease.At the meeting that was held in virtual mode and was attended by development commissioner Amir Subhani, additional chief secretary (panchayati raj) Amrit Lal Meena, principal secretary (health) Pratyay Amrit, director general of police SK Singhal and divisional commissioners, district magistrates and superintendents of police (SPs), DMs were directed to arrange required medical facilities like oxymeters, basic path lab, medicines and PPE kits at the PHCs, community health centres, subdivisional and district hospitals so that Covid patients could be treated there.“Only critically sick persons, who required critical care, shall be allowed admission in the premier hospitals like AIIMS, PMCH, NMCH, IGIMS, etc,” said the CM’s principal secretary. The task force on oxygen supply has been directed to stay in touch with the nearest refilling plants at Bokaro, Jamshedpur, Durgapur, etc, to streamline supply of liquid oxygen. Currently, three private plants in Patna, which generate oxygen from the air and refill up to 50 cylinders per hour, have been told to stay operational round-the-clock. Another oxygen plant set up in Begusarai has also be operationalised, while plants attached with premier hospitals have also be told to optimize their production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-looks-for-fresh-treatment-protocol-to-catch-up-with-virus-101618937257940.html
20-04-2021||Other||Hospital faces acute oxygen shortage; critical patient on ventilator succumbs||PUNE A Covid patient, who was critical and on ventilator support, succumbed on Tuesday, at Hadapsar based hospital which was facing acute shortage of oxygen supply. The hospital authorities said another patient on ventilator had to be shifted to different facility. According to doctors at Yog Multispecialty Hospital, the patient died as he was in critical condition. While he was critical, the hospital also faced lack of adequate oxygen supply, which was almost bottoming out when the administration, by the evening, sent 32 cylinders to the hospital. “For the past two days, we have been struggling due to lack of liquid oxygen. Currently, there are 11 patients on ventilators at our hospital. We have only an hour’s supply left,” Dr Abhijeet Darak had said on Tuesday afternoon, hours before his facility received 32 cylinders. Within an hour, Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh organised 10 cylinders, even as the hospital had sought 20. “We have ensured adequate oxygen supply to Yog hospital. We are trying to restore it to other hospitals as well I am currently discussing same with Chief Secretary,” said District Collector Rajesh Deshmukh while refusing to speak further citing ongoing meeting. The hospital has 14 ICU beds and 23 oxygen beds with an hourly oxygen need of seven cylinders, said Darak. The district collector has assured supply of 20 oxygen cylinders, but the hospital administration is not aware of when will it reach them. “If those cylinders reach, they can last for another three to four hours,” Darak said.In merely 10 days, the number of patients on oxygen support has increased by 1,208 in Pune city. There has been an exponential growth in the number of critical patients as well. According to the daily Covid report issued by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on April 9, there were 4,662 patients who were on oxygen support. The number reached 5,870 on April 18. The number of critical patients has also increased by 247 in the last 10 days. Experts say early detection of the infection can help to prevent increase in critical cases. The acute demand-supply gap of oxygen has left the PMC as well as the district administration in an unprecedented situation. On Monday, a truck carrying medical oxygen to the Jumbo hospital at the College of Engineering and Dalvi hospital got delayed, jeopardising patients’ lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hospital-faces-acute-oxygen-shortage-critical-patient-on-ventilator-succumbs-101618934977930.html
20-04-2021||Other||Pune district reports 10,000 fresh Covid-19 cases and 31 deaths||PUNE Pune district reported 10,000 fresh Covid-19 cases and 31 deaths in 24 hours, as reported by the state health department. The progressive count of the district went up to 0.745 million cases, of which 0.619 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 8,910 and 1,17,521 is the active case number. Also 37,115 beneficiaries got vaccinated on Tuesday at 431 session sites. Pune rural reported 2,685 new cases, taking the final count to 1,74,917. Three more deaths took the toll to 2,344. Pune city reported 5,218 new cases taking the total number up to 3,87,181. With 21 more deaths, the death toll went up to 5,062. PCMC reported 2,543 new cases, which puts the count at 1,83,726. With seven more deaths the toll went up to 1,449.Pune district saw 37,000 vaccinations, of which 13,359 were from Pune rural, Pune city saw 15,679 vaccinations and PCMC saw 8,077 vaccinations. Of the 37,115 vaccinations, 29,847 were given Covishield and 7,268 were given Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-10-000-fresh-covid-19-cases-and-31-deaths-101618933897806.html
20-04-2021||Other||Crowds of migrant labourers at railway station as lockdown looms||As the Maharashtra cabinet urged chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to impose a lockdown in the state, hundreds of workers marched towards the Pune railway station and various bus depots in the city to return to hometowns. At the Pune railway junction, long queues were witnessed by 8 pm on Tuesday, as migrants scrambled to board trains to leave for their native places. Many did not have advanced bookings, though workers hoped they would still be able to board the train. “I came here to go back to Lucknow as there will be complete lockdown in the state. My employer has already told me that our factory will be shut for next few days,” said Vijay Luhar, a resident of Uttar Pradesh, working in Bhosari. The police and railway staff were struggling to keep order as the long queues grew by 9 pm, the departure time for a train for UP. Following the state cabinet meeting, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) also cut the timings for essential commodity shops to remain open, to between 7am and 11 am, from the earlier 7am to 6 pm. While the government has allowed industrial units and construction sites with facility of labour camps to operate, many have either reduced operations of shut in Pune district. The smaller construction sites with no labour camps have stopped, leading to loss of employment. “I was working at a construction site in Ambegaon. However, since the past four days, the site has stopped. So I am returning to Uttar Pradesh,” said another worker, refusing to answer when he will be back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/crowds-of-migrant-labourers-at-railway-station-as-lockdown-looms-101618931558004.html
20-04-2021||Other||Ninth descendant of Bajirao Peshwa loses life to Covid-19||A descendant of Shrimant Bajirao Peshwa, Shrimant Mahendra Peshwa, born on October 15, 1963, a resident of Pune, passed away tragically while fighting Covid-19 on Tuesday. He was the ninth descendant of the Bajirao Peshwa and the working president of an organisation called the Hindavi Swarajya Mahasangh, comprising royal families of Maharashtra.“There are two Peshwa families in Pune. One is Dr Vinayakrao Peshwa, his wife Jayamangalaraje, daughter-in-law Aarti and their daughters. This is the 10th generation of the Peshwa family. Vinayakrao, 74, is a geologist and worked as a professor at the SPPU for 33 years. The second family belongs to Vinayakrao’s elder brother Krishnarao. Mahendra is his son. Krishnarao’s wife Usha Raje, son Mahendra, daughter-in-law Sucheta and their daughter live here. Mahendra had his own fabrication business. All the members are descendants of Amritrao Peshwa of the Peshwa dynasty,” said Kundan Kumar Sathe, secretary of the Bajirao Peshwe Pratishthan.“The British had taken possession of many properties of the Peshwas. Amritrao moved to Varanasi around 1800. Three generations ago the Peshwas came back to Pune,” Sathe said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ninth-descendant-of-bajirao-peshwa-loses-life-to-covid19-101618929457647.html
20-04-2021||Other||ZP employees donate one day’s pay to raise ₹1.97 crore for Covid fight||PUNE Employees of the Zilla Parishad in Pune have contributed one day’s salary to raise ₹1.97 crore to help improve health services in rural areas of the district, amid the Covid-19 pandemic, said Pune Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad. The money will be given as an incentive to doctors serving Covid-19 patients, in addition to their salaries, Prasad said. “The employees of Pune Zilla Parishad have contributed one day’s salary to raise ₹1.97 crore. These are mostly those who are frontline workers,” said Prasad. According to Prasad, the Zilla Parishad has also published advertisements in newspapers in various states for hiring 130 doctors. “We aim to have the best doctors with us in the fight against Covid-19 and save the lives of people living in rural areas of Pune,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/zp-employees-donate-one-day-s-pay-to-raise-1-97-crore-for-covid-fight-101618927897586.html
20-04-2021||Other||New phase of vaccination will be decisive: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said the new phase of vaccination will prove decisive in the fight against Covid-19. He said all necessary arrangements should be made for the large-scale vaccination beginning on May 1. In this connection, he said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement for vaccination for all those above 18 years of age from May 1 was a welcome move. He described vaccination as the most effective protection against Covid-19. Those patients who had received both doses of the vaccine but were still getting the Covid-19 infection were recovering in four to five days and the discharge policy of hospitals should be prepared keeping this in mind, the chief minister suggested. He said separate monitoring should be done for L-1, L-2 and L-3 hospitals and oxygen be made available there. Oxygen supply Central oxygen supply was needed, the chief minister said, adding that every hospital should have oxygen back-up for 36 hours. He said all the oxygen being produced by the industry should be used for medical purposes only. These oxygen plants should be linked to the nearest hospital and an elaborate work plan should be worked out on Tuesday itself, he said. He said the units willing to reinvest in oxygen refilling should be encouraged. Orders should be issued immediately for the automatic renewal of licenses of oxygen producing units, he said. He also said police protection should be provided at all the oxygen plants and the vehicles carrying oxygen should be GPS fitted for monitoring. He said work had begun to set up five new oxygen producing plants and they should be made functional at the earliest. He said setting up of oxygen plant should be made mandatory for all the hospitals with 100 or more beds in future. Air separation units should be encouraged and their capacity should be increased in the state. He said the demand for oxygen should be sent to the Centre after evaluating the needs for future keeping in view the large population of the state. Efforts should be made for supply of oxygen to the state from the nearby cities like Modi Nagar, Panipat and Roorkee. He also said the minister for medical education should ensure a balance between demand and supply of oxygen. He also said there was a need for regular communication with those in home isolation. There should be medicines for seven days in the kit for them. He also said there was no shortage of Remdesivir injection or other lifesaving drugs. Their availability was being ensured in all the districts. He said regular contact should be maintained with leading manufacturers.Transparent distribution He said the transparent distribution of oxygen, Remdesivir and other life-saving drugs should be done after getting in touch with districts. Special attention should be paid to bring down the response time of ambulances, the chief minister added. He also said report with pictures should be obtained from districts about cleanliness, sanitization and fogging. Pay insured amount He said insured amount should be immediately paid to those who have died on Covid-19 duty. He said this would be great help to the bereaved families. He said there was a need to increase the testing capacity further and all necessary efforts should be made in this regard. Masks, containment zones He said penal action should be taken against those who ignore appeals for wearing a mask. He said provisions for containment zones and quarantine centres should be strictly implemented. He said regular communication should be made with monitoring committees and feedback should be obtained from them. He said uninterrupted supply of power should be ensured to oxygen producing and refilling units. Migrant labourers He said migrants were returning from Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Delhi and there was a need to take special precautions in the bordering districts. He said arrangements should be made to ensure smooth movement of migrant labourers/workers. The home department and the transport department should take action in this regard in coordination with each other, he added. Wheat procurement He said special attention should be paid to implementation of Covid protocol at wheat procurement centres. He said wheat procurement should be regularly monitored and there should be no delay in payment. Panchayat polls He said all arrangements should be made for protection of police and other personnel deployed for panchayat elections polls. More than five persons should not be allowed to assemble at one point in panchayat elections, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-phase-of-vaccination-will-be-decisive-yogi-101618927657550.html
20-04-2021||Other||Civic bodies on gas about oxygen supply for increasing bed count||PUNE With oxygen supply a major challenge given the current medical infrastructures, the administration is now worrying about the future.Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad have 11,717 oxygen beds, with demand at 310 metric tonnes. Organisation and elected members are trying to ensure more oxygen beds in the city.A senior official of the district administration on condition of anonymity, said, “It’s good that more beds are getting ready, but the main question is how to provide oxygen? It’s getting difficult to provide it for the existing infrastructure.”Srinivas Kandul, a PMC officer involved in oxygen supply for PMC hospitals, said, “Oxygen demand is increasing in the city. It’s a hand-to-mouth situation.”Another officer also speaking on condition of anonymity said, “Some political leaders are helping increase the number of beds. There is an urgent need to increase oxygen supply to the city. It’s getting tough to provide oxygen to smaller centres.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civic-bodies-on-gas-about-oxygen-supply-for-increasing-bed-count-101618927537563.html
20-04-2021||Other||PMC seeks state govt permission to directly purchase vaccines from manufacturers||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has sought permission from state government to purchase the Covid-19 vaccines, as it aims to vaccinate all those above the age of 18 years.The Centre, on Monday, allowed everyone above the age of 18 to get the jabs from May 1, permitting states to purchase 50 per cent of vaccines directly from manufacturers. Vaccine manufacturers will also be allowed to sell the vaccine in the open market. Currently, only citizens above the age of 45 years and who have a comorbid condition, can get the vaccine.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has asked the Maharashtra government for permission to allow it to purchase the vaccines directly from manufacturers. In Pune, the Serum Institute of India is manufacturing the Oxford-AtraZeneca vaccine, Covishield. The vaccine is mostly being administered in the country. PMC claims that if the state allows it to purchase the vaccine directly from the firms, it will cover the entire Pune population by the end of July this year. Ganesh Bidkar, PMC’s leader of the house, said, “We have written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and asked the government’s permission to procure the vaccine directly. PMC will bear the cost. Already, PMC has chalked out a plan for a massive vaccination drive.” On Monday, Pune divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao had said, the administration has already undertaken “Mission 100 days” to inoculate everyone above the age of 18 by June 15, as the city and rural parts of the region battle a massive spike in the Covid-19 infection. “With the Centre’s decision and various stakeholders in Pune who are very aggressive, we are hoping to vaccinate all above the age of 18 before 100 days is up. This will be possible with the help of state government and local sponsors,” Rao had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-seeks-state-govt-permission-to-directly-purchase-vaccines-from-manufacturers-101618926577492.html
20-04-2021||Other||UP govt, AAP in war of words over migrants’ exodus from Delhi||LUCKNOW The exodus of migrant workers from Delhi after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s announcement of a six-day curfew has sparked war of words between the Uttar Pradesh government and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).Siddharth Nath Singh, UP government spokesperson and MSME minister, alleged that the Delhi government had meted out step-motherly treatment to migrant workers belonging to UP and Bihar. “To hide the failure of his government, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has announced a six-day lockdown in the National Capital in haste,” he said.The Delhi government failed to provide beds, hospitals and other facilities to Covid patients and when health services collapsed, they announced lockdown without any preparations, said Singh.“The migrants were dumped on the Delhi-UP border on Monday night. The hapless people were left to their fate. Earlier too during the nationwide lockdown in March last year, the Delhi government had dumped the migrant workers,” he added.To send the hapless migrants home, the UP government acted swiftly. On direction of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, fleets of government and private buses were sent to Anand Vihar and Kaushambi bus stations located on Delhi border, said the minister. “Over one lakh migrants were sent home on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday,” said Singh.Countering the statement of the UP minister, AAP (Uttar Pradesh unit) spokesperson Vaibhav Maheshwari said: “While announcing the six-day curfew, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said lockdown has been imposed for a small period to break the Covid infection chain.” “In a video message, he also appealed to migrants workers to stay in Delhi as the state government was arranging for their food and shelter. The Delhi government is providing all facilities to migrants including medical, food and lodging,” he added.Maheshwari said the UP government failed to provide basic facilities to Covid patients across the state and large number of them was not getting beds and oxygen in hospitals. “The UP government has failed in Covid management whereas the Delhi government is working in a sensitive manner to provide medical facilities to Covid patients,” he said.A state government officer said the buses ferrying migrants from the Delhi border had been sent to all districts. Around 1,400 buses left the Anand Vihar and Kaushambi bus stations on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday with migrants workers heading home in UP. The DMs of all 75 districts were directed to screen migrants. those with Covid symptoms will stay in quarantine facilities set up by the government or in home isolation. Village surveillance committees will maintain vigil on migrants and monitor their health conditions. According to the guidelines issued by the state government, migrants coming from other states will have to stay in seven days’ home quarantine, even if they do not have Covid symptoms, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-aap-in-war-of-words-over-migrants-exodus-from-delhi-101618923097372.html
20-04-2021||Other||Petitioner seeks Kashi-court like excavation order for Sri Krishna Jamnbhoomi case||A petitioner in Sri Krishna Janmbhoomi case has moved an application seeking a court order like the one passed by the Varanasi court ordering scientific excavation at Shahi Masjid Eidgah in Mathura.The court has fixed May 5 as the date for disposal of the case.“There was a grand Sri Krishna Temple spread on 13.37 acre of land in Mathura which was demolished by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb and idols were taken away to Agra Fort where they were buried under stairs in the Red Fort of Agra. In place of Sri Krishna Janambhoomi, Shahi Masjid Eidgah was brought up,” said Mahendra Pratap Singh, the petitioner and a lawyer in the case.“The court in Varanasi has ordered ASI to excavate the evidence. We want similar order by Mathura Court asking the ASI to gather evidence by digging below the Shahi Masjid Eidgah in Mathura. The ASI will come across remains of temples on excavation and stones in wall,” said Singh. An application in this regard was moved by Mahendra Pratap Singh in the court of Civil Judge (Senior Division).“We have urged the court to order excavation in the scientific manner through GPR and Zeo Radiology System to excavate the facts. A five-member committee with both Hindus and Muslims as members can also be formed for the excavation exercise,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petitioner-seeks-kashi-court-like-excavation-order-for-sri-krishna-jamnbhoomi-case-101618922797370.html
20-04-2021||Other||As cases pile up in Dehradun, double mutant in Covid-19 samples causes concern||Three samples collected in Uttarakhand’s Dehradun recently contain the double mutant variant of Covid-19, causing concern among the health officials and experts. With the sharp rise in Covid cases in the state, amid Kumbh mela that attracted millions of devotees, the state government has imposed a night curfew from 9pm to 5am in all districts.In all, five samples were sent by Doon Government Hospital to National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in Delhi in March. The hospital got the result a few days ago which confirmed the presence of the double mutant Covid-19 virus in three samples and the UK strain in one. Confirming the development, Dr Deepak Juyal of the virology department in the hospital said, “The hospital had sent samples to detect the presence of the new strains in the samples collected in Dehradun. Five samples were sent, of those three from a private laboratory had the double mutant virus , B.1.617, and one had the UK strain, B.1.1.7.” Also Read | No crowds now: With akhadas pulling out, kumbh virtually overDr Juyal said the double mutant virus spreads at a much faster rate. “This is more virulent and if someone gets infected with it, the whole family would also get infected -- which was not the case last year.” Another expert, Dr DD Chowdhury, national vice president of Indian Medical Association, who has been treating at least 20 Covid-19 patients on a daily basis in Dehradun, suspected that, “most of the cases in Dehradun are of double mutant virus only”. “The transmission rate of this double mutant is more. But, the death rate is less. The patients infected from this virus are responding well to the treatment given by doctors,” he said. However, he said, “People need to take precautions, including wearing of masks, social distancing and avoiding crowded places. There should be no complacency in this as it could prove costly.”Uttarakhand has reported 126,193 Covid-19 cases since the outbreak last year. Of these, 102,899 have been treated. The maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the state, 41,903, have been reported from Dehradun district so far. Till Monday, the total number of active cases in the state was 18,864 of which Dehradun had the most at 7,583.The state has so far reported 1,892 Covid-related deaths of which 1,087 were recorded in Dehradun alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-cases-pile-up-in-dehradun-double-mutant-in-covid-19-samples-causes-concern-101618917397743.html
