21-04-2021||Other||FIR against Kanpur hospital, 4 doctors in custody after judge needing treatment faces chaos||A first information report (FIR) was lodged against a private Covid-19 facility here and four doctors were taken into custody after the Kanpur district judge, who tested positive for the coronavirus, was not admitted to the hospital for an hour and saw first-hand the alleged mismanagement and maltreatment there. Chief medical officer Dr Anil Mishra, who accompanied district judge to the hospital for admission, has filed the FIR against the hospital, its owner Amit Narayan, duty doctors and the staff. In the FIR, a copy of which is available with HT, Dr Mishra said he accompanied the judge to hospital with the chief metropolitan magistrate. The lift was not working and all of them remained stuck inside. Thereafter, no one attended the judge, nor the treatment was started, he alleged. When they reached the portico, many patients complained to them about the “complete chaotic situation” in the hospital, according to the FIR. As the CMO spoke to the hospital owner, the latter shouted and said, “send me to jail, get my hospital sealed”, according to the FIR. Dr Mishra said the case was lodged because of utter negligence shown by the hospital with regard to the district judge and shabby management of the Covid-19 facility. District judge RP Singh and hospital owner Amit Narayan were not available for their comments. DCP (Kanpur) South Ravina Tyagi said, “I am looking into the matter and action will be taken.” The Panki police said the case was being investigated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-against-kanpur-hospital-4-doctors-in-custody-after-judge-needing-treatment-faces-chaos-101619029544059.html
21-04-2021||Other||Lesson learnt after oxygen tragedy, Gorakhpur now supplies it to 25 districts||Government and private hospitals in Gorakhpur are not only getting uninterrupted supply of oxygen but the district is also supplying oxygen to neighbouring districts. Meanwhile, hospitals in various districts of the state, including Lucknow, continue to battle for oxygen.Four years back, in August 2017, the district was in the limelight after the death of 60 children in the BRD Medical College due to the oxygen crisis. An inquiry was ordered and the medical officers including the then principal of the medical college were suspended.With the surge in Covid-19 cases in the second wave, the district witnessed a large flow of patients to government and private hospitals. On Wednesday, the district reported 987 fresh cases taking the tally of active cases (number of patients under treatment) to 6,909. According to the chief medical officer Sudhakar Pandey, cases are being reported from both the urban and rural areas of the district and the details of the patients are being uploaded on the portal for allotment of beds by the integrated command and control centre.District magistrate K Vijyendra Pandian said that there is no crisis of oxygen to hospitals in Gorakhpur, rather the oxygen plants in the district are supplying oxygen to 25 districts in Faizabad, Basti, Azamgarh and Prayagraj divisions. If required we will supply oxygen to Lucknow and Varanasi as well, he said.This is the result of meticulous planning that has ensured a regular supply of oxygen to hospitals even as the flow of critical Covid-19 patients increased. The capacity of Modi Chemicals factory had been increased from 800 metric tonnes to 2,600 metric tonnes, the closed RK Oxygen factory has been started with the production of 3,600 MT, while a liquid oxygen tank has been set up at BRD Medical College to supply oxygen to the wards, he said.An effort is also on re-start the closed Annapurna Oxygen Factory, located in the industrial development area of the district. The North Eastern Railways has supplied 500 oxygen cylinders and we have received 200 cylinders from the Gorakhpur Fertilizer Factory. A bank of 2,000 oxygen cylinders has been set up in the district collectorate for emergency supply to hospitals and needy as well, the DM said.Regular supply of oxygen is being maintained to 40 private hospitals that have started admitting Covid-19 patients with a 48-hour oxygen supply back up, Pandian said.The owner of Modi Chemicals, Praveen Modi, said that the factory has enhanced its production capacity by installing new technology. There will be uninterrupted supply of oxygen to all hospitals, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lesson-learnt-after-oxygen-tragedy-gorakhpur-now-supplies-it-to-25-districts-101619026483746.html
21-04-2021||Other||Rush of bodies; gravediggers work overtime, charge dear||The situation at graveyards of the city is no different than that at cremation ghats, where a large number of bodies are arriving every day. Gravediggers are working overtime and have increased their labour fee. And yet, the number of hands falls short. Recently, some graves were dug using JCB machine, say graveyard authorities.Prayagraj has at present over a dozen large and small graveyards where committees are set up for their maintenance and engaging gravediggers. The large graveyards include Kaladanda graveyard at Kareli, Kaladanda Himmatganj, Dariabad, Akelwa Aam Kydganj, Rasulpur graveyard and Karbala, while small ones are situated at Gulabbadi, Takia graveyard Hasan Manzil, Akbarpur graveyard, Ashok Nagar, Mohtasimganj, Rajruppur etc. Chairman of Kabristan Committee of Kaladanda graveyards of Kareli, Himmatganj and Akbarpur, Mohd Javed, said at least 15 bodies are arriving at Kaladanda Qabristan at Kareli everyday while earlier that number used to be around four per day. Similar is the situation is at Kaladanda Himmatganj where five to six bodies are being buried every day now, while earlier only one or two used to be buried. Being a large graveyard, Dariabad Qabristan is witnessing the burial of seven to eight bodies each day in contrast to earlier days when few were buried. Similarly, four to five bodies at Karbala and two to three bodies at Rasulpur graveyard on an average are being taken for burial these days, Javed further informed.Even as a large number of bodies are being buried every day at graveyards, gravediggers are charging hefty amounts than usual fee of ₹3,500 from kin of the deceased. Labour fee is regulated at graveyards where committees are set up and are playing an active role in burial arrangements. However, at smaller graveyards gravediggers are charging upto ₹8,000 depending upon the situation. While admitting that gravediggers are charging a hefty fee at will at many graveyards due to the arrival of a large number of bodies, Mohd Javed said people are forced to pay the amount as they have no other option. They are charging more if the family is in a haste to bury the body of their kin. At Kaladanda Qabristan in Kareli, ₹3500 is charged for burial including the charge for wooden planks that are used to cover the inner chamber of graves.At present eight gravediggers are engaged at Kaladanda Qabristan at Kareli but due to the situation, four labourers were also hired for digging graves. A JCB machine was hired to dig graves two days back as no spare grave digger or labourer was available, Javed said.A majority of the bodies arriving for burial are of persons aged between 60 to 80 years while some are also of younger people. The situation is similar at the Rajapur Christian Cemetery, where around four to six bodies are arriving for burial every day. Graveyard Committee member Sanjay Alfred said for the last one week, the number of bodies has increased all of a sudden. On Wednesday, four people were buried, while six were buried on Tuesday. Earlier, three to four burials used to take place in a month. Jacob, a member of the Christian Community, said that there are three Christian cemeteries in the city which were at Rajapur, Myorabad and Naini. The scene is much the same at all three graveyards, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rush-of-bodies-gravediggers-work-overtime-charge-dear-101619026303801.html
21-04-2021||Other||Kanpur gasps for oxygen but brass says all is well!||The Kanpur administration maintains that there is no scarcity of oxygen in the city despite incidents to the contrary and doctors accepting that the demand and supply gap was huge.In a late night briefing district magistrate Alok Tiwari and municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi addressed reporters and maintained that the oxygen availability was adequate and the situation was being monitored closely. Contrary to their claim, Swaroop Narayan Srivastava, 82, was taken to LLR Hospital suffering from pneumonia and in desperate need of oxygen. His relative, Deepak Srivastava, said that doctors told him to bring his own oxygen cylinder. “Now, we are moving him to a non-Covid private hospital. We are lucky, we got a bed. LLR people were not ready to begin treatment without the cylinder,” he said. LLR Hospital, the biggest hospital, has seen oxygen demand shoot up to 12,000 litres in a day, said the doctors, adding that the situation became critical in the early hours of Tuesday. Somehow it was managed. The LLR Hospital arranged for some 100 cylinders from Bharua Sumerpur in Hamirpur and one tanker is coming from Dehradun daily, said doctors, on condition of anonymity. They said still the supply was not enough considering the influx of patients. Meanwhile, at Anurag Hospital in Sharda Nagar, an announcement was made for people to take away patients or arrange for oxygen cylinders. The hospital had run out of oxygen and it was not made available. A patient, Ashutosh, was also allegedly assaulted when he registered his protest with the hospital staff. He had to call the police to save himself as the guard allegedly held him at gunpoint. SHO Kalyanpur Vir Singh confirmed the incident said it was being looked into. Oxygen consumption in Covid-19 hospitals has also risen to 53 tonnes in Kanpur. While the city had 12 tonnes in stock, 16 tonnes was made available additionally. Another 25 tonnes was on the way from Chandauli. “At the most it will last less than 24 hours; we need consistent supply,” said a hospital owner whose hospital ran out of essential items for treatment at 3 am on Tuesday. At present, the overall demand was of 8,500 cylinders and the availability was roughly between 5,500, and thus, a shortfall of 3,500 cylinders, said doctors of GSVM Medical College and private hospital owners. In his briefing, the Kanpur DM said that he had deputed magistrates at four oxygen plants to ensure that the oxygen reaches the right places. Similarly, magistrates have been deployed in all Covid-19 hospitals to check ‘black marketing of beds’ so that patients get a bed conveniently. Meanwhile, a private company has been hired to run the integrated command centre more efficiently, and it will take over the centre in a day or two, municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kanpur-gasps-for-oxygen-but-brass-says-all-is-well-101619026003749.html
21-04-2021||Other||Woman dies, 7 cops hurt as villagers clash with raiding police team||BETTIAHAn 80-year-old woman died and seven policemen were injured on Wednesday morning when a police team raiding the house of a suspected liquor smuggler in East Champaran allegedly came under attack. The incident happened at Naiyaka Tola village.According to Achhelal Yadav, son of the deceased woman Sushila Devi, she died after the police personnel hit her. “My mother slumped on the ground and died immediately. The policemen escaped, leaving behind their vehicles,” Yadav said. However, Nitin Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Kotwa police station, refuted the allegations. He said the police team, which was raiding the house of Acchelal Yadav following inputs about liquor trade, came under attack from the villagers when it stumbled upon liquor manufacturing machines. “Caught unawares, a woman began writhing in pain, holding her chest. She had probably suffered a heart attack. In the meantime, Acchelal raised alarm and a group of villagers attacked and snatched arms from one of the policemen. In all, seven policemen, including two sub-inspectors, were injured in the attack,” said Kumar, who himself sustained injuries on his arms. Sources quoting eye-witnesses said the village resembled a battle ground as locals went after the police team, pelting stones at them. “The INSAS rifle snatched from a policeman was returned after pressure was brought upon by the village headman,” said a village resident. Arun Kumar Gupta, subdivisional police officer (SDPO), said, “The reason behind the woman’s death could only be known after autopsy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-dies-7-cops-hurt-as-villagers-clash-with-raiding-police-team-101619023544126.html
21-04-2021||Other||Two temple priests beheaded in Madhubani||PATNABeheaded bodies of two priests of Dharoharnath Mahadeo Temple at Khirhar on the outskirts of Madhubani town were found in the temple courtyard late Tuesday evening. The slain priests were identified as Hira Das and Anand Mishra. The bodies were spotted by villagers after they found the temple door open. Police said the two were perhaps killed while asleep as there were no clues of any kind of resistance. While chief priest of the temple, Narayan Mukhia, alleged both were hacked to death by one Dipak Choudhary, police are looking at the robbery angle since donation boxes were found outside the temple premises and the offerings, mainly cash, was missing.Police said that before escaping, the miscreants also ransacked the sanctum sanctorum of the temple in search of more valuables and cash. Station house officer of Khirhar police station, Anjesh Kumar, a case had been registered in on the basis of the statement of Narayan Mukhia against suspect Dipak Choudhary and a probe team was being formed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-temple-priests-beheaded-in-madhubani-101619023543521.html
21-04-2021||Other||15 of 19 Covid +ve runaway juveniles traced||ChapraOut of 19 Covid positive inmates of a remand home who had escaped from the hospital isolation ward, 15 have been located and a search is on for the others, superintendent of police (SP) Santosh Kumar said on Wednesday.All of them had escaped Tuesday night out of fear of the disease, the SP said.Of them, 11 who hailed from the Saran district, of which Chapra is the headquarter, have been found at their home, he said, adding the rest right were from the neighbouring districts and among them four have been tracked.Among 11 locals, guardians of six have said they would bring back their ward to the sadar hospital.The rest preferred to stay in home isolation and they will be under watch of the police stations concerned, the SP said.After a Covid test for all 39 juveniles of a local remand home here, 19 had tested positive on Monday and they were put up in a quarantine centre of the sadar hospital.All 19 escaped after removing iron roads of the window of the isolation ward.The SP said he himself visited the centre during the day and found that policemen on duty there did not had access to the ward on the first floor of the building in the rear side of the campus.“It has now been decided that all those returning to the hospital will be quarantined in an another building under watch of the policemen,” Kumar said.He said the juveniles in the age category of 14 to 18 had run away out of panic after they were found infected. They either reached their own home or that of some kin.Bihar is also experiencing second surge of coronavirus.As per the last health bulletin, total 10,455 new cases were recorded from across the state Tuesday while 51 had succumbed to the disease.Among the fresh cases, Saran district accounted for 530 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15-of-19-covid-ve-runaway-juveniles-traced-101619023484939.html
21-04-2021||Other||Free vaccination for all above 18: Nitish||PATNABihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday announced free vaccination to all people aged 18 years and above even as the state 12222 new cases in the last 24 hours, its highest single-day spike.“The state government will provide free vaccination to those aged 18 years and above,” Kumar tweeted. The state government is already providing free vaccination to all people above 45 years of age at its hospitals.Providing free vaccination was one of the election promises made by the NDA during the assembly elections held last year. Earlier in the day, former deputy CM and Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Modi demanded that the state government provide free vaccination to those aged 18 years and above who would be vaccinated from May 1. “Governments of Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, etc., have made an announcement in this regard. The NDA has announced during elections to provide free vaccination to all and this benefit should be extended to 18-plus people as well,” he said. Meanwhile, the state reported 63,746 active cases on Tuesday, with Patna alone reporting 2,919 cases, followed by Gaya (891). The Patna district administration issued a press release claiming improvement in oxygen supply in the state capital. It said 5,750 oxygen cylinders were supplied on Wednesday and 27,904 cylinders between April 17 and 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/free-vaccination-for-all-above-18-nitish-101619023484183.html
21-04-2021||Other||Patna hospitals packed, put up ‘no bed’ notices||PATNAAmid the surging Covid-19 cases, finding a bed in a hospital with oxygen facility is turning out to be an impossibility in Patna, which has four medical college hospitals, something few cities in the country can march, besides the ubiquitous private nursing homes, registered or unregistered.HT visited at least 15 hospitals and almost everywhere it found notices announcing “no beds” put up prominently. “I had to first buy an oxygen cylinder for ₹18,000 and then admit my husband to a private nursing home, as no nursing home was ready to admit him due to uncertainty of oxygen supply. One of them agreed on the condition that oxygen supply would be my concern. In the government hospitals, the seats are only available for VVIPs,” said Kavita Srivastava, a resident of Friends Colony.Oxygen supply is a big concern for the private hospitals. Kin of several patients are already weighing options of shifting them to Delhi. “You ask the government and they say everything is fine, while the situation is so bad that even for a thermometer or a steam inhaler, one has to keep running from one medical shop to another, let alone oxygen,” said Ravish Kumar, a resident of Patna City area. Ravish Narayan (48), a Covid-19 patient and a resident of Danapur, had to face an even more harrowing ordeal. After his health deteriorated on Tuesday evening, his family rushed him to a leading hospital near their residence in Rajabazar area. Despite their pleas, they were advised to take him home. “There is no vacant bed and he will be managed better at home,” they were told. As the night progressed, his condition worsened, with oxygen levels dipping to dangerous levels, leaving him gasping for every breath that he took. Their efforts to find “a bed with oxygen cylinder” also failed in hospitals. After hundreds of frantic phone calls to friends and beyond, Narayan was finally accommodated at a private hospital. Currently, he is struggling for life. Attendant of another patient said he had to cough up ₹54,000 for Remdesivir injection. “I paid as I needed it. My doctor had asked for it. I was left with no choice but to pay. Remdesivir has become like liquor in dry Bihar. It is officially not available, but the black market provides the facility of home delivery. What I am saying is no hearsay. I have myself paid for it and I am thankful that the black market at least makes it available,” he says, not wishing to be identified.With the number of fresh Covid-19 cases creating a record each day, the situation is likely to aggravate fuehrer. AIIMS is the first choice for patients in Patna, but it has limited number of beds and VVIPs hardly leave enough space for the commoners. Rajabazar’s private hospital was packed to capacity on Wednesday when this correspondent reached there. “There’s no bed at all,” a hospital employee on duty told this.At AIIMS, patients and attendants were seen waiting for admission, without success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patna-hospitals-packed-put-up-no-bed-notices-101619023483625.html
21-04-2021||Other||Panchayat polls set for delay, decision only after 15 days||PATNAIt’s official now. The upcoming panchayat polls in the state will be delayed as the State Election Commission (SEC) on Wednesday decided to take a decision on holding the elections for rural local bodies only after reviewing the situation of Covid-19 cases after 15 days in the wake of surge in infections owing to second wave of the Coronavirus. In a press statement, the SEC said there were plans to send the proposal for notification of panchayat polls to the state government by end of April, but the situation has changed owing to the recent spike in Corona cases. It said the entire administration in districts was had been mobilised to tackle the situation and many in the state poll panel and other departments had contracted the virus. Officials said the training programme for officials drafted for election duty has been also suspended. The current five-year term of elected representatives for 2.54 lakh posts in three-tier rural local bodies ends on June 15. With panchayat polls set to be delayed, chances are that these bodies would be run it through administrators after June 15 till the time elections are held, sources said. The panchayat raj department has already started working on a proposal to appoint administrators to run these bodies by notifying designated officers so that development works carried through the rural local bodies continues smoothly. SEC officials, however, said the election date would be fixed once the situation normalises and that the preparations for holding the polls were already in place. Recently, the SEC and Election Commission of India (ECI) resolved the dispute over the procurement of EVMs by deciding to hold panchayat polls through simple EVMs ( which are used in assembly/parliamentary polls), instead of multi-post EVMs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panchayat-polls-set-for-delay-decision-only-after-15-days-101619023423517.html
21-04-2021||Other||Poor planning at civil surgeon’s office continues to put people at risk of infection||As the district grapples with the fast-spreading second wave of Covid infections, the health department’s poor planning seems to be putting several healthy persons at risk for infection. A day after Hindustan Times highlighted how Covid testing and vaccinations were being carried out in close proximity at the civil surgeon’s office, no corrective steps were taken.Though the health department and civil surgeon’s offices were closed on Wednesday, on account of Ram Navami, residents continued to throng the premises for testing and vaccination. Some residents complained that they had started queuing up since 8am, which is the official time for the start of vaccinations, but the health professionals did not turn up till about 9am.Rakesh Kumar, a resident of Civil Lines, said he had arrived at the vaccination unit around 8am but there were no health officials present. He added that the cotton swabs given after administering the vaccine were also seen scattered at the spot. “It was only after a few of us raised the issue that a dustbin was placed to discard cotton swabs. Also, initially people were queuing up at the site haphazardly. We took up the matter with a cop on duty there following which the authorities started issuing tokens,” said Kumar. Gaurav Kumar, another resident, who was waiting for his turn to get tested, said, “In government offices, it is now mandatory to show a Covid negative report before entering. I have to visit the RTA office so I am getting a test. But there seems to be no one to regulate the crowd here. It is very risky,” Sunil Kumar, another resident who had turned up for testing, said, “There are so many rooms lying vacant on the premises. But the authorities are still adamant on packing everyone together.”Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said due caution was taken to avoid mingling of the two groups. The issue will be resolved soon, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/poor-planning-at-civil-surgeon-s-office-continues-to-put-people-at-risk-of-infection-101619012743036.html
21-04-2021||Other||Kashi gets temporary crematorium for Covid victims||City’s civic body, Varanasi Nagar Nigam, has made an alternative arrangement for cremation of bodies of patients who died of COVID-19 by creating a temporary crematorium near Vishwasundari Bridge. The temporary crematorium started functioning on Tuesday, said officials.“The alternative arrangement has been made near Vishwasundari Bridge on the instructions of municipal commissioner Gaurang Rathi. Barricading has been done and a counter has been set up under a temporary tent for issuing certificate,” said a senior official of VNN.According to the official, four bodies were cremated at the temporary crematorium. Funeral of the unclaimed bodies was to be performed at the spot where the alternative arrangements had been made. Help from Pawan Chaudhary, who performed funeral there earlier too, is being taken. Proper sanitization and cleanliness are being done regularly at the alternative arrangement. At a time, 10 bodies can be cremated at the site.An official, who doesn’t wish to be named, said the arrangement had been made to ensure that bodies do not pile up and people do not have to wait in queue for the funeral. On Tuesday, seven people died of Covid in Varanasi, according to chief medical officer, Varanasi, Dr NP Singh. At Manikarnika Ghat, 100 t0 120 bodies are arriving daily for cremation these days, said, Gulshan Kapoor, manager of Baba Mashannath Temple, Manikarnika Ghat. According to Kapoor, the figure was between 60 and 80 till last week of March. Bodies from adjoining districts and state of Bihar are brought for funeral at the ghat. At Harishchandra Ghat, 20 to 40 bodies are arriving daily for cremation. The official said bodies of Covid-19 patient will not have to wait for funeral and will be taken to alternative arrangement. Moreover, some locals living in the villages near Vishwasundari bridge area opposed creating alternative arrangement for cremation near their villages. The officials, however, have pacified them by assuring that it was just an alternative arrangement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kashi-gets-temporary-crematorium-for-covid-victims-101619012143889.html
21-04-2021||Other||22 Covid patients at Nashik hospital die following leakage from oxygen cylinder||At least 22 Covid-19 patients lost their lives following leakage from an oxygen tanker at a Nashik hospital.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the incident took place at civic-run Dr Zakir Hussain Hospital where some patients on ventilator support died as the oxygen pressure dropped following the leakage. Tope said malfunctioning valves caused the leakage.District collector Suraj Mandhare said so far 22 deaths have been reported at the hospital. “Twenty-two persons have died due to low pressure of oxygen. We have now restored the oxygen supply,” he said.Nashik divisional commissioner Radhakrishna Game said, “The incident was reported at around 10am when the socket of the oxygen tank malfunctioned. Hospital authorities shifted some patients though 22 lost their lives as oxygen pressure was reduced. After the incident, relatives and others started entering the ward, leading to chaos. This also led to a delay in restoring the situation. The entire staff is still in a state of shock.”Also Read | Goa healthcare under severe stress amid record Covid-19 numbersHe said the accident occurred when the oxygen cylinder was being refilled by a private agency. “The agency executives noticed leakage of gas. Technicians were immediately called and problem was fixed,” said Game.According to Nashik Municipal authorities, the hospital had 150 Covid patients, including 23 on ventilator support.Following the incident, security was beefed up at the hospital to prevent any untoward incident as angry relatives of the victims were demanding immediate action against those responsible.Nashik police commissioner Deepak Pandey said, “We have beefed up the bandobast here after some deaths were reported. The relatives [of victims] are very angry.”Angry relatives alleged that the hospital did not inform them about the incident. “It was only after we barged inside that we got to know that our loved ones were dead,” one of them said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/22-covid-patients-at-nashik-hospital-die-following-leakage-from-oxygen-cylinder-101618998283382.html
21-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana restaurants’ body decides to move HC over Capt govt’s fresh curbs||A day after the Punjab government announced fresh curbs, barring restaurants and hotels from operating on Sundays and allowing them to open only for takeaways and home-deliveries on weekdays, the restaurant body on Tuesday decided to move the Punjab and Haryana high court against the decision.The association members stated that their businesses are a “soft-target” for the government, which has allowed factories to continue operations.“How are we supposed to meet our fixed expenses such as rent, electricity bills and salaries of our staff when we have no income due to these restrictions? Home deliveries and take-away account for only 10% of our business,” said Sukhkaran Gill, owner of Bistro 226 in Ghumar Mandi.They also opposed the extension of night curfew timings and said the government must focus on improving the medical facilities instead of imposing more restrictions. “Our business was already down by 70% due to the night curfew as most residents move out with their families only after 8:30pm. This decision to shut dine-in completely will further bring down the business to 8-10%. We have always been a soft target even when we maintain proper hygiene and follow all the norms,” said Vishal Malhotra, the owner of Flamme Bois on Pakhowal road. Amarvir Singh, president of the hotel and restaurant association, said, “There are over 450 restaurants in the city and around 300 are being run on rental properties. We were struggling to bounce back from last year’s losses but now, the government has brought in more restrictions. How are we supposed to pay the fixed charges in such a scenario? The government has taken its decision in a haphazard manner without giving a thought to our problems. We will move the high court against these restrictions.” Rajat Malhotra, the legal advisor for the hotel and restaurant body, said, “The government has announced restrictions only for the hospitality sector while other sectors are carrying on with their work. The government has not even provided the hotels and restaurants any sort of relief against their losses. We will file a civil writ petition in the high court under Article 226, 227 and 14 to challenge the government’s decision.”Closure of bars another blow The owners stated that the closure of bars is yet another blow to their sector. Vice-president of the hotel and restaurant association, Amarjit Singh, said, “Bars were allowed to operate in the month of March when the government had to collect the annual fees. But now, these have also been told to bring shutters down. A large portion of the restaurant business is dependent on bars and the government should reconsider its decision.” Shopkeepers in the same boatWith the state government extending the night curfew timings by another hour and enforcing more curbs for weekends, shop owners across the district are also ruing losses.The shopkeepers in old city markets such as Chaura Bazar and Akalgarh market, which are famous for ‘Sunday markets’, stated that the government should allow the markets to open on weekends when at least 30% of the week’s business is carried out. Manpreet Singh, president of the Akalgarh market garment association, said, “We also want the infection count to go down. But the government is just harassing the traders. The fresh curbs have only made residents more worried. Night curfew should be imposed from 10pm and the Sunday shutdown should be done away with. The government should focus on enforcing Covid norms rather than harassing us.” General Secretary of Chaura Bazar shopkeepers association,Gurcharan Singh Chann said, “More than 30% of the week’s business is done on Sundays in most markets in old city. If these markets are not allowed to open on Sundays, traders will face severe financial crisis and they will be forced to terminate the services of their employees and workers. The government should consider the repercussions of its decisions.” Members of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal stated that they will take up the matter during the meeting of its core committee to chalk out an action plan against the irrational and unplanned decisions being taken by the state government.Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal general secretary Sunil Mehra said, “The state has already suffered a loss of over ₹3 lakh crore in the last one year and the government is still pushing its traders towards economic crisis. It is the failure of the government in improving the health care system, but the traders are bearing the brunt for the same.” Some others, however, said the curbs were necessary. Amarjit Singh, president of Model Town market association, said, “Imposition of restrictions is necessary in view of the recent spike in cases. But the government should also take into account the losses being borne by the traders and help them in some way.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-restaurants-body-decides-to-move-hc-over-capt-govt-s-fresh-curbs-101618949919885.html
21-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana health dept runs out of vaccine stock, cuts supply to pvt hospitals||Having run out of its vaccine stock, the Ludhiana health department has suspended supply to private hospitals in the district till further orders. Sources in the department said they have run out of both Covidshield and Covaxin supplies and around 85 private hospitals in the district are not getting the vaccine as of now. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said private hospitals have been told that a fresh stock will arrive in about three days’ time and until then, they will have to use their reserve stock. “We have informed the government about the development. Until our stock is replenished, we will use our supply only in government-run session sites,” he added. As per sources, the department currently has a total of 15,000 vials (Covishield and Covaxin) in its stock. District immunisation officer Dr Puneet Juneja said a state-level meeting is being convened on Wednesday to review the situation and the status on availability will be clear after that. On Tuesday, Covishield was administered only at four government-run Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) in the urban area. Dr GS Grewal, former president of the Punjab Medical Council, said, “If the government cannot ensure a smooth supply of vaccines, then why did they involve us. Further, ever since we switched to the Ayushman Bharat portal, from that of the National Health Authority, for payments, we have been facing multiple glitches and the supply has been erratic.” Harjeet Kaur, 62, a beneficiary who had visited a private hospital for the second dose of vaccine, said she was asked to return. “I was told to come again in a few days as the vaccine is not available. It has been over a month since I was administered the first dose. I hope the vaccine is available soon,” said Kaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-health-dept-runs-out-of-vaccine-stock-cuts-supply-to-pvt-hospitals-101618949681463.html
21-04-2021||Other||With no oxygen, 1.5K Thane beds lying unused||At least 1,500 oxygen beds in two of Thane’s civic-run hospitals have gone unused for the past 10 days because the city has not received its regular supply of oxygen, leading to the deterioration of the health of Covid-19 patients as well as a backlog in admission of severe patients. Two of the three Dedicated Covid hospitals (DCH) run by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) – Parking Plaza and Voltas Company hospitals -- have not used the oxygen beds (in the former case, since April 10), as the amount of oxygen supplied to the civic body by the state has reduced drastically. The city receives 34 tonnes of oxygen, from both private vendors and the state. However, this is insufficient to meet the demands of the oxygen beds run by the TMC. Sakharam Gore (43) had to wait for more than 24 hours to get oxygen support at Parking Plaza, where he was admitted on April 17 after experiencing breathing difficulties. Gore was admitted on a regular bed, and as his lung infection worsened, he required medical grade oxygen. The hospital however did not have oxygen beds ready for use and had a limited supply of cylinders. “After trying for two days I got a bed at parking plaza on April 17. By evening I experienced difficulty in breathing. My oxygen had dropped to 85, but as there was a shortage, I got oxygen support only from April 19. The situation was very bad. They had only two cylinders for nine patients. They used the oxygen on rotational basis for few hours till a vendor arrived and provided cylinders,” Gore, a resident of Patlipada who works as supervisor at a private housekeeping company, said. Gore has still not recovered completely and even to use the washroom makes use of a wheelchair so that the oxygen cylinder need not be removed for a longer period. “If I had received the oxygen support earlier, my condition would not have deteriorated so much,” he said. The TMC runs three DCH (the third being Global Covid Hospital), and four Dedicated Covid Health centres (DCHC). While Global Covid has 929 oxygen beds, the four DCHC have 720 oxygen beds. Only 48 of the former, and 53 of the latter were available as of Tuesday evening. Put together these beds require 46 tonnes of oxygen daily. However, currently only 23 tonnes are available daily. “We have three Covid hospitals where regular oxygen supply is required, from among these, the oxygen facility at Parking Plaza has been shut on April 10 and patients were shifted to Global Covid hospital. Moreover the one at Vartak Nagar (Voltas Company hospital) is not operational yet. The city is currently receiving only 23 tonnes of oxygen. Since Global Covid hospital has the capacity for patients requiring oxygen, all such patients are currently in Global Covid hospital,” a senior official from TMC said. “We are in the midst of signing a contract with a private company on Wednesday and an hour after it is signed we shall have oxygen supply in 350 beds in Parking Plaza hospital. This will ensure regular supply of oxygen within the city. As the number of cases has increased, there is added pressure on the administration personnel, so we shall increase their numbers as well. We have increased 150 oxygen beds at Global Covid facility and work is in progress to increase 25 beds within the ICU,” Dr Vipin Sharma, Commissioner, TMC, said. “Three new plants for oxygen are being built; two of these will have a capacity of 175 metric tonnes. We shall also increase the number of oxygen beds to accommodate the 300 cylinders, such that Parking plaza will have [a total increased capacity of] 800 oxygen beds. Moreover, another plant will be set up, the cost of which will be borne by MMRDA. Once the oxygen supply is restored and functions properly, we shall focus on increasing the beds as well,” added Sharma. Two oxygen plants will be operational by April 30 in Parking Plaza and Global Covid hospital. “When the plant is operational, the city will get 50 tonnes of oxygen daily. We can use 47 tonnes for our patients while three tonnes can be provided to private hospitals. As the supply from vendors as well as the state had gone down it affected the oxygen availability in the city. We used the available oxygen for Global Covid, while private hospitals received oxygen supply from FDA. The 1500 oxygen beds remained vacant at Parking plaza and Voltas at Vartak Nagar as there was no supply of oxygen. General beds were available for the patients,” a senior official from TMC said. Since April 1, 30,985 cases and 183 deaths have been reported in Thane. “TMC has made preparations for the second wave but the number of positive patients is increasing,” said mayor Naresh Mhaske.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-no-oxygen-1-5k-thane-beds-lying-unused-101618948900067.html
21-04-2021||Other||With 5, 029 active cases, Ludhiana’s Covid battle gets tougher||With 778 fresh Covid-19 infections, Ludhiana’s active cases’ count crossed the 5,000 mark to settle at 5, 029 on Tuesday, even as the contagion claimed five more lives in the district. At least 65 new cases were reported from Urban Estate Phase 1 and 2 in Dugri, which were declared containment zones on Sunday. Ludhiana has added as many as 10, 189 cases to its tally in the last 20 days. It has also recorded 120 deaths in this period. In March, the district had recorded 7, 294 cases and 115 deaths.On Tuesday, the number of patients on ventilator support rose to 23, from 17 on Monday. The five persons who lost the battle to the virus are a 75-year-old male from Aluna Miana, a 65-year-old female from Payal, a 62-year-old male from Civil Lines, a 53-year-old male from Shimlapuri and a 40-year-old male from Ram Nagar.1, 103 samples collected from Dugri, 65 positiveAs many as 65 people tested positive on the second day of the testing drive being carried out by the health department in Dugri. Till Sunday evening, the area had 70 positive cases while on Monday, 16 more had been found infected. Senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Avinash Jindal, the nodal officer for the two containments, confirmed that out of the 1, 103 tests conducted on Tuesday, 65 reports came back positive.The SMO said all residents in the two containments will be tested to curtail the spread of the virus. Over 50,000 people reside in these two containment zones. As many as 15 teams have been formed to conduct door-to-door testing in the area.Two-month-old tests positive, youngest ever in district so farA two-month-old child has been admitted at the civil hospital after testing positive for Covid-19. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said that this infant is the youngest Covid patient in the district so far.The child’s parents are labourers and reside near Giaspura area. Their samples have also been collected, the civil surgeon added. The child had been brought to the civil hospital with Covid-like symptoms, following which tests were carried out. The infant is said to be in a stable condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-5-029-active-cases-ludhiana-s-covid-battle-gets-tougher-101618948899504.html
21-04-2021||Other||IELTS and coaching institutes in Ludhiana stare at losses||The owners of the IELTS and coaching centres in the district are a worried lot as the district magistrate-cum-deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Monday ordered their closure till April 30. They stated that last year too due to the Covid pandemic the coaching centres had been hit hard and there was a dip in enrolment. The institutes were allowed to resume offline classes in October last year when the schools were reopened for Classes 9 to 12. The owners said that to ensure social distancing during the offline classes they had increased the number of batches and teachers last year and had to pay their salaries, GST, electricity bills, and the monthly rent. They added that now again with the closure of the institutes, they will face a financial crisis.There are around 750 IELTS and other coaching institutes in the district and a majority of them are located in Feroze Gandhi market, near the ISBT, Model Town, Sector 32, Khanna, Doraha, Samrala, and Macchiwara. Priyanshu, the owner of Shepherd Institute, Model Town, who offers IELTS and spoken English coaching, said, “We will wait till May 1 as the government has closed the institutions till April 30. If the authorities extend the closure, then we will start with online classes. But the students taking IELTS coaching prefer offline classes. Last year, due to the lockdown imposed by the government, only a few students had turned up for these courses.” Munish Dewan, director, IMS, said, “We have already suspended offline classes and will be starting with the online ones from Thursday. We provide coaching for the Common Admission Test (CAT), Common Law Admission Test (CLAT), and graduate record examination. In 2019, 500 students had got enrolled with us while last year, only 200 students did. Students are not satisfied with the online classes.” Students prefer physical classes For IELTS, the institutes prepare the students in four spheres reading, writing, speaking, and listening. Most of these students are from rural backgrounds and they prefer to attend physical classes where they can get a chance to speak in English with their fellow students, instead of attending an online class. Supriya Kumari, a resident of Model Town, said, “I was attending six-hour coaching classes from the last three months and was preparing for the IELTS exam scheduled to be held next month. But the institute authorities sent a message regarding the suspension of offline class. I have paid a fee of ₹31,000 and have appeared in the mock tests and will not be attending the online classes as the face-to-face interaction is missing in these classes. The government must allow the institutes to continue the physical classes with only 10 to 15 students in one batch.” Another student, Gaganpreet Singh, who is taking JEE Advanced coaching from a centre based in Dugri, said, “Since November, I have been attending offline classes and was able to get my doubts cleared. The closure of the institute again will affect our eyesight and concentration as we’ll have to switch to the online mode.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ielts-and-coaching-institutes-in-ludhiana-stare-at-losses-101618948359214.html
21-04-2021||Other||Mumbai’s BEST saw 1.6 million passengers on Monday||Despite curbs on travel for non-essential purposes, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) has witnessed an increase in its passengers. As per data available with BEST, 1.6 million people travelled on its buses in the city on Monday, a rise from the 1.3 million passengers travelled on April 17.On the first day of restrictions on April 15, 1.4 million people had travelled by BEST buses. “There has been an increase in the number of passengers travelling by BEST buses. We are not allowing standee passengers,” said a BEST official. The Maharashtra government, under the ‘Break The Chain’ initiative, did not suspend the city’s public transport, but implemented restrictions. Autorickshaws in the city are allowed to ferry only two passengers, while taxis are allowed to operate with 50% capacity. The general public has been prohibited travel on local trains. People working in essential care services, travelling for medical purposes and vaccinations across the city are, however, allowed to commute by the local trains. The passengers count on local trains has reduced, as railway authorities restricted the entry and exit points of stations on April 15 and started checking identity cards and documents of passengers at the stations’ entrance.On an average, 1.8 million passengers travel by locals on the Central Railway and 1.1 million take trains on the Western line.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbais-best-saw-1-6-million-passengers-on-monday-101618946618675.html
21-04-2021||Other||Bombay HC rejects appeal against use of trademark Covishield||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday refused to interfere with the district court order, allowing Serum Institute of India (SII) to use the name ‘Covishield’ for the vaccine manufactured by it. Cutis Biotech had sought injunction on the name’s use, as it too had a similar name for a drug. But as the district court had refused to grant the injunction, Cutis approached HC. A division bench of HC justice Nitin Jamdar and justice CV Bhadang, however, held that as SII’s vaccine was already well-known and neither company owned the trademark, it was not inclined to grant the prayer of Cutis. The bench, while hearing an appeal filed by Cutis Biotech, was informed by advocates Dr Abhinav Chandrachud and Aditya Soni that the company had applied for the trademark Covishield under the Trademark Act, 1999, last year on April 29. The advocates submitted that on January 4, Cutis had initiated a trademark suit against SII at the Pune commercial court, and hence, till the outcome of the suit was decided, they had filed an interim application seeking an injunction against SII from using the name. However, the district court had refused to grant the injunction as SII had started using manufacturing the vaccines by the Covisheld, following which Cutis approached HC.Senior advocate Dr Birendra Saraf for SII submitted that the company on June 6, 2020, had applied for the registration of trademark ‘Covishield’ under application no 4522244 for vaccine under Class-5. It had also applied for other variants. The company had sought permission to carry out tests for the coronavirus drug from various authorities, and on December 10, 2020, the Union health ministry published the Covid-19 vaccine procedure, which referred to the trademark of SII as ‘Covishield’. After perusing the proceedings of the interim application heard by the district court, the HC bench noted that neither Cutis Biotech nor SII had a registration for the trademark ‘Covishield’. Thus, the grievance of Cutis Biotech would be termed as an allegation of passing off by SII.The district court further noted that as the products of both the companies were different, there was no chance of confusion in the minds of the public. “The court noted the situation brought about by the pandemic and the importance of the vaccine for the general public. The district court, by the impugned order dated 30 January 2021, rejected the interim application,” the HC bench, while dwelling on the implications of the injunction, observed.In light of this, HC observed, “That ‘Covishield’ is a vaccine to counter coronavirus is now widely known. A temporary injunction directing SII to discontinue the use of mark ‘Covishield’ for its vaccine will cause confusion and disruption in the vaccine administration programme of the state. In this case, thus, the grant of an injunction would have large-scale ramifications traversing beyond the parties to the suit.” While dismissing the appeal, the bench noted, “The discretion used by the learned district judge in refusing to grant an injunction is not arbitrary or perverse. Even if the evidence was to be looked at in the first instance, no case is made out for grant of any relief.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-rejects-appeal-against-use-of-trademark-covishield-101618946558556.html
21-04-2021||Other||Relief for Lucknow, Kashi: Oxygen Express gets set to bring air of hope||The railways’ newly-launched Oxygen Express would bring the much- needed relief to districts like Lucknow and Varanasi, which are in dire need of oxygen, by ensuring the supply of the medical gas there soon.The initiative is the outcome of the state government seeking help from the railways to bring oxygen from Jharkhand, West Bengal and Odisha. Additional chief secretary Awanish Kumar Awasthi said, “We are in dire need of oxygen, which we need to bring in from Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha. And putting in the traditional oxygen tankers would take nearly five to six days to complete the entire process. Hence, to expedite the whole process and to bring in Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) as early as possible, we approached the railways, which has come forward to help us and run their Oxygen Express.”Setting the tone for one such life-sustaining endeavour, the city on Tuesday witnessed the movement of the Oxygen Express train that originated from Kandla, Gujarat and will reach Jharkhand via Lucknow. The Oxygen Express passed through Lucknow around 11.45pm. On the return journey from Jharkhand, the train would release half of the consignment in Lucknow and the rest in Varanasi, officials said.The ACS said it was found that transporting LMO by train was two times faster than transporting it through road tankers.“The entire process will take another 48 hours,” he said to HT.It is somewhat similar to an effort in Maharashtra, where the first Oxygen Express left from near Mumbai for Visakhapatnam earlier this week.Officials with the railways said the Oxygen Express would be a boon in transporting LMO, which is a key element in the treatment of certain medical conditions during Covid-19 infection in state.The railways has plans to transport oxygen through Roll On Roll Off (RoRo) services through road tankers with built-in oxygen chambers are placed on flat wagons.“The road tankers placed on the flat wagons are of a specific height and 3330mm was found feasible to transport oxygen through flat wagons without affecting the overhead equipment (OHE) lines,” a railway official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/relief-for-lucknow-kashi-oxygen-express-gets-set-to-bring-air-of-hope-101618946379606.html
21-04-2021||Other||Respond to allegation of mismanagement of second Covid-19 wave, HC asks Centre, state, BMC||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Union of India, state government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to respond to public interest litigation (PIL) filed by an advocate which has alleged mismanagement of resources and inability of the state to provide adequate beds, oxygen and Remdesivir drug to Covid-19 affected patients, while private trusts were providing the same easily. The court also observed that rather than canvassing public interest the petition was more politically inclined and asked the advocate to justify the same and posted the hearing of the PIL for Thursday. A division bench of chief justice Dipanakar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the PIL filed by advocate Sneha Marjadi, was informed by advocate Arshil Shah that lack of facilities during the pandemic has resulted in the violation of fundamental rights of the citizens of the state including their right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution. Shah submitted that even though the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic was underway the authorities failed to streamline the medical facilities as a result of which people had to run from pillar to post seeking redressal. He further submitted that the number of patients outnumbered beds and there was a shortage of oxygen and Covid-19 drugs. He added that coupled with that there was poor management of disposal of dead bodies as crematoriums were running out of wood and the electric crematoriums were over-heating and melting hence all these issues needed to be addressed urgently. Shah referred to the recent order of the Nagpur bench of the HC, wherein after its directions, the Nagpur region got nearly 10,000 Remdesivir vials in a day, hence sought similar interventions from the court. The PIL has sought to monitor the supply chain of Remdesivir injections from the pharmaceutical companies to its procurements in hospital, to curb black-marketing and profiteering that create a panic situation due to unavailability and overpricing of the medicines. Marjadi has also sought a status report on the availability of Covid-beds, lab testing facilities and procurement of Remdesivir and oxygen. While referring to social media posts of the politicians annexed to the PIL, the bench questioned Shah, “When you file a PIL, why would you include political comments? Are you interested in the benefit of the underprivileged, poor and needy or you want to highlight political issues…We are not influenced by any political comments. You should be careful.” Shah responded that it was added to show the influence of politicians in decision making but would delete the same. After the state government lawyer sought time to take instructions from the official, the bench asked advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni to appear on behalf of the state government and address the issues raised in the petition before it. The court also asked the Centre and BMC lawyers to take ‘complete instructions’ and respond to the PIL during the next hearing on Thursday, April 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/respond-to-allegation-of-mismanagement-of-second-covid-19-wave-hc-asks-centre-state-bmc-101618946379025.html
21-04-2021||Other||Bombay HC asks state, NGO to suggest measures to curb spread of Covid-19 in prisons||Mumbai The Bombay high court (HC) has sought to know from the state whether an accused person can be subjected to reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test and a vaccination shot 24 hours prior to being admitted to the prison and if they can be produced before the court through video-conferencing.The court further directed the petitioner in a previous public interest litigation (PIL) regarding the condition of inmates during the Covid-19 outbreak last year to go through the state affidavit and come up with suggestions to bring down the spread of the virus among prisoners and staff. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the suo motu (on its own) PIL initiated last week, was informed by advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that as per the vacation bench’s directions, an affidavit on the status of inmates across all prisons in the state was filed. The affidavit stated that as on April 18, there were 35,124 prisoners in 60 jails, while the capacity was only for 24,032. Kumbhakoni further submitted that as on Monday, there were 188 Covid-19 cases among inmates and staff, and proper care was being taken to curb the spread of the infection in the jails. The PIL was prompted following a report in Hindustan Times on April 16, which stated that the number of Covid-19 cases had gone up from 47 to 200 within a month of the second wave striking the state. The vacation bench of justice Nitin Jamdar had observed that it was a serious concern and hence sought a response from the state on the measures it was taking to curb the spread of the virus in jails. Kumbhakoni further stated that due to the increase in Covid-19 cases among inmates, vaccination of those aged above 45 was already on. While conceding that the state prison authorities had relaxed after being able to control the situation last year, steps were being taken to strengthen the precautionary measures as per the high-power committee (HPC) recommendation of May 2020. He added that those eligible for emergency bail, parole or furlough were being granted the same. Senior advocate Mihir Desai, who had represented a non-governmental organisation (NGO) in the PIL, seeking directions to alleviate the condition of inmates in light of the pandemic last year, had submitted that there were many options before the state and prison authorities to address the problem and he wanted to enumerate the same. He added that as the HPC had met on May 2, 2020, the court should ask it to meet again and consider the current situation and modify the guidelines issued by it to decongest jails. The court, however, asked him to go through the state affidavit and give suggestions thereafter. While seeking to know whether accused persons could be given an RT-PCR test and vaccination before they were admitted to the jails, the court also asked if the suggestion by a coordinate bench to transfer inmates from congested jails to open prisons could be considered and what further measures could be taken to resolve the problem of over-crowding posted hearing of the PIL on Thursday.The petition is placed for hearing on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-asks-state-ngo-to-suggest-measures-to-curb-spread-of-covid-19-in-prisons-101618946318577.html
21-04-2021||Other||Child marriages still prevalent in Panipat, Karnal||Eight years after her marriage, 21-year-old Seema (name changed) went to Karnal women police station with her six-year-old daughter to file a complaint of domestic violence against her husband.She alleged that she was forced to marry a truck mechanic from Kaithal at the age of 13. In return, her sister-in-law got married to Seema’s maternal uncle in ‘Atta-Saata’ (exchange of girl for bride).At the age of 15, Seema became mother of a girl and three years later, when she attained the marriageable age (18), she gave birth to her second child.Now, Seema is caught in a peculiar situation. She wants divorce from her husband but her mother is against this because Seema’s husband took along his sister after Seema returned to her parents.Women protection officer Rajni Gupta says Seema’s is one of the hundreds of cases that come to the office of district women and child protection officers every month.“Child marriages are still prevalent. I have stopped around 300 child marriages in Panipat and Karnal since joining in 2008,” she said.Maximum cases of child marriages come from backward communities and economically weaker families. Besides skewed sex ratio and concerns of safety of the girls, ‘Aata-Saata’, where a family gives away a daughter in exchange for a bride, is a major cause of child marriages.As per official figures, around 420 complaints of child marriage were reported in state in 2020, and 32 FIRs were registered under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006.Under this law, all such persons, who perform, conduct, direct or abet child marriage can be sentenced to rigorous imprisonment up to two years and a fine of up to ₹1 lakh.However, officials monitoring implementation of the Child Marriage Act said that they do not get information about child marriages as people hesitate to report such cases.“In over 75% marriages stopped by timely intervention of officials, the victims themselves inform the police or protection officer about their marriage. In rest of the cases, neighbors inform the police,” officials said.As per the State Crime Records Bureau data, 22 people, including four female, were arrested for violation of the Child Marriage Act in 2019.Preeti Bhardwaj Dalal, officiating chairperson of Haryana Women Commission, says, “There is strict law against child marriages and people are aware of it, but they still flout it.”“We have already discussed the issue and a special campaign will be launched in May to sensitise people about bad effects of child marriages,” she added.FIGHTING THE EVIL SINCE 2008Since her joining in 2008 as protection-cum-prohibition officer of Panipat district, Rajni Gupta helped around 400 minors by stopping their marriages. According to Rajni, she has stopped marriages of 256 minors in Panipat and 95% of them were girls.In 210 cases reported from Panipat, Rajni says she got information before marriage and managed to stop the marriage on the wedding day, but in 46 cases, they came know about the marriage afterwards and later filed a police complaint.“People call us celebration-spoilers as we reach the venue to stop the wedding of minors. Sometimes we even face the anger of parents and relatives of the minors. They pressurise us not to spoil the wedding but this is a violation of the law,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/child-marriages-still-prevalent-in-panipat-karnal-101618946200049.html
21-04-2021||Other||Hospitals in Dombivli and Kalyan face oxygen shortage||With more private hospitals turning into Covid hospitals, there is acute shortage of oxygen in these centres in the Kalyan-Dombivli region.The civic centres and hospitals have enough oxygen supply, claimed the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC).“Although we don’t have excess stock of oxygen cylinders for the civic centres and hospitals, we have need-based supply of oxygen on a day-to-day basis, which is adequate. However, the private hospitals are facing trouble, especially those who have just started treating the Covid patients. They don’t have enough oxygen available,” said Sudhakar Jagtap, deputy commissioner, KDMC.The civic Covid care centres, dedicated Covid health centres and dedicated Covid hospitals require around 20 tons of oxygen. In KDMC, there are around 80 private hospitals that treat Covid patients.“The private hospitals require around 30 tons of oxygen daily. However, they are facing shortage. Those hospitals that are treating Covid patients since last year have their own vendors who supply them oxygen while those that have recently started treating the Covid patients are struggling to get the oxygen cylinders on a regular basis,” said Jagtap.Owner of A and G Private Hospital in Kalyan, Ganesh Pawar, said, “We get the oxygen supply privately and presently we have adequate stock for the existing patients. However, we cannot admit new patients as there is no oxygen for them. Presently, we are treating 40 patients.”Meanwhile, Kalyan and Dombivli have run out of stock of Remdesivir on Monday. “On Tuesday, we have received stock of about 250 injections and they will be adequate for now. We have, however, placed a request to supply the injections on a regular basis so that there is no shortage,” said Dr Ashwini Patil, medical health officer, KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hospitals-in-dombivli-and-kalyan-face-oxygen-shortage-101618946139332.html
21-04-2021||Other||Maharashtra govt and BJP trade fresh barbs over Remdesivir||Faisal MalikMumbai The clash between the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the supply of Remdesivir to Maharashtra again intensified after state minority affairs minister and chief spokesperson of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Nawab Malik on Tuesday alleged that Shirsh Chaudhari, a BJP leader from Jalgaon in north Maharashtra, bought thousands of vials of the drug from Daman-based Bruck Pharma, and sold and distributed it in Jalgaon, Dhule and Nandurbar districts. Malik also released pictures and videos that allegedly showed the distribution of Remdesivir. While BJP leaders claimed that they want to procure 50,000 vials for Maharashtra, Chaudhari bought a stock of 20,000 vials in the first week of April and kept at his Nandurbar hotel, from where the vials are being black-marketed in Nandurbar, Jalgaon and Dhule, Malik told reporters, adding that the BJP leader himself claimed to have distributed 700-800 vials. “We want to know if Chaudhari has obtained any licence from Maharashtra or Diu and Daman FDA,” the minister asked.Maharashtra FDA has now written a letter to Nandurbar collector Rajendra Bharud, asking him to take action against the people concerned. Anil Bhaidas Patil, a legislator from Amalner, Jalgaon, too, has demanded action against those illegally selling Bruck Pharma’s Remdesivir. He had written a letter to state FDA minister Rajendra Shingne in this regard on April 14, Malik said.Shingne also clarified that the drug can be procured only by the state government.“I have been reading news reports in which BJP leaders have been found to have claimed that they were trying to procure Remdesivir for Maharashtra. I would like to clear as FDA minister that no individual, party or organisation has the right to buy or donate the stock of Remdesivir. As of now it can be procured only by the state government,” the FDA minister said in a video message.According to Malik, BJP was trying to create a perception that the MVA government is a failure and could not even make available Remdesivir, an antiviral drug used for Covid-19 treatment, to patients. He alleged that the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of Diu and Daman did not allow Bruck Pharma to supply vials manufactured for exports to Maharashtra.“After Maharashtra FDA permitted Bruck Pharma to sell Remdesivir, Diu and Daman FDA told the firm that they cannot supply the stock to Maharashtra. Diu and Daman is a Union Territory. When I raised the issue on Saturday, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan dialled chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and assured full cooperation, but the situation is yet to be changed,” Malik said.Later, when Mumbai Police called the firm’s director for questioning on the illegal sale of the stock out of the country despite a ban on its export, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis visited the police station and advocated on his behalf, Malik alleged.“It is clear that some BJP leaders are active to defame MVA government. We want action against those involved in the illegal sale and black marketing of Remdesivir,” the NCP spokesperson said, pointing out that the company’s officials were arrested in Valsad for their alleged involvement in black marketing of the drug. Fadnavis had said BJP was trying to procure the antiviral drug for the people of Maharashtra, when it was targeted over his visit to the police station. “...Even this time, we were trying to ensure that the stock of Remdesivir is procured for the people of Maharashtra. It was not meant for the BJP, but for the patients in the state,” said former CM.Meanwhile, Malik also questioned how BJP are leaders getting stock of the antiviral drug, pointing out to an alleged incident last week where BJP’s Surat office (in Gujarat) was also found distributing Remdesivir vials to the people. He further said that both Chaudhari and the firm are involved in the illegal sale and black marketing of the drug, and thus the offence which attracts action.Congress, too, has demanded that Chaudhari and the firm be booked for their “involvement in black marketing” of Remdesivir. “When the Maharashtra government was not getting adequate supply of these injections, how come Chaudhari got so much stock to sell it illegally and privately? It is clear that BJP leaders and Bruck Pharma were colluded in black marketing of Remdesivir and therefore, immediate action should be taken against them,” said Sachin Sawant, general secretary and spokesperson, state Congress.BJP hit back saying Chaudhari is a distributor of the export firm and was trying to save lives of the people by providing them the drug. Pravin Darekar, leader of Opposition in the legislative Council alleged that MVA government is targeting Chaudhari to hide its own failure. He also alleged that NCP legislator and grandnephew of party chief Sharad Pawar Rohit Pawar as well as NCP Welfare Trust, too, have received the stock of Remdesivir vials.“If someone has done something illegal, then there is no reason to support him. But to my knowledge, Chaudhari is a distributor of the export firm and he procured the stock before the ban was imposed by the central government. He was trying to help people and is being targeted by MVA to hide their own failures. If Chaudhari is guilty then how come Rohit Pawar and NCP Welfare Trust have got Remdesivir vials stock?” Darekar said.Maharashtra FDA has permitted three firms — Bruck, BDR Pharmaceuticals and Nixi Labs to sell Remdesivir in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-govt-and-bjp-trade-fresh-barbs-over-remdesivir-101618946079114.html
21-04-2021||Other||Karnal admn: Take action against black-marketing of oxygen, remdesivir||The district administration has issued strict instructions for immediate action if anybody is found involved in black-marketing and hoarding of oxygen and remdesivir vaccine.Following reports of black-marketing in district, official of the district food and drug administration department on Tuesday conducted raids at multiple locations in district.But the officials said Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav has issued strict instruction for action if anybody is found involved in black-marketing of oxygen and remdesivir.Officials added that there is no shortage of required drugs and oxygen in district and urged people to complain if anybody sells medicines above the fixed prices.Instructions were issued to chemists and they have been asked to take ID proof of customers who buy medicines for fever and cough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnal-admn-take-action-against-black-marketing-of-oxygen-remdesivir-101618945959223.html
21-04-2021||Other||Cong slams govt for asking guv to call Covid meet||Bengaluru The all-party meeting called by Karnataka governor Vajubhai Vala on the Covid-19 situation began on a contentious note on Tuesday, with Congress leader Siddaramaiah saying the head of the state, not of the government, calling the meet goes against the Constitution. “The first thing I want to say about this meeting is that the governor calling it is against the Constitution,” Siddaramaiah said at the beginning of the all-party meeting. He said the governor has no right or role in administration. “The governor cannot take decisions based on this meeting. It is for the council of ministers to take decisions regarding Covid-19,” Siddaramaiah said. The Congress has maintained that the governor calling a meeting indicated that the elected state government had failed. “What does it mean when the governor calls an all-party meeting? Is there no elected government in the state? Is this the government’s inability or part of the agenda for #BSYmuktaBJP campaign? Does the government have no face to face the opposition? Or no ability to face the situation? Such a masked government cannot save people’s lives,” the state unit of the Congress said in a Twitter post on Tuesday. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Bengaluru, is also accused of not heeding to the advice of experts, who had indicated that the second wave is likely to be worse than the first one last year. The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), which comprises noted medical practitioners, has said their advice for imposing strict restrictions and other proposals were not considered by the government. Basavaraj Bommai, Karnataka’s home, law and parliamentary affairs minister, dismissed the criticism by the Congress. “The Prime Minister has spoken to all governors and asked them to hold talks with the state governments and opposition parties to ensure coordination to put up a united fight against Covid-19 in such extraordinary circumstances. Governors of all other states are also holding meetings,” Bommai said. He said that the governor of Rajasthan had also held a meeting with the chief minister of that state. “There is a Congress government in Rajasthan. If the governor holds a meeting there, does it mean that there is governor’s rule in Rajasthan,” Bommai said. He said governors have also held meetings in other states like Maharashtra, where the Congress is in power through an alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cong-slams-govt-for-asking-guv-to-call-covid-meet-101618944638442.html
21-04-2021||Other||Weekend curfew, extended night curbs as cases surge in K’taka||BengaluruAfter weeks of deliberations and discussions, the Karnataka government on Tuesday announced extended hours of restrictions during the night and a weekend curfew across the state to mitigate the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 surge in the state and its capital Bengaluru.“The guidelines shall continue to remain in force from 9 pm of 21st April 2021 upto 6am of 4th May 2021,” the guidelines issued by the state government on Tuesday said. The guidelines will be applicable to all parts of the state.The document, named ‘Guidelines to contain COVID l9 transmission in the state’ does not mention lockdown, even though most of the provisions indicate closure of most commercial establishments including cinema halls, malls, restaurants and other activities. Take away services have been allowed to function.The decision comes after days of indecisiveness by the BS Yediyurappa-led government that has been trying to find a middle ground between announcing a lockdown and keeping economic activities functioning in the cash-starved state.“This is not a full lockdown and is kind of a middle ground,” P Ravi Kumar, Karnataka’s chief secretary said on Tuesday night.The guidelines were issued barely an hour after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address, in which he said that lockdown must be the last resort by states, leaving the decision to go in for a lockdown or not with the concerned state governments.The Karnataka government has said that movement of people will remain strictly prohibited during the weekend curfew, except for essential activities.On weekends, grocery shops and other produce selling stores will remain open from 6 am to 10 am.“All industries/companies which require operations at night shall be permitted to operate. Movement of employees of such organisations shall be allowed on producing valid ID card/authorisation issued by their respective organisation/institution,” according to the order.The government said that movement of vehicles for essential supplies will not be prohibited and food and other delivery will be allowed. People will be allowed to move in public and public transport to railway stations, bus stations and airports by producing valid tickets.The restrictions come almost a month after the surge across the state and its capital, Bengaluru, which remains firmly in the tightening grip of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, which continues to wreak havoc on the southern state and other parts of the country.Karnataka and Benglauru reported their highest ever single-day spike on Tuesday as they reported 21,794 and 13,782 infections respectively, taking the combined active cases to 159,158.The state also reported 149 fatalities, including 92 in Bengaluru, indicating the severity of the spread and its impact.R Ashok, Karnataka’s revenue minister, on Tuesday directed district officials in the state to allot land on the outskirts of cities for cremation of bodies citing overload at crematoriums.The guidelines further state that schools, colleges, educational institutions will remain closed. Cinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasiums, yoga centres and sports complexes have been listed under the prohibited activities.The order also states that all religious places will remain closed even though people working in these establishments can continue their work.“The situation in the state has aggravated. Therefore, some extraordinary measures are necessary,” Basavaraj Bommai, Karnataka’s home, law and parliamentary affairs minister, said hours before the guidelines were issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/weekend-curfew-extended-night-curbs-as-cases-surge-in-ktaka-101618944458373.html
21-04-2021||Other||Chennai reintroduces Covid control measures||Volunteers carrying thermal scanners and noting temperature as part of door-to-door surveillance, young men on motorbikes running errands for Covid-19 patients under home isolation are back in Chennai as part of efforts to tackle the second Covid-19 wave.Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) is re-implementing these measures that worked in containing the pandemic spread during the first wave last year as hospitals are running out of beds in the city, which has the highest caseload in Tamil Nadu. Last year, the measures were also implemented in other hotspots districts such as Madurai and Trichy.Workers have been roped in for door-to-door enumeration and for Home Quarantine and Isolation Monitoring System (HQIMS). They worked for a fee of ₹500 daily from June to January. “As cases were low, GCC stopped our work but contacted us again in April with a surge in cases,” said L Sivalingadurai, a volunteer.Also Read | 19 Odisha women rescued from TN garment factorySivalingadurai’s three friends have re-joined HQIMS, and he is thinking about following suit.Over 12,000 volunteers visit households every day across the city to check for symptoms like fever, cough, loss of smell, etc. If they find symptomatic individuals, they are referred to fever clinics, where doctors ascertain if they have an influenza-like illness and collect samples. If they test positive, they are sent to screening centres. Twelve such screening centres were opened last week, where medical teams decide whether to keep patients under home quarantine, shift them to Covid care centres or to hospitals depending on their symptoms.Since patients and their immediate family members under home quarantine cannot step out, FOCUS (Friend of Covid Person Under Surveillance) volunteers help them by buying groceries, medicines, and other essentials. “Besides helping them, this ensures that they also remain in quarantine,” said GCC’s deputy commissioner (health) Alby John. “We are repeating measures taken last year and the vaccination [drive] is [also] a shot in the arm for us as Chennai has vaccinated over 54% of the population above 45.”The civic body also restarted tele-counselling facilities with 100 lines last week for patients under home quarantine.Micro-containment of streets has also been reintroduced as 408 streets have six or more cases. “We have slightly changed the containment strategy wherein we are barricading a street if there are more than three cases..,” said John.Chennai has no shortage of hospital beds, but they are fast filling up. At GCC-run Covid care centres for people with mild symptoms, there were 11,645 beds available. Only 1,487 of them were occupied. In Covid-19 hospitals, 3,002 out of 4,368 beds were occupied, according to government data.Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director, the National Institute of Epidemiology (Chennai), said the second wave is much more rapid as compared to the first in terms of the number of cases and the pace at which they are increasing. “[It] can overwhelm the health system and put pressure on healthcare workers. We need to add more beds and manpower and the public has to take this very seriously and go out for only essential work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chennai-reintroduces-covid-control-measures-101618922318162.html
