22-04-2021||Other||Admission rules amended for Covid-19 patients in UP||The state government on Thursday revised an order for the admission of Covid-19 patients in government and private hospitals as well as government-run and private medical colleges.Accordingly, private hospitals can now admit Covid-19 patients without a referral letter from the Covid command centre. But they will have to share the information immediately with the command centre and display the availability of beds publicly, the state government announced.In an order issued here, additional chief secretary (medical health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said, “The amendment in admission process shall continue till June 30. The private hospitals will keep 10% of the total Covid beds for admission via Covid command centres.” In other words, 90% of the beds in private hospitals have been reserved for direct admission.Private hospitals will share the information immediately after admission with the command centre and update the same at 8am and 4pm, apart from displaying the same outside the hospital for common people to know. Patients can reach private hospitals by their own arrangement but, if needed, the command centre shall make an ambulance available. Private hospitals will charge only the prescribed fee from the patients.At the government hospitals, medical colleges and private medical colleges, 70% of admission in Covid wards will be done via the command centre and 30% of the admission can be done on the basis of an emergency situation by the institutions. These hospitals and medical colleges will also display the status of admission outside the campus/building.All patients requesting free treatment will be admitted via the command centre, said the order. Inspections will be carried out to check if the Covid-19 treatment protocol is being followed.With a surge in Covid-19 cases, the patients were facing hardship in getting beds in hospitals due to the bed allotment order under which the patient had to get registered at ICCC and obtain the referral letter from the chief medical officer (CMO) for admission in the government and private hospitals. The Opposition parties had slammed the state government over the issue. Even BJP MPs and MLAs had demanded revision of the bed allotment order. On Wednesday, the UP Human Rights Commission had directed the state government to revise the bed allotment order as people were being harassed. Lucknow district magistrate Roshan Jacob had also sent a letter to ACS (medical health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad, demanding revision of the order.The district administration will set up counters to receive application for free admission in the government hospitals and medical colleges, he said. The details of the beds in various categories of the private hospitals and rates will be published in the dailies.Hospitals asked to furnish oxygen consumption detailsHospitals in the state have been asked to furnish details of oxygen consumed by them. According to an order by the director general (medical health), hospitals need to give details of oxygen they receive and use per day. This is being done to make an assessment of oxygen consumption and ensure the supply remains in accordance with the demand or need.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/admission-rules-amended-for-covid-19-patients-in-up-101619115830964.html
22-04-2021||Other||Oxygen Express to reach Lucknow on Saturday||The Oxygen Express – the oxygen-loaded train— is expected to reach the state capital on Saturday, carrying around 60,000 litres of liquid medical oxygen (LMO). Officials with Northern Railways (NR) said, they are expecting more such trains in the near future that will mitigate the ‘oxygen crisis’ that has emerged following the sudden spike in demand of LMO. The initiative is part of the UP government’s move under which it had approached the Railways to help them out in bringing LMO from Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha in order to meet the increased demand of LMO in state, especially in Lucknow, Varanasi and Faizabad. Sanjay Tripathi, divisional railway manager (DRM), NR Lucknow, who is tracking the train’s movement, said that the train is expected to leave Bokaro, Jharkhand, tomorrow. “Since it’s around 805km run from Bokaro to Lucknow, the train with an average speed of 63km per hour—that is double the speed of a truck—will take around 16 hours to cover. Hence, the train loaded with LMO is expected to reach Lucknow by Saturday,” said Tripathi. The Oxygen Express left Lucknow on Wednesday night and will reach Bokaro and get the oxygen chambers filled, on Thursday night. As soon as this process is completed, the train will commence its return journey, the DRM added. Initially, there were plans to send around seven empty oxygen chambers to Bokaro. However, despite several trials and following technical glitches, only three oxygen chambers could be sent. Officials said that roughly one chamber has a capacity of around 20,000 litres. “Currently, only three oxygen chambers could be sent. However, in later phases more such trains could be run to Bokaro and other plants to fetch oxygen,” he added. The entire exercise is being carried out under strict supervision of additional chief secretary (ACS) home, transport department and the food safety and drug administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-express-to-reach-lucknow-on-saturday-101619111450672.html
22-04-2021||Other||As acute Oxygen shortage hits Lucknow, citizens travel to other cities in search||Due to the rising number of deaths of Covid-19 patients caused by oxygen shortage in the state capital, people have started arranging for cylinders from other places.People from Lucknow are travelling to Barabanki, Sitapur, Rae Bareli, Lakhimpur, Hardoi, Shahajahnpur, Bareilly, Moradabad and as far as Uttarakhand to get oxygen cylinders. The places continue to become farther everyday as authorities in Lucknow fail to make arrangements for oxygen.On Wednesday, Sukhdev Singh a resident of Alambagh drove over 300 kilometres to Moradabad to buy an oxygen cylinder for his elder brother suffering from complications caused by Covid-19. “I decided to go to Moradabad when I failed to arrange an oxygen cylinder in Lucknow. It is also very hard to get him admitted to a hospital and his oxygen level was going down,” Singh said.Like Singh, 22 other people from Lucknow bought oxygen cylinders from the same firm: Basant Gas Company in Moradabad in the last two days. Dileep Singh, owner of Basant Gases Company, said, “In the last three-four days, more than 20 people from Lucknow have purchased oxygen cylinders from us. We have received more than a 100 inquiries from Lucknow for the availability of oxygen cylinders. We have kept some stock for our local customers and have started to decline requests from other cities.”Similarly, in Bareilly, some 240 kilometres from the state capital, traders of oxygen cylinders are receiving desperate inquiries from people in Lucknow. “More than 80% of our sales in the last week have been made to people from Lucknow. Now, even our stocks have ended and we are declining orders of people from Lucknow,” said Mahendra Pal of Ashoka Gas Company in Bareilly.Gas traders in Bareilly have exhausted their stocks and have written to the district administration to make arrangements for the liquid with which they make oxygen, so that they can continue the supply of oxygen. “Earlier, we use to get the supply of the liquid twice every week. But now this liquid is being diverted to other cities. We have asked the authorities to restart our supply so that we can meet the demands of our customers,” said Rajendra Gupta, owner of Medical Gas Company in Bareilly.The stocks of gas traders in Barabanki, Lakhimpur, Sitapur, Hardoi, Rai Bareli have also been exhausted in the last few days due to the rise in demand from Lucknow.Not just oxygen, people from Lucknow are also travelling long distances to get Remdesivir. In Lucknow, the drug has vanished even from the black market where it was being sold at exorbitant rates. “I managed to get four vials of Remdesivir from Lalitpur district near Madhya Pradesh for my mother. The drug is not available anywhere in Lucknow,” said Somesh Kumar Rai, a resident of Telibagh area here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-acute-oxygen-shortage-hits-lucknow-citizens-travel-to-other-cities-in-search-101619111330597.html
22-04-2021||Other||Palamu: SI killed, 4 constables injured in road accident||A sub-inspector (SI) was killed and four constables were injured in a road mishap in Palamu district in the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, officials said, adding that the personnel were a part of a patrolling party from Nilambar-Pitamberpur police station in the district. Police said the patrolling party was on highway duty on Daltonganj-Panki road when the jeep fell into a road ditch near Bairiya More while trying to avoid colliding into a parked truck. “The mishap occurred after the driver of the patrolling jeep failed to sight the parked truck in the high beam from a truck coming from the opposite direction. The jeep fell into a ditch after hitting the parked truck, resulting in the tragic death of a young police officer,” Palamu superintendent of police (SP) Sanjeev Kumar said.The deceased SI was identified as Sunil Kumar Yadav, a resident of Koderma district. Locals and police rushed the injured to a community health centre (CHC) at Lesliganj for treatment, where Yadav was declared brought dead. The injured constables were referred to Medini Rai Medical College and Hospital (MMCH) for better treatment.The SP said, “The injured personnel were doing well.”In a separate development, a home guard jawan succumbed to injuries after he was crushed under debris of a gate that caved in at Medini Rai Medical College and Hospital at Pokhraha in Daltonganj on Thursday.The deceased was identified as Subhansh Kumar Singh, a resident of Tarhasi police station of Palamu district. An officer at Sadar police station said, “Singh, who was on duty at the medical college, was badly injured when the gate fell on him. He died while being taken to hospital for treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/palamu-si-killed-4-constables-injured-in-road-accident-101619110250626.html
22-04-2021||Other||59 dead in 24 hours||PATNABihar reported 11,489 new Covid cases and 59 related deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the number of active cases to 69,868. The recovery rate, which stood at 81.47% on Tuesday, came down to 80.36% on Wednesday.Capital district Patna reported maximum number (2,643) of cases, followed by Gaya (945). The number of active cases in Patna stood at 16,547.Barring five districts of Banka, Kaimur, Kishanganj, Sitamarhi and Sheohar, the rest 33 districts have reported more than 100 positive cases on Wednesday, the reports of which were released on Thursday. Meanwhile, facing flak over shortage of Remdesivir injections for Covid-19 patients, the union ministry of health and family welfare has allocated 24,500 vials of the anti-viral drug to Bihar as an interim allocation for the period from April 21 to April 30.“Nineteen states have been given this allotment by the government of India and six out of the eight domestic manufacturers will be supplying this to Bihar,” said Bihar’s principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit on Thursday. Of the 24,500 vials that the state would be getting during the period, 14,000 vials are being supplied by Zydus Cadila, 6500 from Hetro Pharma, 1000 from Mylan, 2000 vials from Cipla and 1000 from jubilant Pharma, he said. With regard to supply of oxygen, the principal secretary said that as per the government of India formula, the state government has placed the demand for 300 MTs of Oxygen. The state government, which has given a call to migrants to return at the earliest, has issued letters to all district magistrates to get ready with quarantine centres at every subdivision. “Every returnee, including migrants, will be tested and will be put in isolation wards if tested positive. The state government will meet their requirements, including food,” Amrit said. He said Bihar Medical Services Infrastructure Ltd have been authorized to procure 100 True Nat machines to ramp up the RTPCR testing and temporary structures will be set up in every district with oxygenated beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/59-dead-in-24-hours-101619110131119.html
22-04-2021||Other||500 medicos at two Patna hospitals test +ve, association write to govt||PATNAAmid the unprecedented surge of Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic, more than 500 doctors and medical staff have contracted the virus in two major government hospitals in Patna alone, prompting Bihar Health Service Association (BHSA) to write to the state government seeking a dedicated Covid care centre for health care workers. In a letter to principal secretary (health) Pratay Amrit on Wednesday, BHSA said it had received information from members that “no government official is taking any cognisance of doctors having contracted the virus on duty or of medical professionals whose families had also got affected”. Altogether, 384 employees of AIIMS Patna, including doctors and nurses, have been infected during the second wave so far, its medical superintendent C M Singh told PTI. Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) superintendent Dr Indu Sekhar Thakur said more than 125 of its employees had tested positive so far. He said the list includes 70 doctors and over 55 nurses and other health workers. BHSA has demanded that the state government immediately constitute a cell to extend all support to medical and health workers affected by Covid, set up dedicated Covid care facilities by converting hotels as hospitals exclusively for treatment and isolation of families of medical professionals and also provide a group insurance of ₹1 crore to all medical professionals. “This a pitiable state of affairs. We are front line workers helping patients to fight Covid. But when we and our families are contracting the virus and falling ill, there is nobody to look after us. A large number of doctors in the state have contracted the infection and subsequently transmitted it to their families.But they are fending for themselves,” said Dr Dipak Kumar Singh, senior vice-president of BHSA and its spokesperson. He said government should use funds to provide group insurance instead of giving one month extra salary to medical professionals as announced. “I and my teenaged son are Covid positive. My wife is also not well.There is nobody to even buy medicines or other home essentials for us as we are all in home isolation. My gardener is now my only help as my driver is also positive. Nobody from the hospital or civil surgeon’s office has even bothered to call us to extend help,” said a senior doctor and member of BHSA, posted at a government hospital in Patna. He did not want his name to be disclosed. Another government hospital doctor in Patna , preferring anonymity, narrated how he had been running fever for the last 10 days, besides suffering from throat irritation, anxiety and loss of taste due to the infection. “Nobody is caring for us. I am isolated in my room and now only concerned about my family,” he said.Some of the doctors shared how they had to get their RT-PCR tests done at private labs after developing symptoms as the queue in getting tests at government facilities was long. “RT-PCR test results are coming after four to five days and till that time, doctors are getting more exposed. That is a risky affair and raising complications,” said another doctor, demanding that testing for medical professionals be scaled up. Principal secretary (health) Prataya Amrit, reacting to the letter from BHSA, said all government hospitals had been instructed to keep dedicated beds for doctors and health care staff affected by Covid. On the demand for group insurance for medical professionals, he said the Bihar was the only state that had made provision to give additional one month’s salary to all medical professionals. “Besides, there is provision that family of those doctors dying due to Covid on duty would be entitled for full salary till retirement, apart from other benefits,” he said. Amrit said 95% of the doctors and medical care staff had received first dose of Covid vaccine while 74 doctors/ medical professionals had got the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/500-medicos-at-two-patna-hospitals-test-ve-association-write-to-govt-101619110130493.html
22-04-2021||Other||Remdesivir of no use for Covid patients: NMCH chief||PATNASuperintendent of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital in Patna, Dr Binod Kumar, has struck a strong note of caution against the indiscriminate use of Remdesivir, an anti-viral drug that has largely disappeared from Bihar and other parts of the country amid scramble by kin of patients, some of whom are paying exorbitant amounts for the drug in the black market. “Remdesivir is not suggested for patients admitted in hospitals with Covid-19 complications regardless of how severally ill they are, because there is currently no evidence that it improves chances of survival or reduces need for ventilation,” a note issued by Kumar late on Wednesday reads. The NMCH chief also directed his doctors not to prescribe Remdesivir.There has been rampant black-marketing of the drug in several parts of the state, including capital Patna, as the ground report suggests. An official familiar with the matter, who didn’t wish to be identified, said pharma companies supply the prescription drug to distributor/stockists, who sell it to medical stores, which, in turn, sell it to middlemen or medical representatives who finally offer it to patients at exorbitant prices. A medical practitioner said the maximum retail price (MRP) per vial (100 mg) for various brands of Remdesivir manufactured by pharma companies are ₹5,400 for Hetero, ₹4,700 for Mylan, ₹4,700 for Jubliant, ₹5,400 for Dr Reddy’s, ₹4,000 for Cipla, ₹2,450 for Syngene’s and ₹899 for Zydus and Cadila. But touts are offering Remdesivir, purportedly manufactured by Zydus, for ₹25,000 a vial, almost 25 times its MRP. “My father is critically ill. Almost all medical stores in Patna are out of Remdesivir. I had no choice but to pay ₹1.06 lakh to a middleman for four bottles of Remdesivir,” a patient’s son said, requesting anonymity. “We needed the injection for my uncle who was being treated for Covid-19. If you do not have money to pay for Remdesivir being sold in the black market, you have no option but to give up on the life of your loved one,” said Rajkumar, a native of Maner. “The pandemic has affected people financially. The government should provide this drug free or cap the price at ₹500 to ₹1,000 per vial. Like vaccines, it should be stocked everywhere in all centres,” said Sudhir Mahto of Khagaul. “We have ordered 50,000 units of Remdesivir injections for Bihar and we are expected to receive the consignment shortly,” said Manoj Kumar, special secretary, Bihar State Health Society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/remdesivir-of-no-use-for-covid-patients-nmch-chief-101619110070596.html
22-04-2021||Other||22 persons have died on railway tracks in 2021||In the last four years, a total of 437 persons have lost their lives on railway tracks in Pune, under the Pune government railway police (GRP) station. This year, till April 20, 22 persons died on the tracks, even amid Covid restrictions. On April 18, a 57-year-old Army officer of the rank of Brigadier, posted at the Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC) in Pune, succumbed to injuries from being crushed under a moving train at the Pune railway station. The police during a preliminary probe suspect it to be death by suicide. As per the statistics shared by the railway police, “A total of 207 people died in 2018; 194 in 2019; 124 in 2020; and 22 in 2021 (till April 20). Before lockdown, 250 trains used to ply in the Pune railway division daily. However, from March 25, 2020, till May 2020, railway traffic was closed. Since June 1, 2020, trains started plying again and now about 100 trains are running daily.” Mishaps have occurred on railway tracks between Pune and Lonavala; Hadapsar and Baramati; and in Pune. According to senior police inspector Suresh Singh Gaud, the jurisdiction of Pune railway police extends from Lonavla station to Daund station Section 144 of the Railways act states that trespassing on the railway tracks is a punishable offence with imprisonment upto six months, and, or fine upto ₹1000. Last year while Railways was busy trying to prevent migrant labourers from walking on the tracks in the wake of the Aurangabad incident, 124 died on tracks under Pune railway police jurisdiction. In May 2020, 16 migrants, who were walking to Bhusawal from Jalna and had fallen asleep on the tracks and were run over by a goods train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/22-persons-have-died-on-railway-tracks-in-2021-101619104670187.html
22-04-2021||Other||25-year-old daily wage labourer murdered in Katraj||PUNE A 25-year-old man was murdered in Pune in the late hours of Wednesday, by a group of at least four accused. The police suspect some of the group members to be minors. The deceased has been identified as Saurabh Lekawale (25), a resident of Katraj, who was a daily-wage worker, according to police.The incident happened in an open area in Ambegaon Pathar area of Katraj.The police suspect the men got into a fight with Lekawale.“The deceased has a criminal history. Around seven months ago he was in a fight with boys from his neighbourhood. The complainant suspects that it was because of that fight that he was attacked,” said police inspector (crime) Sangita Yadav, of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station, who is investigating the case.A complaint in the matter was lodged by the deceased man’s relatives.A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/25yearold-daily-wage-labourer-murdered-in-katraj-101619102750138.html
22-04-2021||Other||Pharmacist arrested for selling Remdesivir on black market at Rs10K a vial||PUNE A pharmacist has been arrested for selling Remdesivir at exorbitant rates on the black market has been arrested by the Pune police on Wednesday.Remdesivir is a drug used to treat Covid-19 patients,The arrested man has been identified as Ankit Vinod Solanki (26), a resident of Sukhwani Complex in Dapodi.The police had received information about a man of Solanki’s description selling Remdesivir on the black market in Kondhwa.The police sent a decoy customer and contacted Solanki who called him near a restaurant in Kausarbagh, Kondhwa, according to a statement issued by the Pune police.“He took the customer to a lane besides the restaurant and showed him two injections. For one injection he asked for ₹10,000. He demanded ₹10,000 cash and ₹10,000 through an online transfer,” read the police statement.Solanki, a pharmacist by profession, stole another person’s prescription and wrongfully used it to buy the drug from Sanjeevani Medical store at Sassoon General Hospital.He allegedly confessed to have illegally sold injections procured from Sanjeevani Medical, according to the statement.A case under relevant Sections of Indian Penal Code, Drugs Prices Control Order, Essential Commodities Act, and Drugs and Cosmetics Act has been registered at Kondhwa police station against Solanki.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pharmacist-arrested-for-selling-remdesivir-on-black-market-at-rs10k-a-vial-101619101550061.html
22-04-2021||Other||Facebook contact dupes 60-year-old of ₹4 crore in “gift-stuck-at-airport” scam||PUNE A 60-year-old woman from Pune has been duped of ₹4 crore through an online gift fraud, initiated by someone she became friends with on Facebook.The complainant holds a senior position in a major private company, the names of which the police refused to reveal.The woman received a friend request in the first week of April 2020 from an account that had an English national’s credentials, including photo, according to her complaint.The account holder then asked for her WhatsApp number and started chatting with her on it. The two were corresponding through social media for five-six months. The unnamed accused then told the victim he was sending her an iPhone for her birthday.However, the accused later told her that her gift was stuck at customs at Delhi airport.“It started with an iPhone and he kept adding to it - jewellery, foreign currency, and other valuables. They also put the fear of the customs department coming after her if she does not retrieve the gift from them,” said police inspector Ankush Chintaman of the cyber police station, who is investigating the case.The woman made 207 transactions within six months to 67 different bank accounts in various states of India, according to police. A total of ₹3,98,75,500 was transferred from two of the victim’s bank accounts.“All the transactions are cash transfers. They had spent months in gaining her trust. When the numbers involved started coming off and unresponsive, she realised that she had been duped,” said PI Chintaman.A case under Sections 419 (personation), 420 (cheating), and 385 (extortion, puts any person in fear of injury) and Section 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act has been registered at the cyber police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/facebook-contact-dupes-60-year-old-of-rs-4-crore-in-gift-stuck-at-airport-scam-101619101252806.html
22-04-2021||Other||Nigerian held with cocaine worth Rs4 lakh in Kondhwa||PUNE A Nigerian national has been arrested by the Pune police on Wednesday, in possession of cocaine worth ₹4 lakh, in Kondhwa.The man, identified as Shamsuddin Omotola Hasan (48), is a resident of Sankla Exclusive Vista Society in Pisoli. The man is a native of Lagos in Nigeria, according to police. The man intended to sell the drugs, a statement by the police claimed. The drugs in his possession were found be worth ₹4,16,000. Along with the drugs, the police found five mobile phones worth ₹15,000; one Yamaha motorcycle worth ₹50,000; cash of ₹20,000; and a weighing scale worth ₹1,000. The total seizure was estimated to be worth ₹5,02,000.The 48-year-old was found at the gate of Brookefield Society when the officials of the crime branch were patrolling the Kondhwa area at 2:50am on Wednesday.The crime branch officials who made the arrest were from Anti-Narcotics Cell-1 of Pune police crime branch, led by Senior police inspector Vinayak Gaikwad.A case under Sections 8(c), 22(b) of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985 has been registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nigerian-held-with-cocaine-worth-rs4-lakh-in-kondhwa-101619100829897.html
22-04-2021||Other||State edu minister plans vaccination drive on varsity campuses for students aged above 18||PUNE From May 1, all above the age of 18 years will be eligible to get the Covid vaccine. Considering this, state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant has appealed to all 13 universities in the state to vaccinate students. With the help of the state government, Samant is planning a separate vaccination drive at for universities so there will not be a crowd at the regular vaccination centres. There are approximately 3.7 million students in the 13 state universities across Maharashtra. “Looking at the current situation, vaccination needs to be done aggressively. From May 1, people above the age of 18 will get the jabs, so I had a discussion with the state chief minister to make arrangements for a student vaccination drive. Accordingly, a large number of students will be vaccinated and we can start the next academic year, 2021-22, in a safe environment,” said Samant. “It is a good option to make separate arrangements for students either on the university premises or elsewhere, to get the jabs,” said Kuldeep Ambekar, a student and president of student organisation, Students Helping Hand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-edu-minister-plans-vaccination-drive-on-varsity-campuses-for-students-aged-above-18-101619100349949.html
22-04-2021||Other||Wedding in two hours: couples, families frustrated; virtual celebrations catching on||PUNE For Shailesh Kshirsagar, new guidelines issued by the state government yesterday about strict restrictions on wedding ceremonies, are a matter of concern. “Our wedding is scheduled for April 28 and as per the earlier guidelines, we were going to invite only 25 persons from both the sides. Now, it is stated that only two hours will be given for rituals. It is not possible to conduct an entire wedding in two hours. The government should rethink this decision,” said Kshirsagar. As per the latest Covid norms declared on Wednesday by the state government, the wedding must end in two hours.Manmeet Kaur’s daughter’s wedding is scheduled for next week. “We have invited only 20 persons from both the families and the wedding is going to happen in a private hall near our house in Kondhwa. It was to be a day-long event where all the safety precautions were to be taken. Limiting the time to two hours is not correct, as weddings cannot happen in a couple of hours.”Meanwhile, a new trend of inviting guests online is emerging. Families send a YouTube link on social media to their friends and relatives, and on the day of the wedding the link is activated and people can attend the wedding ceremony virtually. One such wedding, of Swagata Kadgaonkar, is scheduled on April 24 in Pune. Sucheta Kadgaonkar, Swagata’s sister, said, “As we cannot invite more than 25 people for the wedding, we decided to make it a virtually a grand event. An online video and streaming team have been contracted and they have already created a link on YoTube for the wedding day. We sent it to all our relatives, friends and guests and all of them are excited to attend the wedding virtually. From morning till evening, all the rituals will be streamed ‘live’ and people can watch it on YouTube.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wedding-in-two-hours-couples-families-frustrated-virtual-celebrations-catching-on-101619099869896.html
22-04-2021||Other||Seniors at retirement homes have “lonely” new routine due to Covid crisis||Retirement homes across the city have a different current routine due to the Covid crisis. Visitors are not allowed and donations have dropped.“Not only donations, but weekend visitors - relatives or school/college students – are not allowed to visit. Senior citizens used to enjoy the presence of students as they used to celebrate birthdays - playing games and sharing fruits and cakes. All activities have stopped now,” says Ramesh Devkule, manager of the Matoshree home in Karve nagar.Even though most of the homes are run by trusts, donations play a big role in the upkeep.“Earlier, people used to come forward and donate. Now due to a financial crunch, they have stopped. And we cannot ask because of the Covid crisis,” said Devkule.Fewer visitors have left the senior citizens restless.“But for a few months, this year we have not played any games with students. With colleges and schools shut, many are not visiting the homes,” says an inmate at Matoshree, requesting anonymity.“We have a capacity of 100 people, but now we only have 74 inmates. Management has restricted new entries currently. We make sure all 74 live a healthy and safe life,” said Devkule.Video chat for relativesManagement does organise video chat sessions for relatives.“We have strictly moved to video meetings. Earlier, it was hard for senior citizens, but now they are getting used to technology. Still, most enjoy physical meetings and we will resume once the situation becomes normal,” said Ravindra Marathe, trustee of Niwara home in Sadashiv peth.Vaccination drivesThe homes have made sure that all the seniors get their vaccinations, since most are above the age of 60.“Currently, we have only 15 senior citizens and all have got their vaccination done. We had informed their relatives and completed the procedure. None of the seniors have faced any health problem due to Covid-19 as of now,” said Arvind Maklur, manager of Anand Dham on Apte road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/seniors-at-retirement-homes-have-lonely-new-routine-due-to-covid-crisis-101619098489818.html
22-04-2021||Other||Odisha varsity V-C booked for abetment to suicide||The Odisha police have booked three people, including the vice-chancellor (V-C) of a university in the Sambalpur district, for allegedly abetting the suicide of a contractual employee on Tuesday. The employee allegedly doused himself with petrol before setting himself afire inside the V-C’s chamber. He was referred to Cuttack for treatment but succumbed to his 90% burn injuries on the way.The employee had been working as a technical assistant at the university since 1993, but his service was not regularised despite several requests.Sambalpur police superintendent B Gangadhar said the V-C and the two others would be interrogated.Also Read | Odisha cancels Class 10 boards, no decision on Class 12 exams yetThe V-C allegedly humiliated the employee for apparently leaking the information of the felling of trees in front of the university’s administrative building.The employee earlier wrote a letter to the registrar of the university accusing the V-C of abusing him over felling of trees and leaking the news to the local media. “He used filthy words against me. He threatened to throw me out from the hostel and accused me of stealing some furniture. When I asked him for proof, he threw me out of his room,” the employee wrote in the letter. He added as an underpaid employee, he was being unfairly targeted by the V-C. “I am going to commit suicide today if the vice-chancellor does not apologise in front of all employees as he has accused me without any fault of mine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-varsity-v-c-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-101619079829804.html
22-04-2021||Other||Thane resumes vaccination process in 12 centres today||A day after Thane Municipal Corporation shut the vaccination process completely due to shortage of vaccines, the civic body resumed it in 12 centres on Thursday after receiving 3,500 vials. Eight of these centres have Covishield while four have Covaxin. However, the problem is going to persist as 44 centres are still not open. “We received around 3,500 vials on Wednesday evening and we took a decision to keep a few centres open, but we are awaiting more dosages on Thursday, which will help us continue with the vaccination process,” said Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske. Also Read | 1,710 doses of Covid vaccine stolen from Jind Civil HospitalOn Wednesday, only one centre at Majiwada was opened with 300 vials of Covaxin for booster doses. However, they lasted only for two hours.Thane Municipal Corporation has the capacity to vaccinate more than 10,000 beneficiaries in a day if all 56 centres are open. However, the shortage of vaccine compels the civic body to only open a few centres, based on the availability of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-resumes-vaccination-process-in-12-centres-today-101619074609544.html
22-04-2021||Other||Cremation count casts doubt over Covid death data in Chandigarh and Panchkula||Even as official numbers indicate there have been 42 Covid deaths in Chandigarh so far in April, the cremation grounds in the city say the number is as high as 70, pointing to discrepancy between the health department data and the situation on the ground. Even in Panchkula, according to the administration, 18 people died due to coronavirus in the same period, while the number reported by the city’s only cremation ground in Sector 20 is 30.Similarly, in March, officially there were 26 Covid deaths in Chandigarh, but 33 cremations were carried out.In Panchkula, the bulletin showed five deaths, while there were 15 cremations in March.Apart from the traditional and LPG crematorium in Sector 25, Chandigarh, the cremation ground in Industrial Area also takes care of last rites of Covid patients from the city. Another such facility in Manimajra does not cremate Covid patients.At the Sector 25 crematorium, 49 Covid patients from Chandigarh have been cremated in April so far, while the number is 21 at the Industrial Area ground.No test report sought at UT’s crematoriumsCovid cremations in Chandigarh are mostly taken care of by members of the Red Cross. Families of the deceased also bring bodies directly after informing the crematoriums. But, there is no protocol to seek a Covid report or conduct a test before the last rites. According to the caretakers, the daily details of cremations, including those of Covid patients and those brought by families, are forwarded to the municipal corporation (MC). But, it remains unclear, if the data is calibrated thereon.Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, said if a patient dies at home, the family must get a Covid test conducted for consistency in the figures.“If there is a Covid death in any city hospital, our surveillance cell gets the information. All hospital deaths are tested for Covid. Perhaps, people are going to the cremation ground and writing the cause of death as Covid in absence of a facility to verify it,” she said.Stating that there was no question of hiding fatalities, UT adviser Manoj Parida said there was a protocol in place at the hospitals, and every death was counted for and timely information was provided to all stakeholders.Families may be providing Panchkula address: DCOn the discrepancy in the numbers in Panchkula, deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar said at times, attendants from other cities and states gave a Panchkula address at the cremation ground, despite not being from here. “To avoid any mismatch in figures, their addresses are cross-checked by health department teams and the data is updated accordingly,” he added.However, a worker at the Sector-20 crematorium, said, “We always ask for a copy of the deceased’s Aadhaar card and another of a family member, which is used to record the address. Besides, why would anyone give a wrong address of the deceased?”Overall cremations risingWith the surging Covid-19 cases, the number of overall cremations in both cities has also risen between March and April. According to the three crematoriums in Chandigarh, they have carried out 393 cremations in April so far, while the number in the corresponding period in March was 284. In Panchkula, against 36 cremations through March, the city’s sole crematorium recorded another 47 within 20 days of April.However, the facilities aren’t under stress, as they have the capacity to conduct a lot more cremations should the need arise. The Industrial Area crematorium for instance, has the capacity to perform 24 cremations a day, but so far, the maximum has only been six.“It’s true that Covid-19 deaths are being underreported in the country, as many deaths at home could also have been due to Covid. At the same time, there is a possibility that people with other ailments aren’t getting proper medical care, as hospitals are burdened with Covid-19 patients, leading to more casualties,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head, community medicine, and dean, PGIMER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cremation-count-casts-doubt-over-covid-death-data-in-chandigarh-and-panchkula-101619036445838.html
22-04-2021||Other||Week after Ludhiana man’s mysterious death, wife, her aide held for murder||A week after a 35-year-old man was found dead under mysterious circumstances at his house in Jodhan village of Ludhiana, police arrested his wife and her alleged lover in the case. The victim, Ranjit Singh, 35, was found dead on April 14. Police claimed the accused, Gagandeep Kaur, 30, and Raghvir Singh, 27, a cousin of the victim, confessed to the crime after their arrest on Wednesday.Sharing details, Jodhan station house officer (SHO) Amritpal Singh, who is the investigating officer, said the case was registered on complaint of the victim’s father Sukhdev Singh.He told the police that his son had got married to Gagandeep around 10 years ago and the couple has three daughters, aged 9, 7 and 4. However, due to strained relations, the couple had started living separately. The complainant said that he came to know that his nephew Raghvir had visited the house a day before his son was found dead. It also came to the fore that Raghvir and Gagandeep Kaur were in an illicit relationship. “When I questioned Gagandeep about the matter, she was not able to give a proper response and on the intervening night of April 16 and 17, she fled, leaving her daughters home,” said the victim’s father. “Following their arrest, the accused revealed that they had served dinner laced with poison to the victim and strangulated him after he lost consciousness,” the investigating officer said. A case under Section 302 (murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the two accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/week-after-ludhiana-man-s-mysterious-death-wife-her-aide-held-for-murder-101619034765029.html
22-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana records biggest Covid spike of 879 cases||Covid cases in Ludhiana continued to soar with as many as 879 fresh cases being reported in the last 24 hours. This is the highest-ever single-day count recorded in the district since the pandemic outbreak last year. The previous high was recorded just four days ago on April 17, with 835 positive cases.As many as seven persons also succumbed to the virus, health officials said on Wednesday. The deceased include four males and three females. The men who lost their lives include a 65-year-old resident of Kochhar Market area, a 46-year-old resident of Sahnewal, a 56-year-old resident of Janta Nagar and a 57-year-old resident of Giaspura. Among the women who lost their lives are an 84-year-old resident of Sarabha Nagar, a 43-year-old from Vishkarma Nagar and a 45-year-old from Guru Nanak Nagar.The fresh cases took the cumulative count of infections to 45, 478, out of which 38,921 patients have recovered and 1, 265 have succumbed. The district currently has 5, 292 active cases. A total of 7, 075 patients are currently in home quarantine.Taking stock of the situation, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma stated the rising number of cases is putting pressure on the health infrastructure and people are scanning online portals to check for bed availability. “Currently, 83 beds are occupied in government hospitals while in private hospitals, the number stands at 750,” he said, adding that the administration is taking steps to increase the number of beds in private hospitalsHe also appealed to residents to continue adhering to Covid safety norms to keep the infection at bay as the situation is worsening day by day.Nurse shortage in civil hospitalThe rising cases have also led to a shortage of healthcare workers at civil hospital. The hospital urgently needs 20 nurses and attendants. Interested candidates can approach the office of the senior medical officer. Won’t shut down factories, don’t leave: DC to migrantsPosting a video message on social media, Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to migrant labourers to not leave the city and assured them that factories won’t be closed. “It has come to my knowledge that migrants are leaving and hiring private buses to take them to their hometown. It is my sincere appeal to the migrants to not to leave so that we can contain the spread of virus. We will be taking action against private buses and are already issuing challans for violations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-records-biggest-covid-spike-of-879-cases-101619033145518.html
22-04-2021||Other||Private vendor to provide 13 tonnes of oxygen to Thane, supply to 350 beds to be restored||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) on Wednesday evening finalised a deal with a private vendor to provide 13 tons of oxygen. Along with this, 350 beds will receive oxygen supply by Thursday morning within the Parking Plaza facility. This move has come into effect 11 days after 30 patients were shifted from the parking plaza facility to Global Covid Hospital due to a shortage of oxygen supply. Due to lack of regular oxygen supply, at least 1,500 oxygen beds in two of Thane’s civic-run hospitals have gone unused for the past 11 days. This had led to the deterioration of the health of Covid-19 patients currently admitted, as well as a backlog in the admission of severe patients. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC, said, “A private vendor has been finalised on Wednesday evening; they will initially provide 13 ton of oxygen supply to Parking Plaza by Thursday morning. This will restore supply to 350 oxygen and ICU beds and gradually will focus on providing oxygen for the others beds. Parking Plaza has 800 oxygen beds and 200 ICU beds. Currently, there are 375 general beds which are occupied with Covid positive patients.” The work to set up a 47-ton oxygen plant, that can refill 175 oxygen cylinders, has now begun at the parking plaza. The work is slated to be completed within a week. TMC officials also informed that by Friday all the 800 oxygen beds in the facility will be available for patients. Currently, Thane city has only 124 beds with an oxygen facility and 61 beds with intensive care unit (ICU) available in civic-run Covid hospitals. Two oxygen plants will be operational by April 30.Two of the three dedicated Covid hospitals (DCH) run by the TMC – Parking Plaza and Voltas Company hospitals – have not used the oxygen beds (in the former case, since April 10), as the amount of oxygen supplied to the civic body by the state has reduced drastically. The city receives 34 tonnes of oxygen, from both a private vendor and the state. However, this was insufficient to meet the demands of the oxygen beds run by the TMC. While Global Covid Hospital has 929 oxygen beds, the Parking Plaza has 800 oxygen beds, the civic body has now finalised another vendor who will provide around 13 ton of oxygen to the Parking Plaza by Thursday morning. The civic body will gradually focus on providing oxygen for the other beds, including ICU.TMC’s Covid hospital at Vartak Nagar (Voltas Company Hospital) is not operational yet. The city till Wednesday evening was receiving only 23 tons of oxygen. Since Global Covid Hospital was the only facility that has the capacity for patients requiring oxygen, all such patients are currently shifted there. State cabinet minister and Thane’s guardian minister Eknath Shinde on Wednesday surveyed Parking Plaza and the commencement of work to set up an oxygen plant. “We are coming up with one jumbo tank that will have the capacity of 47 tons that can refill 175 oxygen cylinders. The work for the same will be completed within a week and the oxygen will suffice for the beds within Parking Plaza. Once this plant is built, Parking Plaza Hospital will function full-fledged,” said Shinde. “In all three new plants for oxygen are being built; two of these will have a capacity of 175 metric tonnes. We shall also increase the number of oxygen beds to accommodate the 300 cylinders, such that the Parking Plaza will have [a total increased capacity of] 800 oxygen beds. Moreover, another plant will be set up, the cost of which will be borne by MMRDA. Once the oxygen supply is restored and functions properly, we shall focus on increasing the beds as well,” said Dr Vipin Sharma, commissioner, TMC at the general body held on Tuesday. “When the plant is operational, the city will get 50 tonnes of oxygen daily. We can use 47 tonnes for our patients while three tonnes can be provided to private hospitals,” added a senior officer from TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/private-vendor-to-provide-13-tonnes-of-oxygen-to-thane-supply-to-350-beds-to-be-restored-101619033144304.html
22-04-2021||Other||Punjab announces salary hike of ₹500 for mid-day meal workers||In a relief to around 3,622 mid-day meal (MDM) workers who have been preparing meals for the students of 1,536 government schools in the district, the state government has hiked their salary by ₹500 per month. Earlier, the workers used to get paid ₹1,700 per month. The last hike given to the workers was in 2017 and at that time they used to earn ₹1,200 per month. The mid-day meal workers in the district said that it was a relief for them as they had been working hard to prepare packets of food grains along with the teachers and then delivering the same to the doorsteps of the children amid the lockdown imposed by the Central government last year. Forty-year-old Usha Rani, a mid-day meal worker at Government Primary School, Chanan Devi, said, “I have been working in this school for the last 10 years. We reach school early as we have to serve meals to the children by 11.30 am. We have been preparing meals for over 600 students every day and put in a lot of effort to serve delicious and healthy food to the children studying in Class 1 to 5. This enhancement in salary will further motivate existing workers to continue with their jobs.” Last year on September 23, the state government had announced paid maternity leave for 180 days for mid-day meal workers under the Maternity Benefit Act. Another MDM cook in a Government Model Senior Secondary School, Cemetery Road, Vandana, said, “This is the biggest respite for the workers as we are paid a very meagre salary per month. I was expecting a hike of ₹1,300 per month. I have been preparing meals in our school with other workers for more than 700 students but due to the surge in Covid -19 cases, now we are not serving meals to students as schools are closed till April 30. The state government even paid us salary for June last year, while usually, during the summer break in June, the authorities do not give us a salary.” While as per the officials of the state MDM Cell, they do not have details as to when the salary will be hiked. When contacted, Prabcharan Singh, general manager of the state MDM cell, SAS Nagar, said, “I will not be able to comment as we haven’t received any information regarding when the salary of the MDM workers will be increased from ₹1,700 to ₹2,200.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-announces-rs-500-salary-hike-for-mid-day-meal-workers-101619032844841.html
22-04-2021||Other||Tamil Nadu: 16 migrant workers jump quarantine to return home||Chennai: Two days before their quarantine period ended, 16 Covid positive migrant workers left Tirupur district to go to their native place in Jharkhand, police and health officials said.The 16 infected patients left with a group of 36 other migrant workers and boarded a train on Monday night fearing a lockdown amid the Covid second wave. Tirupur health authorities have informed the state officials to alert their counterparts in Jharkhand so that co-passengers of the same train could be tracked. Samples taken from the workers came back as positive on April 7. Their 14-day isolation period would have ended Wednesday. The workers were being treated at the government hospital and medical college in Tirupur for a week. “After being discharged they were asked to quarantine for another week but they escaped on the 5th day,” said Dr Jagadish Kumar, deputy director of health services of Tirupur. “They are unlikely to pose a risk as they’re all asymptomatic and have remained in quarantine except for two days but it is still a violation of protocol so we have registered a police complaint and informed the medical team in Jharkhand.”The district police are likely to register a complaint under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. “We have received the complaint today and we will be registering an FIR for Covid-19 violations,” said sub-inspector Sivaganesh. The workers were employed with a cotton mill at Vellakoil in Tirupur and were undergoing quarantine at the staff quarters at the mill. “Even the mill management was not aware that they had left,” he said. As cases rise in Tamil Nadu and several restrictions have been imposed including a night curfew, migrant workers from different parts of the state are queuing up at railway stations to go home. The belt of Tirupur, Coimbatore and Erode in the western region of Tamil Nadu are dotted with industries and manufacturing factories and a major part of the workforce is formed by migrant workers, predominantly from Jharkhand, Odisha and Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tamil-nadu-16-migrant-workers-jump-quarantine-to-return-home-101619032424710.html
22-04-2021||Other||panel submitted report in ipS officer’s case, TN govt tells HC||Chennai: The internal complaints committee (ICC) has completed its enquiry and submitted a preliminary report to the government on the sexual harassment complaint of a woman IPS officer filed against suspended Tamil Nadu special DGP (law and order), the state informed the Madras high court on Wednesday. A L Somayaji appearing for the state as special senior counsel made this submission to the first bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthil Ramamoorthy. The court was hearing a plea by a former additional SP of special branch CID, R Kuppusamy who sought the case to be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). During the hearing, advocate Abdul Saleem, representing the suspended DGP informed that the accused had appeared before the ICC and CB-CID so there was no necessity for a CBI probe. The court disposed off the writ petition stating that it didn’t require a central agency probe since the CB-CID is also investigating the case which is being monitored by a single judge bench of justice N Anand Venkatesh.The chief justice however directed the state counsel to ensure that the investigation is free and fair. The Tamil Nadu government had set up a six-member ICC on February 25 after the woman officer had complained to the state DGP, J K Tripathy. A day later, the state directed the CB-CID to also take over investigations. On March 23, the CB-CID had informed the court that it would submit its final report within eight- weeks. Justice Venkatesh who had taken suo motu cognisance of the case to monitor its probe expressed that he was satisfied with the progress made based on the case diaries and submissions of the investigating officer. Statements of two accused policemen and 87 witnesses had been recorded in the case while CCTV footage was under analysis. The CB-CID had registered an FIR against two accused- the special DGP and SP of Chengalpattu district under sections 354-A(2) (sexual harassment) and 341, 506(1) under the IPC and section 4 of the Tamil Nadu prohibition of harassment of women Act 1998. The complainant had said that the special DGP sexually harassed her while they were on duty for chief minister Edappadi Palanswami’s tour. The investigating agency is also probing the role of the SP in preventing her from filing a complaint by stopping her vehicle and bringing in a posse of policemen and a special strike force at the Chengalpattu toll gate on February 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panel-submitted-report-in-ips-officer-s-case-tn-govt-tells-hc-101619032424102.html
22-04-2021||Other||UP CM asks for continuous enhancement of Covid-19 beds in four districts||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday evening asked for continuous enhancement of the number of Covid-19 hospital beds in Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi, and Kanpur Nagar. During a virtual review of the situation in these four high Covid-19 incidence districts, he also laid stress on maintaining smooth supply of oxygen, Remdisivir and other life-saving drugs. “Improve Covid management at all levels continuously. The principal secretary (medical education) and the principal secretary to the chief minister should review the progress in establishment of oxygen plants at medical colleges and private hospitals in the districts,” the chief minister said, according to a government statement. The ministers in charge of the four districts, divisional commissioners, district magistrates, police chiefs, chief medical officers and the heads of medical institutions also participated in the meeting. “The officers concerned in each district, in coordination with their minister in charge, must further improve the efforts for Covid control in their respective districts. All Covid-19 hospitals — government or private — must have a nodal officer each,” he said. Calling for tough action against hoarders, he spoke about doing raids. Yogi asked about better handling of ambulance services for Covid-19 patients, effective implementation of containment zones and making people aware of Covid safety and prevention. He laid stress on wearing of masks and social distancing through public address systems, the role of nigrani samitis (monitoring committees) and contact tracing in preventing the spread of the Covid-19 infection. The chief minister asked for effective management of quarantine centres for migrants reaching these districts, screening, testing, if required, and proper lodging and food arrangements for them. He also asked for effective implementation of corona curfew and night curfew in the four districts. “There should not be any such action on the part of the administration of hospitals regarding oxygen or lifesaving drugs that would harm people’s confidence,” he said. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, medical education minister Suresh Khanna, health minister Jai Pratap Singh, and Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh too attended the meeting virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-cm-asks-for-continuous-enhancement-of-covid-19-beds-in-four-districts-101619031584072.html
22-04-2021||Other||Noida cremation facility struggles to maintain order amid surge in dead bodies||NOIDA: Amid an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases, the Sector 94 crematorium, the only funeral home in the city, is struggling to dispose of bodies with limited resources and staff. Till late evening on Wednesday, 75 dead bodies, including 50 bodies of Covid patients, arrived at the crematorium, officials said. The facility is struggling to maintain order during the last rites of bodies, said officials of Noida Lok Manch (NLM), an NGO which takes care of maintenance of the cremation ground. On Tuesday, at least 50 cremations took place and on Monday 45 bodies were cremated here, said the officials. They also said that on an average 120 to 180 bodies are usually cremated in a month on normal days. Though Gautam Budh Nagar district has recorded only 13 deaths due to Covid-19 in the past three days, the officials said that some bodies were brought to the crematorium from neighbouring districts. The facility has 24 manual platforms and two CNG chambers, the officials said, adding that 12 new are being built to handle the pressure.On Wednesday, NLM sought help from the police to enforce social distancing guidelines at the facility. “We appeal to people to not visit the cremation ground in large numbers because it is creating pressure on our staff. More than 50 people are turning up with each dead body, thereby causing disorder and infection risk to staff members. We had to call in police to enforce order,” said Mahesh Saxena, general secretary of NLM. NLM said it has increased its staff members from 10 to 20 three days ago to handle the rush.Meanwhile, the Noida authority has deployed at least 20 additional staff at the facility that include three junior engineers and as many supervisors to maintain the order. “We have directed the staff to work day and night to make sure all bodies that reach the facility are cremated. Currently, two CNG chambers, along with manual platforms that require wood, are operational. We have procured one more CNG machine that will start operations on Friday. Two more CNG chambers will start functioning by end of April,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority.The NLM officials said that pressure is mounting on the facility because bodies from nearby districts such as Faridabad and Bulandshahr are also coming here. As a result, the cremation ground spread over 13 acres and located near Kalindi Kunj Barrage on Yamuna along the embankment road is witnessing dead bodies even during night time, they said.“We have suggested the administration for a new cremation ground either in Noida or Greater Noida, because one is not adequate in view of the current situation,” said Maheshwari.During the period from June to November last year, the maximum cremations that had taken place were between 30 and 40, the officials said. Meanwhile, the NLM has sought wood from the Noida authority for the manual cremation of bodies. “We have an adequate arrangement of wood for the cremation from Modi Nagar,” said Maheshwari.“We request the visitors to stay outside the cremation ground and cooperate for general good,” said Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, who was present at the facility on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-cremation-facility-struggles-to-maintain-order-amid-surge-in-dead-bodies-101619030684890.html
