23-04-2021||Other||Yogi launches 24x7 digital oxygen supply monitoring system||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday launched a digital platform for 24x7 live monitoring of the oxygen supply system across Uttar Pradesh to deal with the current shortage of the medical gas in government and private hospitals.He noted that a large number of Covid-19 positive were staying in home isolation and added that oxygen should be supplied to the needy at home as well. Besides, the state government will conduct oxygen audit to maintain a balance between the demand and supply chain, he said.The installation of oxygen plants should be expedited in private medical colleges, he added. Along with the Covid care fund, the CSR funds should be utilized for the purpose, he said. The chief minister asked the medical education department to play a pivotal role in the installation of oxygen plants.Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said the digital platform had been established in coordination with the Food Safety and Drug Administration (FSDA), medical education, medical health and family welfare, transport and home departments by Rodic Consultants Private Limited.The representatives of the company would be present in government and private hospitals to ensure smooth supply of oxygen in a timely manner, he said.The monitoring system will have live information on the demand of oxygen by hospitals in various districts, allotment, loading of oxygen in the vehicles, live location of vehicles moving on the highways, the supply of the oxygen and utilization, he said.A web portal link has been created for the supply of the oxygen. It can be used by officers and employees associated with the oxygen supply chain. Representatives of the company will upload the oxygen requirement details of the hospital on the portal. While tracking the online presence of the vehicles engaged in oxygen supply on the portal, the nearest vehicle will be sent to the hospital that required immediate supply, he saidVehicles engaged in oxygen supply work will be connected to this platform. Representatives of the company will be also present at the refill stations to expedite oxygen supply. Efforts were also being made to ensure availability of drivers in every oxygen vehicle for their regular movement, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-launches-24x7-digital-oxygen-supply-monitoring-system-101619198876533.html
23-04-2021||Other||All industries to remain operational in corona curfew: UP govt||All industrial units across the state will remain operational even during night curfew, weekend corona curbs or any order related with restrictions in future to ensure industrial production is not hampered during the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government issued a government order (GO) in this regard, making it clear that production will not be stopped in any industry and neither any industrial units will be closed. Issuing the order, chief secretary RK Tewari also made it clear that staff of all industries across the state must be allowed to move without any hindrance even during the night curfew. The GO further directed all district magistrates across the state that identity cards issued by industrial units to their staff will be valid for their movement. The chief secretary has also directed all industries to impose Covid-19 protocol rules in their respective units. In addition, the state government has directed all district magistrates to ensure RT-PCR and antigen tests of all industrial staff in their respective districts with the help of the chief medical officers. For the industrial units manufacturing essential medical items like masks, sanitizers and medicines among others, the DMs must ensure that they are provided uninterrupted power supply and have hassle-free transportation of their goods. All district magistrates have also been instructed to make sure that there is no hindrance in packaging and transportation of essential goods like food grains, breads, milk, biscuits and other food products. The state government has also made it clear that farmers must not be stopped from ferrying vegetables, food grain, and other items to the mandis (markets). The government has emphasised in its order that there should be no hindrance in the procurement of wheat from farmers at procurement centres. Data bank of migrant workers to be prepared The state government has directed all district industries centres to prepare data bank of migrant workers with details, including contact numbers and address. The directive has been issued in anticipation of the return of a large number of migrant workers to Uttar Pradesh from across the country due to the pandemic. The government has directed the authorities concerned to carry out skill mapping of workers so that they could be provided jobs according to their expertise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-industries-to-remain-operational-in-corona-curfew-up-govt-101619198576463.html
23-04-2021||Other||Yogi briefs PM on Covid situation in UP||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in UP.He thanked the prime minister and the central government over the oxygen quota and help with medical supplies. Adityanath was among the chief ministers of the high Covid-19 burden states with whom PM Modi held a virtual meeting.Yogi informed PM about the measures such as weekend corona curfew and night curfew in the state to contain Covid-19.The UP government’s focus was to contain Covid-19 without hampering livelihood, the chief minister added. He also informed PM about the state’s preparations to make the next phase of the vaccination drive from May 1 successful. UP CM hits out at AAP govtIn a tweet in Hindi, Yogi Adityanath hit out at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi over its allegation that other states were disrupting oxygen supply. Without taking the name of anyone or mentioning oxygen, Adityanath said: “Delhi’s AAP government was levelling baseless allegations on others to hide its own failures and was trying to divert public attention. Such behaviour is indecent and we criticise it.”In another tweet in Hindi, Yogi, without taking Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s name, said: “Another deed of AAP government came to be witnessed at the high-level meeting of several chief ministers and central ministers, presided over by the prime minister. They (AAP) violated the confidentiality of the meeting to gain cheap publicity.”At the meeting, PM Modi was seen reprimanding the Delhi chief minister for going live with his part of the interaction with the prime minister. Kejriwal immediately apologised.Food scheme welcomedIn a statement, the UP chief minister hailed PM Modi for reintroducing Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojna (a ration scheme for poor) for May and June. He said beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act will get extra 5 kg grain. In the present circumstances, the PM’s initiative will provide relief to a large number of people, the chief minister observed. He said that UP government was committed to implementing the scheme successfully in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-briefs-pm-on-covid-situation-in-up-101619198397905.html
23-04-2021||Other||Mass sanitisation to be done during weekend curbs||The state government will carry out an intensive sanitisation drive during the weekend corona curfew, urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon ‘Gopal’ said on Friday. The minister said the drive would also be carried out in lanes and by-lanes of the cities to signal a committed campaign to sanitise the state, especially containment zones, dense localities and ones where the virus surge is more.The minister gave the directions at a virtual meeting on Friday attended by officers and staff of various urban local bodies in the state.He said the weekend corona curfew would also be used to spread awareness about the need to strictly follow the Covid-19 protocol. The minister also directed the state municipalities to set up control rooms to quickly tackle complaints regarding sanitisation, cleanliness and others.Directive to take proper care of sanitation staffThe minister said those who are part of the cleanliness campaign – the sanitary workers – were among the frontline workers in the fight against Covid-19 and ordered that they should be well looked after.“From ensuring that they get their jabs, to settling all their payment in time and ensuring that they are provided with sanitisers, gloves and masks in the fight against Covid-19, everything should be done for their well-being,” the minister ordered.Provide essential services at doorstep: ACSAdditional chief secretary (Information and MSME) Navneet Sehgal said movement should be restricted during the weekly closure and essential services should be provided at the doorstep of the people.He too said an intensive sanitization and cleanliness drive will be launched in the urban and rural areas of the state. Except the essential services and industrial activities, all the activities will remain closed. The employees working in the government offices and industrial units can move with identity cards. The movement of vehicles for the essential services will be permitted, he said. Sehgal said people should not pay heed to rumours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mass-sanitisation-to-be-done-during-weekend-curbs-101619197916495.html
23-04-2021||Other||2 killed in as bus collides with truck at Darbhanga||DARBHANGATwo persons died and six others were injured when a passenger bus they were travelling in collided head-on with a truck on NH-57 near Darbhanga College of Engineering on Friday. In-charge of local Mabbi outpost, Manish Kumar, said one of the victims, identified as Indrajeet Yadav (45), a native of Begusarai district, died on the spot. Another victim, a woman from Madhubani, later succumbed to injuries during treatment.The SHO said the bus was coming from Begusarai and was bound for Darbhanga. The accident took place 2 KM away from Dilli More bus stand when a truck laden with food grain from FCI, coming from wrong side, collided head-on with bus. The trapped bus driver was rescued by the police with the help of local people.The injured passengers were immediately rushed to Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) for treatment.“The impact of the collision was so strong that the front portions of the two vehicles were mangled beyond recognition,” said an eyewitness, Suraj Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-killed-in-as-bus-collides-with-truck-at-darbhanga-101619195818325.html
23-04-2021||Other||NMCH doctors strike work for 2nd time in 12 hours||PATNABarely 12 hours after returning to work, junior doctors at Patna’s Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) again went on strike after two of the doctors were allegedly manhandled at the ENT ward by the attendants of patients on Friday afternoon.Earlier on Thursday night, the doctors boycotted Covid duties after they were allegedly attacked by attendants following the death of a patient at the hospital. The incident took place around 11 pm.“Junior doctors have gone on strike after joining duty at 11 am on Friday as they were at the receiving end of attendants’ anger again. The Patna district administration is not providing adequate security to prevent such incidents,” NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh alleged. Junior Doctor’s Association president Ramchandra Kumar said they would continue to boycott work till proper security arrangements are made on rge campus. The attendants allegedly ransacked the hospital premises as well as ICU of the Covid hospital, a dedicated unit of NMCH, on Thursday night in which some junior doctors received minor injuries. Association president Kumar said it all began when a woman from Buxar district, admitted on April 11, died during the treatment. Her attendants were informed about her critical condition and two of them were allowed into the hospital. When the doctor declared her death, the attendants allegedly attacked the junior doctors there. It remained unclear whether there was any argument before the assault. “The attendants attacked the doctors plastic chairs and iron stool. They also tore curtains and damaged trollies,” said an eyewitness. On getting information, the hospital superintendent, deputy superintendent Dr Saroj Kumar and other officials reached the spot and tried to pacify the doctors. One of the attendants who had indulged in violence was detained by the police. On the other hand, attendants alleged the woman died due to negligence of doctors. A senior official of health department said the government would take all steps to ensure doctors’ security and urged them to return to work immediately. Meanwhile, Patna district magistrate Dr Chandrasekhar Singh asked senior superintendent of police Upendra Sharma to deploy at least 60 police persons in the premises of NMCH, where 371 Covid patients are currently being treated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nmch-doctors-strike-work-for-2nd-time-in-12-hours-101619195816352.html
23-04-2021||Other||Nine of family die as vehicle falls into Ganga||DANAPURAt least nine members of a family, of them four women and three children, died and six others were missing after a vehicle carrying 15 passengers fell into river Ganga at Danapur in the state capital Friday morning.The incident took place at Purani-Panapur ghat under Danapur subdivision around 7:30 am. Police said the vehicle, a jeep, coming from Akilpur village to Chitrakoot Nagar in Danapur, plunged into the river from the dilapidated pontoon bridge when the driver, said to be inebriated, lost control.The occupants of the vehicles were returning after attending wedding ceremony of one Rakesh Kumar Singh.“Nine bodies have been fished out of the river. Search and rescue operations are under way to rescue five to six persons reported to be missing. The rescue operations are on with the help of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) teams,” said Sonepur’s deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Anjani Kumar. Patna district magistrate Chandasekhar Singh said two persons, including the jeep driver, swam to safety. He also announced an ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh each for the next of kin of the dead. The DM has ordered a probe and sought a report from Danapur administration.Patliputra MP Ram Kripal Yadav, former BJP MLA Asha Sinha and RJD MLA Ritlal Yadav also reached the accident spot and supervised rescue operations. Ram Kripal Yadav said he was at the spot for nearly two hours to oversee rescue efforts being carried out by an NDRF team. NDRF’s 9th Battalion assistant commandant (Bihta) Binay Kumar said the vehicle had been pulled out of the river with the help of a crane. Meanwhile, chief minister Nitish Kumar expressed grief over the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nine-of-family-die-as-vehicle-falls-into-ganga-101619195816981.html
23-04-2021||Other||IAS officer among 54 dead in last 24 hours State announces free Covid treatment at IGIMS, IMA pushes for emergency hiring of medicos||PATNAAn IAS officer was among 54 people who died of coronavirus during the last 24 hours when Bihar reported 12,672 cases new cases, of them 2,801 in Patna alone. The deceased officer, Ravi Shankar Chowdhary, posted as additional secretary in health department The state has reported 59 deaths on April 22 and 56 on April 21. What is causing concern is the steady fall in recovery rate, which came down to 79.28% on Friday from 85.62% on April 18. Bihar has seen a more than three -fold increase in death cases since April 16, when it reported 16 deaths. The number of active cases stood at 76,419. Gaya reported 816 new cases, Aurangabad 748, Muzaffarpur (704) and Saran (617).Meanwhile, the state government announced free treatment for Covid patients at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS). Chief minister Nitish Kumar made this announcement through a tweet on Friday evening. “The government will bear the cost of treatment and medicines as well,” he tweeted. The chief minister also instructed officials to set the ventilators in all districts to order. “This should be done either through government efforts or in collaboration with private players,” he said. Meanwhile, Indian Medical Association, Bihar, has written a letter to chief minister asking him to appoint doctors as an emergency measure. “There is a provision of quick appointment of doctors and others in times of an epidemic. All such people who are ready to join can be recruited on contract,” said Dr Ajay Kumar, senior vice-president of the IMA’s Bihar chapter.“This war needs a big army of doctors, paramedics, nurses and support staff more than what we need in normal times. Situation, if not corrected, can be disastrous,” the IMA said in the letter. Dr Kumar said doctors and health care workers (HCWs) have been working continuously for the last 14 months without any leave. “They are exhausted and need some rest on intervals. More than 15% of them are infected. Many have died. It is the demand of time in public interest,” said Kumar.The IMA lauded the government efforts and said that In first wave of Covid-19 last year, Bihar government did meticulous planning and fought successfully the dreaded Covid-19 mobilizing its medical human resources. “IMA expresses its gratitude to the government of Bihar. This second virulent wave of Covid-19 has proved that humanity will have to fight it for long. IMA Bihar will always with the government with all its strength in this war against Covid-19,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ias-officer-among-54-dead-in-last-24-hours-state-announces-free-covid-treatment-at-igims-ima-pushes-for-emergency-hiring-of-medicos-101619195756398.html
23-04-2021||Other||Rajinikanth has no evidence to back remarks on Thoothukudi violence: Lawyer||Actor Rajinikanth has told a judicial commission that he has no evidence to back his 2018 statement in which he blamed “anti-social elements” for the violence during anti-Sterlite protests in Tamil Nadu Thoothukudi, the panel’s lawyer said.The Justice (retired) Aruna Jagadeesan commission is probing the killing of 13 people in police firing during the protests for the closure of Vedanta Group’s Sterlite copper smelting plant over environmental concerns. Arul Vadivel, the lawyer, said the commission asked Rajinikanth 15 questions over his statement and the actor submitted his responses a month ago.“In his reply, he says that he just made a statement. He has no proof, no documents, and no videos. He has nothing available,” said Vadivel. “We need some more clarifications from Rajinikanth, but we will ask him to appear later. We do not want him to come now due to the pandemic situation.”Rajinikanth was unavailable of comments.Also Watch | An Award for Rajinikanth: Political or larger messaging?The commission in December and February issued summons to Rajinikanth, who sought to appear before the panel via videoconferencing citing health concerns.Rajinikanth, who visited Thoothukudi after the firing, claimed anti-social elements infiltrated the protest, turned it violent, and forced police to fire. He added Tamil Nadu would turn into a graveyard if people protested for everything.Rajinikanth, who gave up his plans to float a political party ahead of the assembly elections in Tamil Nadu in April, faced flak for the statement and the commission took note of it.The commission has so far examined over 600 witnesses and its next sittings will be held between May 17 and 21. Its probe was paused last year between April and October during the pandemic. The opposition Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has blamed ruling All India Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam for the firing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rajinikanth-has-no-evidence-to-back-remarks-on-thoothukudi-violence-lawyer-101619161195987.html
23-04-2021||Other||14-day quarantine mandatory for people coming to Odisha from West Bengal||With reports of a triple mutant variant of Covid-19 being detected in many people in West Bengal and other states, the government of Odisha on Thursday declared a 14-day quarantine for people coming from West Bengal.Odisha chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mahapatra said anyone coming to Odisha from West Bengal by personal or hired vehicles, or entering the state by any other mode, shall undergo mandatory institutional or paid quarantine for 14 days at cluster temporary medical centres to be managed by block development officer or executive officer of urban areas.However, anyone coming from the neighbouring state with a certificate of successful vaccination (two doses) or a negative RTPCR report not more than 48 hours old will be allowed a 14-day home quarantine.“People travelling from West Bengal to other states through Odisha shall be allowed without disembarking from the vehicle,” the chief secretary said. He added that all passengers coming from West Bengal to Bhubaneswar or Jharsuguda airports would be mandatorily subjected to institutional quarantine or paid quarantine for 14 days at facilities identified/ordered by district magistrates/ municipal commissioners.From Friday morning, district collectors of Balasore and Mayurbhanj set up border check posts on all inter-state roads including national highways along the West Bengal border.The triple mutant variant (B.1.618) is a new lineage of SARS-COV-2 that has been formed by a combination of three variants of the virus. It, apparently, can evade the human immune system, experts say. West Bengal, which reported a total of 11,948 Covid-19 cases on Thursday with 23 per cent positivity rate, is believed to have its cases driven by the triple mutant. On Friday, Odisha reported 6,215 cases, its highest single-day surge, while 8 people lost their lives to the deadly virus.The quarantine order for people from West Bengal came as beds across various Covid hospitals in the state neared exhaustion. At VSS Institute of Medical Sciences and Hospital in Sambalpur, where cases are surging, the 225-bed Covid hospital has run out of beds. “All 225 beds, including the 50 bed ICU wing, are fully occupied. We are trying to add 300 more beds including 50 ICU beds in the next few days,” said VIMSAR principal Lalit Meher.Similarly, the situation in Sundargarh district, which has the highest number of 5,055 active cases among the 30 districts, is no better. All 520 beds in three Covid hospitals in the district are full.In Bhubaneswar, all 771 beds in SUM hospital were reported full while all 150 beds in Aditya-Ashwini Covid hospital were occupied. Similarly, no ICU beds are available at Hi-Tech hospital while all 50 beds in Nilachal hospital have been occupied.With Covid beds almost exhausted, the state health department ordered that all private hospitals with 30 beds or more must ensure the provision of a minimum 50 per cent of general beds and 50 per cent ICU/HDU beds for the treatment of Covid patients.“It is observed that the private hospitals are treating the non-Covid cases but when they find such patients to be Covid-19 positive during the treatment they immediately request the government machinery to shift such patients to a government Covid facility. It is observed that the private hospitals are also not admitting Covid-19 positive patients with a plea that they do not have Covid beds. This has resulted in an increased load on government Covid facilities,” a health department order said.Meanwhile, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday assured the Centre of providing all cooperation as lack of medical oxygen crippled the fight against Covid-19 in Delhi and elsewhere in the country,“It is a war-like situation and Odisha will extend all cooperation in the fight against Covid at the national level including ramping up oxygen production to assist other states in this emergency situation,” said Patnaik during his discussion with PM Modi.Patnaik’s assurance came in the backdrop of the acute shortage of oxygen faced by Delhi and many other states in the country at present. As per the allocation made on April 21, Delhi will get 70-tonne of liquid medical oxygen from Odisha. Rourkela Steel Plant will provide 40 tonnes a day while Tata Steel plant at Kalinga Nagar will provide 30 tonnes daily.Additional chief secretary, Odisha health department, PK Mohapatra said the current oxygen manufacturing capacity of the state is three times that of oxygen consumed during the peak first wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/14day-quarantine-mandatory-for-people-coming-to-odisha-from-west-bengal-101619161137184.html
23-04-2021||Other||Researchers at IIT Bombay design hand-held device that can detect explosives||Researchers at the National Center of Excellence in Technology for Internal Security (NCETIS) of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay, have designed a hand-held explosive detection device that can detect explosives. Director, Subhasis Chaudhuri, on Tuesday, announced that some units of the device were now being used by the Travancore Devaswom Trust in Sabarimala, Kerala. “We have been asked by the Trivandrum Police to give a live demonstration for the department procurement,” said Seema Periwal, a senior programme manager for NCETIS. Six units of BEAGLEZ are also in use by three departments of the Indian Army. BEAGLEZ is a light-weight hand-held device that can detect Trinitrotoluene (TNT), hexahydro-1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-triazine (RDX), Pentaerythritol tetranitrate (PETN), Semtex and other plastic explosives used in home-made, military explosives and improvised explosive device (IED).The device can find application in screening people, checkpoints, post-blast search, vehicles, buildings, terrorist hotspots, places of importance, crowded establishments and environment.BEAGLEZ was designed and commercialised by a team of researchers led by Anil Kumar, professor in the department of chemistry at IIT Bombay, in collaboration with Bigtec Labs, a Bengaluru-based science and technology company. The device has sensitivities that can be at par with canines. The first two units of BEAGLEZ were donated by Bigtec to the temple trust in Sabarimala which has now shown interest in buying the product.The device uses Amplifying Fluorescent Polymers (AFP) for detection. AFPs are conjugate polymers that exhibit solid-state fluorescence when excited by light of a particular wavelength. “There’s a polymer coating on the sensor of the device. A capillary unit sucks air in and when the air passes over this coating, the coating glows. However, if there is an explosive in the air, the polymer will stop glowing,” said Kumar.While the device has a worldwide patent for its technology, it also has three device other design patents to its name. “We are constantly working on improving the design and we are adhering to global standards for the same,” said Kumar.Bigtec is the only indigenous manufacturer of the hand-held explosive detector. “BEAGLEZ is the smallest and lightest in its category and doesn’t require any extra accessories. While an import brand of the hand-held detector can cost approximately ₹18 to 22 lakhs, the selling price of BEAGLEZ is priced in the range of ₹12 to 15 lakhs depending on the volumes,” said Periwal.“We believe that BEAGLEZ will play a catalytic role towards the ‘Make-in-India’ and ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ initiatives. We look forward to seeing the use of this product at various strategic places,” said Chaudhuri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iitb-researchers-design-hand-held-explosive-detection-device-101619157174737.html
23-04-2021||Other||30 Covid-19 patients flee from Covid care centre in Tripura||At least 30 Covid-19 patients escaped from a Covid care centre in Tripura where they were admitted, police said on Thursday. The incident took place on Wednesday late at night. “We have already alerted the railway stations and all police stations after getting the complaint. We suspected that they have escaped from the backside of the Covid care centre as there were securities in front of the centre,” said a senior police official. West district magistrate Dr Shailesh Kumar Yadav said that locations of these Covid-19 patients have been traced outside the northeastern state after tracking their mobile numbers.These Covid-19 patients were learnt to have landed in Tripura from different states, including Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh, to appear for job interviews. With a hike in Covid-19 cases in the state, the government has imposed a night curfew from Thursday till April 30 from 10 pm to 5 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/30-covid-19-patients-flee-from-covid-care-centre-in-tripura-101619154895118.html
23-04-2021||Other||13 Covid patients killed in fire at ICU of Maharashtra hospital||At least 13 patients lost their lives after a fire raged in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of private-owned Vijay Vallabh Covid Care hospital in Maharashtra’s Virar (W) on Friday at around 3:15 am. A short circuit in the air conditioning unit of the hospital is said to be the preliminary cause of the fire according to people aware to the development in Vasai Virar civic fire brigade.Around 13 patients have been confirmed dead, said Dilip Palav, chief fire officer, Vasai Virar Civic Fire Brigade. The number of casualties is likely to rise.“We cannot identify the gender of the patients as they have been charred beyond recognition,” said Palav. There were 17 patients in the ICU for Covid-19 treatment when the fire took place, he said.As per the list of the deceased released by the fire brigade department,Vasai Virar municipal corporation, there were five women among the thirteen patients who lost their lives in the fire. While the youngest victim was a 23-year-old boy, the oldest was a male patient ageing around 68 years.The hospital is in the process of shifting other patients to the nearby hospitals, he said.“Around 10 fire tenders were pressed into service after we received a call and the fire was controlled within 10 minutes,” said Palav.According to Avinash Patil, an eyewitness, the hospital did not have any fire safety measures like water sprinklers and the few fire extinguishers were not being used to control the big fire.“There were no doctors present and only two nurses were standing before the hospital when the incident took place. I could see the ICU ward completely in smoke and the charred bodies,” said Patil, adding, “I had come to the hospital to admit my friend’s mother on Friday morning and saw the fire”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fire-at-icu-of-virar-hospital-in-maharashtra-13-covid-19-patients-dead-101619146134793.html
23-04-2021||Other||Majhi Vasundhara Abhiyan: Maharashtra govt begins assessing local bodies’ performance||The Maharashtra environment and climate change department has begun the assessment of 395 urban local bodies (ULBs) and 304 panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) as part of its Majhi Vasundhara Abhiyan, launched last October. Over the next five-six weeks, the ULBs and PRIs will be evaluated through a two-step process to check their compliance with the tasks mandated under the initiative.These include enhancement of green cover and biodiversity, building solid waste management infrastructure, taking steps for water conservation, improving energy efficiency, implementing awareness programmes and getting citizens to take the Majhi Vasundhara e-pledge to show their commitment towards protecting the environment. These tasks have been spread out over five broad indicators – vayu (air), bhumi (earth), jal (water), agni (energy) and akash (education and enhancement).“From last October to March 2021, the ULBs and PRIs were given six months to implement certain tasks, which overlap with the mandate of other state and central schemes, like Maharashtra’s Vanmahotsav plantation drive or the Centre’s Swachh Bharat Mission. For a fairer assessment, we are also considering steps that ULBs have taken within the ambit of the indicators between January 2020 and March 2021,” said a spokesperson with the environment department.There are 22 specific (and weighted) tasks assigned to the various rural and urban local bodies. They include planting indigenous trees, implementing adequate waste segregation, treatment and composting facilities, promotion of non-motorised transport and rainwater harvesting, among several others.The first step of the evaluation process will be a clerical desktop assessment, which has been outsourced to a third-party agency and is already underway, officials confirmed. Compliance data submitted by ULBs and PRIs will be assessed, and the organisation will be ranked using a normalised score.The top 50% scorers will be subject to a second-level field inspection and citizen feedback survey, which will be outsourced to a second independent agency, and is expected to begin during the first week of May. “From those selected for field survey, there will be three winners under every vertical. The top three will be each picked out of 43 AMRUT (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation) cities, 226 municipalities, 126 nagar panchayats and 272 villages. Their claims will all be verified in person before scores are assigned,” said the spokesperson, adding that standardised feedback will be taken from between 250-500 citizens in each area, or 0.005% of the area’s population (whichever greater).“The assessment is already underway, and we will aim to complete it within the month so that the best-performing urban and rural local bodies can be felicitated on June 5, World Environment Day,” said Manisha Mhaiskar, principal secretary, environment and climate change department, adding that this exercise is proposed to be conducted annually, to encourage ULBs and PRIs to continue work launched under the Majhi Vasundhara Abhiyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/majhi-vasundhara-abhiyan-maharashtra-govt-begins-assessing-local-bodies-performance-101619120872433.html
23-04-2021||Other||Thane trader’s murder murder: Naresh Gor applies for bail, claims he was never contacted by Vaze||Cricket bookie Naresh Ramniklal Gor who was arrested in connection with the alleged murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran has filed a bail application before the special NIA (National Investigation Agency) court claiming that he was never contacted by suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze, a prime accused in the case An NIA officer said the special court has asked the agency to file a reply to Gor’s bail plea by April 27. Gor is suspected of having provided SIM cards to Vaze, one of which was purportedly used in commission of the trader’s murder. In his bail plea filed through law firm Diamondwala & Co, Gor has claimed that he has been made a scapegoat by the investigating agency on Vaze’s insistence. “The CDR (call data records) of the applicant [Gor] will disprove the case of the investigating agency. There is no shred of evidence to show that the applicant was aware of any conspiracy, much less any knowledge as to the purpose for which the purported SIM cards were going to be used by Vaze,” Gor claimed in his bail plea, adding that, there is no one to look after his wife and four-month-old child. Hiran was found dead in a creek near Mumbra on March 5. Gor was arrested by the Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) on March 21 in connection with the murder of Hiran – linked to the explosives-laden SUV found abandoned near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai home Antilia. The case was later handed over to NIA. According to NIA, the murder case was linked to the SUV that was found parked Antilia in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-trader-s-murder-murder-naresh-gor-applies-for-bail-claims-he-was-never-contacted-by-vaze-101619120812971.html
23-04-2021||Other||Will focus on enhancing enrolment in district, says Ludhiana’s new DEO secondary||Lakhvir Singh and Jaswinder Kaur were appointed as the new district education officer secondary and elementary in Ludhiana on Thursday. Lakhvir Singh was earlier posted at Government Senior Secondary School, Barsal, as a principal, while Kaur has been transferred from the post of DEO elementary, Moga to Ludhiana.Earlier, Harjit Singh was handling both the charges of DEO secondary and elementary in Ludhiana.Jaswinder Kaur, said, “I will first analyse the district performance and will make all efforts to uplift enrolment in the primary schools. I will take Ludhiana to the number 1 position in the state in increasing enrolment and will work with my team to motivate them to enrol more children.”Lakhvir Singh said, “I will focus on enhancing enrolment in the middle, high, and senior secondary schools of the district and will hold virtual meetings with the school principals, nodal officers. The door-to-door campaign by teachers to increase enrolment is appreciated and we will be able to achieve the target of 15% increase in strength of the students from last year.”“Keeping in mind the Covid-19 norms, I have asked the teacher unions and other employees not to come to my office in groups. They can convey their wishes through messages. Due to a surge in Covid cases in the district as well as in the state, I have asked the staff to follow the Covid-19 protocol of wearing masks and maintain social distance,” he said.He said, “I will also ensure that the new textbooks reach the students in time and have instructed school principals have been to update the record of books distribution on the e-Punjab portal as soon as they get the same from the block and further distribute it among the students.”Hailing from Lohgarh village, Moga, the new DEO secondary did his schooling from Lohgarh Government School, did his graduation from DM College, Moga and MSc physics from Panjab University, Chandigarh. He joined government service as a science teacher in 1988 at Begowal in Kapurthala; then joined as lecturer in 1992 at Mangat School in Ludhiana. He then joined Jagraon Girls School in 1993. For 12 years, he served at DIET, Jagraon, and imparted teachers’ training to thousands of students. He joined as a principal at Government Senior Secondary School, Gidderwindi, in 2010 then again joined DIET Jagraon as senior lecturer in 2015. From 2017 to 2021, he served as the principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Barsal.Despite a spike in Covid-19 cases in the district, the members of teachers’ unions, other staff of the district education office wen to congratulate the DEO secondary and elementary. Flouting the social distancing norms, many employees were seen without masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-focus-on-enhancing-enrolment-in-district-says-ludhiana-s-new-deo-secondary-101619120573766.html
23-04-2021||Other||43% desilting done, Hindmata may not get waterlogged: Mumbai civic body||HT CORRESPONDENTMumbai The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday said that it has completed 43% of the desilting works for major nullahs. This year, Hindmata area might also get some relief from waterlogging as the civic body is constructing a holding tank to store rain water for around 90 minutes.“We are anticipating that this year will be comparatively better when it comes to waterlogging. We have attended the main problem at Hindmata. We are constructing an underground tank in a nearby open space that will store water for around 90 minutes during heavy rainfall. Our ultimate aim is to have a capacity of storing rainwater for four hours. We will augment the capacity in the coming days,” additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said. In a review meeting taken by Mumbai guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray on Wednesday with officials, BMC has maintained that all the road repair and rain-related drain works will be completed before the monsoon. The officials informed the minister that this year, 470 pumps will be installed in the city to pump out rain water at low-lying areas. It also claimed that 43% sludge has been removed from major nullahs, while 24% has been cleared from Mithi river so far. The deadline for completing desilting works end in the last week of May.According to BMC officials, all the chronic spots identified by it last year after heavy rainfall in south Mumbai have been attended to and it is expected that there will not be flooding this year. BMC also informed that the landslide-prone area near Malabar Hill will have a 103-metre retaining wall built around it and the road work on the parallel road will also be completed before monsoon.“In the coming months, we will also identify locations for tanks based on the experience at Hindmata. There have been suggestions for the locations in the western suburbs and Byculla, none have been finalised yet,” Velrasu added.Meanwhile, BMC officials will also prepare a master plan for the 2,000-km-long road network in the city. On a pilot basis, two wards will be chosen for planning the road repair and maintenance, instead of undertaking work based on demand. “We also discussed the two important projects, which includes the beautification of the Powai lake area and the construction of a board walkway between Bandra Fort and Mahim. The permissions are being worked out for the projects and they can be completed in a year,” Verasu added.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/43-desilting-done-hindmata-may-not-get-waterlogged-mumbai-civic-body-101619120211318.html
23-04-2021||Other||1993 Mumbai blast accused’s murder: Chhota Rajan acquitted||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Thursday acquitted underworld don Chhota Rajan and his aide Jagannath Jaiswal in the Hanif Kadawala murder case. Rajan and Jaiswal were acquitted for want of cogent evidence. Kadawala, an accused in the March 1993 Mumbai bomb blasts case, was shot dead by three men on February 7, 2001, in his office. As per the prosecution case, Kadawala was booked for helping actor Sanjay Dutt hide the AK-47 and the consignment of weapons that were used in the blasts, at the actor’s garage. The weapons were delivered to him by gangster Abu Salem, who was a part of the Dawood Ibrahim gang. Kadawala was arrested by the police under Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act (TADA) in April 1993 for transporting weapons from the Gujarat coast to Mumbai under gangster Tiger Memon directions. CBI had alleged that Rajan had ordered Kadawala’s killing, as part of a “nationalist” drive to kill those accused in the bombings. Prior to the assault on Kadawala, Rajan’s men had allegedly carried out attacks on some others accused in the bomb blasts case. CBI had claimed that after the series of blasts, Rajan parted ways with Dawood Ibrahim, a key conspirator behind the bombings. Rajan initiated killings of people involved in the blasts to gain the public sympathy,” the agency claimed. However, during the trial, Kadawala’s son had claimed that his father was killed over property dispute and the contract was given by his uncle. Rajan’s lawyer, advocate Tushar Khandare, said, “There was no evidence against Rajan. In fact, it has come on record that the contract of killing Kadawala was given by the Guru Satam and Ravi Pujari gangs. Rajan’s name was mentioned in this case only to misguide the investigating agency.” Jaiswal’s lawyer DS Manerkar said Kadawala’s employee had only seen his client going inside Kadawala’s office. “But there were lots of discrepancies in the statement of the witness as first he said only Jaiswal entered the office and later claimed there were three men. Also, he had not seen who fired at Kadawala,” said Manerkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1993-mumbai-blast-accused-s-murder-chhota-rajan-acquitted-101619120031425.html
23-04-2021||Other||BJP leader booked for tweeting fake video||The city police have booked a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader for allegedly spreading fake news by tweeting a video with a “fake message” and “spreading rumour to defame the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)”.Bhoiwada police have registered an offence against Suresh Nakhua – whose Twitter bio states that he is an official spokesperson of Mumbai BJP – based on the complaint of municipal corporation officials.According to the first information report (FIR), Nakhua on Tuesday at 5.54pm shared a 19 second video in which a man was purportedly in a bag used to carry bodies of Covid-19 victims. Along with the video, Nakhua wrote, “This is beyond shocking. A LIVING man taken to cremation centre by BMC. I think there might be some #MahaVasuliTarget from cremation centres by #MahaVasuliAghadi (sic).”The video was viewed by over 115,000 people. After much criticism on social media, BMC health officials swung into action. “We asked Nakhua about the origin and location of the video. He did not furnish any details about the video,” stated BMC’s assistant health officer Dr Pranita Tipre stated in the FIR.A senior civic official said, “ BMC checked with officers at all cemeteries in the city and confirmed the incident was not from Mumbai. “Nakhua’s statement has been recorded,” said Vijay Patil, deputy commissioner of police (zone 4). “Nakhua is specially-abled and was allowed to go home after his statement was recorded. He couldn’t clarify the exact origin of the video. We would soon complete the probe and a file charge sheet in the case,” said senior inspector Vinod Kamble, Bhoiwada police. After the FIR was filed, Nakhua on Thursday tweeted an apology. “I was not aware of the location of the incident and could not verify it. This video was tweeted as it disturbed me immensely & to alert the authorities. There was no intention whatsoever to cause panic. I regret the inconvenience caused to authorities and general public, if any, due to my act and my sincere apologies for the same,” his tweets read.“The matter is subjudice. I will release a statement in due course of the time,” Nakhua told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-leader-booked-for-tweeting-fake-video-101619119911355.html
23-04-2021||Other||Essence of PM’s speech was that crisis is huge, but you find a way: Shiv Sena||Shiv Sena’s mouthpiece Saamana on Thursday criticised Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s address to the nation on Tuesday evening and stated that the essence of the speech was that the states should see how to tackle the crisis. Sharply criticising Modi’s speech, the editorial published on Thursday said, “PM Modi says that the Covid-19 crisis is huge and is like a storm. But he did not give solutions to protect [the country] from this storm. People have lost their relatives. PM expressed his grief on it, but what is he doing to ensure that the toll does not increase further? The Covid-19 situation is critical across the nation and not just in Maharashtra. People expected to gain strength from PM’s address. But the essence of the speech was “the crisis is huge. You figure out your way, and take care”.” The Sena has been critical of the Centre over its response to the assistance sought by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government to tackle the Covid-19 situation in the state. The Sena leaders have slammed the Centre for providing inadequate supply of vaccination doses, controlling distribution of Remdesivir and the supply of medical use oxygen. The editorial said that despite strict restrictions imposed by the Maharashtra government, the Covid-19 cases are not coming under control. In an apparent response to Modi’s statement that lockdown should be the last resort, the editorial added that a complete lockdown has become “essential”. It further said that Modi cancelled his visit to Portugal in the view of Covid-19, but had he not conducted crowded election rallies in West Bengal in time, the virus could have been prevented. The editorial said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) mobilised lakhs of people across the country to campaign in West Bengal, who returned to their respective states with the infection. “Haridwar’s Kumbh Mela and West Bengal’s political mela have only given coronavirus to the country. Rulers have to impose restrictions on themselves first. This gives them the moral right to give advice to the public,” it said. Highlighting the severe shortage of medical use oxygen, the editorial said the country expected that the PM would speak on the issue and provide solutions. “PM and his colleagues should try to provide oxygen where there is a shortage. Today that is the most necessary thing. Instead of that, everybody is making speeches and releasing carbon dioxide and spreading poison. This is the time to act and not make speeches.” Reacting to the criticism, Maharashtra BJP’s chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said that the Sena-led state government failed to tackle the crisis, but is blaming the Centre. “What Sanjay Raut has said [about PM’s address] — the crisis is huge and you have to figure a way out — is actually Maharashtra chief minister’s (CM) policy from the past one year. While the pandemic is raging in Maharashtra, the Centre has provided assistance. But what steps did the CM take, how many times did he step out, what planning was done for hospital beds, oxygen and Remdesivir last year. Had the focus not been on transfers of [police] officers but on managing the pandemic, the situation wouldn’t have worsened so much,” Upadhye said in a series of tweets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/essence-of-pm-s-speech-was-that-crisis-is-huge-but-you-find-a-way-shiv-sena-101619119851340.html
23-04-2021||Other||‘Marathi manoos’ agenda: Shiv Sena’s answer to BJP||The Shiv Sena, which is at the receiving end of an all-out attack by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), is using its time-tested formula to get back at its bete noire.With around 10 months to go for the prestigious Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) election, the Sena has reignited the ‘Marathi manoos’ plank to corner the Opposition party. The Sena has raked the issue around 480-km south of the Maximum City in Belgaum, Karnataka, while campaigning for the Lok Sabha bypoll. Political analysts opined that the agenda would have an influence in the city’s civic polls.Apart of the Belgaum issue, the Sena has subtly painted the ongoing tussle between the Centre and the state government led by the party, over oxygen supply and shortage of Remdesivir.Former Union minister and Sena parliamentarian Arvind Sawant said that while the Centre says that Maharashtra is the most-affected state due to Covid-19, they do not provide adequate and timely assistance even though all powers rest with them.“They claim [Covid-19] numbers are fewer in other states, but they are providing more [vaccinations, drugs, oxygen] to such states, but not to Maharashtra. Be it any issue related to Maharashtra, the Centre has always denied its legitimate right. For example, other border disputes of states, which cropped up later, were resolved but not the Belgaum border issue,” Sawant said.Party’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut claimed that if Maharashtra is deprived of assistance, it will hurt the economy of the country. “PM and Union home minister Amit Shah should give equal attention to Maharashtra as they give to other states, because this is also a part of the country. The manner in which Maharashtra is being treated raises question whether this is an attempt to disrupt the state’s economy. If it is being done during coronavirus [pandemic], then it is vicious and unfortunate,” he told reporters earlier on Tuesday.Earlier this month, the Union ministers and those from the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) were engaged in a war of words over the issue of vaccination. MVA ministers said that they had run out of vaccines, leading to the closure of several centres. The Union ministers hit back stating that adequate doses had been provided to the state. Subsequently, the state and Centre clashed over Remdesivir and oxygen supply.For the Shiv Sena, which was established in 1966 to take up the issues of the Marathi-speaking population in Mumbai and Maharashtra, the agenda remains at its core, even though the party had adopted the larger issue of Hindutva to reach out to a wider audience. The Hindutva thread of the party, however, has been questioned after it junked the alliance with BJP and joined hands with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress – parties that are termed secular – in November 2019.Besides wooing the Gujarati, Jain and Marwari communities, Sena seems to be consolidating its traditional voter base of middle-class Marathi population, which could split to Raj Thackeray’s Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) in BMC polls, thereby likely benefitting BJP.Earlier this month, Shiv Sena extended support to Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) candidate Shubham Shelke in the bypoll on the Belgaum seat. During the two-day campaign visit to the city, Raut took on Maharashtra’s BJP leaders for campaigning against Shelke, a candidate from an outfit that has been fighting for the regions’ unification with Maharashtra for five decades. As Union minister and senior BJP leader from Maharashtra Nitin Gadkari and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis campaigned in Belgaum last week, Sena said they have “cheated” the Marathi people of the state.Referring to Fadnavis, Raut said, “At least Marathi politicians from Maharashtra should not campaign against a Marathi candidate in Belgaum. “Fadnavis has been a former Maharashtra CM. During his tenure, MES leaders had met him and he had assured them that the Maharashtra government and BJP were firmly with MES on the merger of the Marathi-speaking areas in Karnataka into Maharashtra. But he is taking a different stand now.”Echoing Raut’s views, Sawant said, “Look at BJP’s stand now. When he [Fadnavis] was CM, he had passed resolutions, but now campaigned against the people he vowed to support. Now everybody knows that they [BJP] are not for the Marathi people and the people of Belgaum.”He added that Uddhav Thackeray has spoken firmly on the integration of Belgaum. “This is not a political stand of the party but a thread we share with Marathi people. In 1969, we agitated [for integration of Marathi-speaking areas with Maharashtra] and lost around 69 people. [Late Shiv Sena supremo] Balasaheb [Thackeray] was behind bars for three months for the same issue. The issues of Marathi people will remain at the core of Shiv Sena,” he said.In his weekly column published on Sunday, Raut wrote that the entire Marathi community has united under the saffron flag after a long time, during the bypoll for 26-year-old Shelke. He added that the community has been fighting for their “rights and to preserve their culture” for decades but “neither the Centre nor the courts are giving them justice.”“The apathy of Maharashtra’s politicians is weakening the fight… Former CM Fadnavis, under whose leadership the resolution on the unification of Belgaum-Karwar region with Maharashtra was passed, went to Belgaum to campaign against Ekikaran Samiti’s Marathi candidate. This is the misfortune of entire Maharashtra. He could have avoided going to Belgaum,” Raut wrote in his column.Political analyst Surendra Jondhale said Shiv Sena has remained consistent in its stand on the Belgaum issue. However, the timing is crucial. “Sena over the years has been vocal about the border issue. So, there are no surprises there. However, the political language at this juncture will have an influence in the future. They have showed that they have not forgotten its core ideology. The political messaging will be carried forward, with BMC elections around nine to 10 months away,” said Jondhale, a former professor of political science at the Mumbai University.Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said that Sena has forgotten the cause of Marathi manoos for the sake of power.“ The Sena and its allies are blaming the Centre for its failure to handle the Covid-19 pandemic in Maharashtra. Last year, the Covid situation was new for everybody. Yet, the central government provide all assistance to the states. [But] In the past nine months, what planning did the MVA government do for beds, oxygen, Remdesivir? Nothing. Their focus was on reinstating [former cop] Sachin Vaze and raise ₹100 crore. Besides, the Sena had long-forgotten the cause of Marathi people for the sake of power. They are merely raking up the issue from Belgaum, but in reality what have they done?” asked Upadhye.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shiv-sena-reignites-its-marathi-manoos-agenda-101619119671271.html
23-04-2021||Other||K’taka to buy 10mn vaccines at ₹400 crore for younger age groups||Bengaluru Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday said that the state government would procure around 10 million doses of Covishield vaccine for the inoculation of younger age groups that begins on May 1, becoming one of the first in the country to do so.“Chief minister has approved (the) purchase of 1 crore doses of Covid vaccine at a cost of ₹400 crore, in (the) first phase. This will be used for vaccination of persons between 18 to 44 years,” the chief ministers office (CMO) said in a statement on Thursday.The orders for the vaccine comes a day ahead of a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi who is expected to take stock of the deteriorating Covid-19 situation across different states.The decision comes days after the Serum Institute of India announced the price at which it would sell the vaccine in the open market. The announcement comes as a result of the PMs decision to open up the vaccination drive for younger age groups in the country.Karnataka has so far vaccinated 76,41,817 persons in the state and the government is trying to scale up numbers to contain the raging pandemic.Bengaluru reported its highest ever single-day spike as 15,244 new infections in the last 24 hours on Wednesday that takes its active case count to 1,37,813. Bengaluru accounted for 68 out of the 123 fatalities recorded in the state. The total number of active cases in Karnataka inched towards the 2 lakh mark and currently stands at 1,96,236 as it also registered its highest ever single-day spike with 25,795 cases in the 24 hours on Wednesday. The situation in other parts of the state continues to deteriorate with almost all 30 districts reporting over 100 cases per day and Tumakuru, about 70 km from Bengaluru, reporting 1,231 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ktaka-to-buy-10mn-vaccines-at-400-crore-for-younger-age-groups-101619119191265.html
23-04-2021||Other||Confusion grips K’taka over ‘partial lockdown’||Bengaluru: The restrictions in Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka to contain the Covid- 19 surge has now turned into a partial lockdown as the shops and establishments that are not listed in the government order as ‘essential services’ have been asked to shut down operations. Senior police officials confirmed that they had orders to shut down stores in Bengaluru and other parts of the state. “There was no clarity on the guidelines issued on Tuesday, prompting an addendum being issued on Wednesday. But that also was not interpreted properly leading to the confusion on Thursday,” a senior police officer said. Praveen Sood, director general of police in Karnataka said that there would be better clarity available by Thursday evening.Police patrol jeeps and motorcycles were seen making announcements that all businesses that were not in the specific list of essential services will have to close down. “We got orders this afternoon and are just following them,” a police officer said. Several shopkeepers were caught off-guard with the announcement that comes two days after the government had clarified that business establishments will be allowed to remain open during the day. Several small business owners said that they were just starting to see some recovery from the impact of the last lockdown and another would just crush their businesses and livelihood.“Police arrived in the afternoon and asked us to shut the shops down,” said Peter Antony, a shopkeeper in Bengaluru’s SP Road. “We were told that lockdown will come to effect from Friday evening onwards, but the police came on Thursday evening. When we asked, they didn’t give us a proper answer,” he said. The action comes a day after the state government made some modifications to its earlier orders on restrictions. “All shops and establishments dealing with construction materials are permitted. All shops/commercial/private establishments except those mentioned above shall remain closed,” according to the order issued by P Ravi Kumar, Karnataka’s chief secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/confusion-grips-k-taka-over-partial-lockdown-101619119131188.html
23-04-2021||Other||Kerala CM calls all-party meet after record 26,995 cases||Thiruvananthapuram Kerala reported 26,995 Covid-19 cases on Thursday in the highest single-day surge so far since the outbreak last year, with a high test positivity rate of 19.97%, and a worried state government called an all-party meeting on Monday to discuss ways to contain the pandemic.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the second wave was really critical and sought help of all sections of people to tide over the crisis. He said he has given instructions to top health officials to talk to vaccine companies to buy enough doses. “We hope the Centre will continue to supply it free. But we can’t wait for it. So we have already started negotiations with vaccine manufacturers,” he told reporters in the state capital. Vijayan appealed to people to contribute generously to the CM relief fund. He said people who have vaccinated and others have contributed ₹22 lakh in a single day. “We need such help at the critical juncture. We will buy enough doses and vaccinate as many as we can. We can’t wait further,” said the CM. He said rapid response teams will be constituted to help health and civic officials, urging people not to crowd vaccination centres. As vaccine supplies dwindled, many areas in the state witnessed rush at vaccinations centres on Thursday too. “We have already made it clear that doses will be given to only those who registered online. There is no spot registration from now on. Hope people will realise this,” he said. Minor scuffle was reported in Kottayam and Alapzuha on Wednesday. The CM said there are 10.65 million people in the 18-45 age group and the state will have to stock enough doses. The CM had already announced that the government will distribute vaccines free of cost. “It is true the second wave is really hard. We need a joint fight to come out of trying times. The government has called an all-party meet on Monday. We will hear all parties and sections,” he said, adding special control rooms will be set up for guest workers. He said some vested interests were trying to create panic and mislead them. This is the first time the state crossed 25,000 single-day tally. In the last 24 hours, 1,37,177 samples were tested. The state also reported 28 deaths, taking the toll to 5028. Active caseload also crossed 150,000 (1,56,266) for the first time. Ernakulam remained worst- affected with 4396 cases followed by Kozhikode with 3372 cases, according to the data released by the health ministry Going by the pace of cases, experts said the state may report at least double the cases by next week. The health department said it has enough stock of oxygen, ICU beds and ventilators. It has activated some of the defunct first line treatment centres and stadia to meet the emergency situation. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-cm-calls-all-party-meet-after-record-26-995-cases-101619118771152.html
23-04-2021||Other||Not getting e-passes, say some essential service providers||Days after the Delhi government imposed a week-long lockdown to arrest the spread of Covid-19, people involved in the essential services said they were finding it difficult to get passes, and that their requests were either getting rejected or lying pending for days.Rajat Abbey, whose family owns a chemicals company, said he was trying to secure a pass for the past two days to deliver essential products needed in the pharmaceutical industry. “I have bills from the National Centre for Disease Control and the Indian Red Cross Society seeking supplies from our company. I have uploaded all these documents on the portal along with my Aadhar card, but the requests keep getting rejected,” said Abbey.“We are providing supplies to the government. These are urgent requirements. The portal says that the documents are incomplete. It doesn’t even clearly specify what more is needed so that we can arrange additional documents accordingly,” said Abbey.Ranjeet Raghav, operations head at a food manufacturing company, said his requests for passes were rejected seven times. “I applied on the Delhi government and Delhi Police portal but to no avail. As a last resort, I reached out to the Delhi Traffic Police handle on Twitter which directed me to the Delhi government. I even called on the Covid helpline but got no help. I work in a grain manufacturing company, and our products cannot be stored for long,” said Raghav.In addition to those working in the chemical and food processing industries, restaurants are also facing problems. Manpreet Singh, treasurer of National Restaurants Association of India, who also owns Zen restaurant in Connaught Place, said he failed to secure passes for himself and other staff members. “I applied for the pass at least five times in my name and two to three times in the name of my staff but all requests were rejected within six to eight hours without any reason. We have tried various combinations like providing Aadhar, FSSAI license, visiting card, pan card, and other documents, to secure passes but nothing works,” said Singh.Singh has asked the staff to stay within the restaurant premises while the deliveries are being managed through food-delivery apps such as Zomato and Swiggy. Singh said the upside was that his staff was not getting exposed by being in one location.Abhi Kumar, a cashier at Sagar Ratna restaurant, GK-2, said the restaurant has been facing problems in securing passes for its staff. “We have been trying to secure passes for the past five days but to no avail. Either no valid reason is cited for rejection of the request or we are told that the documents are incomplete,” said Kumar.Saurabh Suman, manager of Pebble Street in New Friends Colony (NFC), said the restaurant applied for passes for 10 people, of which the request for six staff members got sanctioned. “The portal doesn’t give a reason behind the rejection of a request, so we can’t proceed. We are now managing with the staff who have been able to secure the passes,” said Suman.When approached about the issue of difficulties being faced by essential service providers to get passes, a Delhi government spokesperson declined to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/not-getting-e-passes-say-some-essential-service-providers-101619117871227.html
23-04-2021||Other||Don’t pressure labs to give Covid test reports within 24 or 36 hours, says HC||The Delhi high court on Thursday directed the Delhi government to not implement any order directing the labs to submit the Covid test reports within 24 hours or 36 hours, saying that the reports should come within a maximum of 48 hours.Delhi government’s additional standing counsel Satyakam, however, told the high court bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli that no such order has been passed. The counsel also assured the court that its earlier order of May 2020, mandating reports to be issued within a maximum 48 hours will be implemented.The court was hearing a plea by advocate Rakesh Malhotra, who sought ramping up of tests in the city. The petition, which was disposed of, was revived by the court on Monday, noting that the virus has raised its “ugly head” once again and that “health care infrastructure is at the stage of imminent collapse”.On Thursday, the court also noted that the number of RT-PCR tests in the city is going down despite the fact that the cases are on a rise.To be sure, the proportion of RT-PCR tests among the overall samples collected over the past two weeks has been 66%, below the 70% number as recommended by the Centre. Overall testing, generally, too has dropped as labs struggle to clear backlogs and deliver test results to patients in time, amid a huge spike in demandOn Thursday, Delhi collected 48,346 samples using the RT-PCR method.In comparison, a week ago, Delhi collected 59,401 samples using the gold standard, and 70,403 samples using the technique two weeks ago.During the proceedings, both the Centre and the Delhi government sparred over the allocation of beds in the hospitals being run by the Union government. The petitioner informed the court that the Centre promised to allocate more beds in its the hospitals on April 20 but they were yet to be allocated.Delhi government’s counsel Rahul Mehra said when the cases were comparatively fewer in November, the Centre allocated them 4,132 beds. He said, currently they have been given around 2,900 beds despite the infection spreading much faster than the last wave. He said that nearly 7,000 beds should be allotted to the Delhi government for the emergency period.Arti Ahuja, additional secretary, ministry of health and family welfare, told the court that they have increased the number of beds. She said that the union government was exploring avenues for augmenting the number of beds with other facilities for mild and patients not requiring oxygen. She also said that the beds being sought by the Delhi government were already occupied.The court observed that the situation has become “precarious” in the city and people are not getting beds. Justice Sanghi said, “People are not getting beds. Please do increase the beds. People are dying on the streets. The cases are four fold, people need hospitalization and the immediate needs have to be met. Forget about the common man on the road, today if I go and stand and ask for a bed, I would not get it.”The bench asked the Delhi government to explore the possibilities of augmenting hotels with the hospitals and DMs and SDMs are in talks on this with the stakeholder.The high court also asked the Delhi government to explore the possibility of getting public sector undertakings (PSUs) to set up makeshift beds as was being done by some other states to enhance the availability of beds for citizens of the national capital.“We hope and expect that the Centre will look into the requirements of COVID beds and work to enhance availability,” the court said and asked the governments to file status reports on this.The matter would be now heard on April 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dont-pressure-labs-to-give-covid-test-reports-within-24-or-36-hours-hc-tells-delhi-government-101619117636123.html
23-04-2021||Other||Surge in oxygen demand, trucks from Delhi make beeline for Panipat refinery||A rush for supply of medical oxygen can be seen at the distribution gate of Indian Oil Corporation’s (IOC) Panipat refinery as trucks laden with liquid oxygen are leaving for different hospitals in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab. Police have been deployed at the main entrance of the refinery to monitor movement and double check gate passes of the trucks. The security officials said 13 trucks, of different capacities, have left from the refinery to supply oxygen to hospitals in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab since Thursday morning. Following a surge in demand, IOC has also increased its production and now it is supplying 140 MT oxygen to Delhi, 80 MT to Haryana, and 20 MT to Punjab. Inspector Manjeet Singh, who is monitoring the truck movement, says, “We are examining the documents of every truck leaving with liquid oxygen and the oxygen is being supplied as per government orders.” However, some truck drivers from Delhi alleged discrimination in allocation of oxygen. Hira Lal, of Vaibhav Oxygen that supplies oxygen to many hospitals in Delhi, said that he had come on Wednesday but is yet to get the oxygen. Another driver, Karan Singh, says his truck was called inside after a wait of 28 hours. Mahender Singh, who is taking oxygen to Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, said that this is his second turn in the past 24 hours and he has been allowed to take 5.5 tonne oxygen on Thursday. Earlier, the joint director of Apollo Hospital, Dr Sangita Reddy, in a tweet had sought urgent help from PM Modi, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, Union commerce and industries minister Piyush Goyal, saying that an oxygen tanker is waiting outside the gate of Air Liquide Panipat at IOC and the driver of the truck is not being allowed to get in. “Haryana police are stopping the truck and not letting oxygen out of Haryana. Need urgent intervention!” Dr Reddy had tweeted. But a few minutes later, she tweeted, “Update: The driver has been allowed inside and hopefully oxygen will be sent out soon.” “Further to my earlier tweet an appeal once again to the govt to please tag oxygen tank as ambulances and enable quick green corridor movement,” she tweeted. However, officials of Air Liquide Panipat said that they are supplying oxygen as per government schedule and do not have any role in deciding where the oxygen supplies should go first. Earlier, officials the IOC, had said that they will be supplying 150 MT liquid oxygen (10 MT everyday) to Delhi, Haryana and Punjab free of cost. But now, officials, requesting anonymity, said that if required, production and supply will be increased. ‘NO CLUE ABOUT MISSING OXYGEN TRUCK’ A tanker carrying liquid oxygen was allegedly stolen by unidentified persons. As per FIR registered on complaint of district drug controller Vijay Raje against unknown accused, a truck had left Air Liquide, Panipat, to supply oxygen at Sirsa on Wednesday, but it did not reach till evening. It was allegedly stolen by an unidentified accused on the way, police said. Matlauda police station in-charge Manjeet Singh said, “A case has been registered under Section 379 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against unknown persons and investigation is on.” He said that security at Air Liquide has been increased and documents of all trucks are being examined before they leave. This is the second such incident reported in state in the past two days. On Wednesday, Anil Vij had accused the Delhi government of looting oxygen truck on its way to supply oxygen in Faridabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/surge-in-oxygen-demand-trucks-from-delhi-make-beeline-for-panipat-refinery-101619117635608.html
23-04-2021||Other||DDMA drwas up plan to regulate oxygen distribution of oxygen||A day after the Delhi high court asked the city administration to prepare a detailed logistics plan for optimum oxygen supply to hospitals for Covid-19 treatment, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday issued a seven-point action plan which included strict demand-based supply of oxygen to all healthcare facilities, seamless transportation of tankers till the Capital’s borders, a 24x7 control room to resolve emergency calls from hospitals within 30 minutes and constituting oxygen audit committees in all hospitals.The order, issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev, also came in the backdrop of complaints received by hospitals with low bed strength that they were receiving no help from government agencies.“The sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases and the high positivity rate have led to a large number of hospital admissions. A high proportion of patients are on supplemental oxygen and under ICU care and this has led to a quantum increase in medical oxygen requirement in various Covid related health establishments…. Consequently, in many cases, the existing contractual arrangements have either been disturbed or the health facility’s oxygen requirement has exceeded the contractual quantity, thereby leading to widespread disruption in the supply chain leading to a precarious situation. Furthermore, local supply side disruptions in the neighbouring states is leading to wide variation in day to day delivery of oxygen to Delhi,” the DDMA order read.From Friday, the Delhi government will issue a daily schedule specifying the oxygen allocation to every healthcare facility in the city, the order said.Stating that the allocation and supply of oxygen within the city will be “strictly regulated”, the rules stated: “The allocation order shall supersede any existing contractual arrangements entered into by any facility with any supplier until further orders.”The DDMA also appointed three IAS officers to oversee the demand-supply chain, the transportation and the grievance redressal mechanism of hospitals.Ashish Verma, OSD in Delhi government’s health department has been asked to ensure proper distribution of oxygen from the suppliers to the hospitals, once the tankers enter the city. Udit Prakash Rai, special secretary (health) has been asked to ensure smooth and seamless movement of tankers up to Delhi borders. He has also been asked to sort out all issues raised by suppliers.Vijay Bidhuri, MD, Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), has been tasked with controlling, coordinating and facilitating the supply of oxygen to all health establishments.“A 24x7 control room shall function under Bidhuri. The control room shall also operate a help desk manned by a SDM level officer and 8 other officers for redressing all the grievances and complaints received from all hospitals (Central govt, state govt and private) within half an hour of the receipt of the grievances and complaints. If the grievances/complaints received are not redressed within half an hour, then it shall be the responsibility of Bidhuri to look into the issues and resolve the same,” the order read.The DDMA also asked the Delhi Police to monitor and control seamless and safe movement of all the oxygen tankers, appointing special commissioner of police Muktesh Chander as the nodal officer provide all help, support and security logistics in respect of movements of all tankers from the manufacturers sites to the various hospitals as per the allocation orders.It also asked all hospitals to appoint an audit committee for supervising and rationalising the use of medical oxygen. These committees will have to collect data on usage and stock of oxygen and submit daily reports. Every hospital has been asked to also appoint a nodal officer who shall be available round the clock for any matter relating to coordination and redressal of grievances pertaining to medical oxygen.The DDMA stated that anyone found violating these rules will be preceded against as per the provisions of sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, and other applicable laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ddma-lays-down-rules-to-regulate-distribution-of-oxygen-in-delhi-appoints-nodal-officers-101619117391950.html
23-04-2021||Other||Smaller hospitals say vendors stretched beyond capacity, some stop admitting patients||New Delhi: Around 7.30am on Thursday, Dr. Avinder Sabharwal, the owner of Jeevan Hospital Gate No 2 in south Delhi’s Maharani Bagh, called the local police and the district administration that the hospital was fast running out of oxygen and the life of 11 Covid patients is on the line. “While one supplier did not pick my call, the other oxygen cylinder supplier said he did not have any stock but promised he will do something. We had only one oxygen cylinder left at that time,” Sabharwal said. The police and the district administration helped the hospital get nine cylinders by 1pm. “Had there been a delay of five minutes, we would have lost two critical Covid patients who were on ventilator support. The lives of other nine patients were also at risk,” said Sabharwal.While the news of big hospitals in the city was being amplified on the social media, several hospitals with low bed capacity have also been struggling to get their regular oxygen supply. Big hospitals use liquid medical oxygen pumped through a gas pipeline in their wards but most hospitals with low bed strength depend on oxygen cylinders that can be attached to the supply line. Delhi’s oxygen requirement has soared to nearly three times of the normal as an unprecedented surge of Covid-19 infections has filled up city hospitals with critical cases. Many of the owners of these hospitals and nursing homes with a bed capacity between 15-100 said with the scarcity of medical oxygen and the week-long curfew has ensured that they have a little chance to get their oxygen stock replenished. Dr RP Singh, medical superintendent of Amarleela Hospital in Janakpuri, said they have stopped taking new patients from Thursday morning. “It has become difficult to arrange oxygen cylinders. We flagged the oxygen shortage on Wednesday evening but except the police, no other agency came to our rescue. The police could only arrange two cylinders last night. Our regular supplier is able to provide only 3-4 cylinders against our requirement of 40 cylinders,” said .Some other hospital owners said the local oxygen suppliers were either themselves affected by Covid or scared to step out. Dr Pawan Solanki, owner of the 50-bed Dharamveer Solanki Multispeciality Hospital in Rohini, said, “Our main oxygen vendor is in home isolation after testing Covid positive. But he is still managing to deliver us some cylinders. We have at least 10 Covid patients in ICU. Their lives are at risk as we are not getting the adequate supply of oxygen cylinders. We are also worried about legal problems that we may have to face in case of any untoward situation,” said Solanki. HT tried to contact at least four local oxygen vendors. While the cellphones of two of them were switched off, the other two disconnected or did not respond to calls.The management of at least two other hospitals, who did not want to come on record, said the government officials have taken hold of the oxygen refilling plants and are giving priority to government hospitals or bigger private hospitals.On Thursday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia urged the central government to intervene and stop Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments from “hoarding and monopolising oxygen supply designated for Delhi”. “There is a fight for oxygen supply and this is because, even after increasing the oxygen quote by Central government, there are some states that are stopping oxygen supply to reach hospitals in Delhi. Several hospitals in Delhi now see a dearth of oxygen supply. There is no oxygen left anymore. I have received many messages from hospitals – Saroj Hospital, Rathi Hospital, UK Hospital, Jeevan Hospital etc., have informed they don’t have oxygen supply left anymore. Delhi government has been arranging cylinders for these and many other hospitals. Internal arrangements are makeshift arrangements which are not long-term solutions. Government and private hospitals in Delhi have very limited supply of oxygen now,” said Sisodia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/smaller-hospitals-say-vendors-stretched-beyond-capacity-some-stop-admitting-patients-101619117391122.html
23-04-2021||Other||Delhi’s night shelters told not to deny anybody free meals||The Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (Dusib) on Thursday directed night shelters in the city to ensure no individual is denied meals that are being distributed for free as part of the Delhi government’s initiative to feed people, especially migrant workers, during the lockdown.Around 14,000 meals were served from the 205 shelters run by Dusib on Thursday – up from the 12,000 meals dished out on Wednesday when the initiative was launched. “Most beneficiaries are migrant workers who have been deprived of their daily wages following the lockdown,” said Bipin Rai, a member of Dusib.Rai further said, “Orders have been issued that no shelter should deny meals to anyone unless the food is over. If they are out of food, they should guide the person to the nearest shelter. We maintain records for the purpose of scaling up capacity, if needed.”The lockdown was imposed from Monday night in the light of the Covid-19 surge that has left the health care infrastructure in the city overburdened, forcing patients to run from pillar to post for hospital beds, oxygen, medicines, etc. “We urge people to maintain social distancing and adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour when they come to the shelters to collect the meals,” said Vijay Kumar Bidhuri, CEO, Dusib.When the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 24 last year, the city government made similar arrangements for the scores of migrants who were leaving for their native towns and villages, triggered by panic and anxiety about loss of livelihood.Last year, the Delhi government also turned its schools into shelters for the migrants who decided to stay back. The Delhi government also prepared 1 million meals per day during the stringent phase of the lockdown, that lasted for 68 days, which were distributed from the night shelters and ‘hunger centres’ set up in the 70 assembly constituencies in the city.“The relief measures undertaken during the lockdown last year was massive. This time, there are fewer people lining up for food. People are scared of Covid-19 now. They are scared of stepping out and queueing. They hear about the deaths and the burden of the disease,” said Rai.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Tuesday set up a six-member committee and entrusted it the responsibility of ensuring basic essentials such as food, water, sanitation, shelters and medicines to daily wagers and migrant labourers, including those at construction sites. It also directed the panel to tie up with midday meal contractors for preparing enough meals for thousands of workers and their families.Sunil Kumar Aledia, executive director of the Centre for Holistic Development, an advocacy group that works with homeless and migrant workers in the city, said the government should increase its capacity of preparing meals at the earliest. “Groups of NGOs have set up meal distributing centres in Kashmere Gate, Ramleela Maidan, Sarai Kale Khan and Nizamuddin Basti. A large number of people are still availing food from these centres and complaining they are being denied food at the shelters run by Dusib. Such mismanagement is unacceptable.”When contacted, Dusib officials dismissed such claims and said they have not received any complaint of anyone being refused food at the nigh shelters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhis-night-shelters-told-not-to-deny-anybody-free-meals-101619117271787.html
23-04-2021||Other||Medical O2 crisis increases in Varanasi, hosps ask attendants to shift patients||Amid the increasing demand for hospital beds in Varanasi to get critical Covid patients admitted, the grave issue of lack of medical oxygen has created an additional problem for the people. The attendants of many patients are being asked to shift their patients to another hospital due to a shortage in medical oxygen. This demand and supply gap of oxygen has left many in the lurch. Panna Lal (68), a resident of a colony near Varuna Bridge, took ill on April 12. His Covid test was done and the report came out negative, however, his condition deteriorated. Later, his son prof Anil Kumar Chaudhary admitted him to a Vivek Hospital in the Bhikharipur area of Varanasi on April 16. His condition was detected with pneumonia. On April 17, the hospital administration informed prof Chaudhary that there would be a shortage of oxygen, therefore, he should shift his father to another hospital. Chaudhary said, “I somehow managed to shift my father to Sahyog Hospital and Surgical Centre in Orderly Bazar area. My father is admitted to ICU and his condition is improving. However, on April 22 morning, the hospital administration asked me to shift my father to another hospital since the hospital as there would shortage of oxygen because the hospital was left with oxygen for next few hours only.” He said, “This information made me shocked because it is not easy to find a hospital under the current circumstances. I raised the issue before the authorities and urged them to ensure oxygen supply to the hospital because there are 12 patients, including my father in the ICU. By afternoon, the hospital received around eight cylinders of oxygen.” Thereafter he took a sigh of relief and thanked the authorities for paying attention to his request. Chaudhary appealed to the authorities to maintain supply to the hospital to avoid inconvenience to the patients in the ICU. Another 40-year-old patient has been admitted to the same hospital on April 18. He is on oxygen support. On Thursday morning, the patient’s kin, who does not wish to be named, said that the hospital authorities asked her to shift the patient to another hospital since the hospital was left with oxygen supply only till noon and there would be a shortage of oxygen. She took a sigh of relief after the hospital got a supply of cylinder in the noon. Not only these two persons but many others in Varanasi are being asked to shift their respective patient to another hospital due to the shortage of medical oxygen. Besides, many people are struggling to get beds with oxygen facility for their ailing kin. District Magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma said, “We are facing the biggest challenge to remove dearth of oxygen and meet its demand. This time, almost all the people who are getting infected by this deadly form of coronavirus require oxygen.” That is why, beds with oxygen facilities are being increased at the Trauma Centre, BHU. A total of 40 beds have been increased in the trauma centre on Thursday, besides, 15 ventilators have been provided to the BHU so that the general beds can be prepared for Covid patients, said Sharma. He said that all possible efforts are being made to meet the oxygen demand. ‘Now O2 reserve in hosps remain for 8-10 hrs’ VARANASI District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that nowadays, the hospitals in Varanasi have an oxygen reserve of 8-10 hours. Therefore, hospitals should admit the patients as per the availability of oxygen. DM said that a meeting was held with the in-charges of different hospitals on Tuesday. In the meeting, it was told to them that any hospital if facing problems in getting oxygen should reduce the number of beds and not admits new patients till the old patients get discharged. Every hospital should keep only as many patients as fits into its quota of oxygen, he said. The daily Oxygen supply is fixed and around 3400 oxygen cylinders are being supplied to various Covid hospitals. When the oxygen supply will get better, beds can be increased after a few days. We have reached the maximum capacity of beds according to oxygen availability, he added. BOXEmpty O2 cylinders reach Kashi from GujVARANASI Two hundred empty cylinders of oxygen reached Varanasi, said divisional commissioner of Varanasi, Deepak Agarwal, on Thursday. He said that these cylinders will be filled with oxygen and supplied to the hospitals. These cylinders have been brought from Gujarat. He added that 400 more empty cylinders will arrive in Varanasi within the next two days from Gujarat. These cylinders would be filled with oxygen and supplied to the hospitals. The order for these cylinders was placed a few days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/medical-o2-crisis-increases-in-varanasi-hosps-ask-attendants-to-shift-patients-101619116971099.html
23-04-2021||Other||Prayagraj admn fixes charges for wood used in cremation||People now will not have to pay extra money for the cremation of the bodies of their loved ones. In a bid to regulate the charges of cremation at the ghats, the administration has fixed the fee of cremation to ₹4000 including that of wood. The steps have been taken after reports that people were being charged hefty amounts for the cremation of the bodies of their kin started floating on social media. A video had also gone viral in which the person responsible for giving woods at Phaphamau Ghat was asking a family to pay a hefty amount. The police reached the scene after the family created a ruckus when they were allegedly stopped from cremating the body themselves. After the incident, two more persons were given the responsibility to supply wood at the ghat.It is worth mentioning that due to the large number of bodies coming in for cremation the family of deceased persons were charged ₹7000 and even more in the name of giving wood. The extra fee was causing scuffles at the ghat after which cops were deployed there.ADM (nazul) Gangaram Gupta said charges for wood have been fixed at ₹4000. No wood supplier can charge more than this amount. If any person is asked to pay more than the fixed amount then a complaint can be made in this connection. Strict action will be taken on such complaints, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-admn-fixes-charges-for-wood-used-in-cremation-101619116851530.html
23-04-2021||Other||Restore 110MT oxygen supply to Nagpur, ensure distribution of Remdesivir: Bombay HC||The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court (HC) took strong exception to a decision by the Union ministry for health and family welfare (MoHFW) to reduce oxygen supply from a Bhilai supplier to Maharashtra and directed its restoration with immediate effect, in a late-night hearing on Wednesday. A division bench of Justices Sunil Shukre and S M Modak referred to the Centre’s communication of April 18, which cut down the oxygen supply from Bhilai-based oxygen supplier, Prax Air-Linde, from 110 MT to 60 MT, saying that it “hit the state of Maharshtra as a bolt from the blue”. “In this situation of emergency poignantly enveloping a region which accounts for almost 40% Covid patients of the entire nation, the communication from the Ministry of Health and Family Affairs should have been to the effect of increasing the supply of liquid oxygen to the State of Maharashtra from the present practice of 110 metric tons per day to somewhere between 200 to 300 metric tons per day.” “Unfortunately, the things have been turned in a reverse manner and it has affected very severely Covid patients in the State of Maharashtra and in particular the Vidarbha Region,” the bench said. The court noted that Nagpur requires 166.5MT of oxygen, while other districts of Vidarbha region, which encapsulates Nagpur, need 100MT. The fall in supply from Bhilai caused a shortfall of around 100MT. Nagpur has oxygen generating units with 146MT capacity. “We have also been told that PRAX AIR, HYPHEN LINDE had been, till recently, supplying 110 metric tons of liquid oxygen every day. But, now this supply has been reduced to 60 metric tons as per the communication dated 18.4.2020 issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Affairs, New Delhi. The figures noted down just now would show that there is a shortfall of about 100 metric tons between the demand and supply of oxygen and on the backdrop of this shortfall, the communication dated 18.4.2020 has hit the State of Maharashtra as a bolt from the blue,” the bench said. The court sought appropriate instructions from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and directed the joint commissioner, Food and Drugs Administration, Nagpur to see to it that there is no breakdown in the supply of oxygen to all the hospitals in Nagpur. The bench directed the Central Controller of Drugs to be present on Friday for a hearing at 2.30 pm, with “all necessary information, and facts and figures”. This hearing was in continuation of Monday’s suo moto cognizance of the insufficient quantity of Remdesivir in Nagpur compared to other districts, following which the HC had ordered an immediate supply of the anti-viral drug to Nagpur. Stung into action, the authorities led by the divisional commissioner Dr Sanjeev Kumar, the district collector Ravindra Thakare and the municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B obtained assurances from seven drug manufacturing companies for the supply of 6,752 additional vials of Remdesivir latest by Thursday evening. Condemning the negligent conduct of the authorities in complying with its directions to supply 10,000 Remdesivir vials to Nagpur, the HC blasted the authorities on Wednesday night, in a hearing which lasted till 11pm, as it refused to adjourn the hearing unless the order of April 19 directing the state to supply 10,000 vials of Remdesivir injection was complied with. The bench made its displeasure clear over tone and tenor of the affidavits filed by the FDA and district administration, which it said appeared to be passing the buck on to pharmaceutical companies. “You are violating fundamental rights of the people,” the High Court observed and asked them whose business it was to procure Remdesivir. “We feel ashamed of being a part of this nasty and evil society. We cannot do anything for the unfortunate patients of Maharashtra. This is how we are shirking our responsibilities. You are neglecting and ignoring our patients. We give you solution, you don’t follow it. You do not give us solution,” the bench said. Senior Counsel MG Bhangde, appearing for the State, candidly and quite forthrightly informed about difficulty in compiling information and collating the facts, and put forth the real picture before the court in presence of officials. In the second hearing held earlier this week, the HC directed the Nagpur Covid-19 Task Force, distributors, C&F agents and stockists of life-saving drugs to convene and initiate stern action against black-marketers. It noted the alleged malpractice of a Gujarat-based company where it was reported that the company was planning to export 60,000 vials of Remdesivir outside India despite a ban on export. The High Court noted that such incident would only indicate the possibility of indulgence in malpractices by some unscrupulous dealers, suppliers and manufacturers. It is always advisable for the authorities to take precautions and periodical checks, the court remarked. The HC pointed out that the Drug Controller of India had immense powers under Drug Control Act and several other statutes to direct pharmaceutical companies to increase production, ensure proper supply and also take stringent action in case of non-supply or deliberate under-supply. T It asked the central body to explain in detail steps taken to ensure fair and equitable supply of life-saving drugs before the court on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/restore-110mt-oxygen-supply-to-nagpur-ensure-distribution-of-remdesivir-bombay-hc-101619116611112.html
