24-04-2021||Other||Panel to monitor oxygen consumption in Ludhiana||In the wake of sharp increase in the demand for oxygen for Covid patients, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Saturday set up an audit committee to monitor oxygen consumption in the district.The 11-member committee will be headed by AETC-2 Damanjeet Singh Mann, with a representative of the commissioner of police, Khanna and Ludhiana Rural SSPs, deputy medical commissioner Dr Mohinder Singh, district family and welfare officer Dr SP Singh, District Industries Centre general manager, ZLA Dr Kulwinder Singh, anaesthetician Dr Sheenu Gupta, drug inspectors Roop Preet Kaur, Sandeep Kaushik, Amit Lakhan Pal and Lajwinder Kaur as its members.The committee will regularly review the consumption and balance stock of oxygen at hospitals and other health institutions. It will also ensure that the use of oxygen for the management of serious Covid-19 patients is as per prescribed treatment protocols, besides checking that oxygen is not being used for any industrial purpose. A report will be submitted to the DC daily.The deputy commissioner said with the sudden surge of serious Covid cases, the oxygen demand had also increased unprecedentedly, so it was necessary that its stocks and consumption were closely rationalised.He also asked hospitals to use oxygen only for serious and critical patients, and warned hoarders of severest action.Another committee to check elective surgeriesFollowing reports that some hospitals are still conducting elective surgeries despite a ban, the deputy commissioner has set up another committee for physical inspection of hospitals and punitive action against violators.Through another order, he said a team had also been set up to penalise those involved in black-marketing of Covid treatment drugs, such as remdesivir. The team will submit daily inspection reports by 5pm.Police deployed at oxygen plantsMeanwhile, to check any attempt of pilferage, police personnel, along with staff of the district administration and health department, have been deployed outside oxygen plants.Deputy director local government Amit Bambi and joint commissioner of police J Elanchezhian visited the bottling and oxygen separation plants in the district to take stock of the situation.“Oxygen cylinders will be issued only after verification of documents,” said sub-inspector Jaswinder Singh, who is among the staff deployed at the plants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panel-to-monitor-oxygen-consumption-in-ludhiana-101619288102334.html
24-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana logs 861 Covid cases in slight drop, but deaths rise to 10||With 861 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, Ludhiana registered a slight dip in its daily count, but the deaths rose to 10, for the second time this month.Seven of the deceased hailed from posh areas of the city.On Friday, the district had logged an all-time high of 995 cases, while the number of deaths was eight. Since April 19, the daily cases have remained over 700 for six consecutive days.Ludhiana had last witnessed 10 deaths on April 19. Apart from this, this year, it clocked daily deaths in double digits only on two other occasions – 11 on March 29 and 10 on March 28.With Saturday’s deaths, the toll reached 1,290, while the fresh cases pushed the total count to 48,214, of which 6,620 cases are still active. A total of 96 positive patients are admitted in government hospitals and 894 at private hospitals as of Saturday. Government facilities have 354 Covid beds available and private hospitals have another 322. The number of patients on ventilator has also increased from 20 to 26 in just two days. Besides, 7,889 patients are in home isolation.Five senior citizens among latest fatalitiesAmongst the men who succumbed to the disease were a 78-year-old from LIG Flats in Sector 32, a 71-year-old from Sarabha Nagar, a 62-year-old from Kidwai Nagar, and two aged 55 from Ram Nagar and Rajguru Nagar. The female deceased were a 72-year-old from Barewal, a 65-year-old from Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, a 58-year-old from Gurdev Nagar, a 56-year-old from Preet Nagar and a 48-year-old from Rauni village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-logs-861-covid-cases-in-slight-drop-but-deaths-rise-to-10-101619287802401.html
24-04-2021||Other||Over 3K people await Covid report in Haryana’s Jind||More than 3,000 people in Jind district are waiting to get their Covid test results since April 18.As per the district health bulletin, 3,129 people are awaiting their sample reports. The district has total 1,981 active cases, of which 102 patients are admitted in isolation wards.However, 132 people have succumbed to the virus so far.A 41-year-old businessman, who gave throat swab for testing on April 19, said he is still waiting to collect his reports. “I have mild symptoms of fever, cough and pain in throat but the health department has failed to provide my Covid report. I had to wait for three hours to get my test done and now I’m making rounds of the hospital to collect my reports,” he said.A 28-year-old student, Rohit Kumar, said he has been waiting for his report for the last six days.“I have Covid symptoms and have home quarantined myself. Without getting test reports, how do I start my treatment? My family is worried. If we have to wait for a week to get the report, you can expect how many days will be required to get a bed in the hospital, if my situation worsens,” he said.In many cases, the report doesn’t mention if the person is tested positive or negative. Many people complained that they are receiving equivocal reports (neither positive nor negative).A health official, pleading anonymity, said they had sent samples to private labs for testing but reports are still awaited.“Many labs have expressed their inability to provide reports as the pending cases are yet to be cleared first,” the official added.Jind deputy commissioner Aditya Dahiya said Covid reports are delayed as 12 of 14 staff members deployed at the RT-PCR testing lab at Uchana in Jind were found infected with the virus.“We will deploy additional staff at the testing lab to solve this problem. The number of people coming for testing has increased significantly. The health department staff are approaching people who have shown symptoms. One can visit any health centre in district if they face any issue,” the Jind DC added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-3k-people-await-covid-report-in-haryana-s-jind-101619286425384.html
24-04-2021||Other||Ambala: Man impersonating IB officer booked for seeking sensitive army info||Police have booked a man for impersonating an Intelligence Bureau (IB) officer and seeking sensitive information from an army intelligence officer in Ambala Cantonment on Friday.Col CB Rai, commanding officer of the Corps 2’s field security section, filed a complaint with SSP Hamid Akhtar and an FIR was lodged against the accused under Sections 170 (personating as civil servant) and 419 (punishment for cheating by personation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Cantt police station.The call was first received by Col Amit Mohanne, commanding officer 2 Corps Provost Unit (military police), on his official landline from an Indian mobile number. The accused claimed to be IB assistant director Rahul from Ambala and asked for military-related information.Col Amit advised him to call Col Rai for the same.“At 11:34am, I received a call from the same number and the same individual. The caller started enquiring about movement of a particular army unit. I didn’t divulge any information and requested him to visit my office. The local IB office was contacted to ascertain if any person named Rahul is posted there and it was found that no such person works there,” Col Rai said.DSP (Cantt) Ram Kumar said the call is being traced and the matter is under investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ambala-man-impersonating-ib-officer-booked-for-seeking-sensitive-army-info-101619286181643.html
24-04-2021||Other||Covid restrictions hamper wedding plans in Haryana, people shifting venue to villages||Only a week before the wedding of his daughter, Naresh Kumar, of Ladwa in Kurukshetra, had to shift the venue from a marriage palace to his native village after the government imposed restrictions on gatherings following rise in Covid-19 cases in state.Naresh had booked a marriage palace for around ₹1.90 lakh but now has to make arrangements for a tent and minimise the number of guests due to the danger posed by the pandemic. His family is busy making calls to close relatives informing them about the change of venue as the invitation cards had already been distributed.Despite this, Naresh was lucky as he belongs to a village and could change the venue swiftly. Hundreds others cannot shift the venue and are spending sleepless nights trying to get permission for their functions as now the government has limited the number of guests to 50 from 200, for all programmes.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, during a press conference on Saturday, said that people can defer their programmes. But people raised objection as they said weddings are not fixed in a week and their preparations begin more than a month before.Khattar added that all powers have been given to deputy commissioners for any further restrictions.“I have already paid for marriage palace, decoration, DJ, movie maker, catering and cooks as we were expecting a gathering of around 1,200 people at my son’s marriage. How can we reschedule it now?” asked Chanderbhan, of Kurukshetra, whose son’s marriage is fixed for Monday.The new restrictions have increased worries for people who cannot defer the marriages and are now making rounds to offices of the district administrations for permissions.As per authorities at the Karnal SDM office, over 150 applications seeking permission for marriages have been received since the restrictions were imposed.Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha said as per guidelines, permissions are only being granted for a day’s function. Duty magistrate and local police will visit the venue on the wedding day to ensure that Covid guidelines are followed and strict action is taken against violators as per law.Officials in Kaithal SDM office said over 50 applications for permission are coming in every day.Moreover, the restrictions, especially night curfew, has cost the owners of marriage palaces heavily as they most marriages were fixed for night and have now been cancelled or shifted to villages due to fresh guidelines and night curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-restrictions-hamper-wedding-plans-in-haryana-people-shifting-venue-to-villages-101619286001691.html
24-04-2021||Other||10,491 more test Covid positive in Haryana||Haryana on Saturday reported 10,491 new coronavirus infections and 60 deaths. The new cases pushed the number of active cases to 69,384.As per the medical bulletin, the sample positivity rate on Saturday climbed to 5.83% from Friday’s 5.72% and the recovery rate came down to 82.32% from 83.19%.There are 1,995 critical patients in state on Saturday including 1,769 on oxygen support and 226 on ventilator.Of the 60 deaths, eight were from Gurugram, seven each from Faridabad and Ambala, six each from Hisar and Sonepat, five each from Bhiwani and Karnal, three each from Jind and Fatehabad, two each from Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Jhajjar and Sirsa and one each from Panipat and Palwal.Gurugram with 3,136 new cases, Faridabad (1,530), Hisar (857) and Sonepat (802) were the leading districts in terms of new infections reported on Saturday.FRESH RESTRICTIONS IN SIX DISTRICTSThe Haryana government on Saturday night imposed fresh restrictions in six pandemic-hit districts including Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Panchkula, Hisar and Karnal.As per an order issued by the state disaster management authority, DCs of all six districts were asked to impose prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to ban gathering of more than four persons unless specifically permitted.The deputy commissioners across the state have also been asked to impose lockdown for a defined period in macro containment zones where concentration of coronavirus is discovered. All IT, IT-enabled services units, and corporate offices in these districts will operate from home till May 3.For the entire state, and for gatherings of all kinds, a maximum of 30 persons will be allowed in indoor spaces and maximum 50 persons outdoors. For funerals, maximum 20 persons will be allowed. For social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political and other congregations, the organisers will have to take permission from the DCs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10491-more-test-covid-positive-in-haryana-101619285643333.html
24-04-2021||Other||UP to do oxygen audit with help from top institutes||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said the state government will conduct oxygen audit with the assistance of IIT- Kanpur, IIM-Lucknow and IIT-Banaras Hindu University. He also said the state will soon have 32 new oxygen plants of which 18 will be based on DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organisation) technology. Reacting to the move on oxygen audit, a spokesperson for Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur (IIT-K) said, “We are more than happy to assist the UP government in any way we can in these times of crisis. A team will be formed and assigned this task once an official communication in this regard is received by us.” The Indian Institute of Management-Lucknow (IIM-L) also assured full cooperation in the oxygen audit. “We are yet to receive an official communication from the state government,” its spokesperson said. IIT-BHU director Prof PK Jain said, “A team of experts will be constituted for the oxygen audit as soon as we receive any communication from the government in this regard.” The chief minister announced the oxygen audit a day after launching a digital platform for monitoring oxygen supply. For his part, he asked officials to strike a balance between demand and supply of oxygen. He also asked officials to “distribute oxygen in a transparent manner.” He also said the Covid-19 hospitals being set up by DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organisation) in Lucknow and Varanasi will soon be ready and functional, said a state government statement quoting the chief minister. He noted that medical oxygen supply to Uttar Pradesh was being augmented not only from Bokaro (Jharkhand) but also from Modinagar (UP), Kashipur and Roorkee (Uttarakhand) and Panipat (Haryana). “Ensure oxygen supply to small districts such as Bahraich, Firozabad from their district headquarters. Oxygen is being transported to various districts such as Gorakhpur and Bareilly through tankers. Ensure GPS (global position system) tracking of the tankers and make security arrangements for them. No patient should suffer because of a lack of oxygen. Keep an eye on all small or big hospitals in the state,” he added. “Provide oxygen even to those who require it in home isolation. The state government will ensure oxygen sufficiency everywhere in the state,” he said. Yogi said oxygen will be given to anyone who has doctor’s prescription for it. The chief minister said oxygen refilling and oxygen-producing MSME units should be connected directly with the hospitals for smoother supply. “There is no crisis of oxygen in the government and private hospitals. Hoarding and black marketeering has led to the shortage. Some of the hospitals announced that they were facing oxygen shortage. When the state government teams checked the premises, enough oxygen was found in the stock. Due to the fear being created by such hospitals, the panicked people are trying to get an oxygen cylinder,” he said later in the day. Additional chief secretary (Home) Awasthi said the oxygen monitoring system had started functioning. In a video conference on Saturday, the Uttar Pradesh authorities apprised the central government about the new monitoring system launched by the state. The central government appreciated the UP initiative, he said, adding that the representatives of Bihar, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra showed interest in the monitoring system launched by UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-to-do-oxygen-audit-with-help-from-top-institutes-101619285342959.html
24-04-2021||Other||IAF starts transporting empty oxygen tankers from UP||The Indian Air Force (IAF) started airlifting empty oxygen tankers of Uttar Pradesh from its Hindon air base in Ghaziabad to transport them to oxygen filling units elsewhere. The tankers with refills will return to the state on trains later. The state government also said that it may use the Bakshi Ka Talab air base in Lucknow and Gorakhpur air base for airlifting empty oxygen tankers. “The first two tankers were scheduled to be airlifted from Hindon airbase in Ghaziabad today (Saturday). We believe the tankers have reached Bokaro, Jamshedpur,” said a state government official. The development follows chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s virtual meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday where Yogi requested the central government to deploy air force planes for oxygen supply. At the Team-11 meeting on Saturday, the chief minister said: “Even the Indian Air Force is cooperating from various centres across the country for oxygen supply. Two tankers will be airlifted on an air force plane to Bokaro. From there, after refilling, the tankers will reach Lucknow on a train.” The state government official said that the plane would take only empty tankers and won’t transport refilled tankers as that’s dangerous from the aviation point of view. Once filled with liquid oxygen, the tankers would reach their destinations in UP on trains. Airlifting empty tankers to the filling centres drastically cuts the total time of transportation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iaf-starts-transporting-empty-oxygen-tankers-from-up-101619285161009.html
24-04-2021||Other||Bihar youth working with German cruise goes missing||PATNAA youth from Saran district of Bihar, who was working with a German cruise, has been missing since April 21 when the vessel set sail from Greece for Israel.Abhinav Kumar, son of 55-year-old Sunil Kumar Malakar, headmaster of a school in Saran, last spoke to his father on April 19 and told him that the newly built cruise did not have any passenger.Kumar, a resident of in Sonepur, was a crew member at Royal Caribbean International Cruise, which left Cyprus on April 21. Since then, the family has approached everyone, from the Centre to the local police. Saran MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy has taken up the matter with external affairs minister S Jaishankar and Indian ambassador in Germany, Mukta Tomar.Talking to reporters on Saturday, Malakar said he received a call on April 21 informing him that his son had been missing during a jump in sea. According to Malakar, the incident occurred at 50 nautical miles south of Cyprus. “The captain of the ship, Kumar’s room partner and other crew members seems to have been briefed as to what they have to say about the incident. Even the company officials are saying the exact same thing. No police case has not been registered. Company officials are avoiding our calls,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-youth-working-with-german-cruise-goes-missing-101619282642339.html
24-04-2021||Other||Those who assault docs will go to jail and beaten up: Minister||ARAUnion minister and Ara MP R K Singh on Saturday warned of strict action against all those who indulge in acts of violence against doctors on duty. During an inspection of Ara Sadar Hospital, Singh said doctors are doing their duty in tough circumstances endangering their lives. “If anyone assaults doctors, stringent action will be taken. Those who indulge in such acts will go to jail and will be beaten there too. The district administration has been asked to deal with them with a firm hand,” Singh said while reacting to ruckus created by attendants of patients at emergency ward of the hospital on Saturday following death of a woman.According to her family members, 36-year-old Arti Devi was suffering from pneumonia and was undergoing treatment. Around Saturday noon, she started feeling uncomfortable and was rushed to emergency ward of Ara Sadar hospital for treatment. The nurse allegedly gave her an injection after which she died. Her family members created a ruckus and damaged the equipment kept in the emergency ward. The doctor and other medical staff had to escaped from the scene. Hospital superintendent Dr Praveen Kumar Sinha said, “There was no lapse on the part of medical staff. The victim came in a serious condition and could not survive.” Station house officer of Ara town police station, Shambhu Kumar Bhagat, said no complaint had been filed from either side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/those-who-assault-docs-will-go-to-jail-and-beaten-up-minister-101619282641412.html
24-04-2021||Other||Medicine trader shot dead in drug wholesale hub||PATNAA medical store owner in Patna was shot dead and his employee critically injured on Saturday, allegedly by another store owner, at Govind Mitra road, the wholesale hub for medicines in the state capital.The police have recovered three empty cartridges from the crime scene.According to police, the reason behind the incident is said to be a dispute between two shopkeepers over black- marketing of premium drugs. The deceased, Rajnish Kumar Sinha, a resident of Danapur, had been running a medical store for the last decade. Around noon, he and his employee Sunny were busy at work when Sonu Kumar Gupta, who also owns a medical store, appeared and allegedly opened fire at them. Sinha succumbed on way to the PMCH while Sunny is battling for life. In a CCTV footage, Sonu is seen pulling down shutters of his shop and fleeing on his motorcycle. Following the incident, tension gripped the area. Senior superintendent of police Upendra Sharma visited the spot and pacified angry locals.Eyewitnesses said Sonu first had a scuffle with Sinha before he fired at him. The SSP said a case had been lodged against the accused and police were trying to nab him.The security has been tightened in the GM Road and extra force has been deployed after the incident, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/medicine-trader-shot-dead-in-drug-wholesale-hub-101619282640850.html
24-04-2021||Other||Junior doctors at NMCH end strike||PATNAJunior doctors and other medical staff of of Patna’s Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), who had gone on strike Friday noon following attack on them by attendants after death of a coronavirus patient, have ended their stir following intervention of the top district administration officials.Patna district magistrate Chandrasekhar Singh and senior superintendent of police Upendra Sharma visited the NMCH, declared by the state government a dedicated Covid hospital, and resolved the matter.The doctors have resumed their duty at the NMCH, the DM told PTI.The agitating doctors were demanding enhanced security and adequate stock of oxygen for critically ill patients.“The security at the hospital has been scaled up immediately and efforts are on to increase stock of oxygen cylinders at the hospital,” Singh said.Against the need of around 900 oxygen cylinders per day, the hospital was getting the supply on hourly basis. Fearing end of stock, patients’ attendants had been creating commotion for the last few days.“It has been decided that the hospital should have a reserve of 100 oxygen cylinders and also supply of medical oxygen in place on hourly basis be provided every morning and night to ensure adequate quantity,” the DM said.The premier hospital has 500 beds for Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/junior-doctors-at-nmch-end-strike-101619282582869.html
24-04-2021||Other||Spare us of attending schools, colleges, teachers urge govt||PATNAWith the Covid-19 surge unabated in Bihar and situation expected to worsen in the coming weeks, teachers’ bodies have urged the state government and the Raj Bhawan to free them from the binding of one-third attendance so that all could remain indoors to break the fatal chain. Bihar Legislative Council member and president of the Bihar Secondary Teachers’ Association, Kedar Nath Pandey, has written to education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary to look into the matter in view of practical difficulties, viz over 15% teachers staying at least 50-150 kms from the school in villages, 35% women appointed as teachers and lack of any hostel or stay facilities in schools. “Over two dozen school teachers have also died due to Covid-19 and it is hard to identify who is infected and who is not due to difficulty in getting RTPCR tests done and if that is somehow managed, one has to endlessly wait for reports. In this situation, asking teachers to attend school is fraught with risk and against the government’s efforts to break the chain. Many teachers have reported symptoms,” Pandey wrote. The Federation of University Teachers’ Association (FUTAB) has also written to the Raj Bhawan to avoid calling teachers to the colleges and universities every day without ensuring proper sanitization and cleanliness at a time when Covid-19 situation in the state was fast spiraling out of control. “If the services or teachers are meaningfully required, there is no issue in calling them daily or alternate day. When exams and admissions have been postponed and there are reports of over a dozen college teachers, including young ones, dying due to Covid in the last couple of weeks , there is no point exposing them to further risk when the government hospitals are themselves gasping for breath and basic infrastructure is crumbling,” FUTAB working president KB Sinha and general secretary Sanjay Kumar, MLC, wrote to the principal secretary to the Chancellor of Universities. The association said the list of teachers who succumbed to Covid-19 include Iqbal Ahmad and Dilip Choudhary of Veer Kuer Singh University (Ara), Parvez Ahmad, CL Khatri and Baliram Kumar of Pataliputra University (Patna), Patna University teacher Govind Kumar , Prof Ashish and Prof Akhilesh of TM Bhagalpur University. The FUTAB letter is in response to the letter from the department of education’s principal secretary Sanjay Kumar to all the district magistrates and district education officers, which said all associate professors, professors and officers equivalent or above the rank will be present daily, while one-third of those in the rank of assistant professor or below will attend alternatively. In schools also, 33% teachers and employees have been asked to be present, while the headmaster and in-charge headmaster of middle, secondary and higher secondary schools will be present every day. Patna University vice-chancellor Girish Kumar Choudhary is himself suffering from Covid-19 and has proceeded on medical leave. Raj Bhawan has given additional charge of VC to Pro-VC Prof Ajay Kumar Singh to discharge the routine work till CHoudhary recovers. “In the universities and colleges, the government should first try to ensure sanitization before issuing orders. When even sweepers are not available, one can well imagine the chances of adhering to Covid safety guidelines,” the FUTAB letter said, urging the Chancellor’s office to intervene in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/spare-us-of-attending-schools-colleges-teachers-urge-govt-101619282582014.html
24-04-2021||Other||Suspected Covid-19 patient dies in Darbhanga village, son ends life||DARBHANGAA 20-year youth allegedly committed suicide on Friday evening after his father died of ailment, suspected to be Covid-19 infection. The deceased’s sample for corona confirmatory test was collected on April 19 but the test result was still awaited. Darbhanga civil surgeon (CS) Sanjiv Kumar Sinha said on Saturday that samples collected at primary health centres were being sent to Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) for RTPCR test and the delay in test results was due to huge rush as neighbouring district hospitals were also sending samples. Sinha said a probe had been initiated into allegation that the patient died after the ambulance driver refused to carry him to the PHC for treatment after learning he was a suspected corona patient.According to villagers, the patient was suffering from high fever and Covid-related symptoms for last couple of days. His swab sample was collected at Bahadurpur PHC on April 19. His condition worsened on Friday. In the meantime, his son called Bahadurpur PHC for sending an ambulance. However, ambulance driver reportedly refused to carry the patient to hospital after learning that he had Covid-19 symptoms. A little while later, the patient succumbed. In the meantime, his son went inside his room and hanged himself. He was taken to the PHC and declared brought dead, said Dr Kavita Mishra, one of the doctors posted at PHC.Bahadurpur police station house officer didn’t respond to repeated calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/suspected-covid-19-patient-dies-in-darbhanga-village-son-ends-life-101619282581355.html
24-04-2021||Other||Bodies pile up, Nitish orders walk-in interviews for docs||PATNABihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday directed top officials to start filling vacant medical and paramedical posts in every district through walk-in interviews even as the state reported 12,359 fresh cases of coronavirus and 77 deaths during the last 24 hours. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by the CM.Bihar Health Services Association (BHSA) general secretary Dr Ranjeet Kumar said 30-40% of the posts in the state, both of doctors and paramedical staff, were lying vacant. “The state has a sanctioned strength of 13,500 doctors (approximately) and is facing acute shortage of paramedical staff like OT assistants, laboratory assistants, nurses, X-ray technicians, ultrasound technicians, ventilator assistants and data operators in 700-odd hospitals of the state,” said Dr Kumar. Sources said there are 4,133 ANM (auxillary nurse midwife) vacancies against sanctioned posts of 9,130 in Bihar and there is also a shortage of 2,000-odd medical members against 4,000 sanctioned posts.With Covid cases increasing at an alarming pace, the state is in dire need of doctors as more than 500 doctors and health workers of the two leading hospitals in Patna, AIIMS and Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), have been infected with the coronavirus during the ongoing second wave, according to agency reports. “The situation is the same in medical colleges, which are functioning on half the teaching strength. Out of the 4,000 teaching posts, nearly 50% are vacant,” said Dr Ajay Kumar, senior vice-president of the Indian Medical Association, Bihar chapter.In fact, the IMA had written a letter to chief minister on Friday asking him to appoint doctors as an emergency measure. “There is a provision of quick appointment of doctors and others in times of an epidemic. All such people who are ready to join can be recruited on contract under epidemic provisions,” said Dr Kumar.He said that doctors and health care workers have been working continuously for the last 14 months without any leave. “They are exhausted and need some rest on intervals. More than 15% of them are infected. Many have died. It is the demand of time in public interest,” said Kumar.Meanwhile, the total number of active cases in the state climbed to 81960. “Seven districts, including Patna, Gaya, Bhagalpur, Aurangabad, Saran, Nalanda and Begusarai, reported more than 500 positive cases on Friday,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director, State Health Society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bodies-pile-up-nitish-orders-walk-in-interviews-for-docs-101619282580856.html
24-04-2021||Other||Operation Oxygen: Tankers rush to plants||Soon after the Oxygen Express train reached the Charbagh railway station here with around 30,000 litres of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) at around 6.30am on Saturday, the onboard tankers were allowed to deboard and they were rushed to different oxygen plants in Lucknow and its neighbourhood.The total volume of oxygen transported to Lucknow would be enough to meet half the existing demand in the state capital, said additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi who supervised the entire operation. He said indeed it was a big operation.“Of the two tankers, one was rushed to a gas agency—Sharang Gases in Barabanki — where it unloaded 7,500 litres of LMO while the remaining amount of oxygen was delivered to another gas station in the Nadarganj area. The other tanker delivered gas in BKT (Bakshi Ka Talab) and other gas station in order to ensure uniform supply of oxygen in the entire city,” said another senior government official who was the part of the operation.In all, the state capital got around 22,500 litres of oxygen. As per the records with Food Safety and Drug Administration (FSDA), the city currently has two oxygen manufacturing plants—Murari Gases Private Ltd and Parerthat Industrial Enterprises Pvt Ltd. Besides, there are four oxygen refilling plants in the state capital. FSDA officials said that after 15 April, around 6,800 to 7,000 oxygen cylinders were in demand on a daily basis that was resulting in a crisis. Officials also said that major hospitals like SGPGI, KGMU and Lohia Hospital had their own liquid oxygen tank of 20,000 litre capacity each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/operation-oxygen-tankers-rush-to-plants-101619274780421.html
24-04-2021||Other||Nine of 12 districts in Himachal have positivity rate above 10%||Nine of the 12 districts of Himachal Pradesh have reported a Covid positivity rate of more than 10% with Solan on top at 16.92%. The industrial district that shares its borders with Punjab and Haryana sees heavy movement of migrant labour daily. In the past week alone, Solan reported 1,437 cases. Also read: LIVE: Weekend curfew in Jammu and Kashmir from tonight 8pm to Monday 6am to curb Covid-19 spreadShimla is second with a positivity rate of 14.42% followed by Hamirpur at 13.22% and Sirmaur at 12.99%. Kangra, which is the worst hit district in terms of the number of Covid cases, has a positivity rate of 12.74%. The most populous district in the state has reported more than 2,000 Covid cases in just a week. The sudden spike has resulted in hospitals in the district being full to capacity. The district authorities are now working to ramp up the bed capacity by opening a new Covid Care Centre and seeking the help of private hospitals. Next on the list is the tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti with a positivity rate of 12.39%. The remote district witnessed a spike in cases this week. The infections were first noticed among migrant labourers and later spread to the local population who came in their contact. Last year, the district had seen a spurt in cases after the opening of Atal Tunnel. Other districts on the list of high positivity are Shimla at 12.1% and Kullu at 11.6%. Bilaspur, Kinnaur and Chamba are the only three districts with the positivity rate below 10%. Bilaspur has a positivity rate of 9.12%, Kinnaur 7.92% and Chamba 4.39%. Highest death rate in Shimla Shimla district has the highest case fatality ratio (CFR) of 2.4%. The district has recorded 315 deaths since the outbreak last March. Of them, 20 deaths have been reported in Shimla in the past week alone. More than 222 people have tested positive for Covid-19 since Friday evening. Sanjauli, New Shimla and Panthaghat are the new hotspots. The maximum of 19 cases were reported from New Shimla, 10 from Panthaghatti, eight from Sanjauli and nine from Chotta Shimla. Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital is full to capacity, while only 10 of the 90 beds are unoccupied at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital in Shimla. “The rush of patients is increasing by the day. We are now taking over private hospitals and the government-run Ayurveda Hospital in Chotta Shimla to accommodate more cases,” Shimla chief medical officer Surekha Chopra said. Kangra, the biggest district in terms of population, has a CFR of 2.09%. The district has recorded 295 Covid deaths in all. The health authorities say the high death rate in Shimla and Kangra is because only these two districts have tertiary care centres: Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, and Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda. Since critical patients are referred to these two health institutions from other districts, the toll remains high. Kullu, where a total of 90 people have died of Covid till date, has a CFR of 1.6%. Una has seen 94 fatalities and has a CFR of 1.5%. Mandi has recorded 154 deaths and has a CFR of 1.23%. 1,500 more beds, three oxygen plants coming up After reviewing the Covid situation, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said that an additional 1,500 beds will be made available for Covid patients. Liquid oxygen plants will soon be functional in all three major medical colleges of the state, namely IGMC, Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College, Tanda and the medical college at Nerchowk in Mandi district. He said people of the state coming from different parts of the country must stay in home isolation for at least a week to rule out any possibility of spreading the virus, in case they are infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nine-of-12-districts-in-himachal-have-positivity-rate-above-10-101619266500563.html
24-04-2021||Other||Maoists kill Chhattisgarh Police sub-inspector in captivity on kangaroo court’s orders||Maoists have killed a police sub-inspector known for his role in anti-Maoist operations on a kangaroo court’s orders days after abducting him while he was on his way to meet his ailing mother in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district on Wednesday, an officer said on Saturday, amid a spike in violence in the Left-wing insurgency-hit state this month.Bijapur police superintendent Kamlochan Kashyap said a Maoist janadalat (kangaroo court) ordered Murli Tati’s killing even as a search was on to rescue him. “The Maoists dumped Murli’s body near a village at Gangalur in Bijapur district along with a note that Tati was ‘executed as decided by a people’s court’,” said Kashyap. He called Tati one of the most important fighters in anti-Maoist operations in the Bijapur district. “We have launched a hunt for the Maoists and a combing operation in a jungle is going on.”Tati was abducted a day after Maoist commander Kosa Handa, who carried a reward of ₹five lakh on his head, was killed in a five-hour firefight with security forces in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada. Handa had been an active Maoist for 15 years and was their Malangir area committee member and “military intelligence” in charge. He faced at least 15 cases and a 9 mm pistol, a country-made gun, three kg improvised explosive device, medicines, and items of daily use were recovered from the gunbattle scene.Around a dozen Maoists earlier abducted two people, including a 15-year-old boy, and murdered them with sharp-edged weapons after branding them as police informers in the neighbouring Sukma district. Maoists dragged out the two from their homes and took them to a nearby forest, where their bodies were later recovered. A pamphlet recovered along with the bodies claimed the two worked as police informers and were “hence punished”. The brother of one of the two joined the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) a year back. The father of the other left his job as an assistant police constable after the Maoists threatened him last year, police said.Twenty-two police and paramilitary personnel were killed and at least two dozen others injured in a gunfight with Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar region on April 3. The Maoists ambushed the forces after possibly luring them to an area near the Bijapur-Sukma border.A commando of the CRPF taken captive after the April 3 gunfight was released days later.The toll from the April 3 gunbattle was the worst for security forces battling Maoists since 2017 when 25 jawans were killed in an attack. Seventeen personnel from a commando patrol were killed in an attack by more than 300 armed Maoists in Chhattisgarh in March last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maoists-kill-chhattisgarh-police-sub-inspector-in-captivity-on-kangaroo-court-s-orders-101619253419850.html
24-04-2021||Other||Covid-19 positive candidate in Goa goes on campaign spree, booked||Municipal polls candidate from South Goa, Arthur D’Silva, who tested positive for Covid-19, was found “moving around, campaigning and soliciting votes” on voting day in the Margao Town in South Goa and has been booked by the Goa Police for violating protocol under the Epidemic Diseases Act, officials said.According to assistant returning officer, Prataprao Gaunker, he received information that D’Silva, despite being Covid-19 positive, was moving around, campaigning and creating fear among the locals. Election authorities found D’Silva, who is a candidate for the municipal polls in Margao in South Goa, was found moving around, campaigning, soliciting votes. When he was stopped and questioned about his moving around despite being Covid-positive he “left from the scene.”A case has now been registered against D’Silva who is not associated with any of the panels sponsored by the political parties and has contested as an independent cadidate. Voting was held on Friday in five municipal councils in Goa. Amid the raging pandemic, 66.70% of people came out to vote in the five municipal elections. The five municipal councils -- Mapusa, Margao, Mormugao, Quepem and Sanguem -- were to witness elections along with the other eleven councils in the state that went to the polls in March but the polls were delayed after the Bombay High Court at Goa asked the Goa government to ‘re do’ the reservations for failing to reserve the minimum number of seats for various groups like women, scheduled castes and others. “Reports from all five municipalities indicate @BJP4Goa supported Panel Candidates defeat is certain. Change has begun,” Leader of Opposition, Digambar Kamat tweeted. Besides the D’Silva case, the elections went smoothly with Covid-19 positive patients allowed to vote in the final hour of voting. The voting process has been overshadowed by the growing number of Covid-19 cases in the state which has now broken several records. Counting for the polls will be held on Monday April 26. The opposition sponsored candidates are hoping to better than the first rounds of councils where the BJP-backed candidates claimed victory in five of the six councils that went to the polls. However, the opposition is hoping for a better show this time around with the councils being represented by legislators from the opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-positive-candidate-in-goa-goes-on-campaign-spree-booked-101619248259853.html
24-04-2021||Other||2 ONGC employees abducted by ULFA-I rescued in Nagaland; search on for 3rd||Security forces rescued two of the three state-run Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) employees from banned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I)’s captivity near the India-Myanmar border in Nagaland’s Mon district on Saturday, Assam police chief Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta said. Efforts were underway to rescue the third employee abducted from a rig site at a tea estate in Assam’s Sivasagar district on Wednesday, he added. “So far security forces have been able to rescue two of the total three victims from near the India-Myanmar border in Mon district, Nagaland. The rescued two are Alakesh Saikia and Mohini Mohan Gogoi. Efforts are going on to rescue the third victim,” Mahanta tweeted. Mahanta thanked the army’s 57 Mountain Division and the Nagaland police for their help and coordination in the rescue operation. “Without your kind cooperation and timely intervention of security forces on our input and continuous coordination, the rescue operation would not have been possible.” Further details about the two and whether there was an exchange of fire during the rescue were immediately unavailable. Ritul Saikia, the third abducted employee, and Gogoi worked as junior engineer assistants at the ONGC site while Alakesh Saikia as a junior technician. All three belong to Assam. Police said five armed persons abducted the three at gunpoint in an ONGC ambulance, which was later recovered close to the Assam-Nagaland border, around 11 km away. On Friday, the Assam police confirmed that ULFA-I was behind the abductions, and the outfit’s self-styled Major Ganesh Lahon carried them out along with four others. The police have arrested 14 persons on suspicion of their involvement in the abductions. In December, ULFA-I abducted two employees of a private company from a drilling location in Changlang district of Arunachal Pradesh. Both of them were released earlier this month after over 100 days in captivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-ongc-employees-abducted-by-ulfa-i-rescued-in-nagaland-search-on-for-3rd-101619246279673.html
24-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana police caution against fraud through Whatsapp links||Having received multiple complaints, the cyber cell has cautioned residents against clicking on Whatsapp links shared by unknown numbers.According to the police, fraudsters were sending links via the mobile messaging app to gain access to the users’ contact list and further contact their friends and relatives with messages of urgent requirement of money.These links could be about anything from offers of lucrative home-based jobs or heavy discounts for gadgets.In one such case, a city resident reported that after he clicked on one such link, fraudsters duped his relative of ₹4 lakh by asking for money on the pretext of an emergency. They also shared details of a bank account for online transfer of money.“Using similar modus operandi, fraudsters took ₹1 lakh from the relatives of another resident. People can avoid such scams by simply not clicking on untrusted links,” said inspector Pawan Kumar, in-charge of the Ludhiana police cyber cell.“For added security, users should enable two-step verification in Whatsapp. Through this, a unique PIN is created, which is required to register the account on a new device, if hackers try to gain access. Besides a reset link is sent to the user’s email address if there is an attempt to change the PIN,” he advised.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, cyber cell) Vaibhav Sehgal said fraudsters had now turned to WhatsApp, a commonly used mobile app, after duping people through fake accounts on Facebook, matrimonial sites, online market places and dating apps.He cautioned users against sharing any PIN, OTP or bank details with unknown callers to avoid falling prey to scams.The cyber cell is currently dealing with at least 1,950 complaints. Most of these, at 830, are with regards to ATM frauds, such as debit card swapping. As many as 450 complaints are regarding online payments, 250 about hacking Facebook and WhatsApp, 300 of fraud via online market places and another 150 about data theft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-police-caution-against-fraud-through-whatsapp-links-101619211237863.html
24-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana admn’s oxygen helpline for hospitals flooded with calls by panicky residents||Right after the oxygen helpline numbers were launched on Thursday evening, the control room number went abuzz with calls from not only hospitals, but also panicky individuals. The helplines – 0161-242-1091 and 7837-018-500 – were launched specifically to help hospitals with oxygen supply on payment basis. However, over two dozen residents, having relatives in home isolation, frantically dialled the numbers, even though they neither immediately needed oxygen nor had a doctor’s prescription.The high rate of calls prompted the deputy commissioner (DC) to issue a statement that there was no need to panic. He specified that the helpline numbers were only for hospitals and doctors treating Covid patients. “If any patient feels that their blood oxygen level is low, they should approach the nearest hospital,” DC Varinder Kumar Sharma. He cautioned that self-medication or self-oxygenation, without expert medical supervision, not only put unnecessary strain on scarce resources, but may also lead to complications and even mortality.Joint commissioner of police (headquarters) J Elanchezian assured that the city had sufficient stock of oxygen, and had even supplied 150 and 100 cylinders to Jalandhar and Amritsar, respectively, in the last two days. “Cylinders were provided to at least six hospitals in Ludhiana after they contacted the helpline since Thursday evening,” the JCP added. Oxygen plants inspectedOn Friday, deputy director local government (DDLG) Amit Bambi, along with his team of drug inspectors, inspected oxygen generation and bottling plants in Ludhiana. Bambi said the district administration had tied up with two oxygen suppliers, Vardhman Special Steels Limited and Weltech Equipment and Infrastructure Limited, besides five bottling plants. “These plants are running at full capacity and generating oxygen for up to 2,000 D-type cylinders daily. The civil hospital also has its own plant, which is generating 115 cylinders daily,” he added. DC Sharma said clear directions had been issued for stern action against people hoarding oxygen, and for removal of all obstructions in smooth and regular supply of oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-admn-s-oxygen-helpline-for-hospitals-flooded-with-calls-by-panicky-residents-101619210397694.html
24-04-2021||Other||After oxygen cylinders,concentrators and BiPap machines go out of stock in Delhi||The crippling surge in Covid-19 cases in the city has led not just to an alarming shortage of medical oxygen, but also a severe scarcity of domestic oxygen concentrators and BiPap machines, with additional stocks unlikely to arrive before three weeks, said several vendors in the Capital.“The situation is so dire that we want the government to intervene and distribute oxygen concentrators to Covid-19 patients with moderate symptoms so that they can be treated at home and the load is taken off from hospitals. Just like the Delhi government distributed pulse oximeters, they should also procure oxygen concentrators on a war-footing and distribute them at subsidised rates, if not for free. This will prevent black-marketing, hoarding and overpricing,” said Manan Sethi of MediExpress, one of the seven major distributors of oxygen concentrators and BiPap machines in north India.He said such a move would mean losses for companies like their’s, but he added that there is no other alternative left. “When Covid-19 cases ebbed in Delhi around February, we used to receive only around 10-15 calls a day. But now, we get at least 300 calls every day. Till a few days ago, the demand for oxygen cylinders was very high. Now, the demand for oxygen concentrators at home has gone through the roof. We do not have a single piece left. The story is going to be similar for bipap machines soon,” Sethi said.An oxygen concentrator pulls in air, compresses it, and removes impurities through its filters. A BiPap (Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure) machine, meanwhile, is a device used to administer non-invasive ventilation in a patient.Vendors in Old Delhi’s Bhagirath Palace, a hub for medical equipment in the city, said they have placed fresh orders, but consignments are unlikely to arrive before May 14.“Most of these machines are imported from China, Taiwan and the USA. The two biggest manufacturers of domestic-use oxygen concentrators in the country — BPL Medical Technologies and Philips — said they are out of stock. Manufacturing fresh batches will also take time since a lot of the raw material also comes from the US and China,” said a store manager at Jullundur Surgical store, one of the biggest stores in the market.An oxygen concentrator costs between ₹30,000- ₹70,000.But vendors acknowledged that prices have now doubled. “We are not raising the cost to increase our profit margin. The companies in China, especially those we mostly procure from have doubled their rates. Earlier due to lack of demand, our orders used to come by road. Now we are even using trains, for which we have to pay the companies separately,” said another distributor, who asked not to be named.Dr SP Byotra, chairman of the department of internal medicine at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said scores of Covid-19 patients could have been treated at home if the governments had prepared in advance and arranged enough oxygen concentrators when cases dropped.“Covid-19 patients whose viral load is not very high, or those whose oxygen saturation drops off and on, or the elderly can definitely be put on oxygen concentrators at home. But there are none available in Delhi. Patients come to us asking for it, but we are also unable to give them leads now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-oxygen-cylinders-concentrators-and-bipap-machines-go-out-of-stock-in-delhi-101619205956887.html
24-04-2021||Other||Approach Delhi’s nodal officer to meet oxygen requirement: High court||The Delhi high court on Friday asked all the hospitals and nursing homes in Delhi facing shortage of oxygen to first approach the nodal officer of the city to meet the requirement of medical oxygen.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli, while hearing fresh pleas by two hospitals facing shortage of oxygen, was informed by the Centre that it has set up a control room to coordinate with the nodal officers of state governments for management of oxygen supply.“We would expect all hospitals in the NCT of Delhi to approach the nodal officer Mr. Udit Prakash and such other officers... in the first instance for the purpose of meeting their requirement of oxygen,” the court said. The bench said if the requirements are not met even after contacting the nodal officer, the hospitals shall contact senior advocate Rahul Mehra and lawyer Satyakam, before approaching the court.During the hearing, the court also asked the Centre to consider the request of the Delhi government to allocate its medical oxygen from plants located in nearby states in contrast to the far off places like West Bengal and Orissa.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that the problem of shortage of oxygen can be solved if the oxygen comes from the state of Uttar Pradesh instead of far off places like West Bengal and Orissa. He requested the court if this allocation can be reworked so that they can get oxygen from nearby states.He also told the court that the city has received 380 metric tonnes of medical oxygen out of the 480 metric tonnes allocated by the Centre, contending that the deficiency of 100 tonnes will take time to be met, as the supply is coming from two eastern states.The court noted that though there has been some improvement in oxygen supply in the last few days, there is still a shortfall of about 100 metric tonnes, adding that the Centre had earlier assured the court that 480 metric tonnes will reach Delhi, but even after three days, it has not. “Whatever was allocated should be there,” the court observed.It said that the matter of allocation has been done by the Centre considering several factors. However, the Empowered Group can explore the suggestion of relocation to reduce the distance from the point of production to the point of supply. “However, in case the Empowered Group is of the view that the allocation needs to remain unchanged, it may at least consider making interim arrangements till the Railways are in a position to transport from the aforesaid three plants,” said the court.“The same would make the process of transportation to and fro more efficient since shorter trips mean that the same cryogenic tankers would make repeated trips if necessary for making supplies during the day,” said the court.It asked chief secretary of Delhi to examine the allocation plan and make suggestions to be placed before the central government and its Empowered Group on Friday itself. It further ordered the Empowered Group to examine the suggestion at the earliest.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, informed the court that a control room, comprising of secretary-level officers of the Government of India, will be a part of the process, with whom the nodal officers can get in touch. He said that this is being done so that the Centre can intervene whenever there is any obstruction of oxygen transportation by local authorities.He said that the central virtual control room set up last year has been further strengthened in the wake of the raging pandemic.The court, taking note of the submission, told the hospitals to contact the nodal officer(special secretary Udit Prakash for Delhi), who in turn will directly co-ordinate with the officers in the control room for smooth and continuous supply of oxygen.Mehra, along with additional standing counsel advocate Satyakam, told the court that it has circulated a list of oxygen refilling units with the contact of the nodal officers for small hospitals. Both the lawyers also volunteered to assist the hospitals and nursing homes, in case the problems still persisted.The bench also asked as to whether CNG cylinders could be used for the storage of gaseous oxygen. “It takes long for transportation and then there is lack of tankers. Please see if CNG cylinders can be used,” said the bench.“If that could be done, the storage capacity which is presently in use for the storage of CNG, particularly that which is mobile, could be utilised for transportation of medical oxygen and providing the same to hospitals on immediate basis,” it said.The bench also sought to know from the Delhi government the progress of the eight Pressure Swing Absorption (PSA) oxygen plants planned for Delhi, after it was informed by the Centre on Tuesday that only one of them is operational in Burari.Eight PSA oxygen plants are being installed in Delhi with the support of PM CARES Fund to enhance capacity by 14.4 metric tonnes, the Centre said. It also told the court that clearances have been given for six sites and work of installation is going on in one of the places.The matter will now be heard on Monday, April 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/approach-delhi-s-nodal-officer-to-meet-oxygen-requirement-high-court-101619205896899.html
24-04-2021||Other||Maharashtra teachers request extension to file data for Centre’s school portal||Teachers from the Maharashtra have requested the state education department to extend the deadline to send data to be filled in the central government’s school portal Unified District Information System for Education (UDISE). The education department had asked schools to submit the data required for UDISE by April 26. Teachers have, however, requested the department to grant them an extension to fill the details. With a state-wide lockdown in effect, teachers said they are not able to travel to their respective schools amid Covid-19 travel restrictions. Teachers said that while they can fill and enter the data from home, they do not have access to the documents required for the purpose. “We cannot travel in the current situation. A lot of material that is required to collect and collate data, including service books and student records, are in the school. We thus hope to get an extension,” said Anil Bornare from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) teachers’ cell. “We do not want to risk our lives going to school at the moment,” said another teacher. Officials from the education department said that an extension can be given in case it is required. “We will look into the issue and see what can be done,” said an official from the department. While schools and colleges remain closed across the state, teachers are occasionally being called to school for work as per some teachers. Teachers now hope that the department announces summer break so that they can prepare for the upcoming semester.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-teachers-request-extension-to-file-data-for-centre-s-school-portal-101619205116780.html
24-04-2021||Other||Vijayan asks PM for free doses of vaccine||Thiruvananthapuram As Kerala reported its highest single-day spike, clocking 28,447 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to tweak the proposed vaccine policy and ensure free doses to the overburdened state.Talking to reporters in the state capital, the CM said in the virtual meeting chaired by the PM, he appraised him about the shortage of vaccine and told him that the new policy will put extra burden on the state, which is already reeling under the impact of the pandemic. He expressed hope the Union government will take a proactive decision on the issue.“In India, major vaccines were distributed free of cost. When the country is going through a difficult situation, it is not proper to impose a fee on vaccine. Three-level price mechanism is really intriguing. Hope the PM will realise this and will have a rethink,” the CM said, adding that most of the states expressed similar view in the meeting. Vijayan said the state will need ₹1,300 crore to meet the vaccine bill, if the Centre insists for fee.He said the state cannot wait interminably for doses and it will chalk out a plan to buy directly from the market. “For herd immunity, vaccination is important. We want to carry it out as quickly as possible to contain the surge. In the state, only 11% people were exposed to the virus, so we have to act fast,” the CM said, adding that despite mounting cases, the state maintained the lowest case fatality rate of 0.39% in the country.The state reported 28,477 new cases on Friday, taking the active caseload in Kerala to 178,983, according to health department data. The test positivity rate in state was reported at 21.78%. With 27 fatalities, death toll in Kerala climbed up to 5,055. Ernakulam district topped the list with 4,548 cases. Vijayan also lauded people for contributing to the CM’s relief fund to foot expenses of the vaccine. “It is really heart-warming. On Friday also, we received more than ₹1 crore towards this. This shows spirit of the people. We will make a separate fund for this and use it only for vaccine,” he said.Stating that the second wave in Kerala was critical, the CM said the government will do everything possible to save lives. “It is more than what we expected. There is no short cut but people will have to go by the restrictions. If we work in unison we can overcome this like last year,” Vijayan said, adding the weekend restrictions will be on the lines of lockdown. The government has also called an all-party meet on Monday. He said decision on further restrictions will be decided after the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vijayan-asks-pm-for-free-doses-of-vaccine-101619205057430.html
24-04-2021||Other||Thirrsur Pooram celebrated without pomp amid Covid||Thiruvananthapuram Amid strict vigil and restrictions in the wake of surging Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the pandemic in Kerala and across the country, Thirrsur Pooram was celebrated on Friday without spectators. Unlike the usual pomp and thunderous cheers of spectators -- who enjoy the ensemble of percussion instruments and parade of 80-odd, caparisoned elephants -- this time, Pooram was restricted to mere rituals. The entry was restricted to only artists, temple board members, mahouts and others involved in the rituals of the festival. Earlier, the temple body and many Hindu outfits had insisted for a regular festival, citing the just- concluded assembly elections, but after several rounds of discussion, all agreed to limit the festival to mere rituals. The lack of spectators, however, failed to dampen the grandeur of the visual spectacle. The Pandi Melam led by maestro Peruvanam Kuttan Marar enthralled the festival, which was live streamed by many channels. Thiruvambadi temple only paraded only one elephant, but Paramekavu Devi temple brought 15 jumbos and Kudamattom, the change of colourful parasols in quick succession, added to the grandeur. “We are forced to limit festivities in view of the pandemic situation. But many artists complained that spectators are real fuel for them. We hope these dark clouds will vanish by next year,” said G Rajesh, secretary of the Paramekavu, one of the lead temples participating in the Pooram.The largest cultural pageant of the state, Pooram was started in the late 18th century by erstwhile King of Kochi, Sakthan Thamburan. Every year, the festival is held at Vadukunathan temple in Thrissur. But last year, it was not held in view of the pandemic situation. Usually, more than two million devotees take part in the 10-day celebration, which culminates with a musical ensemble and grand fireworks. It is also a major tourist attraction of the state. But over the last two years, pandemic has taken sheen out of the festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thirrsur-pooram-celebrated-without-pomp-amid-covid-101619204936850.html
24-04-2021||Other||Oxygen shortage will force many health centres to shut: Karnataka CM to PM Modi||Bengaluru After faltering for nearly four months in preparedness for the imminent second wave of coronavirus pandemic, as warned by the panel of experts on Covid-19 in state, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that if the shortage of oxygen supply continued, then it would become inevitable to close down several health centres in the state. “The usage of oxygen in the state is going up on a daily basis and yesterday 500 tonnes were used. The Centre has distributed only 300 tonnes to the state. If the same continues, we will be in a situation to close down several health centres,” according to a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO). PM Modi on Friday held a review meeting with several Covid-19 impacted states in the country, including Karnataka that has seen a sharp spike in cases on account of the surge in Bengaluru. Karnataka has over 2 lakh active cases, with Bengaluru accounting for more than half of these, according to government data. Both the state and its capital have registered record numbers in the past week and the surge is expected to peak in the first week of May, according to experts. An analysis by the Hindustan Times estimates that if the same growth rate continues, Bengaluru will soon start reporting around 25,000 new infections every day, further stretching the already overworked and inadequate healthcare infrastructure in the city. The growing number of cases in Bengluru has led to chaos across the city, with families of Covid-19 patients, who required hospitalistaion, running from hospital-to-hospital to get their loved ones admitted. Several people have died on the footsteps of hospitals after being denied admission and several others continue to wait outside these private and public medical facilities in the hope that they will be attended at some point, experts pointed out. Though the fatalitiy rate remains under 0.5%, the higher number of infections means that a higher number of people require hopsitalisation, experts said. Meanwhile, Bengaluru is rapidly running out hospital beds. According to data from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), there are just 1,496 hospital beds available in the city. Of these, only 21 beds with intensive care units (ICU) or those with ventilators, as on 5.10 pm on Friday, according to BBMP’s central bed management system. With only 2 ICU-V beds remaining in government hospitals, they saw an occupancy of 97.14%, as pet BBMP data. The occupancy rates in private medical colleges for ICU and ICU-V were at 99.03% and 94.92%, respectively, while the same were 94.77% and 97.41% in private hospitals, according to BBMP data. The chief minister has requested the Centre for supply of 1,471 tonne of oxygen per day and 200,000 doses of remdesivir for the next 10 days, according to the CMO. He, however, told the PM that Karnataka had adequate number of hospitals beds but were only running out of oxygen and critical life-saving drugs. “Karnataka has got adequate beds to manage Covid patients. At this rate we will face problems in the coming days to manage serious cases. We have permitted opening of step-down hospitals to decrease the load on hospitals. We are also considering setting up Field Hospitals with ICU facilities,” according to the CMO statement. “The hospital bed situation is dynamic, and more beds are being added every day. So, this should not be a problem,” a member of the technical advisory committee (TAC) on Covid-19 in the state said, requesting not to be named. The opposition parties and general public, however, have hit out at the lack of preparedness by the Yediyurappa government despite being warned in November last year by the TAC of an imminent second wave in Bengaluru and Karnataka. “It is increasingly becoming difficult to answer phone calls calling for help with beds, oxygen & remdesivir. Helplessness is creeping in, but one must keep trying. Govt has just given up on citizens & is manipulating data & headlines. If this continues, “Ab ki baar, Antim Sanskar”,” Priyank Kharge, the Congress legislator from Kalaburagi, posted on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-shortage-will-force-many-health-centres-to-shut-karnataka-cm-to-pm-modi-101619204757509.html
24-04-2021||Other||Bombay HC rejects pre-arrest bail of 6 army men accused of colleague’s murder||The Bombay high court (HC) recently rejected the anticipatory bail application (ABA) of six army personnel booked for the alleged murder of their colleague. The case was registered by the victim’s wife as she doubted the claims of the colleagues that the man had died by drowning while they were at a picnic. The court held that as the circumstances surrounding the death of the man needed to be ascertained and the custodial interrogation of the six accused was necessary, their ABA cannot be granted. The single bench of justice Sarang Kotwal, while hearing the bail applications filed by the six personnel working in the army, was informed by advocate Gaurav Parkar that they were the friends of army man Ganesh Thokal and that there was no animosity among them. Parkar submitted that Thokal died during a picnic, and if there was any dispute among them, he would not have accompanied the accused. According to the first information report (FIR) filed by Thokal’s wife Rupali, her husband had joined the army in 2003 and retired in July 2020, following which the couple started living in Ahmednagar district’s Kamargaon. When the friends had visited the couple, Thokal asked one of the accused, Bhagwan Yadav, to return the ₹1 lakh which the latter owed the victim. A dispute arose between them as Yadav was allegedly not returning the amount. Last September, Yadav called Thokal to Pune and the accused and the victim went to picnic at Murud-Kashid. In her complaint, Rupali stated that she spoke to Thokal over the phone twice, but he did not respond to a third call on the next day. The day after that, Thokal’s body was brought home in an ambulance, and Rupali was told that her husband had drowned while swimming. However, a black mark on Thokal’s eye and neck prompted Rupali to doubt the reason stated behind her husband’s death and she lodged a murder complaint against the six men. When the ABA came up for hearing, the bench sought the opinion of the medical officer on the injury marks. The medical officer submitted that when Thokal’s body was brought out of the water, it did not have the marks and that it did not occur due to post-mortem procedure. “These bruises appear after sustaining injury by blunt force application. Sometimes ecchymosis [bruise] may not appear until after death. Sometimes, they are delayed by one or two days. When a contusion has been caused a few hours or a day before death, they do not occur due to post-mortem violence,” said the report. Based on the opinion of the medical officer, justice Kotwal observed that the injury near the eye was as a result of blunt force and needed to be investigated. As there was a dispute between the victim and one of the accused over money, the reason and circumstances leading to Thokal’s death would require custodial interrogation and hence, their ABA was being rejected. The court also vacated the interim protection from arrest considering the seriousness of the incident and the urgent need for custodial interrogation, and disposed of the applications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-rejects-pre-arrest-bail-of-6-army-men-accused-of-colleague-s-murder-101619204756893.html
24-04-2021||Other||Karnataka needs 1,500 tonne oxygen daily: Health minister||Bengaluru: As the Covid-19 cases in the state are on the rise, the Karnataka government has said that it urgently requires 1,500 tonnes of medical oxygen on a daily basis to treat patients in state-run and private hospitals. Karnataka health minister on Friday retreated that the government has written to the central government on Wednesday putting for their demand. Talking about the situation in the state, the minister said there is a need for even though the state has been allotted 300 tonnes, the current requirement has doubled to 600 tonnes. “We are requesting for 1,500 tonnes since we think the requirement for oxygen will increase in May,” he said. Adding that the Karnataka government also set up a control room to monitor the supply of oxygen cylinders, he said there is no shortage of oxygen in the state and proactive measures are being taken by the state. “We have deployed 26 officials to operate the control room and a call centre with a mobile number (89517-55722) for the supply of oxygen and Remdesivir to hospitals. The process is now streamlined,” he said. Meanwhile, Dr HM Prasanna, president of Private Hospitals and Nursing Home Associations (PHANA), said that he had submitted a list of 56 hospital facing a severe shortage of oxygen. “There are hospitals from Bengaluru, Kalaburagi, Ballari and other places in this list. We feel there is an issue with oxygen supply not reaching the vendors who refill oxygen,” he said. On Saturday, Bangalore Institute of Gastroenterology (BIG) in Jayanagar had to transfer out three of the eight COVID-19 patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the hospital after their oxygen supply ran out. On the same day, St. Philomena Hospital in Vivek Nagar also reported a shortage of oxygen supply, however, they were able to replenish the stock by evening. However, minister Sudhakar said that there is no shortage of oxygen in the state and there was a problem with storage, especially at the smaller hospitals. “Many hospitals, especially the smaller ones, don’t have enough storage facilities. They are mostly storing oxygen in small cylinders, and they have a requirement to refill multiple times in a day, this is leading a shortage,” said Sudhakar. He added that JSW has agreed to give 400 tonnes of oxygen for Karnataka and the state is procuring 5,000 cylinders to cater for the oxygen needs. Talking about the black market in the state, he added that The Health Department on Wednesday initiated action against Assistant Drugs Controller BR Venkatesh and placed him under suspension for creating artificial scarcity of the vital drug. On Friday, Bengaluru reported 16, 662 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total active cases to 1,49,624. The state also reported 124 deaths, which is the highest single-day death toll so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnataka-needs-1-500-tonne-oxygen-daily-health-minister-101619204576843.html
24-04-2021||Other||Restrictions across state to continue till May 4: Karnataka home minister||Bengaluru: Karnataka home minister Basavaraja Bommai on Friday announced that partial restrictions will continue to remain in place after the weekend curfew, till May 4, as a measure to curb the relentless surge in Covid-19 cases. Earlier this week, the state government had declared night (9 pm to 6 am) and weekend curfews (9 pm on Friday to 6 am on Monday) in the state from April 21. On Friday, the restrictions in the city and other parts of Karnataka were turned into a partial lockdown after shops and establishments that are not listed in the government’s Thursday order as ‘essential services’ were asked to shut down operations. “The weekend curfew will be similar to that of last year’s lockdown imposed across the state. Barricades would be erected on main roads, sub-main roads and ward roads, and unnecessary movement of people would be strictly restricted,” Bommai said. As per the fresh guidelines issued on Friday, essential services such as sale of groceries, milk and meat will be allowed between 6 am and 10 am on weekends. Only takeaways will be allowed at restaurants. During the weekdays, government offices and industries dealing with essential and emergency services will be allowed to function and their employees will be required to carry valid ID cards to commute within the city. Patients, their attendants and those wanting to take the vaccine will also be allowed to travel both during the weekend and weekdays till May 4. The remaining industries that were earlier allowed during the weekdays, will now remain shut till May 4. The government, which had earlier banned all constructions, on Friday clarified that constructions within an enclosed site will be allowed during this period. The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) announced that metro services will remain shut on Saturdays and Sundays. Modifying the timings for weekdays, it said that the service will begin as usual at 7 am but the last train from terminal stations — Nagasandra, Silk Institute, Mysuru Road and Baiyappanahalli — will leave at 7.30 pm. Long-distance travel in trains, buses and flights, taxis and private vehicles to and from these transport hubs will be allowed to ply on the production of valid travel documents till May 4. Marriages with an upper limit of 50 guests and funerals with a maximum gathering of 20 individuals will be allowed during this period. Several shopkeepers across the city expressed dissatisfaction over the latest guidelines. “We understand the need for a lockdown but it cannot be implemented like this. There was no warning. The government has said that there will be no lockdown but abruptly closed down shops,” Mahantesh R, member of the shop owners’ association in Avenue Road in Bengaluru, said.“People have taken orders and purchased raw materials for it as well. When a lockdown is announced like this, we will suffer losses. The government could have given us time to prepare, considering so many meetings were held,” he added. Taking a u-turn on his earlier statement, chief minister B S Yediyurappa last week ruled out the possibility of a lockdown. “There is no question of a lockdown,” he told reporters in Bidar, a day after he said that a complete shutdown could be enforced if required. Despite his final statement, the fear of a final lockdown continued to loom over several businesses. “We are hearing that there could be a full lockdown after May 4. Even though the chief minister had said there won’t be a lockdown, looking at the government’s actions, we are concerned,” Peter Antony, a shopkeeper in Bengaluru’s SP road, said. The state on Friday registered 26,296 cases, taking the overall tally to 1046,554. With 190 deaths in a single day, the overall figure rose to 14,075.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/restrictions-across-state-to-continue-till-may-4-karnataka-home-minister-101619204456758.html
24-04-2021||Other||With 1634 new cases, Meerut records highest one-day spike||The Meerut district witnessed its highest single-day spike in coronavirus cases on Thursday, when 1634 people were tested positive for Sars-CoV-2. In nine districts of Meerut and Saharanpur divisions, a total of 4817 persons were tested positive on Thursday. The rising number of Covid cases in different districts of the region are increasing at an alarming rate. Currently, the Meerut district is witnessing the maximum number of positive cases, as per the health department records.For the first time, as many as 1634 persons out of 6635 were tested positive for Covid-19, as per the health department statistics. This shows the gravity of infection in the district as every 4th person is now infected with the virus. The health department daily bulletin shares that 3718 persons are under home isolation and so far 435 persons succumbed. Despite that, the number of cremations at Surajkund cremation ground here shows disparity with the number of deaths declared by the health department. Dinesh Jain, secretary of Ganga Motor Committee, caretaker of the cremation ground, claimed that 57 dead bodies were cremated at Surajkund on Wednesday out of which 35 were cremated with Covid protocol. “The cremation ground is overloaded,” he said. On contrary to this, the health department bulletins mentioned only 2 deaths by Covid on Wednesday. The assistant municipal commissioner Brijpal Singh said that deaths in Meerut are more because the critical patients referred from neighbouring districts in LLRM Medical college also get cremated here, after they succumb to coronavirus. Singh said that Nagar Nigam has now deputed its staff at the cremation ground to segregate hospital-wise deaths. “It would help us in keeping a separate database of deaths occurred in the district and outside districts,” said Singh.Meanwhile, the chief medical officer (CMO) of Meerut Akhilesh Mohan has released a list of 30 hospitals and 2952 beds available for the treatment of corona patients in these hospitals. The list also carries names of nodal officers in respective hospitals with their contact numbers. The situation in other districts is also alarming where the numbers of positive cases are on the rise. In Muzaffarnagar 432 persons were tested positive, 286 in Saharanpur, 249 in Shamli, 190 in Bagpat, 299 in Bulandshahar, 174 in Hapur, 1023 in Ghaziabad and 530 in Noida. Dr Anil Nausran, a senior pathologist and former secretary of IMA said that it is now clear that coronavirus is now spreading in the community as cases have also started coming from villages. “We were passing through a tough time,” said Dr Nausran who suggested that government should immediately allow all qualified doctors for the treatment of Covid patients. “Qualified doctors know how to save lives of people therefore they should be allowed to treat patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-1634-new-cases-meerut-records-highest-one-day-spike-101619204396736.html
24-04-2021||Other||Maharashtra: Nagpur hospitals grapple with oxygen shortage||Nagpur’s beleaguered healthcare infrastructure is grappling with multiple challenges, from a steady rise in coronavirus patients to a shortage of oxygen, hospital beds and anti-viral drug Remdesivir. Nagpur needs 180 metric tonnes (MT) of medical grade oxygen; at present it’s only able to generate 146 MT, and was able to procure some from other sources, including a supplier in Bhilai. However, a Central ministry order dated April 18 cut down the supply from the Bhilai supplier, Prax Air, from 110MT to 60MT following which the Vidarbha region – which requires at least 266.5MT of oxygen --- was facing a shortfall of at least 100 MT. This even prompted the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court (HC) to pull up the state and Centre for the prevailing mess, particularly on oxygen and Remdesivir shortage. This has hit urban centres like Nagpur hard: the district has the state’s second-highest case fatality rate (CFR; percentage of deaths per 100 cases) at 0.95% and the highest test positivity rate (TPR; number of positive cases per 100 tests) at 34%. On April 20, two private hospitals asked relatives to shift patients over oxygen shortage. However, district collector Ravindra Thakare stepped in an assured oxygen supply following which the families did not have to scramble for new beds. Viveka Hospital had 47 patients on oxygen with 10 in the ICU while Nucleus Mother and Child Super Speciality Hospital on Wardha Road had 62 patients on oxygen.“The current stock will suffice for one and half hour from now (20.00 hours). We are forced to evacuate patients as our oxygen supply has been reduced to 120 cylinders only. We will be informing patients’ relatives shortly to make appropriate arrangements for shifting their patients. This is for your kind information and attention as we are too helpless,” said Priyanka Pawar, manager administration, Viveka Hospital, Nagpur in a social media group of doctors and officials of district administration. This led the district collector to take prompt action and the hospital got oxygen cylinders next morning. Dr Prashant Jagtap of Viveka Multispecialty Hospital in west Nagpur said the management was planning to discharge about 100 patients (60 on Covid beds and 40 on non-Covid) because of shortage of oxygen. “Oxygen was short in supply, but the issue was later resolved with the intervention of the collector and officials of Nagpur Municipal Corporation,” he said. “Now we are managing it somehow,” Jagtap said. Dr Anup Marar, convenor of the Vidarbha Hospital Association, said the oxygen shortage has reached alarming levels in Nagpur. “Without oxygen, we are clueless how to continue treatment of patients who are currently admitted,” he said. Dr Marar, who is also the director of Orange City Hospital, said that it is getting increasingly difficult to run the hospital without adequate oxygen. “We have 81 Covid beds along with 10 ventilator supports. But we have no backup of oxygen cylinders. Without extra cylinders, how can we save the patients if the supply is not replenished in time?” he asked. Nagpur is able to generate about 146MT of oxygen daily, but its requirement is around 166.5MT, the collector Ravindra Thakare informed the HC. Thus, even government facilities are not much better off. Dr Sudhir Gupta, dean of government medical college said that they are just about able to manage the 900-odd Covid beds in the facility. “Yes, we are facing shortage of oxygen. But our prime problem is to provide beds to needy and here we are unable to do it in time because of our limitations,” he pointed out. Retired state electricity board employee Shivshankar Walundare (71) succumbed to Covid-19 early Thursday morning after he was unable to find an oxygen bed for the last five days. His son Kunal (39), a real estate broker said that his father tested positive eight days ago. “As his oxygen level was below 80, we were frantically looking for a hospital bed with oxygen. But we got none either in a government or a private hospital,” he said. All members of his family, including his mother, sister and himself, were also infected with the virus. Krishna Maske, a friend of the family who is also Covid positive, learnt about the availability of a bed with oxygen at in a private hospital Bhandara, 65 km from Nagpur, on April 20 evening. “We immediately arranged an ambulance with an oxygen cylinder and headed to Bhandara,” he said. There, the hospital denied admitting Walundare, because his O2 level was now 75, Maske said. By this time, Walundare’s condition had worsened, and he was in dire need of an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) bed with a ventilator; but he was only able to get an oxygen bed in municipality-run Covid centre at Umred on Wednesday evening, and that too with the help of a local politician. “It was too late and Shivshankar breathed his last early this morning,” Maske said. Another hospital at Chhatrapati Square on Wardha Road, Nucleus Mother and Child Superspeciality Hospital, reportedly put a notice on April 20 evening, requesting family members of those patients on oxygen support, to shift them to another facility. The notice was widely shared on social media. A doctor from the hospital, who wished to remain anonymous said, 62 patients were on oxygen beds. “We had a stock of only 40 jumbo cylinders since morning. We requested the collector and many others for additional stock but in vain. After our request, relatives of three patients took them to other hospitals. Now, the collector has assured of supply. Treatment will continue provided we get the supply,” he said. As the plight of the common man continues, the guardian minister for Nagpur district, Nitin Raut, claimed that they are trying their level best with various sources to meet the demand. The district collector, Ravindra Thakare said that the situation of Nagpur is slowing under control. “We are hopeful that the shortage of oxygen and other Covid medicines would be resolved within a day or two,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-nagpur-hospitals-grapple-with-oxygen-shortage-101619204337783.html
24-04-2021||Other||Maharashtra CET cell to hold additional admission rounds for 3-year LLB course||A day after it was revealed that over 767 seats for the three-year law course remain vacant despite several common admission rounds, Maharashtra’s minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant announced additional admission rounds to fill up these seats.In a tweet shared on Friday, Samant said the additional rounds will take place between April 23 (Friday) and 29.“These additional rounds will be conducted by the state common entrance test (CET) cell and information on these rounds will be available on the official CET website,” tweeted Samant.Admissions to most professional courses were delayed by a few months this academic year, first due to the lockdown and then due to a petition filed in the Bombay high court for clarity on the status of the Maratha quota.In December, the registration process for most professional courses including law, engineering, architecture and pharmacy had to be delayed by a few weeks to give students time to make the necessary changes to their admission form after the state government decided to continue admissions without the inclusion of the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) quota under which the Maratha community was granted admissions.After much delay, the first list of the three-year and five-year law courses were scheduled to be released in the first week of February, but had to be postponed again after the state common entrance test (CET) cell received complaints of error in student information. The cell then had to conduct a third-party audit to recheck information shared by students at the time of registration, leading to further delay. After three online rounds, the final institutional rounds concluded in the second week of April.In a press statement, Samant stated that the government has taken into consideration the delay in conducting admissions for law courses, and will give them extra time to complete their curriculum and exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-cet-cell-to-hold-additional-admission-rounds-for-3-year-llb-course-101619203857088.html
24-04-2021||Other||Mumbai cop arrested in Mansukh Hiran murder case was suspended earlier too||Police inspector Sunil Mane had cleared the MPSC (Maharashtra Public Service Commission) exam in 1995 to become a police officer. Born and brought up in Mumbai, Mane completed his graduation from a Goregaon-based college in 1993. After completing his training from Nashik Police Training Academy in 1996, he was first posted at Oshiwara police station as a sub-inspector. Two years later, he was posted in Mumbai crime branch’s unit 8 at Dharavi. In 2001, he was transferred to the crime intelligence unit (CIU). Mane was placed under suspension for two years in early 2000s after the anti-corruption bureau (ACB), Mumbai, registered a case against him in a bribery case. He was later reinstated and posted in the local arms division and then in 2005, transferred to the anti-terrorism squad’s (ATS) unit in Juhu. During his posting at the unit, he completed his LLB from a Vile Parle-based college. Mane was promoted as assistant police inspector in 2008 and became came to limelight in January 2009, after arresting senior IPS (Indian Police Service) officer Saji Mohan in a drugs case. After receiving information that two men were coming to handover a drugs consignment in Oshiwara, Mane and his team laid a trap and arrested businessmen Vicky Oberoi and Rajesh Kumar Kataria, and seized 1.85kg of heroin from them. During interrogation, they confessed that they were working for Mohan, who was then posted at the Narcotics Control Bureau. Mane then arrested Mohan and seized 12kg of heroin from him. After his interrogation, an additional 25kg of heroin was seized by ATS from a godown in Vasai. Oberoi became an approver in the case, and in 2019, Mohan was sentenced to 15 years’ imprisonment, while Kataria got 13 years in jail. Mane was selected for the prestigious FICCI Award in recognition of distinguished service in the anti-smuggling and anti-counterfeiting category. After spending six-seven years in ATS, Mane served in several crime branch units. He also worked as an inspector at Sakinaka police station for some time. Last May, he was transferred from unit 10 to modus operandi bureau (MOB), considered to be a side posting, after a businessman alleged that Mane and one of his senior officers demanded ₹50 lakh from him. When the businessman refused to pay them, he was allegedly arrested in a cheating case. A few months later, Mane was transferred from MOB and became the incharge of unit 11 of the crime branch. On March 23, Mane’s name appeared in the list of 65 officers who were shunted out of the crime branch as part of a ‘clean-up’ drive, and was posted in a local arms division. Mane’s father retired from the motor transport department as a police inspector. His elder brother is also in the force and is currently serving as an assistant sub-inspector in Mumbai. Mane lives in Malad (West) along with his wife and two sons. Like suspended cop Sachin Vaze, Mane was also said to be a favourite officer of former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, under whose supervision he had cracked some important cases in ATS, including the Mohan case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-cop-arrested-in-mansukh-hiran-murder-case-was-suspended-earlier-too-101619203796666.html
24-04-2021||Other||Hiran murder: Mumbai Cop Sunil Mane sent to NIA custody till April 28||A special court on Friday remanded Mumbai Police inspector Sunil Mane, arrested in connection with Thane trader Mansukh Hiran’s murder, to the National Investigation Agency’s (NIA) custody till April 28. Hiran is linked to the explosives-laden Scorpio found abandoned near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai residence Antilia on February 25, an incident that ballooned into a huge political controversy, eventually resulting in the exit of the state’s home minister.An NIA officer who asked not to be named said the agency summoned Mane for interrogation in connection with the Antilia and murder cases on Thursday and placed him under arrest on Friday.He was produced before special judge Rahul R Bhosle. Advocate Prakash Shetty, appearing for NIA said the federal agency requested Mane’s custody to recover his phone and other personal devices and also to obtain his call data records. The agency claimed Mane was a part of the conspiracy to kill Hiran and had confessed to his role in the murder.Mane’s counsel advocate Aditya Gore opposed the remand, claiming that his client was not involved in the murder and that the agency has no evidence against him, except his purpoted confession.The special court accepted Shetty’s contention and remanded Mane to NIA custody.The court also extended the judicial custody of two other accused, suspended police officer Sachin Vaze and his colleague at crime branch’s criminal intelligence unit (CIU) Riyazuddin Kazi, till May 5.Mane was in charge of unit 11 of the crime branch till recently. He was transferred as a part of the clean-up drive undertaken by police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, after Vaze was arrested by NIA in the cases and posted at the local arms branch.Vaze was originally in charge of the investigation of the explosives case, but removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV, and reported it stolen on February 17, 2021. Hiran himself was found dead in a creek on March 5. It subsequently emerged that Vaze had borrowed the car in November and returned it in early February.NIA took over the explosives case on March 8 and the murder case on March 24. Vaze was named the main accused in both.To contain the damage, the Maharashtra government transferred police commissioner Param Bir Singh for his management of his case. The police officer subsequently wrote a letter to the chief minister alleging that home minister Anil Deshmukh instructed Vaze to extort Rs100 crore from restaurants and bars, and when no action was forthcoming approached the courts.The Bombay high court eventually asked the Central Bureau of Investigation to conduct a preliminary enquiry into the matter, prompting Deshmukh’s resignation.According to NIA officers, Mane was under suspicion from the beginning, and a team from the agency visited the Kandivli unit of the crime branch where he was posted. The team inspected several vehicles parked at the office. The agency investigations, the officers said, already revealed that the person who made the last call Hiran received before he went missing, at 8.30pm on March 4, identified himself as a crime branch officer from Kandivli and drew the victim out of his Thane home on the pretext of a meeting along Ghodbunder Road. The following day, Hiran’s body was found in a creek at Reti Bunder near Mumbra with six handkerchiefs stuffed in his mouth and his face covered by a scarf.NIA officers claimed that Mane was involved in the murder conspiracy. According to Shetty, he was placed under arrest after thoroughly verifying his role.The NIA officers said that Mane was present at CIU on March 3, when Vaze tried to convince Hiran to take the blame for placing the explosives-laden SUV near Antilia. According to NIA, Vaze assured Hiran that he would be out on bail soon. The plan to eliminate Hiran was allegedly hatched after he refused to take the blame, the officers added.The NIA officer who asked not to be named said that at least two witnesses, a hotelier who visited CIU on March 3 and a deputy commissioner of police, also questioned by NIA , have corroborated that Mane was with Vaze at CIU office that day. The officer added that Mane was also present at the meeting attended by Vaze, arrested former constable Vinayak Shinde and another former officer before the murder at Chakala in Andheri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hiran-murder-mumbai-cop-sunil-mane-sent-to-nia-custody-till-april-28-101619203256609.html
