25-04-2021||Other||DRDO’s Covid hospital in Panipat will have direct pipeline for oxygen supply||Three days after the Union government announced the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will set up a temporary 500-bedded hospital for Covid-19 patients in Panipat and Hisar, a join team of officials of the district administration and DRDO inspected sites in Panipat.The hospital will be set up near the Indian Oil Corporation’s Panipat refinery due to availability of oxygen within the plant. The officials inspected two sites but final decision has not been taken yet.However, officials of the Panipat district administration said that there is a strong possibility that the hospital will be set up in the panchayati land of Bal Jattan village.There is possibility that patients will come from Delhi and the medical staff will be arranged by the Union government from Delhi and nearby hospitals.As per information, the hospital will be set up by the central government and funds will be allocated by the Centre.In a press statement issued by Panipat deputy commissioner Dharmendra Singh, around 1.5km pipeline for round-the-clock oxygen supply will be connected to the hospital from the refinery and the blueprint has already been finalised.He said that the work on setting up of the hospital will start soon.In a tweet, Haryana health minister Anil Vij said that two hospitals of 500 beds each are in the process of being set up. The Chandimandir-based Western Command has been asked to provide doctors and medical staff and work will start immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drdos-covid-hospital-in-panipat-will-have-direct-pipeline-for-oxygen-supply-101619374147681.html
25-04-2021||Other||Two more oxygen tankers arrive in Ramnagar near Varanasi||Two more oxygen tankers reached an oxygen plant by road in the Ramnagar industrial area in Chandauli district adjoining Varanasi in the early hours of Sunday, officials said. These two tankers came from Jamshedpur in Jharkhand. The Varanasi police created a 275-kilometre green corridor and escorted them to the oxygen plant. One tanker was escorted from Dehri-on-Sone and the other from Gaya, both in Bihar. Each oxygen tanker contained around 14,000 litres of liquid medical oxygen (LMO). Varanasi commissioner of police A Satish Ganesh said the two oxygen tankers started their journey from Jamshedpur on Saturday afternoon. According to officials, police teams will escort all the oxygen tankers that would arrive in Varanasi in the next few days. Earlier, an oxygen tanker arrived in Varanasi by road on Friday and another tanker reached the city by the Oxygen Express train early Saturday. Both the tankers came from Bokaro in Jharkhand. Varanasi had faced a medical oxygen crisis on Thursday. However, the oxygen supply situation to the hospitals here almost became normal since Friday following the arrival of tankers. In Varanasi, 43 hospitals are treating Covid-19 patients. There are around two dozen distributors of oxygen cylinders in the city at present. But they are running short of empty cylinders. People in home isolation needing oxygen are getting refilled oxygen cylinders from oxygen plants in the Chandauli area adjoining Varanasi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-more-oxygen-tankers-arrive-in-ramnagar-near-varanasi-101619371506996.html
25-04-2021||Other||UP orders 1 crore additional vaccine doses||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday announced that the state government had ordered 50 lakh doses each of Covishield and Covaxin (a total of one crore doses) for the free inoculation drive that will be launched from May 1 for all those above the age of 18 years. These vaccines would be in addition to what the central government was providing, he said at a Covid-19 review meeting. “To ensure the availability of adequate doses in the state, the state government has ordered to procure 50 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin each from the manufacturing companies. The Covishield vaccine is manufactured by Serum Institute of India and Covaxin is manufactured by Bharat Biotech Limited. The one crore additional vaccines are other than what the central government has allocated UP,” a state government said. The government statement quoted Dr RK Dhiman, director of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), as saying, “We can avoid hospitalisation by getting vaccinated. Not only this, the death rate also decreases due to vaccination. In such a situation, it is very important for us to get the vaccination done”. Speaking from his personal experience, Dhiman said, “My wife and I had become Covid positive just three days before the Holi festival. But the infection was mild and did not have much effect on us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-orders-1-crore-additional-vaccine-doses-101619371026918.html
25-04-2021||Other||No Covid hospital can deny treatment: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said that no Covid-19 hospital, government or private, can deny treatment to any patient of the coronavirus disease. Even those patients who only have an antigen test positive report must immediately be provided suitable treatment, he emphasised at a virtual Covid-19 review meeting with senior officials here. The government will bear the cost of such treatment as per the rules, but the treatment must be provided without delay, he added. “No patient should be without a bed. If government hospitals don’t have a vacant bed, then the patient should be admitted to a private hospital. The government will foot the bill according to the norms set for this. If a patient is without a bed, then the district magistrate and the chief medical officer of the district concerned will be accountable,” he said. Yogi said the Drug Controller General of India recently granted emergency use approval to Zydus Cadila’s anti-viral drug Virafin. He asked for making this drug available in Lucknow, Prayagraj and Varanasi. The chief minister asked health department officers to provide all necessary resources to DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organisation) for the Covid-19 hospitals it is setting up in Varanasi and Lucknow. These hospitals will be operational soon and will lead to further consolidation of health services for Covid-19 care in the state, he said according to a statement issued by the state government. In the last 24 hours, a total of 35,614 new Covid-19 cases came up in Uttar Pradesh and 25,633 patients were discharged after recovery, he said. A total of 7.77 lakh patients had recovered since the outbreak in UP early last year. In the last four days, the number of Covid beds had been increased by 14,000 and there was a need to further increase the bed strength for which the health department should explore options, he said. He also asked the officers concerned to get in touch with Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur (IIT-K), Indian Institute of Management-Lucknow (IIM-L) and IIT-BHU for oxygen audit in cities. Similarly, they should rope in Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU)-Lucknow, Madan Mohan Malviya University of Technology (MMMUT), Gorakhpur, Harcourt Butler Technical University (HBTU)-Kanpur, and Moti Lal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT)-Prayagraj for the oxygen audit. “Allot districts near each of these institutes for oxygen audit so that oxygen demand and supply could be tracked,” he said. “There is a need to increase the number of oxygen tankers,” he said to the officers concerned and reiterated that work to set up oxygen plants at all hospitals with a bed strength of 100 or more must be speeded up. About Remdesivir injections, he said that the state was getting 18,000 to 20,000 vials every day. The central government has increased Remdesivir allocation to 1.6 lakh for UP. Besides, state government was in direct touch with various Remdesivir-making drug companies for more vials, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-covid-hospital-can-deny-treatment-yogi-101619370846967.html
25-04-2021||Other||MLA funds to help create oxygen infrastructure in UP||The funds from the local area development fund (Vidhayak Nidhi) allocated by the MLAs for the Covid-19 care fund can be utilised for setting up oxygen plants in government hospitals and medical colleges as well for the laying down of oxygen pipelines, procurement of oxygen concentrators and cylinders.In this connection, the state government on Sunday amended the guidelines issued in March-April last year for the utilisation of the fund allocated by the lawmakers from local area development fund for Covid care fund.Rural development minister Rajendra Pratap Singh alias Moti Singh said in view of the Covid-19 surge, the state government had decided to amend the previous order.The fund could also be utilized for increasing beds in government hospitals and medical colleges, procurement of machines and other instruments for RT-PCR sample tests, establishment of the oxygen plants in the district and strengthening of oxygen supply to the government hospitals and medical colleges, Singh said.The fresh guidelines will be enforced till March 2022, Singh said and added the state government had urged the lawmakers to allocate more fund to the Covid care fund.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had earlier allowed the MLAs to allocate up to ₹1 crore for the provision of facilities for treatment of Covid-19 in their respective constituencies. Several MLAs and ministers have already allocated fund from MLALAD.Principal secretary (rural development) K Ravindra Nayak said the state government had issued orders that the procurement of instruments, beds and installation of oxygen plants can be done according to the guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare.The MLAs can also allocate funds to Banaras Hindu University and Aligarh Muslim University, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mla-funds-to-help-create-oxygen-infrastructure-in-up-101619370606952.html
25-04-2021||Other||10,174 new Covid-19 cases, 69 deaths in Pune district on Sunday||PUNE Pune district reported 10,174 new Covid-19 cases, and 69 deaths due to the infection, on Sunday, as per the state health department. Pune district has reported 0.796 million Covid-19 cases, of which 0.680 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 9,075. Currently, 1,07,503 are undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. On Sunday, Pune rural reported 3,276 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the total to 1,90,328. With 15 more deaths, the death toll is now 2,396. PMC reported 4,653 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the total progressive count to 4,10,683. With 47 more deaths, the toll went up to 5,158. PCMC also reported 2,245 new Covid-19 cases, which takes its total to 1,95,634. With seven more deaths, the toll went up to 1,466.Pune also saw only 10,397 vaccinations on Sunday, of which 1,364 vaccinations were reported from Pune rural and 1,706 vaccinations were reported from Pune city. PCMC saw 7,327 vaccinations.Of the total vaccinations, 1,210 were of Covaxin and 9,187 were of Covishield. Totally 107 session operated on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10174-new-covid-19-cases-69-deaths-in-pune-district-on-sunday-101619369106849.html
25-04-2021||Other||Mental health of exhausted Covid doctors now a major concern||PUNE As challenges around Covid increase, doctors on Covid duty are under severe pressure. In the first wave, the doctors were overworked, but now they have to deal with saving lives as the health infrastructure is crumbling. Tough decisions, death of patients, delay in treatment due to non-availability of ventilator beds and a shortage of medicines, are leaving doctors stressed, and emotionally and mentally vulnerable. Dr Vijay Yadav, president of Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (Mard), who also treats at Sasssoon General Hospital, said that the doctors in the Covid ward are working day and night.“There is no data available regarding mental health issues, but yes, doctors are mentally exhausted by because of heavy duties, and patients dying after which they have to inform relatives about the death. To add to this, there are few resources available. It’s been more than a year we are doing regular Covid duties without quarantine. PPE kits have become a uniform for us. After working in the PPE we are drenched in sweat and dehydrated both,” said Yadav.“Also, seeing someone die in spite of every honest attempt to save their life is making us mentally exhausted. Many of our residents are working in the hospital even if their parents are Covid positive. Many of us have not gone home, as there’s a chance that we may spread it to family members,” said Dr Yadav.A city-based psychiatrist, on the condition of anonymity, said that doctors working in the Covid ward have more chances of experiencing anxiety than other doctors. “There is too much exhaustion and fatigue as they do not have a clear idea of when this pandemic may end. This is adding more stress,” said the psychiatrist.A recent paper published in the Indian Journal of Social Psychiatric, states that 43.4 per cent of healthcare workers had at least one of the psychological symptoms of stress, anxiety, and depression. The research was done by the Department of Psychiatry at the YCM Hospital. “Resident doctors and nurses had a higher incidence of psychological symptoms. The presence of chronic illness was significantly associated with psychological symptoms. Increased use of avoidant coping strategies correlated with severe anxiety and depression,” the paper, published on March 31, 2021, stated.Dr Ajit Mane, president of Mard, working at YCM Hospital, said, “Patients come late as they are refused ventilator beds at several hospitals due to non-availability. This causes their condition to deteriorate. In such conditions, no matter how hard doctors try, they are not able to save the patient. The authorities should have acted proactively when the cases were low. Today doctors are struggling on so many fronts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mental-health-of-exhausted-covid-doctors-now-a-major-concern-101619362266464.html
25-04-2021||Other||Pune facing acute shortage of Tocilizumab, Itolizumab, both used for treatment of Covid-19||PUNE Following the shortage of the Remdesivir injection, used in the treatment of Covid-19 patients with moderate symptoms, Pune is now also facing an acute shortage of Tocilizumab and also Itolizumab, both used for treatment of Covid-19.Often referred to as Toci, Tocilizumab is also used to treat severe cases. The Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) expects fresh stock of Tocilizumab and Itolizumab to only be available by April 28. A senior FDA official said, “There is absolutely no stock available in Pune or, the nearby districts. We are getting calls from everyone including references from the district collector and also the health minister and CM’s office, but since we do not have any stock there is no way we can help them.” Dinesh Khivasara, drug Inspector, FDA, Pune, said, “Both Tocilizumab and Itolizumab are not available in the district since April 15 and fresh stock is expected to come only by April 27-28. The medical firm had stopped importing the drug as it did not find it useful in treating Covid-19 patients. However, now, since demand has gone up they have started importing it again and hopefully we will get fresh stock soon.” Patients are now left to fend for themselves and some have had to travel to nearby districts to get the drugs. In one such case, a patient’s relative in Pune tried to source the medicine while the patient was admitted in Baramati. The relative, requesting anonymity, said, “My distant relative is admitted ad I tried calling FDA officials and also the chemist association, but none of them have the stock and they have told us that the new stock will come only in the next few days. We are trying to source the medicine from Mumbai, or nearby districts, but until we know for sure we cannot risk travelling.” Two such patients, both from Vishwaraj Hospital located in Dhanori in Pune, and have been prescribed Tocilizumab. One relative said, “Ideally, the hospital should have the medicine. We are also trying to find the injection from Mumbai and Delhi, but it is not available anywhere.” The relative of the other Covid patient said, “The patient is 61- years old and the entire family has tested positive, so they are not able to move out. We are in West Bengal now and using social media contacts to get the medicine. We even called our known contacts in Delhi to see if they can get the drug, but it is not available anywhere.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-facing-acute-shortage-of-tocilizumab-itolizumab-both-used-for-treatment-of-covid19-101619359746163.html
25-04-2021||Other||PMC-built Covid hosp in Baner to be ready in a month’s time||PUNE A Covid hospital is to open its doors for patients within a month in Baner. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials and corporators have visited the site for a joint inspection of the building.“This is a 200 bed-hospital with 150 oxygen beds and 50 for ICU,” said Amol Balwadkar, corporator for Prabhag 9.This hospital is on survey number 33 is being built by the PMC. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol, Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, and city engineer Prashant Waghmare inspected the hospital on Friday.“This hospital is being built with the mayor’s fund of ₹1.5 crore, along with CSR donors and the PMC,” said Mohol. This hospital be for patients from areas like Baner, Balewadi, Pashan, Sutarwadi, Someshwarwadi, Panchavati, Sus, and Mahalunge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmcbuilt-covid-hosp-in-baner-to-be-ready-in-a-month-s-time-101619353025947.html
25-04-2021||Other||Manipur markets, shops allowed to open on rotation basis to tackle Covid-19 surge||Close on the heels of the closure of the Ima Keithel, an iconic women’s market having three different buildings and adjoining temporary markets, for ten days, district authorities in Manipur have announced different forms of restrictions including the rotational opening of shops and early closure of markets to tackle the surge in Covid-19 infections, officials said.The deputy commissioners of districts issued separate orders in this regard in the past few days as a preventive measure in view of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases.The deputy commissioner of Imphal West district, where the state capital is located, issued an order on Saturday, directing only one in every three shops, located at 16 important markets under its jurisdictions, to open on rotation.At the same time, one in every three shops located along the eight important streets in and around Imphal will be allowed to open on rotation apart from applying the same pattern in the busy Thangal and Paona Bazars, the two major markets in the state.“This order shall have immediate effect and remain in force until further orders,” the order said. Earlier, all public transport vehicles were also directed to carry passengers up to maximum half capacity and ensure every traveller wears face masks, besides imposing night curfew from 7 pm to 5 am till April 30.On the other hand, as a preventive and precautionary measure against the second wave of Covid-19, deputy commissioner, Senapati district, issued an order on Thursday, asking all shops at Senapati town, 60 kilometres north of Imphal, to close down by 2 pm.As per the order, all such shops in the hill town (Senapati) where shopkeepers are seen without masks will be forced to close for three consecutive days. The order also directed that the vehicles driven without people wearing masks will be seized over and above the penal provision.The Manipur government announced the closure of the Ima Keithel, also known as Nupi Keithel (women’s market), for ten days since April 21. The women’s market was reopened only on February 15 this year after it was shut for nearly 11 months amid the Covid-19 outbreak.On Saturday, Manipur reported 130 new Covid-19 positive cases, breaching the highest single-day spike this year again. With this, the state’s total infection tally jumps to 30,281 besides increasing the total number of active cases to 705, officials said. Even though 29,193 patients (including 13 on Saturday) have recovered so far, the recovery rate has been reduced to 96.40% in the state, sources said. The cumulative number of Covid-19 deaths stands at 383.As of Saturday, 6,59,403 people were screened at the entry points of the state while 6,02,832 were tested for Covid-19 across various testing centres in the state.So far, a total of 1,23,720 people, including healthcare workers and frontline workers, in Manipur have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. On the other hand, 62,146 healthcare workers and frontline workers have received their second shot of vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/manipur-markets-shops-allowed-to-open-on-rotation-basis-to-tackle-covid-19-surge-101619348346359.html
25-04-2021||Other||No trace of third abducted ONGC employee||While two of his colleagues were rescued by security forces from Nagaland on Saturday, there’s no trace yet of Ritul Saikia, the third Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) employee abducted by the United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) from Sivasagar in Assam on Wednesday, officials said.“I am not aware of the status of the third ONGC employee. I have been told that efforts are still underway to rescue him and security forces are looking for him. The other two who were rescued in Nagaland have returned to Assam,” Sivasagar superintendent of police, Amitabh Sinha, said. Amid efforts to rescue him, the banned outfit issued a statement on Saturday that the three abducted ONGC employees had been released by ULFA-I and said Saikia could have been killed by army bullets or kept hidden somewhere by the government agencies. The three employees, Ritul Saikia, Mohini Mohan Gogoi (both junior engineer assistants) and Alakesh Saikia (junior technician), all from Assam, were abducted from a workover rig site of ONGC inside the Lakwa tea estate. According to the police, five armed persons came to the rig site in an ONGC ambulance and abducted the three employees at gunpoint. The ambulance was recovered later close to the Assam-Nagaland border, around 11 kilometres away, leading to suspicion that the abducted persons could be in Nagaland. On Saturday, Alakesh Saikia and Mohini Mohan Gogou were rescued from near the India-Myanmar border in Mon district of Nagaland. The operation was carried out jointly by personnel from the Indian Army, the Assam Rifles and Nagaland Police with help of inputs provided by Assam Police. “On Friday night, nearly 500 security personnel from Indian Army, Assam Rifles and Nagaland Police tried to rescue the three ONGC employees we had taken into custody on April 20. As a result, an encounter took place between both sides from nearly 10 pm to 2.30 am,” said the ULFA-I statement released on Saturday. The statement added that keeping safety of the three employees in mind, ULFA-I cadres released them at Tokko Singkhu village of Mon in Nagaland in a healthy condition and proceeded to their destination. It alleged that though the security forces were aware of it, they resorted to firing at the spot moments after ULFA-I cadres left the area. “News reports say that two officials, Mohini Mohan Gogoi and Alakesh Saikia, were rescued from the village by Nagaland Police. But Indian Army has not released any information on Ritul Saikia. That’s why we suspect that Ritul Sakia may have been killed in firing by the Indian Army or army-police may have kept him hidden,” the ULFA-I statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-trace-of-third-abducted-ongc-employee-101619346786919.html
25-04-2021||Other||‘Fill vacant doctors post soon’: Bihar CM directs officials as Covid-19 cases rise||As Bihar reported 12,359 fresh Covid-19 cases, chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday directed the health officials to complete the procedure of regular appointment of doctors and paramedic staff on priority.“The state has a sanctioned strength of 13,500 doctors (approximately) and is facing acute shortage of paramedical staff like OT assistants, laboratory assistants, ANM, x-ray technicians, ultrasound technicians, ventilator assistants, data operators, etc., in 700-odd hospitals of the state,” Bihar Health Services Association (BHSA) general secretary Dr Ranjeet Kumar said, adding that nearly 30-40% of the posts in the state, both of doctors and paramedical staff, are lying vacant.He asked the officials to fill the vacant medical and paramedical posts in every district through walk-in interviews. The chief minister, who held a high-level meeting in the wake of a shortage of doctors for the treatment of Covid-19 and other patients, asked the officials to ensure that vacant posts are immediately filled.As per people aware of the development, there are 4,133 ANM vacancies against sanctioned posts of 9,130 in Bihar while there is a shortage of 2,000-odd medical members against 4,000 sanctioned posts.With Covid-19 cases increasing day by day, the state is feeling the need for doctors as more than 500 doctors and health workers of the two leading hospitals in Patna - AIIMS and Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) - have been infected with Covid-19 during the ongoing second wave, according to agency reports. Altogether, 384 employees of AIIMS Patna, including doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, have been infected during the second wave so far, medical superintendent CM Singh told a news agency.“The situation is the same in medical colleges which are functioning on half the teaching strength. Of the 4,000 teaching posts, nearly 50% are vacant,” said Dr Ajay Kumar, senior vice-president of the Indian Medical Association, Bihar.The IMA, Bihar chapter, wrote a letter to the chief minister on Friday asking him to appoint doctors as an emergency measure. “There is a provision of quick appointment of doctors and others in epidemic time. All such people who are ready to join can be recruited on contract on different posts by appointments under epidemic provisions removing all obstacles,” said Dr Kumar.“This war needs a big army of doctors, paramedics, nurses and support staff more than what we need in normal times. Situation if not corrected can be disastrous,” the IMA said in the letter.Dr Kumar said that doctors and health care workers (HCWs) are continuously working for the last 14 months without any leave. “They are exhausted and need some rest on intervals. More than 15% of them are infected. Many have died. It is the demand of time in the public interest,” said Kumar.The state reported 77 deaths in the last 24 hours while the active cases climbed to 81,960. “Seven districts, including Patna, Gaya, Bhagalpur, Aurangabad, Saran, Nalanda and Begusarai, reported more than 500 positive cases on Friday,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director, State Health Society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fill-vacant-doctors-post-soon-bihar-cm-directs-officials-as-covid-19-cases-rise-101619334485709.html
25-04-2021||Other||Patiala GMC awaits Centre’s nod to import oxygen plant from Germany||With the entire infrastructure in place, Government Rajindra Medical College and Hospital is awaiting the Centre’s nod to order mobile oxygen generation plant from Germany.The hospital has come up with a proper infrastructure worth ₹84 lakh for setting up the plant, which would not only cater to its oxygen needs but of other medical institutions too.“We will make the plant operational in two days if we get the required equipment for producing oxygen as all other prerequisites are already in place at the hospital,” said hospital’s medical superintendent Dr HS Rekhi.Notably, a similar plant will be set up at Government Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar.He added that the proposed plant will be able to produce 20,000 litres of oxygen.Meanwhile, one of the officials said the state government has already sent the file for approval to Centre, but has not received any response yet.“After a go-ahead, an order will be placed for the import of oxygen generation plant as the formalities have been completed so far,” he said.It may be mentioned that following the increase in demand of medical oxygen in state hospitals due to the sudden surge in Covid cases, even chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has urged the Centre to immediately facilitate setting up the plant.No dearth right now, says medical supdt With the influx of Covid patients at Rajindra hospital, the authorities are claiming that there is no dearth of oxygen supply as they have sufficient storage of liquid medical oxygen (LMO).Medical superintendent Dr Rekhi said presently, the hospital has 12,000 litres LMO plant and small oxygen generator having capacity of 6,000 litres.“Around 250 patients are presently admitted in the hospital and all are provided with the required oxygen needs. Moreover, we have also kept an oxygen tank on standby in case of emergency,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patiala-gmc-awaits-centre-s-nod-to-import-oxygen-plant-from-germany-101619299562864.html
25-04-2021||Other||2,030 new cases, 8 deaths in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday reported 2,030 novel coronavirus infections, taking the Union Territory’s case tally to 1, 58, 374.With 15 Covid-induced fatalities — eight in Kashmir and seven in Jammu — the total death toll reached 2,126, health officials said. Of the new cases, 1,196 cases are from Kashmir while 834 are from Jammu, besides 176 travellers. So far, 132 people have lost their lives to the disease this month.For the past one week, the UT has recorded over 1,500 cases. On Tuesday and Wednesday, J&K recorded 2,030 and 2, 204 daily cases respectively.Officials said with 591 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 530 in Jammu district, 180 in Baramulla, 99 in Anantnag and 83 in Kulgam.The number of active cases, which has been rising exponentially, reached 18,064, officials said.As many as 944 patients have recovered, including 584 from Kashmir and 360 from Jammu.As many as 1, 38, 184 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 87.25% against 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 7 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far.Dulloo calls for intensified testing, vaccination Jammu: To tackle the recent surge of Covid 19 cases, financial commissioner, health and medical education, Atal Dulloo on Saturday impressed upon the officers for effective implementation of the five-pronged strategy in J&K which includes testing, containment, isolation and treatment, Covid appropriate behaviour and vaccination. He made these remarks during a review meeting at civil secretariat here to analyse district-wise Covid-19 scenario. Dulloo directed the officers to expedite the testing and vaccination drive, study the increase of the test positivity rate and take remedial measures accordingly. “We have to gear up all our efforts at all levels, only then we will be able to tackle the surge of cases. Testing has to be increased significantly at all designated facilities and bring down the test positivity rate in each district. All the testing facilities have to make sure that the set targets are met on daily basis” he said, adding that installation of oxygen generation plants needs to be expedited which would augment the oxygen supply of our hospitals. He directed the officers that there should be no delay in the result of RT-PCR tests and directed the GMCs to make sure that they do perform 2, 000 tests each daily. Calling for an increase in the pace of vaccination, he directed the officers to make all the necessary arrangements to accelerate the vaccination drive to the population. He said that by vaccinating more people, we will be better equipped to fight the disease, adding that they have an adequate supply of vaccines in all districts. Regarding the containment strategy, the FC said that restrictions in the 127 containment zones have to be implemented fully, adding that testing in containment zones has to be increased significantly. He also said that the number of contacts traced for every positive case should be increased to 20. Regarding the treatment of home isolation patients, the FC directed that they should be monitored regularly and necessary instructions passed to them. He directed the district authorities to fully activate their control rooms and periodical calls should be made to the home isolation patients on regular basis. He appealed to the people to go back to the basics and follow the norms of social distancing, maintaining personal hygiene and wearing masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2030-new-cases-8-deaths-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101619294762302.html
25-04-2021||Other||With 2,073 new cases, Himachal’s sees biggest single-day spike since outbreak||With 2,073 fresh infections, Himachal Pradesh on Saturday recorded its highest single-day spike since the pandemic outbreak, taking the state’s caseload to 86,138. The toll mounted to 1, 291 after 24 patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 360 were recorded in Kangra, 317 in Solan, 269 in Shimla, 265 in Mandi, 207 in Sirmaur, 194 in Hamirpur, 184 in Bilaspur, 142 in Una, 92 in Kullu, 31 in Chamba, 17 in Lahaul-Spiti and seven in Kinnaur. Meanwhile, the active cases count reached 13,411 even as 877 more recovered from the disease. Kangra is the worst hit district with 14, 425 cases so far, followed by Shimla where 13, 355 people have been infected and Mandi with 12,740 cases. Solan’s caseload climbed to 11, 205 while Una has 6,125 cases, Sirmaur 5,811, Hamirpur 5,410, Kullu 5,406, Bilaspur 4,578 , Chamba, 3,790, Lahaul-Spiti 1,699 and Kinnaur 1, 594.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-2-073-new-cases-himachal-s-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-since-outbreak-101619294583730.html
25-04-2021||Other||J&K goes into 34-hour lockdown||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases across Jammu and Kashmir, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday announced a weekend lockdown from 8pm on Saturday to 6am on Monday. However, essential emergency services movement, work and scheduled marriages up to permissible gathering norms shall remain exempted, subject to production of wedding cards/ID cards etc. The district magistrates may issue passes wherever necessary. Sinha also announced that the Covid 19 vaccine will be available free of cost for people in the 18 to 45 age group across the UT. The LG made these announcements via Twitter on Saturday evening. “Complete corona curfew to be observed in the Union Territory from 8pm, 24th April (Saturday) till 6am, April 26 (Monday). Essential and emergency services to be allowed. All market, commercial institutions will remain closed,” he posted on his Twitter handle. Earlier, the Jammu and Kashmir administration had imposed a night curfew in all 20 districts of the UT. It had also imposed various curbs in the UT and said that public transport will ply with only 50% seating capacity. The UT administration had said that only 50% shops in market complexes, bazaars and malls within the municipal limits or urban local body will be allowed to open in a staggered manner. In another post, Sinha informed, “It has been decided that Covid-19 vaccination for people in the age group of 18-45 years will be provided free of cost in the UT. The cost of vaccine will be fully borne by the government of J&K. The health department will constitute a panel to work out the logistics.#LargestVaccineDrive”. “If your age is between 18-45 years, register yourself for Covid-19 vaccine. Registration for vaccination starts from 28, April, 2021 on https://cowin.gov.in,” he posted in another Tweet. Jammu and Kashmir has been witnessing an alarming rise in the number of Covid 19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-goes-into-34-hour-lockdown-101619294404572.html
25-04-2021||Other||3 LeT over ground workers arrested from Baramulla||Police on Saturday claimed to have arrested three over ground workers (OGWs) of Lashkar-e-Taiba for their alleged involvement in a series of bank robberies in Baramulla and Budgam districts and the killing of a civilian in central Kashmir.As per the police, the arrested persons were working for local Lashkar operatives from Budgam.A police spokesperson said that on the intervening night of April 23 and 24, the Baramulla Police and 29 Rashtriya Rifles initiated a joint operation following a specific input and arrested the three OGWs, identified as Rahil Ahmad Parray of Kanihama, Arif Ahmad Mir of Mazhama and Naseer Ahmad Bhat of Singhpora. “The trio was involved in the robbery at J&K Bank, Khare Sherabad, on April 22 and a string of other robberies including the Grameen Bank, Ogmuna, Grameen Bank, Panzinara, and J&K Bank, Chandipora.”They had taken away Rs. 9, 51,896 INR in all from these banks, the spokesperson added. “They were also involved in the looting of ₹3, 50, 000 INR from a petrol pump in Budgam on February 18. They also had a role in the killing of a civilian, namely Naseer Ahmad Khan of Buchipora Magam on April 11, and were working on the directions of designated LET terrorists Yousuf Dar alias Kantru and Abrar Nadeem Bhat.”Police recovered ₹24,500, a Chinese pistol, two magazines, 25 live rounds, two 12 bore rifles, three cartridges, two pouches, a multipurpose knife, three PPE kits, a weapon tying chain and three vehicles (Alto K-10 JKOSG 5626, Alto-800 JK05G -45664, and an Alto¬ K 1O without number plate) from their possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-let-over-ground-workers-arrested-from-baramulla-101619294103093.html
25-04-2021||Other||Two arrested for running shops in Ludhiana’s containment zones, one held for loitering||Police on Friday arrested three people for lockdown violations in Dugri, which is a containment zone, and booked another 51 for violating the night curfew that starts at 8pm. The Dugri police arrested Gulshan Kumar for roaming around the containment zone without a valid reason. Besides, Bhupinder Singh of Phase 1, Dugri, was arrested for opening his chicken shop in the containment zone and a street vendor, Vijay Singh, of BRS Nagar, was held for selling fast food in the sealed area. He was also not wearing a mask.Among those booked for night curfew violations, nine were in the Division Number 2 area, six in Division Number 3 and five in Division Number 1.Similarly, police in Daresi, Basti Jodhewal and Division Number 4 lodged four cases each; and Salem Tabri, Haibowal, PAU and Sarabha Nagar three each.Division Number 6 police booked two fish and chicken shop owners for keeping their shops open after permissible hours, while the Daba police booked a sweetmeat shop and a welding workshop owner for the same violation.Division Number 5, Division Number 8 and Koomkalan police also filed one case each.Apart from the 54 FIRs, 500 mask violators were fined ₹1,000 each. The police have already registered 179 cases against violators in the past three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-arrested-for-running-shops-in-ludhiana-s-containment-zones-one-held-for-loitering-101619291521969.html
25-04-2021||Other||Trouble looms for former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh after FIR||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh is likely to be in more trouble as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a first information report (FIR) and conducted searches at his residences. Leaders from the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government feel that the recent developments could make it difficult for the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader to make a political comeback.CBI is probing the allegations against Deshmukh made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh claiming that the NCP leader, during his tenure as home minister, had told officers from the crime branch to collect ₹100 crore a month from commercial establishments. The Bombay high court (HC) had ordered a preliminary inquiry by CBI into the allegations made by Singh. CBI had recently questioned Deshmukh and staff from his office in connection with the case.The ruling parties have alleged the probe by the central agency to be politically motivated and an attempt to defame the state government and its leaders.NCP’s Maharashtra unit chief Jayant Patil condemned the raids at Deshmukh’s residence.“CBI appears to be using the court’s inquiry order to defame Deshmukh. Four people have been grilled by CBI so far, but it is not clear if the agency has submitted its preliminary inquiry report to the court. The probe is being conducted on the complaints by the police officers who have either been arrested or are under scanner in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran death cases. The raids by CBI are for the political reasons,” he said.His party colleague and state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik questioned why has the National Investigation Agency (NIA), probing the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran death cases, not revealed what it found about the roles played by suspended cop Sachin Vaze and his bosses in the police.Shiv Sena’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut raised questions over the searches conducted by CBI. “Something fishy is going on. Hon Bombay HC had asked CBI to conduct preliminary probe and submit a report. Raids on his residence, lodging an FIR against him… this is a bit too much. It does not seem to be logical (sic),” he had tweeted, adding that he hopes that the action against Deshmukh was restricted to the HC directives.Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole alleged that CBI action was being used by the central government to divert the country’s attention from its failure in handling the pandemic and incidents like the deaths of patients at Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi.Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Chandrakant Patil said that there are few more leaders in MVA government to “face the music”. “Some of them have been facing the probe, while some others are in the offing. There needs to be an inquiry of transport minister Anil Parab, one Mr Ghoadavat who has been named by Vaze in the extortion racket. Vaze has also named deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. MVA leaders are blaming BJP for the [CBI] action, but it’s a court ordered inquiry,” he said.Though the ruling party leaders have been claiming the probe to be politically motivated, they secretly admit that the situation should have been handled properly. “Like the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, we faulted on handling this case too. The ruling parties should have acted quickly in taking action on Singh’s allegations by appointing the probe panel immediately. Deshmukh should have been removed from the department immediately. Instead of it, the NCP top brass went out of the way and stood by him without taking any action,” said a Congress leader, requesting anonymity.An NCP minister said that the party failed to anticipate the judicial intervention, which was actually the writing on the wall. “More importantly, we could not keep our own serving officers like Singh from taking steps against the government,” he said.Retired IPS (Indian Police Service) officer PK Jain said that the entire episode of the alleged ‘extortion racket’ was shoddily handled by MVA government. “The government did not take cognisance of the very serious allegations levelled by a senior IPS officer, and it was against the spirit of the SC (Supreme Court) order in the Lalita Kumar case that mandates for an FIR in corruption charges. But the government did not even take cognisance of the allegations when they were brought to the knowledge of chief minister, his deputy or even NCP chief Sharad Pawar. Had the government initiated an inquiry at the time the allegations had been levelled or divested the minister of the portfolio, CBI could not have got the chance to step in,” he said.An NCP leader said that the CBI probe may make it difficult for Deshmukh to make a political comeback. “BJP has systematically used the central agencies against the leaders from the Opposition parties. Many of them joined BJP. Deshmukh may have to pay a huge price for the entire episode,” he said.Patil said that blaming BJP for the action was laughable as it was court ordered probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/trouble-looms-for-former-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-after-fir-101619290861293.html
25-04-2021||Other||Demand for charter flights saw uptick last year amid curbs, safety concerns: Experts||The outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic last year led India, much like the rest of the world, to place curbs on visas and travel to contain the transmission and spread of the virus. The ongoing second wave of the pandemic, which is more infectious, means that the status quo is likely to be maintained in the months to come. In the absence of regular international and domestic flight services and preference for safety, health and hygiene coupled with the need to adhere to social distancing norms for domestic travel, industry experts said international private or business jet operations that were so far considered a travel mode for the “elites” by policy makers in the country recorded an uptick last year. “We ended 2020 better than 2019 with a 10% increase in business in spite of the loss during the lockdown period. We see this trend continuing in 2021 as well,” said Rajan Mehta, chief executive officer, Club One. The private aircraft charter firm witnessed a gradual rise in business from August and saw a perceptible rise during September to December. “The percentage of international bookings has increased because prior to the pandemic, the ultra-wealthy would use private aviation for their domestic journeys but preferred first or business class on commercial airlines when it came to their trips outside the country. This has changed dramatically post-pandemic as they now prefer the safety, convenience and hygiene of a private jet over money,” said Mehta. The segment performed better than the scheduled airlines business – which suffered a much larger impact in the Covid-hit 2020 – as private charters were a preferred mode of transport by customers during lockdown that kept their businesses afloat for companies across the country, said industry insiders. Many first time travellers are also using charter flights to fly to their destinations keeping safety in mind. JetSetGo Aviation recorded a nine-fold increase in its bookings’ queries with around 70% from new fliers, said Kanika Tekriwal, its chief executive officer and founder. Stating that the demand for charter aircraft in India has been growing consistently – backed by more than 6,000 ultra-high-net-worth individuals (UHNWIs) residing in the country – Tekriwal said compared to the growth in 2019, the company was unable to match their progress in 2020. “However, considering 2020 was a dent to all normalities, the industry saw a tremendous growth in its business, as private flying was considered to be a more suitable option due to Covid-19 safety measures with less touch points,” she added. However, KM Unni, chief operating officer, Reliance Commercial Dealers Private Limited, said nearly 95% of private charter fleet was grounded in the first quarter of 2020, owing to government restrictions on flying commercial and general aviation aircraft. “Just about 5% fleet was under service as air ambulances ferried medical supplies and medical staff. The largest customers for private charter operators are corporate houses, especially in auto, real estate, power and infrastructure sectors. But due to the pandemic, none of these sectors seem to be doing well in the current circumstances,” said Unni, adding, “There is a chance of revival only if the economy does well.” ‘Unfavourable regulations’ Though favourable changes in regulations governing the private charter segment in the past two-three years have helped boost the business further, industry leaders said high tax structure, high cost of operation, dearth of MRO (maintenance, repair, and overhaul) capabilities in the country are contributing to the stagnation in private charter business. A 15% percent IATT (inland air travel tax) was levied on air tickets/charter flights in the 1990s, which was a big hurdle in promoting aircraft charter industry in India. This was abolished in January 2005 with protracted efforts from the industry. However, a 10% service tax was introduced in May 2008, which later increased to 12% and finally culminated into GST (goods and services tax) in the year 2017. “Currently 18% GST is being levied on aircraft charter flights, which is again a major hurdle in the promotion of the aircraft/helicopter charter industry in India,” said Sanjay Malhotra, president, Jubilant Enpro Pvt Ltd, while pitching for 5% on aircraft/helicopter charter flights. “Aircraft/ helicopter import/ acquisition procedure needs to be relooked at with a view to ease the procedures, if possible, and promote aircraft/helicopter charter industry and tourism in India,” he added. Stating that there have been numerous barriers as operators in the Indian private aviation industry, Tekriwal said about 25-30% costs, excluding fuel, are dollar denominated, and the rupee depreciation falls back poorly on the aviation industry. These challenges handicap the industry to grow rapidly in the country. Aviation turbine fuel (ATF) is one of the important sections of the aircraft/airline industry. The jet fuel prices are not reduced in proportion to the fall in international crude oil prices. “When there is a rise in crude prices, it increases the fuel cost, which eventually increases the operation cost of the airline. Besides, it compels airlines to go for an upward fare revision to offset the increased cost of operations. No GST should be implemented on fuel as it hits cost of operations very high,” said Tekriwal, adding the need to work around the ease of purchasing the aircraft into India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/demand-for-charter-flights-saw-uptick-last-year-amid-curbs-safety-concerns-experts-101619290741390.html
25-04-2021||Other||Punjab govt to hold competitions for students to spread positivity amid pandemic||To engage students in productive activities while the schools are closed due to a spike in Covid cases, the state education department has decided to hold online educational competitions from May 1 to commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur.Students will participate in competitions including essay writing, poem recitation, slogan writing, and debates.They will make videos of the activity and share them on the class WhatsApp groups. Last year, over 40,000 students participated in the same online contests in the district and 10 students bagged top positions at the state level. The topics of the competitions will be based on the life, teachings, and achievements of the guru. The aim is to make students aware of the teachings and life of Guru Tegh Bahadur.The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) issued a letter to all district education officers, (secondary), to make maximum students participate. It is the responsibility of principals to make students register online for the competitions.The competitions will be held at the school, block, district levels, and then state level. SCERT will issue certificates to the winners.Lakhvir Singh, DEO, secondary, said, “The school principals have been informed about the same so that they can ensure maximum participation. Participating in these competitions will make students aware of the teachings and life of the ninth guru.”The essay writing competition will be conducted from May 1 to May 31 at the school level and from September 1 to 7 at the block level. The selected students will participate at the district level from October 1 to 8 and winners of the district level will participate in the state-level competition from November 1 to 15.Schools will conduct the poem recitation contest from June 1 to June 31 at the school level. The winners will participate from September 9 to 15 at the block level. The district-level contest will be held between October 9 to 16. The winners of the district-level contest will participate at the state level from November 16 to 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-govt-to-hold-competitions-for-students-to-spread-positivity-amid-pandemic-101619290142998.html
25-04-2021||Other||Vijayan urges PM to make vaccination free||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala on Saturday reported another high of 26,685 Covid-19 cases with a test positivity rate of 20.35%, according to state health ministry data, and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan sent another letter to the Prime Minister, requesting him to make vaccination free of cost in the present scenario. Vijayan told reporters that the three-tier price mechanism for vaccines -- ₹150 for the Centre, ₹400 for state governments and ₹600 for private hospitals -- will lead to exploitation and weaken the fight against the pandemic. Citing some reports, he said ₹600 (equivalent to US$ 8) per shot is the highest in the world and the vaccine firm was distributing the same to neighbouring Bangladesh at half of the cost. “I have written another letter to the Prime Minister citing these facts. Vaccine price is quite high, some studies show. We want the government to stick to its age-old policy of giving vaccine free of cost,” the CM said. He said he had a meeting with private hospital managements on Saturday and asked them to increase their bed capacity to the maximum. “We will have to learn a lesson from the trauma of some of the states in north India. We have enough stock of oxygen, but we may need more beds. There is no need to panic, but we have to be vigilant,” he said, adding the weekend 48-hour lockdown-like curbs were successful. “It is good that people responded well. We may have to tighten the restrictions further going by the caseload,” he said. Many busy roads and markets remained empty because permission was granted to only emergency services. Meanwhile, for the third consecutive day caseload crossed 25,000 -- out of 1,31,155 tests, 26,685 were tested positive. The state also reported 25 fatalities taking the death toll to 5080. The active caseload reached 198,576. Among the infected, 75 are health workers and 30 policemen, according to the data released by the state health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vijayan-urges-pm-to-make-vaccination-free-101619289601278.html
25-04-2021||Other||K’taka mulls full lockdown amid surge, CM to hold cabinet meeting||Bengaluru Karnataka chief secretary P Ravi Kumar on Saturday said the state government was in favour of a full lockdown in the wake of surging Covid-19 cases in the ongoing second wave of the pandemic, but people were against it. Talking to reporters in Bengaluru, he said the current situation “does not give enough time for the government” to have health-related facilities in place “without a lockdown”. “The government wants to do it. Everyone says it’s for the best. But people don’t want it. People want everything to be let loose and that those who’re dying should continue dying. All people should be responsible. The government alone cannot do everything. People should step out only if necessary. At least, they should wear masks,” Kumar said. “Hospital beds can’t be created overnight. It will take a minimum of 15 days to put beds, oxygen line and ventilator. For starters, we need to get this equipment. It takes at least 15 days. Even if we get these in place, we still need doctors and nurses in place. There are limitations, so we are trying with what we have… even our doctors and nurses are turning positive,” he said. Karnataka and its capital Bengaluru have been recording unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases amid the surging second wave. On Saturday, Karnataka reported 29,438 new Covid-19 cases and 208 new deaths. The total number of active cases in the state stood at 234,483 while 14,283 people have lost their lives in the pandemic. Bengaluru alone accounted for 17,342 cases and 149 deaths of the total on Saturday, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin. According to a senior government official, chief minister BS Yediyurappa is likely to seek opinions from his colleagues on imposing lockdown-like restrictions for a week in the state, during a Cabinet meeting scheduled on April 26. The move comes at a time when citing the explosion of Covid-19 cases in Karnataka and especially Bengaluru, which has over 150,000 active cases, the highest for any city in the country, the state’s Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19 has asked the state government to impose stringent restrictions, including lockdown for 14 days to break the chain. The panel has also recommended to the government to increase the number of beds to tide over the crisis. The TAC members also foresee the third wave Covid-19 in October-November and have, accordingly, insisted that the government should complete the vaccination of vulnerable age groups before the next wave hits. An epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) and a member of the state TAC on Covid-19, Dr Giridhar Babu told news agency PTI: “I have on record said that there are two main strategies. Firstly, we need to reduce the number of cases and that will happen only by a stringent lockdown for at least 14 days. Secondly, we should expand the bed capacity by taking as much as possible beds from all the private medical colleges, nursing homes and hospitals.” Babu said the state may witness the peak of the second wave by the May end or the first week of June. On Thursday, the government announced a partial lockdown, asking the shops and establishments that are not listed in the government order as ‘essential services’ to remain shut till May 4. The ban was apart from the complete weekend lockdown in the state. In the partial lockdown, no restrictions were put on the movement of people. However, this is expected to be reviewed during Monday’s meeting, the senior government official added. On Saturday, state health minister Dr K Sudhakar asked all private and government medical colleges to reserve beds for Covid patients in three to four days. He, however, excluded emergency beds, and those meant for mother and childcare and dialysis from the reservation. “The state hopes to get an additional 7,500 beds by doing this. All hospitals with less than 30 beds should only admit non-Covid patients. All private hospitals with more than 30 beds have to now reserve 80% beds for government-referred Covid patients, including ICU beds, ventilator beds, high-dependency units, and high flow nasal cannula beds. This is an emergency situation,” Sudhakar added. Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka went on a weekend lockdown on Saturday. Apart from few incidents of police cracking down on violators, the lockdown was complete, said senior police officers in the state. The city’s roads bore a deserted look on Saturday, with most shops, including supermarkets, shut. In the four hours between 6 am and 10 am, when shops involved in essential supplies are allowed to operate, people were seen queuing up to buy groceries and other essential supplies. “The order has not made it clear if we were allowed to step out to buy the supplies or they were to be delivered. Since I had to buy meat, I came out. Police didn’t stop us but only asked us to return home before 10 am,” said Janet Rodriguez, a resident of Cooke Town in Bengaluru. Apart from eateries, all shops remained closed in the city and the roads were empty with barely any traffic, except for delivery executives. A shopkeeper in the area said there was no panic buy. “Even on Friday night, there was no big rush. Even today (Saturday) morning, only our usual customers came,” he said. In Bengaluru, police seized 1,041 two-wheelers, 45 three-wheelers and 65 four-wheelers for violation of the curfew on Saturday. “We have adequate police presence across the city, and we are ensuring that people stay at him. It is just the first day, we believe the situation will streamline by tomorrow,” said a senior police officer. While the state and particularly Bengaluru have been recording unprecedented spike in the cases and deaths due to the virus, experts said besides the complacency from people and lack of planning, the biggest reason was due to the fact that the government stopped listening to the expert panel’s advice. The state’s TAC on November 30 last year had submitted a report to the government, recommending it to prepare for the second wave of Covid-19. The report, a copy of which is available with the Hindustan Times, asked the government to prepare beds, ICUs, ICU-ventilators, and make arrangements for oxygen availability, vital drugs, and other infrastructure, including ambulance services in both private and public hospitals. “An early recognition of the second wave in the state could be done by closely monitoring the seven-day average growth rate… at the district and state levels. The second wave is expected during January-February 2021,” the report stated. Though the second wave came a month late, the government failed to prepare as advised by the experts. One of the most important recommendations of the TAC was to stop mass gatherings. “Super-spreader events during December and January should be strictly restricted and events such as weddings and other social gatherings should be permitted only in open areas and with an audience of not more than 100 persons. A maximum of 200 persons should be allowed at all political and public events, 50 at death ceremonies, and 20 at funerals,” the report read. A member of the TAC said even though state health minister K Sudhakar had pushed for these recommendations, the cabinet didn’t agree to enforce them. “The onset of the second wave was warned by the experts in Karnataka on November 30, 2020. We missed the timing, and the quantum is higher than expected. Governments had all the time to review and prepare,” tweeted TAC member Dr Girighara Babu. “The bed capacity is hardly sufficient for few days. It is also necessary to reduce the speed of transmission. There are only a few options any Government can have when the cases surge rapidly and resources are limited. We need stricter mitigation and containment, starting now,” Babu said in another tweet. Apart from the government turning a blind eye to the recommendations, the complicacy from both civic authorities and the public played a major role in the situation going out of control. “There were two things the BBMP and the respective district administrations should have done. The first step was to impose strict enforcement of social distancing norms. It was done in the initial days, but over a period, markets, malls and other places returned to normalcy. Weddings had guests beyond permitted numbers and political rallies were held with people standing shoulder to shoulder,” said a TAC member on the condition of anonymity. “The second step was to prepare enough hospital beds, ICUs, ventilators and oxygen supplies. We had specifically recommended this in November, February and March but no one was ready to believe our projections,” he added. According to experts, Karnataka used to get 200-300 tonnes of oxygen and it worked for us in the first wave. However, in the second wave, the requirement doubled to 600 tonnes. “As per the chief minister’s letter to Prime Minister (on Friday), the state would require 1,500 tonnes of oxygen in the coming month. The expert committee had projected such rise in the cases, but no one listened,” the expert added. While the government was against any extension of lockdown as it was taking a toll on the economy, experts echoed the government had to impose restrictions. “We are in a partial lockdown right now. We are doing it in the peak of the crisis, if we had taken similar measures earlier, we could have averted this situation where we are reporting close to 100 deaths every day,” said a senior IAS officer, on the condition of anonymity adding that the government recommended to imposed stricter measures, several times. Experts also pointed out that despite the projections from the TAC was of the larger wave, the government’s planning used the numbers from the previous surge. “On the second day of the second wave, we crossed the highest number reported in the first wave. We are now reporting over 100% more cases than the last wave. The government failed to listen to the experts there as well,” a health expert added. (With inputs from agency)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ktaka-mulls-full-lockdown-amid-surge-cm-to-hold-cabinet-meeting-101619289541437.html
25-04-2021||Other||Virar hospital fire: Hospital blocked rear emergency exit point, say sources||A startling disclosure has come to the fore that the management of the Vijay Vallabh hospital in Bolinj, Virar (West) had allegedly blocked the rear emergency exit by constructing a wall and a room. The sources revealed that many of the victims had to use the main entrance door at the time of the blast in the air conditioning unit on Friday. Fifteen Covid patients were charred to death after a fire broke out on the second floor of a four-storey private hospital, Vijay Vallabh Covid Care Hospital, in Virar in the early hours of Friday.However, Gangatharan D, VVMC commissioner skirted the issue and said he was unaware of the same. He said the probe is being done by the Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) Commissionerate and refused to comment further on the issue. According to hospital sources, the wall was constructed a month ago by the management. At the time of the incident, there were 90 Covid-19 patients admitted at the hospital. The sources said that at the time of the incident, the ambulances were parked outside the main entrance. The chaos in shifting the burn patients to other hospitals could have been smooth if the rear exit existed, said the source. Sanjaykumar Patil, the deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, said, “The probe has been handed over to the crime branch. We are studying all the documents related to the structural, fire and electrical audits. Till now, no arrests have been made against the hospital management, doctors and staffers in the case, but we are probing all possible angles,” said Patil.Around 17 patients were in the intensive care unit (ICU) on the second floor of the hospital, constructed in 2014, said the source. The ward boys had to take out the victims through the main door, said the source.The Vasai civic body had conducted a fire, structural and electrical audit a few months ago. The wall was constructed a month ago, without the Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation (VVMC) in the know, said Manoj Patil, a social worker from Vasai. “There is a huge question on the authenticity of the audit certificates issued to the hospital by the Vasai civic body. The electrical audit of hospitals is to be done every six months by the Public Works Department and the Vasai civic body needs to be questioned over this,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/virar-hospital-fire-hospital-blocked-rear-emergency-exit-point-say-sources-101619289001233.html
