26-04-2021||Other||Giving social distancing the go-by, SAD protests ‘slow’ wheat procurement in Ludhiana||Disregarding the ban on political gatherings amid the rapidly rising Covid-19 cases in the state, nearly 60 Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders and workers on Monday held a protest against the “slow and poor” wheat procurement in the district.Targeting civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu through slogans, the protesters gathered at the Kochar Market Chowk without any social distancing and many of them had their masks lowered.Among the leaders present were former cabinet minister Maheshinder Singh Grewal, leader of SAD legislators in assembly MLA Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon and district Youth Akali Dal president Gurdeep Gosha.Police deputed on the spot said action will be taken against the protesters as per law.The protesters were headed towards Ashu’s house in Model Gram, but were stopped by police at the Kochar Market Chowk. Traffic leading to the chowk from ESI Hospital road was also diverted for around an hour due to the protest. Amid sloganeering, Grewal and Sharanjit Singh Dhillon said there was severe shortage of gunny bags at the grain markets, forcing farmers to store the wheat in trolleys or at their houses. “The Congress leadership is making tall claims regarding the procurement process, while due to shortage of gunny bags, even the procured wheat has been lying in the open and payment is being delayed to farmers,” they said.Holding Ashu responsible for the delay, Ranjit Dhillon and Gosha demanded Ashu’s removal from the post of cabinet minister. On flouting of Covid safety norms, Ranjit claimed social distancing was ensured and everyone was wearing masks. “The protest was necessary to wake up the government from its deep slumber. While the Congress government has failed to serve the public, the Aam Aadmi Party has also failed to perform its duty as the opposition. In fact, it has been working as the B-team of Congress,” he alleged. Refuting their claims, Ashu’s wife and councillor Mamta Ashu said all arrangements were in place for wheat procurement. “Over 85 lakh metric tonnes of wheat has been procured in the state and payment is being transferred directly to the farmers’ bank accounts. While the farmers are satisfied with the process, SAD is staging protests just to gain political mileage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/giving-social-distancing-the-go-by-sad-protests-slow-wheat-procurement-in-ludhiana-101619459778959.html
26-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s main vegetable market a ticking bomb amid surge in Covid cases||In a stark contrast to March 2020, when strict Covid restrictions were imposed at the city’s main vegetable market near Jalandhar Bypass to control huge gatherings, the administration and market committee are now turning a blind eye even as thousands of residents throng the market everyday. Visitors are seen ignoring social distancing norms and without masks. This, even though 1,389 fresh infections were reported from the district on Sunday, the highest single-day spike so far.Apart from individual buyers, the market is thronged by around 450 arhtiyas, their staff, farmers, thousands of street vendors, retailers and other visitors. Farmers/transporters from other districts and nearby states also visit to sell their produce.The market is open on six days (Monday to Saturday) in a week. Last year, the administration had restricted the operations of the market to three days a week and working hours were fixed from 9am to 11am, after videos and pictures of huge gatherings at the market went viral on social media. Further, the concept of establishing ward-wise “mandis” was introduced in the city, wherein only registered vendors were allowed to purchase vegetables and fruits from the main market. They used to supply it to street vendors assigned to specific wards, who further sold it to residents.The system remained in force till mid-June. The administration also faced trouble restricting the entry of vendors in the main market and controlling the rush of residents at earmarked ward-wise mandi sites.Gurminder Singh, a resident of Nehru Nagar, said, “Strict and immediate action should be taken to restrict gatherings at the main market. Supply of vegetables and fruits is necessary, but the lives of residents should not be put at risk and an alternative needs to be found. The street vendors roam the entire city and can spread the virus rapidly.”Meanwhile, the arhtiyas said that the administration should focus on enforcing Covid norms, rather than bringing business to a halt.Amarvir Singh, an arhtiya, said, “Shutting down the market is not a solution, as arhtiyas, farmers and vendors will suffer huge losses and daily turnover of over ₹3 crore will be affected. The administration should rather impose strict restrictions and those flouting norms should be fined ₹5,000. Further, we also urge the administration to allow shops selling veggies and fruits to open on Sundays, as they are essential items and perishable goods.”Officials of the market committee stated that steps are being taken to make sure residents and arhtiyas follow the Covid norms, but no restrictions have been imposed till now on working or entry in the main market.Tek Bahadur, secretary of the market committee, said, “We have issued notices to arhtiyas to ensure wearing of masks and social distancing. No directions have yet been received from the administration to impose any restrictions on entry or working of the main market. Stalls have been installed to spread awareness and staff has been deputed to keep check.”In April last year, district mandi officer (DMO) Jasbir Kaur had tested positive for the virus and deceased assistant commissioner of police Anil Kumar Kohli was also suspected to have contracted the infection while he was deputed at the vegetable market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-main-vegetable-market-a-ticking-bomb-amid-surge-in-covid-cases-101619459599269.html
26-04-2021||Other||Govt teachers’ door-to-door campaign inspires 8,000 Ludhiana kids to join school||Going the extra mile amid the pandemic, teachers and school heads of government primary schools have been making door-to-door visits to enrol more children in Classes LKG to 5.The initiative has made a difference as the teachers have been able to motivate as many as 8,000 children to join school. The number makes for 27% of the total 29,000 students enrolled at the district’s 993 government primary schools this year.According to teachers, a considerable number of these children had never been to school and were found playing in parks or in slums. Through the door-to-door campaign, teachers have been educating parents regarding the facilities and achievements of government schools, and providing them contact numbers of teachers. Children of parents convinced on the spot are registered through the ePunjab Schools portal.Apart from this, parents can register their wards through the online admission forms of the respective schools. Government Primary School, Chanan Devi, has enrolled 300 children through personal visits, including 95 who moved over from private schools and 60, who never went to school. Head teacher Jaswinder Kaur said, “We visited slum areas near Jagraon Bridge, parks near Chand Cinema and enrolled children aged between two and six. A large number of out-of-school children were found playing in the parks. We encouraged them to join school through stationery and candies.” Similarly, Government Primary School, Jawaddi, added 50 students through the door-to-door drive. “We also utilised the public address system of gurdwaras to inform parents about the ongoing admission process. The door-to-door campaign is effective in motivating parents to get their children to attend online classes.” “To enhance enrolments in the current session, we have been holding meetings with school heads, block primary education officers and tracking the new registrations. A large number of children have also shifted from private schools,” said Kuldeep Singh, deputy district education officer, elementary, Ludhiana.In all, 1.17 lakh students are currently enrolled in the district’s government primary schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-teachers-door-to-door-campaign-inspires-8-000-ludhiana-kids-to-join-school-101619459119566.html
26-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana runs out of Covid vaccine||The district has run out of both Covishield and Covaxin stocks, with only around 100 vaccine doses available at the civil hospital. These will also run out by mid-Tuesday.Due to the low stocks, the vaccines were administered to just 8,822 residents on Monday, while the number was 13,276 on Sunday despite the lockdown and 17,003 on Saturday. The health department had already stopped supply to around 75 private hospitals in mid-April. Civil surgeon Sukhjeevan Kakkar confirmed that the health department had only around 100 doses of vaccine, which will be administered at the civil hospital on Tuesday. “We are expecting more supplies by Tuesday evening, as we had placed an order for around 1 lakh doses recently. The state government will allot the quota to districts after receiving supply from the central government,” he added.Adequate remdesivir available: Top copAmid reports of blackmarketing of remdesivir injections in Ludhiana, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal took to social media on Monday to say that there is no shortage of the injection in the district and the administration was ensuring adequate supply at all Covid care hospitals. He said hospitals had been requested not to blindly prescribe the injection, as not more than 0.5% may actually need it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-runs-out-of-covid-vaccine-101619458819242.html
26-04-2021||Other||Daily Covid cases dip by 46% within a day of Sunday lockdown||The complete lockdown on Sunday was followed by a huge dip in daily Covid-19 cases on Monday, with 753 people testing positive for the virus – a 46% drop from the all-time high of 1,389 recorded the day before. The death count, however, remained high, as 10 more residents – the youngest of them aged 28 – succumbed to the virus, pushing the toll to 1,309.With the fresh cases, the active cases crossed the 7,000 mark for the first time ever, reaching 7,112, while the district’s caseload surged past 50,000. In some relief, of the 50,356 patients infected so far, 41,935 (83.2%) have successfully beaten the virus, ahead of the national average of 82.62%.For the past five days, the daily positive cases had remained over 800. While 879 cases were reported on April 21, another 880 were added on April 22. The number of cases then recorded a 13% jump with 995 cases on April 23. A day later, the infections came down to 861, only to see a spike of 61% with 1,389 cases on April 25. As many as 104 Covid positive patients are admitted at government hospitals and another 964 patients are recuperating in the isolation wards of private hospitals in the district, while 8,219 are under home quarantine. A total of 24 patients are on ventilator support in different hospitals. 8 women among deceasedAmong those who died on Monday were two men, aged 57 and 53, from Jawaddi and Basti Jodhewal, respectively. Apart from the 28-year-old from Kailash Nagar, the female deceased included three aged 68, from Ramgarh village, Haibowal and Rajguru Nagar, a 60-year-old from Arya Mohalla, a 48-year-old from Basti Jodhewal, and two aged 43, from BRS Nagar and Khanna. The latest cases included 77 from Dugri’s Urban Estate, which has been under lockdown since April 18. So far, 8,605 residents have undergone rapid antigen tests in the area.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance in public and sanitising hands frequently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/daily-covid-cases-dip-by-46-within-a-day-of-sunday-lockdown-101619458519160.html
26-04-2021||Other||Pratapgarh village head bags national level award for outstanding work||50-year-old village head of Shahabpur village of Kunda area of Pratapgrah, Prabhakar Singh, has been awarded Nanaji Deshmukh Gaurav Gram Puraskar for transforming his village in to one of the best gram panchayats of the state.The award, given virtually by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Saturday, came with a citation and a cash award of ₹10 lakh which was transferred to gram panchayat account.Singh was just 24 when he was elected as village head in 1995. By then, Singh had done his post-graduation and had bagged a gold medal (1990) as NCC cadet from the then President and Prime Minister as Parade Commander at Republic Day. Later, he joined as Yoga teacher at Patanjali Yogpeeth.Singh has done several path breaking works at his village, including implementing rainwater harvesting, women empowerment, widow and elderly pension, better facilities like convent school in the village, solar lights etc.He had also been former block chief (Kunda 2000 to 2005), district convenor Patanjali Yogpeeth of Pratapgarh, associated with ‘waterman’ Rajendra Singh and his national water fraternity as district coordinator, district brand ambassador for Ganga Haritima Abhiyan, awarded Navratna Pradhan Uttar Pradesh, awarded Ganga cleanliness campaign by chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Deendayal Upadhyaya Panchayat empowerment National Award 2019 (seventh place in the state) by Prime Minister and again in 2020 (being at first place in the state) by PM Modi.The latest in his treasure is Nanaji Deshmukh Gaurav Gram Puraskar which is annual award given by the Ministry of Panchayati Raj.It awards the best performing Panchayats/States/UTs across the country under the incentivization of panchayats in recognition of their good work. Awards are given under various categories namely, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar (DDUPSP), Nanaji Deshmukh Rashtriya Gaurav Gram Sabha Puraskar (NDRGGSP), Child-friendly Gram Panchayat Award (CFGPA), Gram Panchayat Development Plan (GPDP) Award and e-Panchayat Puraskar (given to States/UTs only). “During the award ceremony, the PM clicked the button and transferred the award money (as grants-in-aid) to the panchayat’s account. Shahabpur was the only one in UP among gram panchayats across the country,” said Singh. Talking of how the money would be spent, Singh said now that the seat of village head has been reserved for women candidate, he would propose before the panchayat that behind every 10 houses, one public urinal for women including an incinerator for solid waste should be installed. Besides, a unit for manufacturing sanitary napkins for women should also come up at his village. “The village should also have its own ambulance, panchayat’s own garbage vehicle running on e-battery, provision of projector in each school, farm equipment bank for farmers etc are some of the works that would be done from the prize money,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pratapgarh-village-head-bags-national-level-award-for-outstanding-work-101619457557960.html
26-04-2021||Other||CPI(Maoist) ultras blow up part of Howrah-Mumbai rail track in Jharkhand||Suspected members of outlawed outfit CPI (Maoist) blew up about a metre of railway track on the Howrah-Mumbai main line between Sonua and Lotapahar stations under Chakradharpur division of South Eastern Railway (SER) in West Singhbhum district in the wee hours of Monday, officials said. “Around 2.15am Monday, Station Manager of Sonua received information that in between Lotapahar and Sonua stations at km 322/19-23 Loco Pilot of N BOST/KAV (Goods Train) found heavy jerk on Up line. Following this, all movement in the Rourkela-Chakradharpur section is being immediately stopped and eight mail express/passengers trains and several goods trains are controlled at different stations as a security measure,” Manish Kumar Pathak, senior divisional commercial manager (Sr DCM), Chakradharpur division of SER, said.The incident took place during a day-long Bharat Bandh called by Maoists on Monday in support of the ongoing farmers’ protests. The Maoists alleged suppression of people’s movement by the government, as stated in the banners, pamphlets and posters splashed near the blast siteIt brought train movement on the Howrah-Mumbai main Up line to a standstill for hours. Besides, hundreds of lives were saved as Geetanjali Express and Ahemdabad-Howrah special Covid-19 Express were to pass through the track.Pathak said patrolling teams were sent for inspection with security personnel, while a Railways team reached the indicated jerk site with RPF and State Police and started investigation.“During investigation of the site, it was found that the Up main line track was sabotaged and blasted rail piece flowed around 35 metres from the site. Restoration work was immediately started after getting security clearance. Down line was given fit around 7.15am the third line around 8.35am. Movement over the lines has resumed,” said Pathak.After necessary clearance and fitness from all departments, train movement was restored in Up line between Sonua -Lotapahar section around 9.35am. The train movement over Chakrdharpur and Rourkela section was also normalised. Junior Administrative Grade inquiry was also ordered by the Railways.Earlier on Sunday last, Maoists splashed posters, banners and pamphlets calling for Bharat Bandh in areas under Sonua police station, Lotapahar and other areas in the district.Maoists’ IED blast bid foiledIn yet another incident, police and CRPF joint team foiled a Maoist land mine blast bid at Rengarbera village under Goilkera police station in West Singhbhum district Monday. “A team of CRPF along with bomb detection and disposal squad ) of Jharkhand Jaguar recovered an IED planted under a Flag pole on Rebgarbera-Arahasa road. They safely blasted the IED, which otherwise could have inflicted major damage to forces and villagers,” Sudhir Kumar, deputy superintendent of police (DSP), said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cpimaoist-ultras-blow-up-part-of-howrah-mumbai-rail-track-in-jharkhand-101619452517514.html
26-04-2021||Other||‘Right drug at the right time holds the key in Covid management’||PATNARight drug at the right time in the right measure holds the key in the treatment of Covid-19 and every effort should be made to discourage self-medication and prevent unnecessary panic-buying of drugs like Remdesivir and others, according to Dr Dr Neeraj Nischal, associate professor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi.Dr Nischal was addressing doctors from Bihar on the inaugural day of the four-day updated training session in Covid-19 management. He said that use of steroids and anticoagulants also needed to be used judiciously, especially in the early part of infection, as indiscriminate use could have adverse effect. “The key is to know when to use which drug and in what measure. There is no role of fancy drugs in the majority of patients,” he said. There has been a scamble for Remesivir and a few other drugs, which has led to shortages, panic-buying and black-marketing in the state. The Bihar government also sent a special plane for procurement of Remedesivir from Ahmedabad. Nischal, who was part of the central team that visited Patna last year, also spoke on important aspects of clinical management and infection control during the virtual session to underline the fact that doctors and healthcare workers needed to be safe to face the challenge. “The spurt in Covid cases is a clear warning that people must mend their ways to stay safe. All we need to do is to mind our social behaviour, as further complacency can be fatal,” he said. The virtual training has been organized at the request of the Bihar health department. Bihar State Health Society executive director Manoj Kumar had on April 21 written to AIIMS (New Delhi) director Dr Randeep Guleria regarding the need for an updated training of Covid-19 case management and changes in the protocol. The first-day training was organized by Nischal and his team for the principals, superintendent , faculties of medicine/pulmonary medicine and others engaged in Covid management at all the nine medical colleges of the state. With the positive cases also rising in other parts of the state, the next three training programmes will be organized in batches for the district and subdivisional level health workforce engaged in management of Covid-19 related care and services, including civil surgeons, ACMOs, other districthealth officials, deputy superintendents, hospital managers etc. A similar training was organsied last year also by AIIMS (New Delhi) doctors from the departments of medicine, pulmonary medicine, paediatrics and infectious diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/right-drug-at-the-right-time-holds-the-key-in-covid-management-101619452457500.html
26-04-2021||Other||Steam inhalation kiosks come up at rly stations||BETTIAHIn a bid to keep its employees safe from coronavirus infection, the Railways has set up steam inhalation kiosks at half a dozen railway stations under Samastipur division in the form an innovative contraption that expels steam from pipes connected to a pressure cooker used in kitchens. Ashok Maheshwari, divisional railway manager (DRM), Samastipur division, said, “We want every employee to take steam at least thrice during the duty hours to boost immunity.” Steam inhalation kiosks are available at Narkatiaganj, Raxaul, Darbhanga, Saharasa, Jainagar and Samastipur stations. “We have also arranged electric gadgets for steam inhalation at all railway stations falling under our division,” said DRM.“The most striking feature of this facility is that three or four employees can inhale the stream at the same time,” said Umesh Kumar, chief crew controller, Narkatiaganj.“Steam inhalation is certainly helpful in respiratory and congestion issues and boosts the immunity power,” said Akhileshwar Prasad Singh, civil surgeon, East Champaran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/steam-inhalation-kiosks-come-up-at-rly-stations-101619452397978.html
26-04-2021||Other||Patients face social stigma||PURNIA/SAHARSAApart from battling the coronavirus pandemic in an isolated room, patients are facing even the bigger challenge of social stigma in some areas.A 55-year-old man in Simri Bakhtiyarpur block of Saharsa district had to take to social media after vegetable vendors, milkman and others stopped visiting his house.“As soon as the news of my Covid infection spread, they all stopped visiting my house. My two small children had to go without milk for two days and we had to eat without vegetables. I then put out the appeal on a WhatsApp group and got help from outsiders, but not from the neighbourhood where I was born and brought up,” the man said.Block development officer (BDO) of Simri Bakhtiyarpur, Manoj Kumar, said he would look into the matter if a complaint is made. Simri Bakhtiyarpur has reported 115 Covid cases so far. At Dandkhora in Katihar, a Covid patient complained that neighbours had even shut their windows and doors and treated him like an untouchable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patients-face-social-stigma-101619452397449.html
26-04-2021||Other||CM reviews Covid scene, hospitals battle oxygen crisis||PATNAChief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday asked the officials to ramp up oxygen supply to all the government and private hospitals in the state designated to treat the Covid patients.Kumar chaired a high-level meeting with senior officials instrumental in the state’s fight against the pandemic, which had so far claimed at least 2,200 lives over the past one year, and directed them to augment supply of oxygen and vital medicines to arrest the casualty figures that have been rising alarmingly.While the CM was reviewing the situations in different hospitals, Indira Gandhi Institute Medical Science (IGIMS), a leading state government hospital engaged to treat Covid patients, had been sending emergency calls to the district authorities to replenish the oxygen stock that was about to run out in an hour. IGIMS director Manish Mandal, who made frantic calls to the Patna district magistrate, could not be reached out for latest update.Other government and private hospitals faced a similar oxygen shortage in the afternoon, forcing the attendants to take the patients to look for safer hospitals. Amarendra Malaviya, who admitted his mother at Royal Hospital at Bailey Road, was desperately searching for a hospital with assured oxygen supply. “My mother’s blood oxygen level was hovering 70-75% and I can’t leave her unattended,” said Malaviya, while shifting her mother to another hospital at Boring road.The chief minister, who visited different parts of the city to take stock of the district administration’s preparedness, asked the officials to stay prepared for further rise in Covid cases. Principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit made a comprehensive presentation about the department’s strategy to deal with exponential rise in Covid infections. Health department officials informed the CM that they were coordinating with oxygen and medicine suppliers and said that crisis would be over soon. The principal secretary said the delivery system of the department has been strengthened to meet any exigency.Health minister Mangal Pandey, who had claimed that about 120 metric tonnes of oxygen was being supplied daily to Patna hospitals, did not answer repeated calls over prevailing crisis of oxygen and many essential drugs. Citing the health department’s figure, the minister said as many as 11,801 persons, out of around one lakh tested, were found to be positive for Covid infections on Monday. Earlier, on Sunday, 12,795 persons were tested positive. Deputy chief ministers Tarkishore Prasad, Renu Devi, development commissioner Amir Subhani, director general of police SK Singhal, principal secretaries to the CM Chanchal Kumar and Deepak Kumar, additional chief secretaries, road construction and home, Amrit Lal Meena and Chaitanya Prasad, respectively, attended the meeting, which was a video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cm-reviews-covid-scene-hospitals-battle-oxygen-crisis-101619452338296.html
26-04-2021||Other||Vaccinating entire country seems tough but is certainly achievable||Given the alarming rate at which the coronavirus is spreading and mutating, there is an urgent need to considerably scale up the vaccination programme in the country. From May 1, the government has opened up vaccination to all those above the age of 18 years. That is a welcome step. However, if the vaccination is to serve the purpose of halting the spread of the disease and also bringing down the intensity of the infection, we have to treble the rate at which we are giving the jabs now or else the entire exercise would be futile. Let’s look at the staggering numbers that we need to inoculate- roughly about 840 million adults. Since each person needs two doses, the number of doses doubles to 1680 million and if we take into consideration the 140 million doses already administered, we need to push roughly about 1540 million jabs.As per government statistics, in 95 days the government gave over 130 million doses. So it works out to about 1.36 million doses per day. At this rate, we would be completing our vaccination only by May 2024. Worse, by then, the total number of jabs required to be given would have multiplied , as those who took the shots in the first and the second year would be eligible for re-vaccination or booster doses. In other words, the entire vaccination programme would become unmanageable.On the other hand, if we treble the rate at which we are vaccinating the people and administer 4 million vaccines per day, we can vaccinate the entire 18 plus age group by the end of May 2022, including those who become eligible that year. And that should be our target. It is not an easy target, given the fact that we need to have a continuous supply of four million doses of vaccine every day. But keeping in mind the dreadful consequence of delayed vaccination- uncontrollable infections caused by a variety of mutated viruses, we need to do everything possible to get that supply --- step up existing productions, get more companies to produce the vaccines, import as much as possible --–well, we cannot borrow or steal, but we can certainly beg for vaccines when we need it to save lives, there is no shame in it.Pricing of the vaccine is equally important. The centre as well as the states have to ensure adequate availability of the vaccines for free at government facilities and at very reasonable rates at private facilities, to make sure that the price of the vaccine does not become a deterrent in the mass vaccination programme. We may need the vaccines desperately, but given our numbers, we are also the biggest consumers of the vaccine and we need to use that power to bargain hard for lower prices. The government also needs to ensure that the private sector, I refer here to the hospitals as well as the pharmaceutical companies, does not exhibit the usual avariciousness in this hour of crisis.Today, every country in the world is racing against time to vaccinate its population and those countries that are producing adequate vaccines have a clear advantage. In the United States, for example, roughly about 41 per cent of the population has got at least one dose of vaccination and 27 per cent, two doses. Of course their population is only around 328 million. We are fortunate that we not only produce the most widely used of the eleven different vaccines against Covid-19 in the world today, Oxford Astrazenica or Covishield by Serum Institute of India, but also have our own indigenously produced vaccine, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. And we will soon have Russia’s Sputnik V too in our stable.However, being the second most populous country , our demands are huge. SII has said it plans to jack up its production from the present 60-65 million doses to 100 million per month from July and BB said it had scaled up its capacity to produce 700 million doses annually. However, both have export commitments and SII is also having problems with vaccination component imports from the US . But we are likely to have vaccines from more manufacturers –and if we put enough efforts into increasing indigenous production and also imports, we can easily achieve what may seem impossible at the moment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccinating-entire-country-seems-tough-but-is-certainly-achievable-101619434270160.html
26-04-2021||Other||Monday musings: Pune’s Covid case count begins to flatten... will fatalities follow||With cautious optimism, we can say Pune’s Covid positive cases are on the downward march. The graph plateaued more than a week ago and the trend consolidated further this week. The daily positivity rate in Pune district has been under 25%, with numbers being reported close to the 10,000-mark, every day, for the past two weeks. The daily positivity rate throughout the past week has been: 24.21% on April 24; 24.53% on April 23; 22.78% on April 22; 25.28% on April 21; 27.94% on April 20; 25.28% on April 19 and 28.82% on April 18. Since the Covid-wave hit Pune and Mumbai a month before rest of the country, its subsidence is being noticed early in these cities as compared to other parts of India, where the peak may come later. Fatalities, too, appear fewer as compared to the first wave, thanks to early intervention, ramped up health infrastructure and a better evolved treatment protocol. However there’s big mismatch between number of bodies coming in for cremation and numbers reported by both, the state health office and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). As reported by Hindustan Times in its Monday (April 26) edition, an official coordinating cremation at all 21 crematoria in the city claimed over 170 bodies are coming in for final rites each day since the past one week. However, there’s hope – and cautious optimism. With the graph for fresh cases flattening, fatalities may see a similar trend within a week; the previous wave in Pune has shown fatalities peaked around 10 days after Covid cases. During the first wave, it took 202 days – starting from March 9, 2020, to September 16, 2020, - for cases to peak. The graph of fatalities begun its downward move by September-end, as some positive patients later became critical, and a few of them couldn’t survive. During the second wave, the graph for Covid positive cases began moving upward from early February, crossing the previous peak of 5,048 on September 16 last year, with 5,098 cases on March 21. It hit its peak on April 4, when the day’s positivity rate was 41.2%. Positivity rate reflects the spread of the infection and the number of positives reported for every 100 tests. So what worked to bring down these numbers? The answer can be both – curbs and vaccination. The inoculation drive on weekend was almost crawling due to a shortage of vaccine doses. However, overall, Pune has so far inoculated close to 2 million people, of which 1.724 million have received only the first dose, while 2.69 million have been administered both the doses. This means almost one-fifth of Pune district’s overall population has received a partial shield from Covid, at least from its severity. With the centre’s permission for inoculation of everyone above the age of 18 and aggressive local stakeholders, Pune will continue to vaccinate its population faster than rest of the country. The administration estimates by June 15, entire Pune will be vaccinated if supply of doses is constant and uninterrupted. If vaccination has offered a partial shield, then curbs or lockdown - as the government preferred to call it last week – turned out to be an efficient way of containing the spread of Covid. The restrictions mandated people to stay inside their homes. Roads became deserted and markets empty. This prevented even small congregations, something that the virus loves, as it feasts on gatherings. Earlier in March, the government had imposed a strict lockdown in places like Amravati and Yavatmal, where the tally had substantially risen. Through restrictions, the administration managed to contain the march of Covid after a strict lockdown for two weeks. This brought the positivity rate of Amravati and Yavatmal to 12% and 9%, respectively, on March 17, from 50% and 41%, respectively, a month before that. The harsh restrictions, currently in force till May 1, may be extended further. They have been effective even it has been a heavy price to pay. Had there been no restrictions, the already overstretched health system would have come under further burden and fatalities would have grown far more. When the matter is between life and death, curbs over opening-up is certainly an option worth considering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monday-musings-pune-s-covid-case-count-begins-to-flatten-will-fatalities-follow-101619433491191.html
26-04-2021||Other||2nd Oxygen Express leaves Bokaro||The second Oxygen Express train of South Eastern Railway (SER) carrying 46.48 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) in four tankers left Bokaro Steel City on Sunday afternoon for Lucknow, officials said.Chakradharpur division of SER has readied another two rakes of flat BKDM wagons for transporting oxygen as and when some states book them as per requirement. One of these two rakes was stationed at Tatanagar and another at Rourkela, whereas a third rake has been sent to Bilaspur (Madhya Pradesh).Earlier on Saturday night, the Oxygen Express train with the four empty tankers arrived at Bokaro Steel City Station and the tankers were then taken to Bokaro Steel Plant for refilling.The first Oxygen Express Train was also run from Bokaro Steel City to Lucknow on Thursday last. The third rake with five empty tankers also arrived at Bokaro Steel City on Sunday.The Indian Railways started running Oxygen Express Trains to ensure quick transportation and smooth supply of Oxygen through Roll On-Roll Off (RO-RO) service with road tankers placed on Flat Wagons of Railways. Nearly 150 tonnes of oxygen has been delivered by the special trains.Chakradharpur division senior divisional commercial manager (Sr DCM) Manish Kumar Pathak said two rakes were ready and stationed at Tatanagar and Rourkela stations under SER for emergency duty. “We have sent a third train to Bilaspur for refilling Oxygen in Jindal Steel Plant from where it will go to the destination station as per booking. Similarly, the two special trains at Tatanagar and Rourkela stations are ready to load Oxygen-filled tankers as per booking from destination states and availability of tankers,” said Pathak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2nd-oxygen-express-leaves-bokaro-101619421010242.html
26-04-2021||Other||Ex-MLA,others booked for flouting Covid curbs||HajipurFormer MLA Vijay Kumar Shukla alias Munna Shukla, his politician wife and three others have been booked for hosting a lavish party in his native place in Vaishali district in violation of Covid guidelines and night curfew in force in the state to check the spread of coronavirus surge, police sources said Sunday.Besides the former JD(U) MLA,his wife Annu Shukla, his younger brother and Mayor of Muzaffarpur Municipal Corporation, Man Madran Shukla, Bhojpuri singer Akshara Singh and the former legislator’s bodyguard Amit Kumar have been named in the FIR registered with the Lalganj police station.The FIR also has mentioned 300 unknown people who participated in the feast where song and dance programme regaled the people.Munna Shukla was seen in a viral video gyrating to item numbers with his former MLA wife and others. His bodyguard fired several rounds in the air on the occasion.The occasion was “upanayana” (sacred thread wearing ceremony) of the former MLA’s nephew in his native village Khanjahachak on Friday night.Station House Officer (SHO) of Lalganj police station, C B Shukla, said the FIR was registered Saturday night and raids are being conducted to arrest the named accused.Shukla had unsuccessfully contested as an Independent candidate from Lalganj seat in the 2020 state polls.The incident comes at a time when the Bihar government has imposed night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am in the state and several other curbs to contain surge of the virus wreaking havoc in its second wave in the state along with other parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exmlaothers-booked-for-flouting-covid-curbs-101619420949590.html
26-04-2021||Other||Testing hub RMRI battles machine snag, infected staff||PATNAThe sudden upsurge in the Covid-19 cases has taken its toll not only on people, but also on the state’s biggest RT-PCR testing facility at the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute (RMRI), a unit of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). A large number of its scientists and staff have themselves tested positive, perhaps due to continuous testing of swabs, mainly from Patna. To make things more difficult, one of the machines, COBAS-6800, has also developed snag, bringing down the number of tests daily for the last three days. It has come down from 4,000-4,500 tests carried every day till 4-5 days ago to around 1,500-2,000. While RMRI was the sole testing lab last year in the state, it has now quite a few, including at AIIMS, PMCH, IGIMS etc. However, RMRI still accounts for around 30%-40% of tests in the state. “In the midst of pandemic, my entire team is working round-the-clock. The COBAS-6800, given by ICMR, is a fully automated high-end machine for performing real-time Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) and it could handle 1,100 samples in 24 hours. We have got the repairs done Sunday and it should be operational by evening. The capacity will again go up,” said RMRI director Dr Krishna Pandey, who is himself from clinical medicine discipline. Apart from COBAS, RMRI also has Magnapure automatic RNA extraction machine given by the Bihar government and manual RT-PCR, though it is also facing challenge on another front – growing positivity among its scientists and staff. According to a senior official, nearly 10 of the 18 scientists have tested positive, while several staff members and technicians have also gone into isolation after developing symptoms and undergoing tests. Pandey said infection was a reality in the prevailing situation. “But both ICMR and Bihar government are extending help by way to manpower. ICMR has accepted our proposal for increase in manpower till June, which would most likely be extended up to September. The Bihar government has also provided 17-18 employees for data entry and have also asked for further requirement,” he said. A senior official said that due to major increase in positivity rate, the number of samples has increased, while several staff members have also tested positive. “This may be the reason behind some delay in test reports, but things will be alright. On Saturday, there were around 2,860 pending samples. The government is consciously trying to augment resources. Another COBAS machine at AIIMS has also arrived,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/testing-hub-rmri-battles-machine-snag-infected-staff-101619420890405.html
26-04-2021||Other||Oxygen plant goes live at GMCH||BETTIAHA medical oxygen generation plant, recently commissioned at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here, has started functioning to meet the sudden surge in oxygen demand amid the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Dr Pramod Tiwari, superintendent of GMCH, said the plant has a capacity of producing 280 litres of oxygen per minute. “Work is underway to connect 60 beds in the Covid ward with oxygen supply through pipelines, which is likely to be completed by tomorrow (Monday),” said Dr Tiwari, adding that laying of pipeline has already been done. The GMCH, earlier known as MJK hospital, has 120 beds in its dedicated Covid ward with 12 ventilator beds operational in its intensive care unit (ICU). The hospital has 63 ventilators. The GMCH, however, would continue to refill (medical) oxygen cylinders from Harshidih-based (East Champaran) plant. “We will continue to fetch cylinders from there as per our requirements,” said the hospital superintendent. According to official records, 64 Covid patients were admitted to GMCH till Sunday, of which five were on ventilators, while the remaining were on oxygen support. Since April 1, 34 Covid patients have died here.“There are 2,698 active cases of Covid in West Champaran, while 138 patients have recovered in past 10 days,” said Arun Kumar Sinha, civil surgeon, West Champaran. Meanwhile, anticipating a sharp surge in the Covid patients, the hospital authorities have decided to increase number of beds and other medical facilities required for the treatment of Covid patients. “As we are handling the critical cases of two districts of East and West Champaran, the possibilities of exponential rise in cases cannot be ruled out. Hence, we are prepared to make the arrangements for 90 more beds in the hospital,” said Dr Tiwari. In yet another development, the hospital authorities are contemplating 30-bed ward for suspect Covid cases. “Two patients in our hospital continue to be Covid suspect with symptoms of the virus but their medical reports are negative. We are making the arrangements of 30 beds for such suspect cases,” said the GMCH superintendent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-plant-goes-live-at-gmch-101619420889534.html
26-04-2021||Other||68 dead in 24 hours, hospitals still can’t breathe easy||PATNAShortage of oxygen continued to cripple hospitals in Patna treating Covid-19 patients, forcing their kin and attendants to carry them from one hospital to another in search of a lifeline.As per official estimates, city hospitals require around 7,125 oxygen cylinders per day for patients admitted in critical care units. However, the state government has managed to raise the supply to around 6,900 cylinders per day.Patna district magistrate Chandra Shekhar Singh said they were working overtime to bridge the shortfall so that no patients dies due to shortage of oxygen. “Today, a defunct plant of oxygen, located at Marcha Marchi area of the state capital, was operationalised to supplement the supply. We have sorted all issues and activated the plants on an urgent basis. Now, we are looking to arrange trained manpower so that the plant could work in 24x7 mode,” he said, adding that three other plants have been activated to supply bottled oxygen.District authorities said PMCH, NMCH and IGIMS, which are main Covid treatment centres of the state government, together required supply of around 2,600 cylinders per day. “The existing plants of oxygen generation at PMCH and NMCH are not capable to deal with the current rush of patients,” said a senior officer.Meanwhile, the state reported 12,795 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 68 related deaths on Sunday. Of the total, 1,848 cases were detected in Patna and 1,340 in Gaya. Currently, the state has over 87,000 active cases. On Saturday, 12,359 Covid cases were reported in Bihar, of which 2,479 were found in Patna alone. The rush at crematoriums to cremate the bodies is such that the kin are being made to wait for up to 20 hours to light the funeral pyre of the deceased.“Around 100-150 bodies are being cremated per day on different ghats of Ganga. Most of bodies are being disposed of as per Covid protocol, even though a majority of them were not confirmed to have died due to Covid,” said an official at Gulbi Ghat.The state health department has issued an advisory to the common people, particularly those in home isolation, to take emergency anti-viral, antibiotic and vitamin supplements along with fever suppressants to take care of those suffering from moderate symptoms of the pandemic. They have been advised to take steam vapour twice daily along with gargling with hot water and salt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/68-dead-in-24-hours-hospitals-still-can-t-breathe-easy-101619420830560.html
26-04-2021||Other||Citing virus, PDS owners want biometric system suspended, threaten strike’ govt unmoved||PATNAAmid the surge in coronavirus cases, fair price dealers’ association in Bihar has demanded immediate suspension of use of biometric machines for authentication of beneficiaries taking subsidized foodgrains, claiming it is becoming a source of infection for the dealers as well as ration card holders .The association has given an ultimatum to the government that if the demand is not met till April 30, all dealers would go on indefinite strike from May 5 onwards and deposit the biometric machines to officials concerned.However, Vinay Kumar, secretary, food and consumer protection department, said all POS machines have the facility for contactless Iris scan. “This can be used for authentication,” he said, adding that there is no plan to exempt beneficiaries from biometric authentication.Barun Kumar Singh, president of the dealers association, claimed around 11 dealers across the state have of Covid-19 in the last two weeks and a large number of them are infected. “Many a times, the servers are down and staff have to help the beneficiaries to use the POS machines, exposing them to risk of contracting the virus,” he said, while demanding an insurance cover of ₹50 lakh for each dealer. “There are total 8.72 crore beneficiaries and around 55,000 PDS dealers in the state. On an average, PDS shops gets around 500 footfalls daily from beneficiaries. There are not adequate safety measures like sanitisers, soaps and PPEs kits for the dealers. The POS machines are also risky now in these times of Covid,” Singh said.He said the association had already written to chief minister, chief secretary and food department secretary on the issue several times. The fresh surge in Covid cases has once again put focus on the PDS system for providing subsidised foodgrains to poor families facing the economic brunt of partial lockdown and return of migrants back home. “If the PDS dealers go on strike, it would badly hit the distribution of subsidised foodgrains,” said the association president.There are total 1.79 crore ration card holders with 8.72 crore beneficiaries availing subsidised foodgrains in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/citing-virus-pds-owners-want-biometric-system-suspended-threaten-strike-govt-unmoved-101619420829677.html
26-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana halts for Sunday lockdown, bizmen rue losses||Busiest markets of the city including Ghumar Mandi, Books Market, Gur Mandi, Chaura Bazar, Field Gunj, Karimpura, and Lakkar Bazar, wore a deserted look on Sunday with the state government and district administration imposing lockdown restrictions. Only medical stores remained open. The state and administration took this step to curb further spread of Covid after witnessing a surge in cases for the last 25 days.The lockdown was largely successful as residents remained inside their houses and avoided stepping out without valid reasons. A meagre movement of traffic was witnessed in the city. All shops, stores, offices, malls, restaurants, and hotels remained shut. Around 2,000 police personnel deployed at various locations in the city kept a strict vigil on the movement of people. In the internal parts of the city, some small shopkeepers had opened their shops that had to be shut down by the police. In areas with majority population of labourers including Sherpur, Giaspura, Focal Point, Dhandhari, Daba, and Jamalpur, people were seen gathered in small groups. They were sent back to their respective houses by the police. J Elanchezhian, joint commissioner of police, headquarters, said that the lockdown remained a success. Very few violations were witnessed in the city and the residents’ cooperation was appreciated, he added.A hiccup at ISBTSome people were seen waiting for buses at the Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar inter-state bus terminal. When a bus for Chandigarh arrived, passengers flouted the social distancing norms and gathered around the conductor to get tickets. They were in a hurry as only 26 passengers were allowed to board a bus at a time. Except for the buses running on the Chandigarh route, all others witnessed low occupancy.Shopkeepers rue lossesThe shopkeepers rued that they were already reeling under losses due to low footfall and now the Sunday lockdown had made things worse as people are usually free on the weekends and go to the markets then. Markets such as Chaura Bazar, Ghumar Mandi, and Model Town usually witness more footfall on Sunday than on any other day of the week. They added that the limit set by the government on the number of people permitted to attend weddings had also affected businesses and very few people were turning up at their shops to purchase clothes and jewellery as a result. Sanjeev Chaudhary, president of Arora Market Chaura Bazaar Association, said, “The lockdown will affect businesses as people from different parts of the state visit our market on Sundays. I deal in ready made garments and due to the government allowing only 20 persons to attend weddings, people have stopped shopping in bulk. This has resulted in a loss for the shopkeepers.”Akalgarh Market, one of the wholesale garment markets of the city, has around 800 shops. Manpreet Singh Bunty, president of Akalgarh Market Readymade Garment Association, said, “Over 90% of our business is done on Sunday. The lockdown had affected us badly. The authorities must come up with an alternative and strictly impose restrictions such as wearing masks and maintaining social distance.”There are over 300 shops in the Model Town market that are registered with the Market Association, Model Town. Amarjit Singh, President of Model Town Shopkeepers’ Association, said, “We are already witnessing a low footfall and businesses will collapse if the authorities impose a lockdown every Sunday. A majority of our customers turn up on weekends. The livelihood of the shopkeepers depends on the sales made on Sunday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-halts-for-sunday-lockdown-bizmen-rue-losses-101619382668057.html
26-04-2021||Other||34-hour lockdown: Last year’s nightmare haunts migrant workers, destitute in Jammu||The 34-hour weekend lockdown, which was suddenly announced on Saturday, has migrant workers and the destitute in Jammu worried as memories of last year’s nationwide lockdown return to haunt them. Several beggars and destitute people were seen on deserted streets and outside temples, shrines and empty rotaries waiting for alms and food in vain.50-year-old Prem Kumar, a beggar in Gandhi Nagar, who is crippled since birth and moves around with the help of crutches, said, “Last year, when the Covid pandemic hit the country, a complete lockdown was imposed. The situation was extremely grim for beggars. Now, the lockdown is back again. We pray that it does not last long because we survive on the food and alms given to us by philanthropists.” “Temples, gurdwaras, mosques, churches, markets, restaurants and eateries are closed. Now, we are truly at God’s mercy,” he added. “Some philanthropists came today and gave us food in Gandhi Nagar area. I pray that this pandemic comes to an end because if lockdown is frequently imposed then people like us may starve,” he said. Last year in the middle of the Covid lockdown, the J&K government provided dry ration to beggars, the destitute and daily-wage earners but it didn’t reach everyone because of their enormous population spread across 20 districts of the UT. The lockdown has also put several migrant labourers from Bihar, Chattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Odisha in a quandary. “Last year, was tough for us. We somehow managed to reach home when trains started running. Transporters were already on strike for the past four days and now this lockdown has added to our woes. We have to leave our shanties early morning and walk 7km to reach the construction site,” said Mohan Lal of Bihar’s Kishanganj area. “Daily wage earners will bear the brunt of the lockdown. Unlike government employees, we have to work everyday to earn two square meals for our families. If the government has to impose lockdown, it should allow construction workers to work with Covid SoPs,” he added. His colleague Waheed said, “We appeal the government to allow construction activity and other allied sectors so that we can continue to eke out our living. Otherwise, we may have to head home again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/34hour-lockdown-last-year-s-nightmare-haunts-migrant-workers-destitute-in-jammu-101619382548054.html
26-04-2021||Other||Sunday shutdown: Testing, vaccination centres see lean footfall in Ludhiana||Even as deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma made it clear that residents stepping out to get themselves tested or jabbed won’t face any hurdles during the Sunday lockdown, the footfall at vaccination and testing centres remained lean throughout the day.District immunisation officer Dr Puneet Juneja said the numbers picked up as the day progressed. “Reports received from various centres show that 13, 276 vaccinations were carried out through the day,” he said. The number stood much higher at 17,000 on Saturday. A health department employee, on the condition of anonymity, said that people may not have turned up due to fear of police action. Sanjeev Sharma, a resident of Sarabha Nagar, said he had planned to get a Covid test on Sunday, however, he changed his mind at the last minute. “I did not wish to land in any sort of trouble with the police. So I decided to postpone it till Monday,” he said.Deepak Kumar, a resident of Civil Lines, said, “I thought the cops may question my on why I was venturing out during the lockdown. So I felt it was best to wait another day to get the vaccine.”District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Dhagat was not available for comments despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/testing-vaccination-centres-see-lean-footfall-amid-sunday-shutdown-101619382428194.html
26-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana police take 7 months to lodge FIR in assault case||Police took seven months and nine days to lodge an FIR in an assault case that took place right outside the gate of Division Number 1 police station. Complainant Mohit Narang, 30, of Gobind Nagar, Shimlapuri, alleged that the cops kept dilly-dallying the matter, forcing him to move the Punjab and Haryana high court with a writ petition.The accused in the case are Rashtrawadi Shiv Sena national president Sunil Tangri, his accomplices Surinder Kali, Sunny Tangri, Shalu Bawa and their five unidentified accomplices.Narang said he runs a mobile repair shop in a rented space in Gurmandi. The owner of the rental space wanted him to vacate the shop following which he moved the court for a stay order. The accused then started pressuring him to withdraw the case, which he agreed to. But on July 19, 2019, two days after he withdrew the case, the accused forcefully got him to vacate the shop. “They stole the material kept in my shop. On September 15, 2019, I filed a complaint against the accused at Division number 1. Soon after I came out of the police station, the accused started thrashing me and also stole ₹32,000 from my pockets,” said Narang.“Even though the incident took place outside the police station, no action was taken against the accused. After approaching the police multiple times, I moved a writ petition in the Punjab and Haryana high court against the police inaction. Now, the cops have registered an FIR to save themselves,” he said.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurmeet Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Sections 356 (assault or criminal force in attempt to commit theft of property carried by a person), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. A manhunt has been launched for the accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-police-take-7-months-to-lodge-fir-in-assault-case-101619382247985.html
26-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana left with just a day’s stock of vaccine||Two days after receiving 40,000 doses of Covid vaccine, the district has run out of its stock once again. As per health officials, Ludhiana was left with stock enough for just another day as of Sunday.On April 20, the health department had suspended vaccine supply to private hospitals in view of the supply shortage. In case the stock is not replenished in a day, the district will have to suspend inoculations at its government-run session sites too. District immunisation officer Dr Puneet Juneja confirmed that Ludhiana is left with only a day’s supply of vaccine. Dr Juneja said the district had received 40,000 doses of Covishield vaccine from Chandigarh on Thursday but this stock has also been used up. “We now have supply only till Monday. We have requested for more vaccines and may get it in a day or two.”Nodal officer Dr Kiran Ahluwalia said the health department used to get a fresh supply on routine basis. “We used to have around 30,000 to 40,000 doses in our stock normally, but due to the sudden spurt in the number of vaccinations, we are now facing a shortage,” said the nodal officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-left-with-just-a-day-s-stock-of-vaccine-101619382008004.html
26-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s daily cases cross 1,000-mark for first time||The district yet again touched a new record of daily cases with 1, 389 people testing positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. It is for the first time since the pandemic outbreak in March last year that Ludhiana’s count of daily cases has crossed the 1,000-mark.Before this, the district had recorded its highest-ever spike on April 23 with 995 cases. Just a day before, on April 22, it had seen its previous high of 880 cases. For seven consecutive days since April 19, the daily cases have crossed the 700-mark.9 deaths take toll close to 1, 300-markThe contagion also claimed nine lives, including that of a 29-year-old man who had no history of any co morbidities. The new fatalities pushed the district’s toll to 1, 299 on Sunday.All nine who succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours were males. They include a 50-year-old from Jodha, a 53-year-old from Janakpuri, a 70-year-old from Sita Nagar, a 50-year-old from Himmat Singh Nagar, a 72-year-old from Shimlapuri, a 62-year-old from Fatehpur, a 29-year-old from Sahnewal, a 44-year-old from Model Town and a 65-year-old from Maharaj Nagar.Upward trajectory to continue: ExpertsAs per experts, the upward trajectory of cases will continue unless people start following the safety protocols to break the chain of infections. Dr Clarence Samuel, head of the department of preventive and social medicine, Christian Medical College and Hospital, said, “The trend suggests that the cases will continue to soar. There are two factors that are leading to the increasing number of cases –the first is the UK variant of the virus which is more contagious, and the second is the increased testing rate which is helping us detect more patients.”Dr Samuel added, “While the government has done enough to contain the spread of the virus, it is now up to the people to act responsibly and stop the spread of the virus.”“People have to stop thinking that virus won’t affect them. Residents need to strictly observe masking, social distancing and hand-washing norms to defeat this virus,” said Dr Samuel, who heads a team of doctors who are helping the state health department to monitor and deal with the current situation.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said that apart from speeding up the sampling process, the administration will also speed up the vaccination process. He appealed to residents to stay home and go out only when it absolutely necessary. He added that it is difficult to say to what extent the cases will rise and added, “It is my appeal to residents to take all precautionary measures and get vaccinated.” 58 new cases in Dugri Phase 1&2Dr Avinash Jindal, nodal of the two containment zones of Dugri Phase 1 and 2, informed that on Sunday, as many as 627 samples were taken, of which 58 tested positive.The two localities had gone into a lockdown last Sunday after over 70 cases were detected here. So far, 7, 569 samples have been collected by health department teams, of which a total of 404 persons tested positive.Dr Jindal added that the reports of 80 samples, which were sent for RT-PCR test, are pending.He added that the condition of the area will be observed for another week and if no positive case is found for two consecutive days, the lockdown may be lifted on the third day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-daily-cases-cross-1-000-mark-for-first-time-101619381768285.html
26-04-2021||Other||Four out of 5 bottling plants in Ludhiana await liquid O2||With four out of the five bottling plants in the district awaiting supply of liquid oxygen, which is currently being diverted to states such as Delhi, authorities are walking the tightrope while trying to balance the supply and demand of oxygen cylinders. Amid the crisis, Ludhiana has offered help to neighbouring districts where the situation is grimmer. While 250 life-saving oxygen cylinders have been sent to Amritsar and Jalandhar, 25 have been sent to Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (Nawanshahr).The district has two air separation plants (ASP), which are currently catering to the need of oxygen here.Deputy director of local government Amit Bambi, who has been given the charge of monitoring the oxygen supply, said, “Roughly speaking, the demand of oxygen cylinders, which was around 300 cylinders a day in the beginning of the year, has gone up to 2,000 cylinders a day now. While our two ASP units are generating roughly 1, 600 cylinders of oxygen a day, the gap of around 400 cylinders is being met from the one functional bottling unit, which has 500 MT of liquid oxygen in its stock.”“We have requested the government for liquid oxygen so that the rest of the bottling plants can also be made operational to meet the demand,” said Bambi.He added that in a huge respite, the five big hospitals in the city -- Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Christian Medical College and Hospital, SPS Hospital, Fortis and Mohandai Oswal Hospital – have a direct supply of oxygen. It is the smaller ones that require oxygen cylinders.Supply regulated, prices revisedThe doctors of private hospitals said the supply of oxygen has been regulated.Former president of Punjab Medical Council and member of the core committee of the Alliance of Doctors on Ethical Healthcare (ADEH), Dr Gurinder Grewal, said the price of oxygen has been revised. “Not only has the supply been regulated, the cost of filling oxygen has also been revised. In March, we could get oxygen cylinders refilled for ₹250, but now, it is available at a revised rate of ₹400 per refill.”Gagandeep Singh, owner of Weltech Equipment and Infrastructure Limited, said while the rate of refilling of cylinders from air separation units have not been revised, the bottling units have revised the prices from the back-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-out-of-5-bottling-plants-in-ludhiana-await-liquid-o2-101619381587864.html
26-04-2021||Other||Railways plans to deploy 40 coaches for Covid care in Punjab||Under an emergency plan, the Northern Railways has proposed to depute at least 40 coaches for Covid care at four different locations in Punjab.Each coach will have 16 beds equipped with basic amenities that a patient would require — handheld showers, mosquito nets, toilets, power sockets, oxygen cylinders and more.Sources said the number of Covid coaches may be enhanced as per medical requirements.The health ministry has a standard operating procedure (SOP) for deploying such coaches.“The coaches can be used for very mild cases that can be clinically assigned to the Covid care centres as per guidelines issued by the health ministry,” said Ambala divisional railway manager (DRM) GM Singh.Sources said the state public works department (PWD) had approached the railways on Friday about a plan to strengthen medical infrastructure amid a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases.Officials said the PWD wanted mobile care facilities at Bathinda, Ludhiana, Patiala, SAS Nagar, Amritsar and Jalandhar.Railway authorities said no coach converted for Covid patients was used last year in Punjab.As the infection rate is grim in the second wave, intensive plans are being worked out to house the patients with Covid symptoms, say officials.However, the railway authorities stated that the deployment of special coaches is not possible at Ambala and Patiala.“We do not have facilities of electric charging and water for maintaining regular hygiene of these coaches at Patiala and Ambala stations,” said the DRM.Balbir Singh, additional DRM (infrastructure) of Ferozepur, said ten coaches are readily available for utilisation to house the sick patients.“Punjab authorities have been apprised of our preparedness. Railways would need 24-96 hours to upgrade and provide at the required place,” he added.President of Association of Physicians of India (Malwa branch), Dr Vitull K Gupta said such coaches should be parked away from the railway stations.“Since the movement of trains is still on in the region, passengers should be kept away from the isolation wards to avoid virus contraction. We have written to the central authorities to ensure such couches are kept away from platforms,” said Gupta, a public health activist and physician from Bathinda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/railways-plans-to-deploy-40-coaches-for-covid-care-in-punjab-101619380447989.html
26-04-2021||Other||With only 4 cases so far, Punjab aims to be malaria-free by year-end||In a drastic decline in malaria infections, Punjab has reported only four cases so far this year. With this, the state health department is hopeful of becoming malaria-free by the end of this year.Last year, the state had logged 109 cases, a major drop from the 1,040 cases witnessed in 2019.The data suggests that the state health authorities are close to achieving the target of eliminating indigenous malaria cases in Punjab, despite most of its staff being deployed on Covid-19 duties.In accordance with the national framework for malaria elimination in India, which was launched on February 11, 2016, Punjab was shortlisted in category 1 among 15 states with a vision of having zero indigenous malaria cases by 2021. Also, Punjab health and family welfare department had launched a malaria elimination campaign 2017-2021.Dr Gagandeep Singh Grover, state nodal officer for National Vector Borne Diseases Control Program (NVBDCP) Punjab, said that the state reported only four cases of malaria in Fatehgarh Sahib district this year, out of which one was imported and three were induced cases.Dr Grover said the main reasons behind the decline in malaria cases include regular focal spray in affected areas, distribution of long-lasting insecticides, bed nets, release of Gambushia fishes in ponds. “We continued the statewide surveillance even during the Covid-19 pandemic,” he added.However, experts said that the favourable season for mosquito breeding starts from June to October, and only after can we determine the exact number of districts to have achieved malaria elimination by the end of 2021.Malaria is a potentially life-threatening parasitic disease caused by female anopheles mosquitoes. Mainly two parasites are common in Punjab — P vivax and P falciparam. Malaria infection has typical symptoms of fever, sweating and chills. World Malaria Day is observed on April 25 every year.Barnala civil surgeon Dr Harinderjeet Singh said that every fever case has to be screened for malaria. He added that people should be aware about source reduction activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-only-4-cases-so-far-punjab-aims-to-be-malaria-free-by-yearend-101619380388854.html
26-04-2021||Other||Multi-crore graft case: ED books ex-GMADA chief engineer for money laundering||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has registered a case under money laundering charges against former chief engineer of Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) Surinderpal Singh, alias Pehalwan, and others in the multi-crore graft case.Besides Pehalwan, ED has also named Gurinderpal Singh, Amit Garg, Gurmesh Singh Gill, Mohit Kumar, along with two firms — Onkar Builders and Contractors, and Rajinder and Company — as accused in the case. The agency has filed an enforcement case information report (ECIR), seen by HT, under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act at its zonal office in Jalandhar on the basis of probe details shared by Punjab vigilance bureau (VB).The ED has registered the case nearly four years after the VB shared the documents with the central agency in August 2017. Sources said the documents shared by VB were sufficient to lodge a money laundering case in 2017. Thereafter, the ED wrote letters seeking more details of the case in 2017 and 2018. The vigilance shared one chargesheet and some other case documents with the central agency in July 2020 in reply to the latter communication to the state agency in January 2019, almost after a period of one and a half years.The ED officials said they were yet to receive the remaining three challans from VB.In November 2019, the Punjab and Haryana high court had directed an additional district and sessions court, Mohali, to finish its trial against Pehalwan, in an alleged multi-crore graft case within a year while denying bail. However, in 2020, Supreme Court granted him bail.The state vigilance bureau had arrested Pehalwan, an alleged favourite of the Badal family of Shiromani Akali Dal, on June 9, 2017. According to the vigilance probe, Pehalwan allotted works of around ₹1,200 crore at exorbitant rates. He is also accused of parking his black money in accounts of bogus firms and family members. Pehalwan joined as a junior engineer in Punjab mandi board in 1993. He became a superintending engineer in GMADA in 2014 and officiated as a chief engineer there from 2016.In September 2019, VB had also attached 59 properties of the former GMADA chief engineer amounting to ₹26 crore (approx) as per the orders of a Mohali court. The VB has already filed four challans against Pehalwan and others so far in the case.As per the vigilance probe, Pehalwan had registered three fake companies in the name of family members and made transactions of hundreds of crores through banks. During his GMADA stint, he had formed a fake construction company “Ek Onkar Builders and Construction Pvt Ltd” and illegally allotted it tenders thereby amassing ill-gotten money to the tune of ₹400 crore. He also purchased various properties in Ludhiana, Ropar, Mohali, and Chandigarh amounting to ₹26 crore with the money.The vigilance case against him and others had been registered under sections 420 (cheating), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and 13 (1) (d) read with 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. He also faces two more vigilance cases of disproportionate assets and forging birth certificate to get a government job, registered in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/multicrore-graft-case-ed-books-ex-gmada-chief-engineer-for-money-laundering-101619380387924.html
26-04-2021||Other||NCB nabs man with cannabis worth ₹40 lakh hidden in car from Thane||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested an alleged drug supplier, Jaybharat Rathod, and recovered 28kg of cannabis worth ₹40 lakh from his car. The alleged main supplier, Sunil Bhandari, is a wanted in the case and he and Rathod have been supplying drugs from more than five years and brought the cannabis from Orissa to supply in Thane and Mumbai, said NCB. “On the basis of specific information, a team of NCB officers laid a trap in Badlapur, Thane, on Sunday morning and nabbed Rathod. On searching him, NCB officers found five packets containing cannabis, wrapped in a plastic tape and concealed under the bonnet. On searching further, the officers found that the accused had made a cavity in the rear side of the vehicle, where he had hidden additional nine packets of cannabis,” said NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede. Each of the packets contained 2kg each of cannabis. During interrogation, Rathod confessed that he is a peddler and the main supplier is Bhandari, who gave him the contraband to distribute to small peddlers in Thane and Mumbai, said Wankhede. NCB has been conducting a continuous operation against drug suppliers and peddlers in Mumbai and its neighbouring areas. On April 21, the agency had raided multiple places in Mumbai and arrested three persons, including a Cameroon national and a wanted drug supplier Sabir Saukat Ali, from Nallasopara and allegedly seized an intermediate quality of mephedrone, 20 ecstasy tablets and ₹9.25 lakh from them. Ali is allegedly involved in exporting cannabis to Qatar from Mumbai. He was wanted in a previous case where he had booked a parcel of 5kg of cannabis concealed in the oxygen pipe of an aquarium through a courier service in Mira-Bhayander area to be sent to Qatar, said Wankhede. Ali is a repeat offender and was earlier arrested in the possession of 10kg of charas. He was also arrested by Delhi NCB a 335-gram heroin case, added Wankhede.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ncb-nabs-man-with-cannabis-worth-40-lakh-hidden-in-car-from-thane-101619378587277.html
26-04-2021||Other||2 days after fire, Maharashtra hospital’s CEO, director held||Two days after 15 people lost their lives in the fire at Vijay Vallabh Hospital, Virar, the Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) Commissionerate’s crime branch early on Sunday arrested the medical facility’s chief executive officer (CEO) Dr Dilip Bastimal Shah, 56, and director, Dr Shailesh Dharamdev Pathak, 47, for culpable homicide and other offences under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Dr Mahesh Patil, deputy commissioner of police (crime), zone 3, MBVV, said. A police officer said that despite it being mandatory to renew fire safety licence every six months, the hospital had not renewed its licence since last September.“The hospital is one of the top three private Covid-19 facilities in Vasai-Virar region and should have focused on the fire safety,” said the officer.The Vasai court on Sunday afternoon remanded the two accused in police custody till Monday. Another director, Bastimal Shah, and a few doctors and staff are also booked and are yet to be arrested, said Dr Patil.Meanwhile, a fire brigade official said there was a delay in calling the fire department. “We received the call informing about the fire on Friday at 3.13am, following which we reached the spot in five minutes and doused the fire by 3.45am. Two nurses had noticed sparks in the central AC unit and the hospital staff had unsuccessfully tried to douse the flames using fire extinguishers, in which 15 precious minutes were wasted. They should have called us immediately. We will mention this aspect in our report to the police and other agencies,” said the official.“When we reached the spot, we rushed to the ICU (intensive care unit) on the second floor and rescued four patients and admitted them to other hospitals. But two patients died during the treatment, while two others are undergoing treatment at Chandansar Covid Care Hospital and Priyadarshini Hospital, Virar (East),” said the fire brigade official.According to the police, 70 more patients who were admitted in the first, third and fourth floors have been moved to hospitals in the Vasai region and to the Jumbo Covid centre at Dahisar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-days-after-fire-maharashtra-hospital-s-ceo-director-held-101619378527938.html
26-04-2021||Other||Covid-19 vaccination camps in open spaces too: UP govt||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday announced that it will hold Covid-19 vaccination camps in open spaces as well. “To prevent the spread of infection, the state government has decided to ensure the second dose of vaccination at a rapid pace to those who are already inoculated with the first dose. For this, the government is now arranging to set up camps in open spaces/areas so that people do not fear infection,” the government said in a statement. The government said it took the decision as it was observed that in the last several days that people were apprehensive about getting infected during vaccination in hospitals. The government will run the immunisation programme rapidly with its own resources and increase the vaccination centres in the state. At the same time, the vaccination programme will also be conducted in the multi-national companies and offices in the state. So far, a total of 1,17,77,209 vaccine doses have been administered in the state. This includes the first dose of a total of 97,79, 846 vaccines and as many as 19,97,363 second doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-vaccination-camps-in-open-spaces-too-up-govt-101619378527279.html
26-04-2021||Other||Can’t book WhatsApp group admin if common intent not proved: Bombay HC||Observing that the in-charge/admin of a WhatsApp group cannot be held liable for an obscene content posted in the group by members unless common intent is proved, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) recently quashed the first information report (FIR) registered against a 33-year-old Gondia resident in 2016. The man was booked on the complaint of a 41-year-old woman after “sexually coloured” remarks against her were posted in a WhatsApp group, of which the Gondia resident was an admin. A division bench of justice ZA Haq and justice Amit Borkar, while hearing the criminal application by Kishor Tarone, then the president of the youth wing of a political party in Gondia district, was informed by advocate Rajendra Daga that the application challenged the FIR and chargesheet registered against his client at the Arjuni-Morgaon police station and sought to set it aside. Daga submitted that as per the FIR lodged by the woman, despite being a group admin, Tarone neither removed the co-accused who posted the objectionable remarks in the group nor sought an apology from him and was thus named an abettor in the case. Tarone was booked for punishable offences for making sexually coloured remarks, sexual harassment and (abetment) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 67 (publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) of the Information Technology Act. However, Daga submitted that there was no incriminating evidence against his and hence, the FIR should be quashed. After getting conversant with the functioning of the messaging service, the bench observed, “Once the group is created, functioning of the administrator and that of the members is at par with each other, except the power of adding or deleting members to the group. The administrator does not have power to regulate, moderate or censor the content before it is posted on the group. But, if a member of the group posts any content, which is actionable under law, such person can be held liable under relevant provisions of law.” Noting that there was no criminal liability on a group admin for members’ posts, the bench said, “In the absence of specific penal provision creating vicarious liability, an administrator of a WhatsApp group cannot be held liable for objectionable content posted by a member of a group, unless it is shown that there was common intention or pre-arranged plan acting in concert pursuant to such plan by the member and the administrator.” The bench further said, “When a person creates a WhatsApp group, they cannot be expected to presume or to have advance knowledge of the criminal acts of the member of the group.” The bench, while quashing the FIR against Tarone, noted, “In our opinion, in the facts of present case, non-removal of a member by administrator of a WhatsApp group or failure to seek apology from a member, who had posted the objectionable remark, would not amount to making sexually coloured remarks by administrator.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cant-book-whatsapp-group-admin-if-common-intent-not-proved-bombay-hc-101619378347271.html
26-04-2021||Other||Vax for 18+: KDMC identifies 75 spots for new centres||The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has identified nearly 75 places to carry out the vaccination for 18 years and above age, which is slated to begin from May 1. Most of these places are civic schools and other plots. “As a part of preparing for the next vaccination drive which will cater to citizens above 18 years of age, we have had a meeting, in which we have identified places for the vaccination drive. However, we have to finalise them once the guidelines from the state government are released. The guidelines shall be provided this week,” said Sandip Nimbalkar, medical officer, KDMC. The civic body also claimed that it will have to outsource people to carry out the vaccination drive to avoid a staff crunch. “We will have to outsource people to fill in the manpower required for carrying out the vaccination drive,” said Nimbalkar. Presently the KDMC is conducting the vaccination drive only at its civic centres, while the vaccination at private centres is closed due to lack of doses. The civic body received a fresh stock of 12,000 Covishield and 1,000 Covaxin doses on Sunday. On Sunday all the private centres were shut, while the civic centres were functioning. Beneficiaries, however, complained that the second dose is not available in any of the centres even after following up for one week. “I checked almost four to five centres for the second dose. It is not available anywhere. How will the civic body run the vaccination drive for those above 18 years of age?,” said Madhavi Joshi, a resident of Adharwadi in Kalyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vax-for-18-kdmc-identifies-75-spots-for-new-centres-101619377867263.html
26-04-2021||Other||Centre created barrier by hiking Covid vaccine prices: DK Shivakumar||BengaluruKarnataka Congress unit president DK Shivakumar said on Sunday that the Centre is creating a barrier by increasing prices of Covid-19 vaccines, demanding that free vaccination be provided to all.“India is probably the only country which is discussing vaccine prices, when it’s being given for free across the world. Why has Karnataka govt still not announced FREE VACCINATION for all? I demand that free vaccines be given to all citizens & a roll-out plan be shared asap,” Shivakumar tweeted.The statements come days before the inoculation is scheduled to open up for 18-45 age group from May 1 to help contain the surge of Covid-19 cases.The Congress has targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister BS Yediyurappa for their lack of preparedness to deal with the second wave.“Instead of encouraging people to get vaccinated, @BJP4India govt has created a barrier by increasing the prices of vaccines. Mr. @narendramodi, Instead of PR events like ‘Tika Utsav’, ensure free #Covid19 vaccination to everyone,” said Siddaramaiah, leader of the opposition and former chief minister said.Though Karnataka is yet to announce the vaccine strategy, the government is expected to take a call on this at a cabinet meeting scheduled on Monday. Karnataka has ordered 10 million doses of vaccine costing ₹400 crore for the first phase.“Where are the 25 MPs from @BJP4Karnataka hiding during this time of crisis? These MPs should sit in front of @PMOIndia @narendramodi’s house & demand the necessary facilities required to tackle the pandemic,” Siddaramaiah posted in a six-part post on Twitter.Vaccine makers have announced the price at which they would sell the vaccine in the open market. Serum Institute of India has said that it will charge ₹400 per Covishield dose for the state governments and ₹600 for private hospitals. Hyderabad-based vaccine major Bharat Biotech would charge ₹600 for state governments and ₹1200 for private hospitals.Siddaramaiah also hit out at the BJP for celebrating the 5-kg rice scheme announced by the Prime Minister. He said the same leaders were trying to end the Anna Bhagya, a scheme to provide 7kg free rice during his term from 2013 to 2018.“@BJP4Karnataka leaders are celebrating the 5kg free rice scheme announced by @narendramodi but the same leaders made all attempts to end #AnnaBhagya scheme which provided 7kgs of free rice. This is an example for @BJP4Karnataka’s sickness,” Siddaramaiah said.“I have always been suggesting the govt to provide 10 kgs of free rice to all distressed people till the pandemic is over @PMOIndia should immediately consider this suggestion & ensure everyone gets 10 kgs of free rice,” he said in another post.He said that the BJP government is trying to reduce the amount of rice for the poor, asking Yediyurappa to “end this injustice immediately so that poor people don’t curse you.”BJP REACTION TO BE ADDED||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-created-barrier-by-hiking-covid-vaccine-prices-dk-shivakumar-101619377810407.html
26-04-2021||Other||4 die in Rewari due to alleged shortage of oxygen supply||Four Covid-19 patients died at a private hospital in Rewari allegedly due to a shortage in oxygen supply.The incident took place at Virat Hospital on Sunday at around 2.30pm in which four persons, including three residents of Rewari and a 48-year-old Delhi man, died due to low pressure of oxygen, alleged their kin.Families of the victims blocked the road outside the hospital and raised slogans.Rewari SDM Ravinder Yadav and civil surgeon Dr Sushil Mahi reached the spot and tried to convince them to end the protest. Later, police were called to control the situation.The son of a 56-year-old woman who died on Sunday said that his mother was admitted at the hospital and was on oxygen support.“My mother complained of difficulty in breathing and requested the hospital staff to help but to no avail,” he said.Dharmender Kumar, operational head of Virat Hospital, said that 114 Covid-infected patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital.“Four patients have died today. We have been complaining of shortage of oxygen since Sunday morning but the health department officials are not responding. We need over 300 oxygen cylinders on a daily basis but our supply was reduced,” he added.Rewari civil surgeon Dr Sushil Mahi denied that the patients died due to shortage of oxygen.“We had provided additional 140 gas cylinders to the private hospital on Saturday evening and there is no shortage of oxygen supply. Had low oxygen pressure been the cause of death, other patients would have also been impacted,” he added.Former minister and senior Congress leader Ajay Yadav reached the hospital and blamed the district health officials for not providing oxygen supply to the private hospital.“People are dying and the civil surgeon has failed to control the situation. People are forced to arrange oxygen cylinders on their own to save lives of their loved ones,” Yadav added.Mahendergarh deputy commissioner Ajay Kumar, who has additional charge of Rewari DC, said that a committee under the supervision of ADC Rahul Hooda has been formed to investigate the matter and submit report within 48 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-die-in-rewari-due-to-alleged-shortage-of-oxygen-supply-101619377808919.html
26-04-2021||Other||Karnataka cabinet to take call on lockdown today||BengaluruKarnataka minister for large and medium industries Jagadish Shettar said on Sunday that the government is deliberating if it has to go in for a complete lockdown as a measure to contain the Covid-19 surge in the state and its capital, Bengaluru.Chief minister BS Yediyurappa has already put in place a night and weekend curfew which has now turned into an almost lockdown-like situation in the southern state, which is among the worst-hit regions in the ongoing second wave of the pandemic.“There are discussions going on if we should have curfew on other days as well. There are discussions to impose a complete lockdown or not,” Shettar told reporters.Yediyurappa will chair a cabinet meeting on Monday to discuss if the state will go into a lockdown and other Covid-related issues, at least two people aware of the developments said.“We also do not want to go in for a lockdown but the situation is such that if we don’t put restrictions, the people will not come under control,” Shettar said.“Earlier we had a lockdown for three months, this is about 8-10 days and we have to break the chain,” he added.The statements come on a day when Karnataka and its capital registered 34804 and 20733 new infections, highest single-day spike,. The positivity rate in Karnataka reached almost 20% in the 24 hours on Saturday, raising concerns on the rapidly deteriorating health crisis in India’s IT capital and the rest of the state.Bengaluru accounted for 77 out of the 143 fatalities reported on Sunday.The active cases in Karnataka stood at 262,162, of which Bengaluru accounts for 180,542, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.Almost all 30 districts of Karnataka reported at least a 100 new infections with just Gadag and Haveri registering 76 and 99 cases. Kodagu, the coffee growing district of Karnataka, registered 1077 new infections while Tumakuru reported 1153 cases, indicating the extent of the spread in the second wave, which is expected to peak in the first week of May. An analysis by Hindustan Times has estimated Bengaluru will report around 25,000 cases per day by the beginning of May.The Yediyurappa-led government faces criticism for making little or no preparations to deal with the surge in the second wave despite clear warnings provided by the technical advisory committee (TAC) in November last year.Though Yediyurappa had categorically denied that there would be no lockdown in Karnataka, his government has imposed lockdown-like restrictions in Bengaluru and across the state, which allow only shops and industries dealing with essential services to operate and prevent movement of people. The restrictions have added to the air of uncertainty in Karnataka and its capital as small traders, businessmen and others are unsure of when things would return to normal nor have any clarity on if the administration will provide some financial relief for the losses due to the closure.The government, in an addendum to the existing guidelines, said that the number of people allowed for a funerals and cremation will be less than five.K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s health, family welfare and medical education minister, said on Sunday that the chief minister will have to take a call on announcing compensation packages, if any.The surge has also resulted in an acute shortage of hospital beds in Karnataka and Bengaluru with less than 40 intensive care unit (ICU) and those with ventilator beds available in India’s IT capital.“(The) government is mulling to set up modular ICU and ventilator beds at Victoria and other teaching hospital campuses,” Sudhakar said. He added that around 85 beds in one building on Victoria campus and 180 beds in PMSSY will be reserved for Covid. “Along with this 100-150 bed makeshift hospitals will be set up. Makeshift hospitals will also be set up on other suitable medical college hospital campuses,” he added.The minister said 5000 portable oxygen generators for Bengaluru and 1000 each for all districts will be provided. “75% of the beds in all private medical colleges will be reserved for Covid-19. 2000-3000 additional beds will be set up in makeshift units at all government hospitals within 15 days,” he said.He also added that the Centre has allocated 1,22,000 Remdesivir to the state and increased daily allocation of medical oxygen from 300 MT to 800 MT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnataka-cabinet-to-take-call-on-lockdown-today-101619377748495.html
26-04-2021||Other||Need a new Manmohan Singh to revive economy: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the state of the economy and the handling of the Covid-19 crisis and said that winning the West Bengal election is not a “life-saving drug” that India’s economy needs. Citing the example of late American President Franklin D Roosevelt – who had steered the US to economic recovery after the Great Depression – Raut said that Modi now needs to come out of poet Rabindranath Tagore’s role and get into Roosevelt’s role. He also slammed finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman over the economy and said India needs a “new Manmohan Singh” to revive the economy. The Sena leader, in his weekly column Rokhthok, in party mouthpiece Saamana, equated the current recession to the slowdowns experienced after wars or the two World Wars. He added that the pandemic brought a dreadful recession across the globe and the economy of the country has collapsed. In an attack on PM Modi, Raut wrote: “When leaders are self-contented and self-esteemed, this is bound to happen. For the economy to speed up, we need a Manmohan Singh. PM Modi first needs to come out of the role of Rabindranath Tagore and enter the role of F Roosevelt.” Raut added that the production rate in the country has gone down. He said that people had lost jobs during the demonetisation in November 2016 and the remaining ones lost their jobs in the pandemic. The spending power has gone and the savings are kept to put food on the table in the future, he said. “In such dire situation, we have to create a new Manmohan Singh to give the reins of the country’s economy. Today, 60% of the labourers are without jobs. The national income has gone down by two-thirds, but our leaders are listless and self-contented. PM Modi is a political person and in the past few years, many economists have left him. Modi has repeatedly said that “I am a businessman” but the businessman himself is sitting with his shop shut,” Raut wrote, adding that in October 1929, when the market collapsed in the US, it led to Great Depression but the then President Herbert Hoover told the Congress that everything was “prosperous”. “A similar atmosphere is there in our country. Barring hospitals and politics, nothing is running in our country. There is shortage of logs in the crematoriums and space in burial grounds. These are not any signs of prosperity,” he said. The Sena parliamentarian said that PM Modi and Sitharaman are not talking about reviving the economy or the steps taken for it. “PM and finance minister are not uttering a work on what are they doing to bring the country out of recession. PM says that [Bengal chief minister] Mamata Banerjee will lose the Bengal election. But is this the Remdesivir required to restart the collapsed economy? Home minister Amit Shah says that Maharashtra government will collapse due to its own weight. But this too is no answer for the slowdown and unemployment. The finance minister of the country is not seen anywhere,” he said. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Atul Bhatkhalkar said, “Even Uddhav Thackeray does not pay heed to Raut’s advice. Raut’s only job is to criticise Centre and Modiji day in and day out. He must have forgotten that during Manmohan Singh’s tenure India had double digit inflation. His tenure was marred with corruption charges, which now continues in the Maha vasooli sarkar. Indian economy was bouncing back, but due to the second wave that started in Maharashtra, the economy has been hit again. So instead of criticising Modi ji, Raut should advice his chief minister on how to tackle the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/need-a-new-manmohan-singh-to-revive-economy-sanjay-raut-101619377747267.html
26-04-2021||Other||Preparedness not enough for second wave of Covid: Sudhakar||Bengaluru : The second wave of Covid-19 pandemic has seen a sharp surge in infections and a higher number of people requiring hospitalization across the country. In Karnataka and particularly in its capital, Bengaluru, the lack of preparedness has added to the pressure on the already overstressed healthcare infrastructure, shortage in medicines and oxygen, leading to a higher number of fatalities. The BS Yediyurappa-led state government has imposed lockdown-like restrictions across the state to contain the virus. However, Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education, in an interview with Hindustan Times, said the government has got the pandemic under control. Edited excerpts What is the Covid-19 situation in the state and what measures are being taken by the government to control it? We need to make sure that positivity rate decreases by curbing a lot of activities, following Covid appropriate behaviour (CAB), especially in Bengaluru and other places where there is a higher population. The pandemic chain can be broken in 14 days of isolation and minimising activities. Pandemic has brought in a new way of life, and we should adapt to it. As a government, we should briskly vaccinate our people, which is the only way to save people from successive waves. We also augment our health infrastructure, human and medical capital like intensivist, anesthetist, nursing, para-medical and create a huge pool of human resources with students of medical and nursing colleges. We should ensure oxygen concentrators and portable machines are also bought in large numbers, which can be kept at homes or Covid care centres (CCC). All these three strategies should work parallelly to control the pandemic. The expenditure on health from governments should be not less than 8% of the GDP to build a robust health infrastructure, public awareness, better hygiene, nutritional value. It should be a holistic approach. Have the learnings from the first wave been translated into the second wave? Definitely there is preparedness this time, but not enough. The second wave spread was so fast, almost three to four times the first one. We had prepared for twice the number, but the spread is four times. No country can build the kind of infrastructure that is required for today’s pandemic. Controlling the pandemic by action is more important than treatment after getting infected. Very quickly preparedness is happening around the country. The Centre and state government will fight this out and we will handle the situation before it goes out of control. The pandemic is definitely under control in Bengaluru and Karnataka, otherwise you would have seen the queue (outside hospitals) like in other cities. That situation has never arisen even though we have the highest number of active cases. A report by the Technical Advisory Committee in November predicted the second wave in February or March. How did the government prepare from submission of reports till the onset of the second wave? We have been continuously ramping up the health infrastructure ever since the pandemic broke out last year. For example, we had two testing labs in February 2021, which has now been increased to 192. There were about 5,000 oxygenated beds in government hospitals and medical colleges, which have now been ramped up to more than 30,000, an increase of about 6 times. But the scale of this pandemic is so unprecedented that no amount of preparation is sufficient. We have witnessed this even in advanced economies like the US and the UK. The UK has had three national lockdowns so far. Did by-lections and campaigns also contribute to the spread in other districts? Last year was a tough year for the economy due to the slowdown induced by the lockdown. Just when things were returning to normalcy, we are grappling with the second wave. We can’t single out any one factor for the spread when all other activities were opened up. The mutated nature of the virus has also contributed to the increased spread of infection. The virus seems to be more contagious if not more virulent in the second wave. However, personally I am of the opinion that an autonomous institution like the Central Election Commission should take a serious call on whether it is safe and necessary to conduct elections amidst the pandemic. There are under 20 ICU/ICU-V beds remaining in Bengaluru, how do we get more as denial of treatment of critical persons is leading to higher fatalities? We have enough general beds. The problem is with the oxygenated and ICU beds, especially in Bengaluru. According to ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research), the requirement of oxygen is higher in the second wave at 54.5% compared to 41.1% in the first. Government is preparing to set up 2,000-3,000 modular ICUs and ventilator beds at Victoria hospital campus. We have made it mandatory for all private medical college hospitals in the state to reserve 75% of the beds for Covid-19 treatment. There are about 14 medical colleges in Bengaluru alone. In total, we have about 8,382 oxygenated beds, 1,321 ICUs and 721 ventilators in Bengaluru. Thanks to quick response from the Centre, Karnataka’s daily allocation of medical oxygen has been increased from 300 MT to 800 MT. Karnataka has also been allocated 122,000 vials of remdesivir. Private hospitals have been instructed to establish step down units in collaboration with nearby hotels to ensure that hospital beds are available to those who need it. We will also be strengthening tele-consultation through Aptamitra, so that asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic people under home isolation feel confident and they do not get paranoid about finding bed. Why did the government not go in for a lockdown earlier when Karnataka and Bengaluru started posting record numbers? Government has a tough task to keep the economy running even while we keep the pandemic under check. That’s why a calibrated approach has been taken instead of complete lockdown. By your predictions, till when is this wave going to last and what is the estimated number of infections till then? Experts have opined that the infections in the state will peak by the first week of May and the second wave will slow down by the end of May. Does the state have the monetary muscle to deal with the rising cost of the pandemic? As we know all governments across the world are facing a revenue crunch due to the pandemic. But both Centre and state governments under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi and CM Yediyurappa are committed to ensure that the pandemic is defeated at all costs. The fact that the CM has already earmarked ₹400 crore to procure 10 million doses of vaccine shows the intent and commitment of our government. Could the state government have done better in handling the second wave? As I said, the scale of the second wave is unprecedented. Even countries like the US, which has a robust healthcare system and spend several times more than what we spend on healthcare, couldn’t sustain this pandemic. More than 5.7 lakh people have died in the US so far, which is 3 three times more than the casualties in India. We need to get our act together and fight this pandemic. We need to be optimistic and instill confidence among people. Spreading panic and negativity will not help. How are we preparing for subsequent waves of infections in the imminent future? Vaccination is our biggest weapon to prevent the third wave. India is the fastest country to have administered more than 140 million doses of vaccine in just 99 days. In Karnataka, we have administered about 8.5 million doses of vaccine. Since vaccine is made open to all above 18 years of age from May 1, our government will accelerate the vaccination drive to inoculate as many people as possible at the earliest. I have already spoken to industry bodies like FKCCI and CII and requested them to ensure 100% vaccination of all employees and their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/preparedness-not-enough-for-second-wave-of-covid-sudhakar-101619377687286.html
26-04-2021||Other||Suspended Mumbai cop Sunil Mane was in area when Mansukh Hiran was killed: NIA||Police inspector Sunil Mane, who was arrested on Friday by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Antilia explosives scare and Thane trader Mansukh Hiran’s murder case, was taken to Sir JJ Hospital for routine medical check-up on Sunday, a day after the special NIA court had sent him to the agency’s custody. An NIA officer said that the agency has found technical evidence against Mane in the murder case, as he was present in the area at Thane where Hiran was allegedly smothered in a car on March 4. A day later, his body was found from Reti Bunder creek in Mumbra. NIA has been questioning Mane to find out his role in Hiran’s murder and establish who else was involved in the crime. The agency has been scrutinising Mane’s phone call details to ascertain who he was in touch with before and after the Antilia incident in February and Hiran’s murder. “If the agency finds anyone suspicious, we will definitely interrogate and verify their roles in both the cases,” said the officer. On Saturday, Mane was taken to the three spots at Thane in connection with the Thane trader’s murder. Sources said that the team visited Manpada junction and Gaimukh, where Hiran was allegedly smothered. After revisiting the two spots along Ghodbunder Road, the team took Mane to the Reti Bunder a creek. Mane, a 1995-batch Maharashtra Police service officer, was in charge of Mumbai crime branch’s unit 11 until he was recently shunted out to the local arms division as a part of the clean-up drive undertaken by police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, after another officer, Sachin Vaze, was arrested by NIA in both the cases. On February 25, a Scorpio car was found abandoned near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai residence Antilia with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note. A case was registered with Gamdevi police station on the same day. Vaze was originally in charge of the investigation of the case, but was removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV, and had reported it stolen on February 17. It was later discovered that Vaze had borrowed Hiran’s car in November and returned it in February. NIA took over the explosives case on March 8 and Vaze was named the main accused in the Antilia case and was arrested by NIA on March 13. On March 24, the agency began probing the murder too and named Vaze the main accused in that case also. According to NIA sources, Mane was purportedly part of the conspiracy hatched to eliminate Hiran. He was present at the crime intelligence unit (CIU) office on March 3, when Vaze purportedly tried to convince Hiran to take the blame for placing the explosives-laden Scorpio near Antilia. According to an NIA officer, Vaze had also assured the trader that he would get him out on bail in a few days. The plan to eliminate Hiran was allegedly hatched after the 48-year-trader refused to take the blame and get arrested in the case. The officer added that Mane was also allegedly present at the meeting held at Chakala in Andheri which was attended by Vaze, Vinayak Shinde – a former constable arrested in the Hiran case – and an ex-police officer before the murder. Mane was under suspicion from the beginning. When NIA began the probe, he was the Kandivli crime branch’s unit in-charge. Incidentally, the person who made the last call to Hiran around 8.30pm on March 4, the day he went missing, identified himself to be a crime branch officer from Kandivli and had drawn the victim out of his Thane residence on the pretext of a meeting along Ghodbunder Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/suspended-mumbai-cop-sunil-mane-was-in-area-when-mansukh-hiran-was-killed-nia-101619377507204.html
26-04-2021||Other||11 Kerala MPs seek CJI’s help to shift jailed journo Kappan to Delhi AIIMS||Thiruvananthapuram Eleven members of parliament (MPs) from Kerala wrote to Chief Justice of India NV Ramana on Sunday, seeking his intervention to shift Kerala-based journalist Siddique Kappan, who is jailed in Uttar Pradesh, to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi as his condition deteriorated after testing positive for Covid-19. In the letter, MPs said Kappan was admitted to the Mathura Medical College Hospital in Uttar Pradesh, where his condition was serious, and he has to be shifted to another hospital for better medical care. Earlier, Kappan’s wife Raihanath Siddique also wrote to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and others on Friday, pleading for their help. In the letter, she alleged that even in serious condition, the journalist was chained to the bed in the hospital, and he was denied proper medical help. She said he was suffering from many ailments including acute diabetes. “He managed to call us a couple of days ago. He told us he was chained to the hospital bed like an animal and medicines were not given to him properly. My husband is innocent, and his life is in danger,” she told HT over phone from Malappuram. Kappan, who is the secretary of the Delhi unit of Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), along with three other alleged Popular Front of India (PFI) activists, was booked on sedition and other serious charges in Mathura on October 5 last year while they were heading to Hathras, where a 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly gang-raped and murdered. KUWJ had approached the Supreme Court seeking Kappan’s release from jail while terming his arrest illegal and an attempt to silence the media. Kappan was working with an online portal when he was arrested. However, Uttar Pradesh Police maintained that Kappan and the three alleged Popular Front of India activists were planning trouble in the state citing the Hathras incident. They were charged under stringent provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and sedition for alleged criminal conspiracy to create social unrest. KUWJ had moved another plea in the Supreme Court on April 20, saying he was tested positive for Covid-9 after he collapsed in the bathroom, and he needs urgent medical care. His wife had also written to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and others seeking their help. A habeus corpus petition was filed on October 20 last year, but it is pending for more than six months, she said. In the letter, MPs also pointed out the inordinate delay in hearing the habeus corpus petition. Congress MP K Sudhakaran and Muslim League MP P K Kunhalikutty are among signatories of the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11-kerala-mps-seek-cji-s-help-to-shift-jailed-journo-kappan-to-delhi-aiims-101619377277763.html
26-04-2021||Other||TN govt urges Centre to stop diversion of oxygen||Chennai: Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking immediate cancellation of 80 KL (kilolitre) of liquid oxygen being diverted from the Sriperumbudur manufacturing plant in Tamil Nadu to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The Tamil Nadu government said that since a high number of patients are dependent on oxygen, the state would soon require 450 MT of oxygen surpassing its daily production capacity of 400 MT. As per data from the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO), the consumption of oxygen in Tamil Nadu has reached 310 MT, the letter stated. Palaniswami also said the latest central medical oxygen allocation for Tamil Nadu is incorrectly fixed at 220 MT. ‘...based on this wrong allotment, 80 MT of liquid oxygen has been diverted. This is based on the wrong position that the existing oxygen consumption in Tamil Nadu is lower than the manufacturing capacity.”Palaniswami pointed out that Tamil Nadu’s active cases were higher than those of the two Telugu-speaking states and that there is “no justification” for diversion since this plant supplies oxygen to Chennai, which is the worst affected in the state. As compared to the maximum number of active cases -- 58,000 during the previous surge in 2020 -- the active caseload has already increased to over 100,000 this time, he said. As of April 24, Tamil Nadu reported 14,842 new cases taking the total to 1,066,329, of which 100,668 are active cases. Chennai accounts for the highest caseload in the state with 4,086 fresh cases.“The states to which the allotment has been made have (a) lower number of active cases than us and also have major steel industries located within their states (or) close to their states,” he said. “This needs to be immediately corrected. While Tamil Nadu has never imposed any restrictions so far and is always ready to support other states, such mandatory diversion of liquid oxygen from the needs of our state can lead to (a) major crisis in Chennai and other districts.”On Saturday, the state set up a round-the-clock helpline, 104, specifically to address oxygen shortage in hospitals and nursing homes. A green corridor along with police security would be provided for tankers carrying oxygen. “Currently we are taking supplies from four vendors in Tamil Nadu and also from Puducherry with a combined capacity of 370 MT,” said P Umanath, director, Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC). He had earlier said that the state would raise this issue of mandatory diversion with the Centre so that it doesn’t create problems in the future. Last Thursday, the state government had informed the Madras high court that there was no shortage of oxygen, adding that the 65 tonnes of oxygen being diverted wouldn’t affect the state. Tamil Nadu has a storage capacity of 1167 tonnes. As of Thursday, the government said only 250 tonnes was being used for Covid-19 treatment. Additionally, Puducherry has a production capacity of 150 tonnes. The submissions were made after the HC had taken suo motu cognizance that the Centre had diverted oxygen to other states without the consent of Tamil Nadu and on the issue of shortage of Remdesivir drug. The matter has been adjourned to Monday; the state is expected to submit more data on availability of hospital beds, oxygen, and vaccines. On Monday, the state will also file its affidavit in the Supreme Court in response to Vedanta’s petition to reopen the Sterlite Copper plant in Thoothukudi for medical oxygen production. After months of protests led by locals and activists, the state had in 2018 shut down the plant for environmental violations. A public consultation was conducted by Thoothukudi district collector Senthil Raj on Friday where people opposed re-opening of the plant. “The consultation was held only regarding the re-opening of the oxygen plant and the smelter and thermal plants would remain shut, but a majority were still against it,” said Raj. Besides environmental concerns, local residents opposed the move because on the 100th day of the protest, police had opened fire in which 13 civilians were killed in May 2018. The case is being probed by the CBI and by a one-woman retired justice Aruna Jagadeesan committee. The top court had earlier rejected Vedanta’s plea to re-open its facility for administrative purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tn-govt-urges-centre-to-stop-diversion-of-oxygen-101619377213402.html
26-04-2021||Other||Kerala govt plans more curbs as state reports over 28k cases||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala reported 28,469 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday with a high test positivity rate of 22.46% and 30 deaths, according to the health department, and a worried state government is planning to impose more restrictions to curb the infections.After the all-party meeting on Monday, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will announce more restrictions, a government spokesman said. The state has been enforcing lockdown-like curbs in the last two days, suspending all activities other than essential services. Vijayan had said on Saturday that the situation was critical and the state was sitting atop a live volcano. According to the state health ministry data, after 1,26,773 samples were tested in last 24 hours, 28,469 were tested positive. Three districts reported more than 3000 cases -- Ernakulam topped with 4468 cases, Kozhikode recorded 3988 cases and Malappuram 3123. For the first time, the active caseload crossed 200,000 mark, overstretching health system at many places; the active cases stood at 2,18,893. With 30 fatalities, death toll went up to 5110. A close look at the statistics shows cases are mounting rapidly and transmission is taking place quickly. The number of intensive care unit patients is also on the rise --- on Sunday the state has 1400 critically ill patients with 420 requiring ventilator support. Experts said the state may touch a daily caseload of 50,000 overwhelming hospitals. “We have to channelise all our resources to contain infections and accelerate vaccination. We need drastic measures. Going by the present rate, cases may surge by next week,” said medical expert Dr Sreejtith N Kumar. Many hospitals now admit only serious patients and many have turned exclusive Covid hospitals. The government has asked all private hospitals to reserve 25% beds for Covid patients. As of now the state is oxygen surplus and catering to neighbouring states, officials said. “Now the state is using 79 tonne oxygen daily and supplying 74 tonne to Tamil Nadu and 30 tonne to Karnataka. There is demand from many other states, including Delhi, and we have raised the capacity,” said R Venugopal, nodal officer for medical oxygen supply. He said the state’s present production is 204 tonne and all hospitals have been strictly told to maintain their oxygen storage system properly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-govt-plans-more-curbs-as-state-reports-over-28k-cases-101619377212794.html
26-04-2021||Other||Section 144 in Panchkula: Assembly of more than four banned||Imposing Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the district, the deputy commissioner of police has banned the assembly of more than four people with immediate effect.The order exempts officials from the health, police and emergency services, and those with prior permission. “There is a likelihood of danger to human life, health and safety, disturbance of public peace and tranquillity in Panchkula due to the imminent spread of Covid-19 epidemic to social transmission stage,” DCP Mohit Handa said in the order.Violators will be punished under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, which entails six months in jail.Indoor gatherings capped at 30Deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar issued additional restrictions, limiting the number of people in indoor gatherings to 30 and that in outdoors space to 50. For funerals and cremations, not more than 20 people are allowed.Besides, in line with the state government’s orders, all IT/ITES units and corporate offices in the district will operate through work from home till 9am on May 3. Shops will continue to close at 6pm.“Any person found guilty of violation of this order should be prosecuted and punished under Sections 51 to 60 of the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of IPC and other legal provisions as applicable shall be taken,” the DC’s order stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/section-144-in-panchkula-assembly-of-more-than-four-banned-101619376067813.html
