27-04-2021||Other||9,078 new Covid-19 cases, 80 deaths in Pune district on Tuesday||PUNE Pune district has reported 9,078 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count to 0.811 million cases.With 80 deaths on Tuesday, the death toll went up to 9,169, as per the state health department. Of the total cases, 0.698 million have recovered and 1,04,561 are currently active, under isolation or in hospitals undergoing treatment. Pune rural reported 3,129 new cases which took the progressive count to1,95,668. With 12 more deaths the toll went up to 2,419. PMC reported 4,021 new cases, which takes the final count to 4,17,370. With 62 more deaths the toll went up to 5,222. PCMC reported 1,928 new cases which takes the final count to 1,98,847. With six more deaths, the toll stands at 1,473 as of Tuesday. Pune also saw 29,926 vaccinations on Tuesday, in 397 sessions across the district. Pune rural saw 11,747 vaccinations, the city saw 13,399 and PCMC saw 4,780 vaccinations. Of the total vaccinations, 24,663 were of Covishield and 5,263 of Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/9078-new-covid-19-cases-80-deaths-in-pune-district-on-tuesday-101619542950313.html
27-04-2021||Other||Jharkhand pumping O2 into nation’s lungs, 500 MT sent so far||Amid the Oxygen crisis that has hit the country in wake of the deadly second wave of coronavirus infection, Jharkhand on Tuesday sent 58 metric tonne (MT) of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) in two tankers to the national capital from Linde India Oxygen Plant here in Jamshedpur, taking the total oxygen sent to various states so far to 534 MT.“We flagged off two tankers with 58 MT LMO to Delhi Tuesday afternoon following CM Arvind Kejriwal’s request. I request Linde India to prepare and send Oxygen to Rajasthan since I received a similar request from CM Ashok Gehlot Monday. Hope this will help save lives of people in Delhi as well as citizens of Jharkhand living in Delhi,” Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren said, after virtually flagging off the tankers. Health minister Banna Gupta said the state has sent 90 MT LMO to Uttar Pradesh (UP) during the past thee days, 80 MT to Haryana, 12 MT to Bihar and 20 MT daily to Jharkhand itself from Linde India’s two plants in Jamshedpur.“The two Linde plants in Jamshedpur produce 2,550 MT and 1,290 MT Oxygen daily, respectively, of which 303 MT is LMO. We have suppled LMO to various states by 35 tankers,” Abhijit, Linde India senior manager, said.Besides, SAIL’s Bokaro Steel Plant on Tuesday sent 64 MT LMO in six tankers on board the fourth Oxygen Express to Bhopal and Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh from Bokaro. This took the total amount of LMO transported by South Eastern Railway (SER) to 234 MT since April 23. Earlier, LMO was sent thrice to Lucknow (UP) from Bokaro.East Singhbhum DC Suraj Kumar said two more tankers left for UP Tuesday evening from Linde India Plant, apart from the two to New Delhi. “We have three Oxygen plants and six refilling plants. We have procured 800 B type and 120 D type (jumbo) oxygen cylinders from local industries,” said Kumar.Meanwhile, Tata Steel doubled its LMO production to 600 MT from 300 MT daily to supply it to seven states and five hospitals in Jamshedpur. A company spokesperson said they were now sending 600 MT Oxygen to UP, Bihar, West Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand and MP from its three plants in Jamshedpur, Kalinganagar and Angul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jharkhand-pumping-o2-into-nation-s-lungs-500-mt-sent-so-far-101619542470295.html
27-04-2021||Other||State reports 12604 cases; govt to take call on further curbs today||Vijay Swaroopvswaroop@hindustantimes.comPATNA: As the state witnessed another surge of over 12,000 positive cases in last 24 hours, the Crisis Management Group (CMG) of the state government will meet on Wednesday to take a call on lockdown / further restrictions in the state. An announcement to this effect is likely to be made by Wednesday evening. The state reported 12604 positive cases reported on Monday. This is the fifth time in a week when the state has reported more than 12,000 cases since April 20.The state has also reported 594 deaths in last 35 days as against 537 deaths reported in 146 days last year. Seven districts of the state, Patna, Gaya, Bhagalpur, West Champaran, Aurangabad, Begusarai and Saran reported more than 500 positive cases on Monday with maximum cases being reported from Patna (1837). The total number of active cases stood at 94275 and the state reported 85 of deaths in last 24 hours. The recovery rate in the state fell further down to 77.43%. Chief minister Nitish Kumar again held a high-level meeting on Tuesday evening to review the Covid scenario with senior officials of the state, district magistrates and police officials as reports of shortage of oxygen and beds continue to pour in from different parts of the state. Kumar took feedback from all the DMs and SPs on the prevailing Covid situation. Sources said that the officials were against lockdown but supported more harsh measures to prevent crowding. Some officials even suggested weekend lockdown to stop the chain of virus. Darbhanga DM Thiyagarajan SM informed the meeting that as of now there were 1,094 active cases in district. The ratio of positive cases in urban area was 61 percent and in rural areas it stood at 39 percent. According to official sources, Darbhanga district with positivity rate of 1.1% was at the lowest position in state in terms of spread of pandemic.The dedicated covid hospital at Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) is having 120 beds with oxygen facility and 8 beds with ventilator.As many as 16 major private hospitals have been attached with DMCH, in which 162 beds along with 35 beds with ventilator facilities are available. The DM said that there is an oxygen plant in the district and a cryogenic tanker has been made available from COMFED to bring liquid oxygen. So far, 2.61 lakh people have been vaccinated in the district. Non-essential shops were closed three days in week after district administration held talks with chamber of commerce and representatives of business establishment in city.On Tuesday, Nawada administration also decided four-day complete lockdown from Friday till Monday to contain spread of virus. 18 PLUS VACCINATIONThe state government, meanwhile, has decided to start registration for vaccinating 18 plus population who are to be vaccinated from May 1. Nearly 5.47 crore 18 plus population will be vaccinated free of cost at government hospitals.According to a senior health department official, who wish not be quoted, the state government has placed order of 1 crore vials from Serum Institute of India although there is still some confusion over the vaccine to be a used. “A final guideline and decision on vaccine to be used will be taken in a day or two,” said the official. The Serum Institute of India, health department sources said, has asked the state government to make assessment of their monthly requirement for vaccination.(With inputs from Bishnu K Jha, Darbhanga)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-reports-12604-cases-govt-to-take-call-on-further-curbs-today-101619542350198.html
27-04-2021||Other||ECR suspends 23 trains in state Cites poor occupancy and an explosion in Covid cases||PATNAThe Eastern Central Railway (ECR) has announced suspension of 23 pair of passenger trains, including those bound for Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh, citing poor occupancy and need to check the spread of coronavirus amid a massive surge in cases.“Movement of 23 pair of special passenger trains for short distances would stand cancelled from April 29 till further notice owing to poor occupancy and with a view to curbing the spread of Covid,” said Rajesh Kumar, chief public relations officer, ECR. He said no decision had been taken so far with regard to movement of long-distance express trains.ECR officials said the railway board was monitoring bookings/reservations made for long-distance trains and operation of some of the express trains might also be regulated for want of required number of passengers on them. “Trains passing through Bihar are facing crisis of passengers. Still, they are being run for convenience of the people,” said an official.The trains, whose operation would be suspended, include Patna-Gaya, Patna-Deen Dayal Upadhyay, Muzaffarpur-Patliputra, Muzaffapur-Narkatia, Muzaffarpur-Raxaul, Patna-Barauni, Samastipur-Muzaffarpur, Patna-Danapur-Rajgir intercity, Patna-Bhabua intercity, etc.Oxygen Express skips Bihar The much-talked about initiative of the Indian Railways to transport liquid medical oxygen through Oxygen Express trains would not help Bihar even as hospitals in Patna and in rest of the state are reeling under severe shortage of oxygen. The CPRO said the Oxygen Express trains were not meant to carry liquefied oxygen to Bihar.In the absence of adequate supply of liquefied medical oxygen, authorities in the state have been striving hard to restore operation of defunct oxygen refilling plants or enhance supplying capacity of existing oxygen generation plants and refilling centres across the state.State health minister Mangal Pandey, who had on April 20 claimed that crisis of medical oxygen would be sorted out soon, refused to respond. Talking to media persons, the minister had claimed the state would have sufficient supply of oxygen once the Oxygen Express trains became operational.Covid fund for rly staffThe ECR has set up a Covid fund to help its staff battle with the pandemic, which left at least 50 railway employees dead in the last one year. Kumar said as many as 3,884 employees and officials of ECR had contracted Covid and of them, 1,891 are still under treatment. Efforts are on to set up Covid control helpline centres at all divisions of the ECR. Unprecedented rise in Covid infections Bihar has been witnessing a massive surge in Covid cases over the past one week. “About 10,000-12,000 people are being detected positive for coronavirus everyday across the state. Around 70-90 of them are dying daily. This is official figure. The actual may be many times more,” said Gujan Patel, the Youth Congress chief of Bihar.Curbs announced on market and movement of people by the state government and individuals’ preference to stay indoors to avoid contracting the disease have also resulted in check of people’s movement. With night curfew clamped all over the state, a majority of people are not venturing out for long hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ecrsuspends-23-trains-in-state-cites-poor-occupancy-and-an-explosion-in-covid-cases-101619542291277.html
27-04-2021||Other||Vaccination drive slows down as Covid cases surge||PATNAAmid the unprecedented surge in coronavirus cases, the vaccination drive in Bihar has slowed down in past one 10 days compared to early April when it was moving at a fast pace. Officials blame the slowdown on multiple factors — shortage of medicos at the vaccination centres and infections among health workers, fear among people about lining for hours at vaccination centres to get a jab and erratic supply of vaccines at district hospitals and primary health centres in last one fortnight though it has now stabilised in last few days. In the last 26 days, the daily vaccinations to beneficiaries (aged 45 and above for both doses) have rapidly fluctuated, rising as high as 2.87 lakh on a single day on April 5 to the lowest count of 39,237 on April 16 and 53,311 persons on April 25, as per official data of daily vaccinations released by state health society. From April 1 till 11 April, the total number of jabs administered were above 1.50 lakh per day on an average. On April 5, the total number of jabs administered stood at 2,87,576. On April 10, it was 2,52,835. On April 11, it was 2,06,354. However, after April 15, when corona cases started shooting up, the figures make for a dismal reading, hovering below the one lakh mark, except on April 20 when 1,04731 beneficiaries were given jabs. On April 18, a day after Bihar saw a major spike in Covid cases with 8,690 detected on April 17, the number of vaccination was 84,475 while on 20 April, it was 93,164,. The number started declining once the Covid cases started spiralling. “It is true the vaccination drive has slowed down. A probable reason seems to be the general fear among people against venturing out due to the surge in cases. This a proving as deterrent ,” said a senior health official,engaged in the vaccination drive. “I get calls from people requesting me to give names of vaccination centres where there is less crowd. People these days do not want to spend more time outside for the fear of contracting the virus. We are also getting reports from some districts about general disinterest among people to get vaccinated. This another factor for less footfall at vaccination centres,” he said. “There were certain issues regarding supplies of vaccines in mid-April which impacted rural areas. Besides, when footfall at a centre is very less, one cannot just open vials for one or two persons as it causes wastage of doses. For last one week, we have enough stocks and supplies are going unhindered,” shared another health official, seeking anonymity. The number of peole getting second doses has recorded less fluctuations in the last 10 days, hovering between 15000 and 28000, as compared to figures in early April when the daily vaccinations for second doses varied in the same range. In all, 67,46,734 people have been vaccinated in the state as on April 26, of which 57,23,496 got the first dose and 10,23,238 the second dose too. Manoj Kumar, executive director of Bihar State Health Society, was not available for comment. A text message to principal secretary (health) Prataya Amrit did not receive any response. Headline: The fightback Intro: Inoculation drive in the state hit as Covid cases rise exponentially Number of shots administered Highest April 5: 2,87,576 Lowest April 16: 39,237 Reasons for slow paceFear due to rising Covid casesInfections among health workersErratic supply of vaccines||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccination-drive-slows-down-as-covid-cases-surge-101619542290750.html
27-04-2021||Other||IMA flags oxygen supply to select hospitals, asks CM to step in||PATNAIn the wake of sharp spike in the number of Covid cases and reported shortage of oxygen and important drugs, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has written to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar about selective supply of oxygen to some big private hospitals. The IMA letter, signed by its senior vice-president Dr Ajay Kumar, honorary state secretary Dr Sunil Kumar and others, has sought CM’s immediate intervention as lack of oxygen supply could force closure of around 90 private hospitals in the city, causing risk to the lives of admitted Covid and non-Covid patients. The IMA has said doctors should be involved in the decision-making process on requirement of oxygen, and not the administration, which should solely focus on ensuring availability and preventing black marketing.. “I also work in a private hospital and there are Covid patients there. We have 18 cylinders, but we are getting 10 only. If some hospitals are resorting to any wrong practices, the administration should crack down on them, but other hospitals should not be made to suffer,” said Dr Sunil Kumar. Referring to the April 21 meeting, the IMA has said that 86 hospitals had been notified for Covid treatment in Patna and it was decided to approve them for treatment of serious patients and ensure oxygen supply. “Later, four more hospitals were added in the list on the basis of their applications. Many more hospitals are also applying or have already applied. However, the civil surgeon has told the IMA that no other hospital will be approved for Covid treatment or oxygen supply, which can pose danger to the lives of Covid and non-Covid patients admitted there,” said the IMA letter. It has also expressed concern over the information it has received about appointment of doctors only for three months, which would again cause serious shortages. “We had advised you to start the recruitment on vacant posts without delay and we welcome you order to do it without delay. In view of the pandemic, the available doctors should be appointed through walk-in-interviews on regular posts or contract with special incentives,” the letter says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ima-flags-oxygen-supply-to-select-hospitals-asks-cm-to-step-in-101619542290223.html
27-04-2021||Other||Nagaland Civil Secretariat shuts door for visitors amid Covid-19 cases surge||In view of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in Nagaland, the state government on Tuesday announced that the entry of visitors to the Nagaland Civil Secretariat Complex will be restricted with immediate effect in the interest of public safety.On Tuesday, chief secretary J Alam issued an order restricting the entry of visitors to the state civil secretariat while the entry of employees will be strictly regulated and other government officials or visitors in exceptional cases will require the permission of the home department.“This restriction of entry of public to the Secretariat, unless for official purpose, is a normal Covid restriction, given the surge in cases we are witnessing,” said MLA Mmhonlumo Kikon, a government spokesperson for Covid-19.Some, however, voiced mixed opinions regarding the order. “Total restriction of visitors or public to the Secretariat will be a setback for the public because almost all the government policies and programmes require final approval from the Secretariat level,” said Vibeilietuo, a contractor. He expressed that this would be a demerit for beneficiaries of different programmes of the government, especially for time-bound programmes. According to a social worker, “My opinion on this latest order is 50:50. All state affairs happen at the Secretariat, so the place is like a hornet’s nest in a way. Therefore, restricting visitors is justified. On the other hand, it will be at the disadvantage of the public whose paperworks need government approval.” He opined that instead of completely shutting the Secretariat gates on the public, the government could enforce strict adherence of Covid SOP and allow visitors with genuine cases.The state has recorded 13,238 total Covid-19 cases since the outbreak last year, of which 12,135 are reported to have recovered, according to health officials. However, with the second wave, the total active cases have shot up to 727 as of April 26 in a span of weeks.Covid-19 cases continue to see a spike in India but a marginal drop in infections was reported in the past 24 hours. As per the official figures from the Union ministry of health and family affairs, the country witnessed 323,144 new cases in the last 24 hours. With this, India’s Covid-19 tally stands at a whopping 17,636,307.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nagaland-civil-secretariat-shuts-door-for-visitors-amid-covid-19-cases-surge-101619539590874.html
27-04-2021||Other||MMBS results declared a day after exams over, to have docs ready to bear Covid load||PUNE The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) on Tuesday declared the results of final-year MBBS results for 2020-21, winter exams. With a 94.06 passing percentage, the results were declared within a day of the completion of the exams, which on April 25. Of a total of 5,234 students, who appeared for the exam, 4,923 students passed. The expediency in declaring the result was mainly due to the shortage of manpower in hospital tackling Covid-19.The BSc nursing course results were also declared with a 76.59 passing percentage. A total of 709 students appeared for the nursing final-year exams, of which 543 students passed. The results of the nursing exams were declared within eight days of the examinations. “We have declared the results of final-year winter 2020 course, both MBBS and nursing, on the official website of the MUHS. These exams were held in the month of March-April 2021, as per the guidelines of central board and state government. We are happy with the results and soon all these students will work for Covid patients for the next one year,” said Dr Ajit Pathak, MUHS examination controller. “We organised a four-day online training programme for these students with best experts from the field of health sciences. The subject was obviously Covid-19 and how students have to work in future as doctors and nurses,” added Dr Pathak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mmbs-results-declared-a-day-after-exams-over-to-have-docs-ready-to-bear-covid-load-101619538449725.html
27-04-2021||Other||PCMC police will issue tokens to control crowding at market places||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have decided to implement a token system, allowing a limited number of people to enter markets in PCMC for only 30 minutes per head, from Wednesday.A huge number of people have been gathering at the vegetable and fruit market in Pimpri and Bhosari.“Under section 43 of the BP act we are regulating the marketplace and thoroughfare. We have received many complaints about people crowding at one place,” said Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Police, Pimpri-Chinchwad.Fruit and vegetable markets are allowed to function from 7am to 11 am. Police staff will be at all marketplaces to ensure the footfall of consumers. “The whole initiative is to avoid crowding of people. Some major stores also give a-15 minute window for shopping, which has been effective to keep social distance. Thirty minutes is enough to purchase vegetables. People should support this initiative,” said a police official, on the request of anonymity.Vinod Sakpal, a fruit seller in Pimpri said, “Such a rule should have been implemented earlier by the administration. Public don’t listen to us and they keep crowding.”Theragaon resident Manasi Laad said, “I avoid going to markets like Pimpri and prefer to take vegetables from road-side vendors. It is costly, but there is not such a huge crowd like in the big markets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pcmc-police-will-issue-tokens-to-control-crowding-at-market-places-101619535989342.html
27-04-2021||Other||PMC issues SOPs for segregation, disposal of waste generated by Covid patients||PUNE With an increasing amount of bio-medical waste being generated by Covid-19 patients, the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) has released a standard operating procedure (SoP), of how to segregate and dispose of this waste.Ketki Ghatge, assistant medical officer, solid waste management department, said, “At present, we are collecting 150kg of waste generated by patients. Besides that, we are collecting bio-waste from Covid centres and hospitals. Patients generate 100gms of garbage, per head, at home, every day.” At present, PMC collects Covid-generated waste, such as disposable plates and water bottles, from Covid care centres and hospitals. As per the SOP, private and PMC hospitals should spray 1% sodium hypochlorite on the garbage and hand it over in a yellow bag to the PMC.PMC has contracted Pasco Environmental Solution to dispose of its bio-medical waste.Patients in home isolation will have to separate wet and dry garbage generated and also spray sodium hypochlorite, before handing it over to the garbage collector. “Most home isolation patients prefer a tiffin system for food, so that reduces the waste generated,” Ghatge said.PMC’s solid waste management department has appealed to all private hospitals, Covid centres and patients in home isolation to follow the SoPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-issues-sops-for-segregation-disposal-of-waste-generated-by-covid-patients-101619533468944.html
27-04-2021||Other||HP asks all oxygen plants in state to ramp up production||In view of the rapidly spreading Covid-19 infections, Himachal Pradesh government has asked all oxygen plants in the state to ramp up production. The state has also banned the use of liquid oxygen for non-medical purposes.The state has eight oxygen plants, spread across Mandi, Shimla, Sirmaur and Una, with a total production capacity of 3, 800 cylinders that include both D-type jumbo-sized cylinders and B-type medium-sized cylinders. The state government officials are set to hold a meeting with the manufactures in Baddi soon. There are currently three oxygen plants in Baddi, which include Inox, Himalaya and Indo gases. “We have asked all oxygen plants to ramp up production. Right now, there is no shortage of oxygen,” said state drug controller Navneet Marwah.Health minister Rajiv Saizal also reiterated that currently, the state has enough supply of oxygen but added, “Efforts are on to arrange more. The state’s oxygen production is 42.7 metric tonne while the present consumption is 22.13 metric tonne.”The government has also set up an oxygen plant at Deen Dayal Upadhadya Hospital, Shimla, but the plant is currently not operational. The plant has a capacity to produce 432 cubic meters of oxygen. “The plant is on trial run. Oxygen manufactured in the hospital has been sent for testing and we will soon get certification,” said DDU medical superintendent Ravinder Mokta. The hospital, which has a bed capacity of 90, is also stretched beyond limit as it is currently accommodating more than 120 patients. Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College (RPMC) in Tanda is also full to capacity but its oxygen plant is also not yet operational. Chief medical officer Gurdarshan Gupta said the formalities for making the plant functional have been completed. The government had proposed to set up the biggest oxygen plant in Tanda but it is not yet operational. Another plant, with a daily production capacity of 576 cumm, was also proposed to be installed at Jawaharlal Nehru Government Medical College, Chamba, but this too is not functional yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hp-asks-all-oxygen-plants-in-state-to-ramp-up-production-101619471240101.html
27-04-2021||Other||Experts make a case for extended lockdown in J&K||As J&K opened up after a weekend curfew, experts urged the authorities to extend the lockdown so as to bring down the infection rate, which is putting pressure on health infrastructure in the Union Territory. Dr Salim Khan, professor and head, community medicine, Government Medical College, Srinagar, said, “The infections are rising exponentially and many patients are falling seriously ill and requiring oxygen and ventilator support. If the scenario continues, we may not be able to admit more patients in view of the limited health infrastructure. A lockdown can help slow down the transmission and in turn reduce the influx of patients to the hospital.”He added that J&K should go for a limited lockdown so that the economy is not affected either. Dr Shafqat Khan, former municipal commissioner, Srinagar, said the only way to fight this battle is to follow the guidelines of masking, social distancing and maintaining hand hygiene.“Intermittent lockdown will slow down human activity. However, it is imperative to disallow large-scale social and religious activities. The Lieutenant Governor (LG) administration has already taken a number of steps in this direction and thrust has been laid on strengthening the infrastructure and allied facilities,” he said. A senior doctor, heading one of the Covid centres in Srinagar, said that a 15-day lockdown is necessary if the cases go up further. “Only then can we crush the curve. The government should rope in all stakeholders to get the lockdown implemented in letter and spirit at the grass-root level. We have still breathing time to strategise; policy makers should take full advantage of the present situation,” said the doctor.Former Srinagar mayor Salman Sagar said that after a timely and beneficial decision to make vaccination free for the 18 to 45 age group, the LG should take into consideration a 21-day lockdown so that the spread is contained and the purpose of attaining herd immunity is served. “All inter-state and intra-state travel should be suspended for a period of 21 days so that any chances of transmission from outside the UT are nullified and we are able to lower the burden on our health infrastructure,” said the former mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/experts-make-a-case-for-extended-lockdown-in-jk-101619471063132.html
27-04-2021||Other||Himachal to supply oxygen to Delhi||Chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday agreed to send supplies of oxygen to New Delhi which is currently grappling with a shortage of the life-saving gas.In a letter to Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, Thakur said that he is highly concerned about the situation in the national Capital and would be happy to extend all possible help to the state. He added that the officials in New Delhi may contact additional director of industries to arrange supplies of oxygen. Kejriwal expressed his gratitude to the Himachal government for their generosity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-to-supply-oxygen-to-delhi-101619470460169.html
27-04-2021||Other||27 deaths, 1,692 fresh cases in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh on Monday recorded 1, 692 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state’s caseload to 89, 193. The death toll mounted to 1,350 after 27 patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 409 were recorded in Kangra, 257 in Mandi, 256 in Solan, 180 in Shimla, 125 in Sirmaur, 107 in Hamirpur, 85 in Bilaspur, 80 in Kullu, 73 in Chamba, 66 in Una, 33 in Lahaul-Spiti and 21 in Kinnaur. Six deaths were reported in Kangra, five each in Mandi and Shimla, three each in Solan and Una, two in Sirmaur and one each in Kullu and Hamirpur. Meanwhile, active cases in the state have reached 14, 326 and recoveries reached 73,478 after 916 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a caseload of 15,257, followed by Shimla where 13,759 people have been infected so far and Mandi with 13,080 cases.Solan’s caseload climbed to 11,610 while Una has 6,229 cases, Sirmaur 6,165, Hamirpur 5,621, Kullu 5,513, Bilaspur 4,727, Chamba, 3,872, Lahaul-Spiti 1,735 and Kinnaur 1,625.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/27-deaths-1-692-fresh-cases-in-himachal-101619470280220.html
27-04-2021||Other||J&K sees its deadliest day of pandemic as 25 succumb||With 25 Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours, Jammu and Kashmir recorded the highest single-day toll since the outbreak, health officials said on Monday. The latest fatalities have taken the UT’s overall toll to 2, 172. While 14 of the deaths were reported from Jammu division, 11 people lost their lives in Kashmir. This month, 178 people lost their battle to the virus so far. The UT also recorded 2,135 new infections, taking the case tally to 1, 62, 890. Of the new cases, 1, 344 cases are from Kashmir while 791 are from Jammu, besides 299 travellers. Since April 20, the UT has been recording 1, 900 to 2, 000 cases every day. On Sunday J&K recorded a high of 2, 381 cases, the highest single-day count since the pandemic outbreak in March 2020.Officials said with 632 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 472 in Jammu district, 139 in Kulgam, 136 in Baramulla, 135 in Reasi, 133 in Budgam, and 93 in Anantnag.The number of active cases, which has been rising exponentially, crossed 20,000 to settle at 20,601, officials said. As many as 1,067 patients also recovered, including 589 from Kashmir and 478 from Jammu. The recovery rate, as on Monday, was 86.01%. Over 7.08 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-sees-its-deadliest-day-of-pandemic-as-23-succumb-101619469321540.html
27-04-2021||Other||Omar Abdullah uses his twitter to amplify distress messages||After recovery from Covid-19, National Conference president Omar Abdullah has started using his Twitter account to amplify messages of people who are in need of oxygen, plasma, ICU beds or medicines across the country.Over the last 48 hours, the former J&K chief minister has retweeted dozens of such messages on the microblogging website. Most of these messages were either posted by people in need of help across the country, especially in the national capital New Delhi, where patients are in need of help. Abdullah has more than 3 million followers on Twitter and is the only politician from the J&K who has millions of people following him.“I want to be able to help people through this crisis as best I can because I know what’s it’s like to have a loved one in the hospital fighting against Covid. To that end, I’ve opened up my DMs for now and will amplify every message requesting/offering help,” wrote Omar Abdullah on Twitter shortly after he started retweeting the messages on Sunday.On April 9, Omar Abdullah had tested positive for Covid-19, days after his father NC president and MP Srinagar tested positive.“Omar has a powerful following on the social media. By amplifying distress messages through his account, he is actually getting help for many. This is a good gesture. Other politicians should also try to help people in a similar way,” said Fayaz Ahmad, a social activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/omar-abdullah-uses-his-twitter-to-amplify-distress-messages-101619468839866.html
27-04-2021||Other||J&K chief justice orders work via virtual mode till May 15||Amid the alarming surge in Covid-19 cases across Jammu and Kashmir, Chief Justice Pankaj Mithal on Monday ordered that filing, as well as hearing of cases in the high court of Jammu and Kashmir, district and subordinate courts, besides tribunals shall be conducted through virtual mode till May 15. As per the order, the chief justice has directed that the entry of litigants, public, and clerks of the advocates into the court premises from the very outer gate shall be strictly prohibited in both wings of the high court. “For filing of cases, registrars judicial of both wings of the high court shall create a dedicated email address of their respective filing counters and notify the same to the advocates/litigants by making it available on the website of the high court.” “Ordinarily before notice’ matters shall be taken up by each Bench unless urgency in respect of any ‘After Notice’ matter is shown to the satisfaction of the Bench concerned,” the order reads. “Physical hearing in respect of any listed matter will be at the discretion of the Bench concerned subject to the satisfaction of the Bench regarding extreme urgency involved in such matter and thereafter such case shall be taken up for physical hearing on the date fixed by the Bench” further read the order. On district and subordinate courts besides tribunals in J&K and Ladakh, the Chief Justice ordered that entry of litigants, public and clerks of the advocates into the court premises from the very outer gate shall be strictly prohibited. “For filing of cases, the Presiding Officers shall create a dedicated email address of their respective courts and make it available to the advocates/litigants by posting the same on the website of their District Courts concerned or through any appropriate electronic mode.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-chief-justice-orders-work-via-virtual-mode-till-may-15-101619468359871.html
27-04-2021||Other||Ladakh announces free Covid-19 vaccine to all from May 1||The Union Territory of Ladakh has announced free vaccination to all its residents who are eligible for Phase III of the Covid vaccination drive. “The decision was taken by Lieutenant Governor RK Mathur at a high-level meeting with officials of the health department,” said an official spokesman. “Ladakh administration is in the process of procuring Covid-19 vaccines for inoculating its residents in the 18 to 45 age group. The vaccination will be provided free of cost to all who are eligible to receive it,” he added. LG Mathur directed the department officials that other than increasing the number of tests on a daily basis, 100% testing at all entry points – Meenamarg, Upshi and KBR airport - must be achieved without fail. LG Mathur also stated that close coordination must be maintained with Border Roads Organisation. Covid tests for tourists “As Ladakh also gears up to receive tourists from other parts of the country, LG Mathur stated that all incoming tourists must produce a negative RT-PCR report at the airport and that the hotels and travel agencies must take responsibility in ensuring the same. Discussing the infrastructural preparedness of the health department in wake of the expected surge in the coming months, LG Mathur directed that the department must ramp up its facilities in terms of beds, oxygen cylinders, medicines etc on urgent basis,” an official statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ladakh-announces-free-covid-19-vaccine-to-all-from-may-1-101619467999787.html
27-04-2021||Other||Mumbai cops stop 19-year-old from ending her life||Tardeo police on Monday rescued a 19-year-old woman who was about to end her life. The woman, who works at an eye clinic, had climbed the fifth floor of a building at Tardeo, Mumbai Central, to end her life when senior police inspector Sanjay Jagtap, assistant police inspector Arun Thorat and their team reached the spot and counselled her.Jagtap said the woman stays in the same building. “She was married six months ago and had visited the police station many times to file complaint against her in-laws for harassment,” said Jagtap. The police had in the past called her in-laws to the police station and warned them. However, she alleged that her harassment continued.On Monday, the woman left her house after her husband left for work and went to the terrace. Some residents then called the police and Gawde climbed to the terrace and stopped her from taking the step. “We succeeded in convincing her. After about 20 minutes of persuasion, she stepped back,” said Jagtap. The police took the woman to hospital for counselling. “We will probe and register a case accordingly,” said Jagtap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-cops-stop-19-year-old-from-ending-her-life-101619466679035.html
27-04-2021||Other||28-year-old visually-impaired man attacked with blade near Mumbai||A 28-year-old visually-impaired man suffered injuries on his hand after he was allegedly assaulted with a blade following an argument with a railway canteen employee at Ambernath station. The Government Railway Police, Kalyan, have registered a case and are investigating the matter. The complainant, Dilip More, said the argument started after he was charged ₹13 for a samosa paav at the station canteen. More argued with the canteen boy stating that the actual price was ₹11. “On Sunday, I alighted at platform no 2 of Ambernath station along with a friend. We went to buy samosa at the railway canteen. However, the canteen employee charged ₹2 extra for it, so we questioned him. Following an argument, he attacked me with a blade on my right hand, while another worker slapped me.” He then approached the GRP. Shardul Walmiki, senior police inspector, GRP, Kalyan, said, “We have registered a case under section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the Indian Penal Code against Mangal Singh Khushwa, who works in the canteen.”More, an arts graduate, stays in Vangni along with his wife and daughter. As he was unable to find a job, he had to beg on local trains to earn money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/28yearold-visually-impaired-man-attacked-with-blade-near-mumbai-101619466559049.html
27-04-2021||Other||Maharashtra hospital fire: Director and CEO to stay in cop custody till Wednesday||The Vasai court on Monday extended the police custody of Vijay Vallabh Hospital chief executive officer (CEO) Dr Dilip Bastimal Shah, 56, and director Dr Shailesh Dharamdev Pathak, 47, till Wednesday. The duo was produced before the court after their custody ended. Fifteen Covid-19 patients were charred to death after a fire broke out on the second floor of the four-storey private hospital in the early hours of Friday.Shah and Pathak were arrested for culpable homicide and other offences after the authorities found that the hospital’s licence was not renewed.“We told the court that we had to search for more [hospital] documents, and hence, the extension of the police custody was needed. In the meantime, a five-member committee headed by Palghar collector Dr Manik Gursal has been formed to probe the incident,” said senior police inspector Pramod Badakh, from crime branch, Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) commissionerate (zone 3). A few fire brigade and Vasai civic body officials are likely to be questioned on the issuance of fire audit certificate, despite the fire sprinkler system not working, said a police source. No official from the civic body or the fire brigade inspected the fire audit certificate, although the check is mandatory after every six months. The fire licence had to be renewed in September 2020, but was renewed only last month, said the police. Also, the hospital converted to a Covid-19 centre in February 2021 without informing the Vasai civic body, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-hospital-fire-director-and-ceo-to-stay-in-cop-custody-till-wednesday-101619466499019.html
27-04-2021||Other||Tigress dead in Yavatmal; toll at 17 in Maharashtra this year||This year, Maharashtra has seen 17 tiger deaths – a surge from just four recorded between January and April 2020 – the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) data revealed. The latest casualty was reported on the night of April 25 at Mangurla village, which falls under the Mukutban range of the Pandharkawda forest division in Yavatmal district. The victim was a four-year-old tigress, pregnant with four cubs, who had been ensnared in a wire trap. Patrolling forest guards found the animal in a cave adjacent to a nullah, with her paws chopped off, around 10.30pm on Sunday. The carcass was sent for an autopsy on Monday morning, the results of which are awaited.“The animal got caught in a wire trap and made its way back to her cave, where she probably passed away from the injuries,” said district forest officer Subash Puranik, under whose jurisdiction the area falls. This year’s tally of tiger deaths is also more than the 14 deaths recorded in the state during all of 2020. At least 11 of the fatalities recorded in the last four months of last year can be attributed to incidents of poaching and suspected poisoning, officials said.In Pandharkawda forest division itself, this is the third incident of poaching reported in a month. On March 23, the carcass of another four-year-old tigress (T7), had been found ensnared in a wire trap at the Maregaon forest range. “Just last week, we rescued another tigress from Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary who had been caught in a wire trap. The animal is currently in a cage recovering from injuries and will be released soon,” said Puranik.The highest number of tiger fatalities this year has been reported from the vicinity of Umred Karhandla Wildlife Sanctuary, which lies in Nagpur and Bhandara districts, where a tigress and her cub were found dead due to suspected poisoning earlier this year. Officials, however, emphasised that there is no indication of an organised poaching syndicate in the state.“Tiger deaths have been mainly due to wire snares used by locals to protect their fields from deer or to catch a wild boar. Sometimes, a tiger may inadvertently get caught as well. This year, we have also lost four tigers due to suspected poisoning, and at least three cubs due to territorial fights. There are also some natural deaths,” said BS Hooda, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF) (wildlife), Nagpur.Kishor Rite, a member of the state board for wildlife, called the trend worrying. “Such a steep rise in tiger deaths calls into question the preparedness of teams on the ground. There is a standard operating procedure which needs to be followed in these cases. Maharashtra has made some progress in dealing with organised poaching syndicates that use more effective steel traps. But the use of wire snares by local populations is rampant and needs to be urgently addressed,” said Rite||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tigress-dead-in-yavatmal-toll-at-17-in-maharashtra-this-year-101619466378965.html
27-04-2021||Other||Mumbai wakes up to second-warmest April morning in 10 years; rain likely this week||The city woke up to an unusually warm morning on Monday, as the minimum temperature recorded was the second-highest reading for April in 10 years. The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) automatic weather station in Santacruz recorded a minimum temperature of 27.8 degrees Celsius – the highest since April 28, 2019, when the mercury had reached 28.1 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature, meanwhile, stood at 34.5 degrees Celsius, one degree above normal.IMDs Colaba station also saw above normal minimum temperature on Monday at 27.7 degrees Celsius. “There has been an increase in the temperature as well as humidity in the past couple of days. There is a low-level discontinuity across all of Maharashtra, and coastal regions in the north-west had cloudy conditions, which led to accumulation of heat at night,” said a spokesperson from IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.IMD officials also said that there is a slight chance of rain in Mumbai and Thane districts this week, under the influence of a weather system passing over parts of central India. “Isolated rainfall and thundershowers may be felt in the eastern part of the state. Mumbai may get some drizzle this week, which may cause a day or two of high humidity,” said the spokesperson.“A north-south trough runs from Marathawada to south coastal Tamil Nadu across north interiors of Karnataka, Telangana and Rayalaseema in lower tropospheric levels. Under its influence... isolated to scattered rainfall/thunderstorm over Maharashtra and remaining parts of south peninsular India during next four-five days is expected,” IMD noted in its operational all-India weather forecast on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/city-wakes-up-to-second-warmest-april-morning-in-10-years-rain-likely-this-week-101619466138988.html
27-04-2021||Other||Antilia case, Hiran murder: Papers found in cop’s Mumbai home, office says NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday on Monday conducted searches at three places related to suspended Mumbai Police inspector Sunil Mane, who is in in the federal agency’s custody since his arrest on April 23, in connection with the Antilia explosives scare and the subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran. NIA sources said that the agency has recovered some “incriminating” documents and articles from the three places. The agency also seized Mane’s red Hyundai Creta from his building premises at Malad residence.A senior officer attached to Mumbai crime branch said an NIA team visited Mane’s former desk and cabin at unit 11 of the crime branch at Kandivli. Mane was in-charge of the unit till March 23.“The search was a part of NIA’s ongoing investigation and the officers in the unit cooperated with the agency,” the crime branch officer added.Another NIA team conducted searches at the local arms unit at Marol where Mane was posted at the time of his arrest.NIA officers said they recovered some documents and material from the Marol office and Mane’s residence during the search, which they are scrutinising.On February 25, a Mahindra Scorpio – with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note – was found abandoned near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai residence Antilia. A case was registered at Gamdevi police station on the same day.Assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze was originally investigating the Antilia case. But after reports emerged of his links with Hiran – who was in possession of the SUV and had reported it stolen on February 17 – Vaze was removed from the probe. Hiran went missing on March 4 and a day later his body was found in Retibunder creek at Mumbra. It subsequently emerged that Vaze had borrowed the car in November and returned it to Hiran before the Antilia incident came to light on February 25.NIA took over the explosives case on March 8 and Vaze was arrested on March 13. The agency took over the murder case on March 24 and Vaze was named the main accused in Hiran’s killing too.To contain the damage, the Maharashtra government transferred police commissioner Param Bir Singh, alleging mismanagement of the case. He subsequently wrote a letter to the chief minister, alleging that home minister Anil Deshmukh had instructed Vaze and some other Mumbai Police officers to extort ₹100 crore from bars, restaurants and hookah parlours. When no action was taken, Singh approached the courts.The Bombay high court eventually asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the matter, prompting Deshmukh’s resignation. Accordingly, the central agency conducted the inquiry and registered an offence against Deshmukh on April 24.Meanwhile, NIA sources said the six new handkerchiefs, which were found stuffed in Hiran’s mouth when his body was recovered, were purportedly purchased from a vendor outside Kalwa railway station on March 4.The source said NIA has seized CCTV footage capturing a person purchasing the handkerchiefs and he looked like Vaze.NIA has already secured the CCTV footage in which Vaze is seen travelling from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus towards Thane by train in the evening of March 4, although he maintained that he was at the criminal intelligence unit (CIU), which he headed at the time. NIA and Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) officers – who were probing the cases before the federal agency took over – claim that Vaze had met Hiran at Thane before the latter was allegedly kidnapped and smothered in a car at Gaimukh Chowpatty on Ghodbunder Road. His body was later dumped in the creek.The NIA officer said the agency has found technical evidence suggesting that Mane was present in Thane when Mansukh was allegedly smothered. The agency has been scrutinizing Mane’s phone call details to find out who he was in touch with before and after the Antilia scare and Hiran’s murder.NIA has claimed that Mane was purportedly part of the conspiracy hatched to eliminate Hiran. He was present at CIU office on March 3, when Vaze purportedly tried to convince Hiran to take the blame for placing the explosives-laden Scorpio. According to another NIA officer, Vaze had also assured the trader that he would get him out on bail in a few days. The plan to eliminate Hiran was allegedly hatched after the 48-year-old trader refused to take the blame and get arrested in the case.Apart from Vaze and Mane, NIA has also arrested Vaze’s former colleague at CIU, assistant inspector Riyazuddin Kazi, former policeman Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Gor in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/antilia-case-hiran-murder-papers-found-in-cop-s-mumbai-home-office-says-nia-101619465959150.html
27-04-2021||Other||Test report not essential for hospitalisation: Govt tells Delhi HC||New Delhi: A patient with “steady” symptoms of Covid-19 does not need an RT-PCR test report to get admitted at a hospital in Delhi, the government submitted to the high court on Monday Anuj Aggarwal, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, told a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jasmeet Singh that the government issued an order on April 23, directing the hospitals that all cases of moderate to severe influenza-like illness should be provided treatment in an area dedicated for suspected cases, and no patient should be denied treatment.“It has been informed that many patients with clinical presentation of Influenza-like illness with RT-PCR negative are reporting to hospitals with moderate to severe disease. Dedicated Covid-19 hospitals are denying them admission for want of a positive RT-PCR test. Hospitals are hereby directed that all cases of moderate to severe influenza-like illness should be provided treatment as per protocol in a dedicated area to be kept for suspected cases,” the Delhi government order read, adding that no patient requiring medical aid should be denied treatment”.The submission by the Delhi government came during a hearing on a petition by Jaideep Ahuja seeking directions to the government to order hospitals not to insist on Covid-positive reports to hospitalise patients who show symptoms of the disease.The petitioner told the bench that the Uttar Pradesh government has a direction that hospitals should not insist on RT-PCR positive test reports for admitting patients.The petitioner cited two instances when patients, both lawyers, were not admitted to hospitals because they did not have the Covid-19 positive report despite showing severe symptoms of Covid. The reports of both the patients were held up at the labs, and were not available to them.Advocate Anuj Aggarwal, who was representing the Delhi government, told the court that an order has been issued and hospitals have been strictly asked to comply with the directions.Following this, the bench asked the government to widely publicise the order and ensure that it is scrupulously followed by the hospitals. The court also requested the Delhi government to increase the number of RT-PCR testing centres and to put in place necessary infrastructure to streamline the sample collection process.The direction was issued by the court after several lawyers told the bench that they were facing difficulty in getting tested as labs were saying they will carry out sample collection after 2-3 days. They contended that the number of daily tests have gone down to around 60,000 from the over one lakh tests that were being conducted earlier.Para on testing numbers in Delhi.Expert quote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/test-report-not-essential-for-hospitalisation-govt-tells-delhi-hc-101619464579436.html
27-04-2021||Other||Cops ask court to release remdesivir vials seized from black-marketeers, give them to hospitals||New Delhi: A local court is reviewing a plea by the Delhi Police’s crime branch to allow the release of 93 vials of seized remdesivir so that they can be given to health care facilities or patients, amid a critical shortage and rampant black-marketing of the antiviral drug, which some doctors have prescribed for Covid-19 treatment.Police officers aware of the matter said the Rohini court is likely to decide on the matter after a drug inspector verifies the authenticity of the drugs. The matter is likely to be heard on Tuesday. “We have requested the court to release the seized remdesivir injections to any hospital or NGO so they may reach the patients in need,” said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj.Apart from the crime branch, which seized 93 vials of the drug in three raids between April 21 and 25 from seven alleged hoarders, the south and west district police teams seized nine more vials and arrested five people in connection with the matter on Sunday. Police units of the two districts are also likely to move court for the release of the nine seized vials.“We will soon move an application, seeking the court’s permission to give the seized injections to the drug controller, hospitals or any NGO,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, DCP (south).Amid the unending spate of Covid-19 hospitalisations, the Capital has been hit by a severe shortage of several drugs used to treat Covid-19 patients such as remdesivir, faviprarir and ivermectin, a scarcity that has been exacerbated by hoarders and black-marketeers, with the drugs being at rates 10-15 times their retail value. For instance, HT reported on Monday, a dealer in north Delhi offered to sell a customer a vial of remdesivir, which retails at between ₹900 and ₹3,500, at ₹25,000.“Social media is flooded with SOS messages and contact details of people selling the injections. The problem lies there itself. Patients or their family members bargain with these sellers. The bidding starts at around ₹25,000 for a vial and often stretches to ₹70,000 or ₹80,000, depending on a customer’s desperation,” said a senior police officer.The district police, crime branch and other Delhi Police units have now been directed to keep a vigil on such racketeers.For instance, the seven people arrested by the crime branch were selling each injection for between ₹25,000 and ₹40,000.“Interrogations revealed that they were getting the remdesivir from contacts in Punjab and Haryana. The crime branch teams have been conducting raids in the two states to arrest other racketeers,” Bhardwaj said.The police have also cracked down on hoarders of medical oxygen, which has been critically short in the city as well, forcing hospitals and patients to plead authorities for urgent supplies.On Saturday, a local court sanctioned the release for medical use of 48 cylinders containing 2,300 litres of medical oxygen that the southwest district police seized on Friday from a person in Dashrath Puri near Sagarpur.“Any hospital or NGO that needs the oxygen may approach us with a request letter, along with an affidavit attesting that they will return the cylinders after use. The cylinders will remain with us as case property,” said Ingit Pratap Singh, DCP (southwest).Considering the severity of the pandemic, case property seized in these cases, which may save lives, can be released in favour of the rightful owner or, alternatively, it may be handed over to someone who may need it, said senior advocate Vikas Pahwa.“These injections can also be sold to government hospitals and nursing homes. A magistrate has the power to decide this application at the preliminary stage of the case itself,” he said.Meanwhile, the police on Monday evening arrested two people, one of whom is a nurse who works at a private hospital in Rohini, for allegedly illicitly selling remdesivir injections. Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said they arrested Sudhir (who goes by a single name) and seized two vials of the injection. He was to deliver the two for ₹60,000 each to the complainant. “The role of the nurse emerged upon further investigations. She has been apprehended because Sudhir bought the injections for ₹38,000 each from her,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cops-ask-court-to-release-remdesivir-vials-seized-from-black-marketeers-give-them-to-hospitals-101619464518888.html
27-04-2021||Other||Army to set up 100-bed Covid facility in Mohali||Amid a crippling health infrastructure, the Army will set up a 100-bed facility for Covid-19 patients in Mohali. It will be manned by the Western Command personnel and jointly run by the civil administration and the Army. The technical and specialist manpower will be made available from the Command Hospital, Chandimandir. The decision was taken during a virtual meeting between Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and Lieutenant General RP Singh of the Western Command. The CM said though at present the Covid bed capacity available with the state was sufficient, the situation might change rapidly and thus there may be a requirement for additional beds. Lieutenant General RP Singh assured the CM of necessary assistance.OPD, emergency shifted from civil hospitalMeanwhile, the district health authorities have shifted the out patient department and emergency services from the civil hospital, Phase 6, to the Employees State Insurance (ESI) Hospital in the Industrial Area, Phase 7, with immediate effect. The move will help make space for 40 more Level-2 (oxygen support) beds at the civil hospital, taking the total to 100. At present, all 220 Level-3 (ICU beds with ventilator support) are occupied at private and government facilities in the district, while oxygen beds are also nearing saturation. “A special ward will be set up at the civil hospital to accommodate Covid patients as private hospitals have already run out of the beds. The number of beds will be made available according to the availability of oxygen, doctors and paramedics,” said civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the administration also has around 200 beds at their disposal for setting up an L2 facility at Chandigarh University, Gharuan, subjecte to the availability of doctors and paramedics. Meanwhile, the administration has asked private hospitals to expand their L3 bed capacity, he said. None of the nine government hospitals in the district has ICU beds.District admn constitutes oxygen audit teams In the wake of unprecedented demand for oxygen, the district administration on Monday also constituted 15 oxygen audit teams. Dayalan said an oxygen monitoring committee is already operational and the new teams will give regular updates to it . Comprising three members each, including medical and police officials, the teams will work 24x7 to ensure daily audit of all Covid hospitals in the district. They will liaison with hospitals and ensure that they maintain two-hourly oxygen saturation chart of every patient so that requirement per patient is assessed and the monitoring committee can keep a tab on medical oxygen consumption of each hospital. The teams will also ensure timely shifting of recovered patients from L3 to L2 or L1 facilities, so that more L3 beds are available for critical patients. ‘No crisis-like situation in Panchkula’A day after Panchkula district reported 100% Covid bed occupancy, deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar designated Mamta Sharma, estate officer, Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran, Panchkula, as the nodal officer for bed and oxygen supply management in the district. Executive engineer, HSVP, NK Payal will assist her.“So far, there is no crisis-like situation, as beds are available and no problem has been reported. However, we are making a plan to deal with the situation, in case the number of cases rise,” said Sharma.According to data shared by the authorities on Monday, all 62 ventilator beds were occupied in the district, while 12% oxygen and 37% non-oxygen beds were still available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/army-to-set-up-100-bed-covid-facility-in-mohali-101619464464070.html
27-04-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Two held for circulating objectionable photos of PM||On the instructions of senior officials, the cyber cell police have tightened monitoring of social media to curb rumours and posts on the platforms that may cause tension and disturbance. On Sunday night, the Colonelganj police arrested two youths for posting a doctored photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with objectionable comments on WhatsApp groups. SHO Colonelganj Inspector Vinit Singh said police received information that Sachin Gupta and Anshu Gupta of Katra have forwarded objectionable photos of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP’s logo along with some derogatory comments. Katra police outpost in charge Dhirendra Singh lodged an FIR against the duo under IT Act 65, 66, IPC section 505-1 and other relevant sections of the IPC at Colonelganj police station. The police have arrested Anshu and Sachin in a raid carried out on Sunday night. They informed police that they edited the photograph of the Prime Minister and forwarded it to many WhatApp groups just for fun. However, their act caused tension among locals, SHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-two-held-for-circulating-objectionable-photos-of-pm-101619463918853.html
27-04-2021||Other||Ventilators gathering dust: MP writes to Yogi||LUCKNOW Mohanlalganj MP Kaushal Kishore has alleged in a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath that ventilators are gathering dust in hospitals when they are required to be used for saving lives. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP also claimed in the letter that the Balrampur hospital administration was not admitting patients in the hospital due to “lack of manpower” and “spoiling” the name of the chief minister by not using these ventilators for saving lives. “Instead of lying unused, these ventilators must be used for saving lives which is the need of the hour,” he further said in the letter. No official of Balrampur hospital was willing to come on record over the issue. Chief medical officer (Lucknow) Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar said, “The issue is dealt by the Balrampur hospital administration who decided utilising the resources.” In the letter, the MP also highlighted what he described as the sorry state of treatment in King George’s Medical University. The MP’s letter also said a couple of heads of department never did duty in the wards, but they were busy highlighting themselves in the media. “A number of beds are lying vacant in these departments so there is a need to do the audit of bed occupancy of the last 20 days,” he said. He also said a number of beds were lying vacant on the fourth floor of the Covid hospital in KGMU, where patients can be admitted after arranging oxygen supply for them. Meanwhile, insiders and family members patients alleged only seven of the 28 ventilators in Balrampur Hospital were operational. A resident of Golaganj, whose mother is admitted in Balrampur Hospital in a serious condition, said, “I am surprised that despite having a number of ventilators, the hospital is operating just seven of them. The patients who require ventilators are left at the mercy of God. It seems human lives have no value.” A hospital insider said, “Yes, as many as 28 ventilators arrived in the hospital last year after the onslaught of corona, but they are lying unused because no one was trained to operate them, and no one wanted to take responsibility for operating these ventilators during such testing times.” People familiar with matter said Lokbandhu Hospital had 18 ventilators but only four of them were operational because the hospital did not have the trained manpower to use these hi-tech ventilators which could save a number of lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ventilators-gathering-dust-mp-writes-to-yogi-101619462418436.html
