28-04-2021||Other||Mohali leads in vaccination drive in Punjab, farm stir slowed some districts||Home to the highest number of active Covid-19 cases among 22 districts of Punjab, SAS Nagar has earned a distinction on the vaccination front. The district is leading by having administered the highest per million (10 lakh) doses in the first phase of inoculation against the deadly Coronavirus. According to data available on the Co-WIN application till April 28, SAS Nagar (Mohali) has administered nearly 2.36 lakh doses per million population in the district, followed by 2.12 lakh in Pathankot and 2.03 lakh in Gurdaspur. In absolute numbers, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Ludhiana districts have administered higher number of vaccines than Mohali, but in terms of the proportion of population of the district, it has emerged the leader. At least five panchayats in Mohali, Tarouli, Rasoolpur, Barsalpur, Madanheri and Bahadurgarh have achieved 100% vaccination, with all eligible persons above 45 having taken the jab. Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan has appreciated this, saying that the targets were achieved at a time when the health workers were under pressure, with high positivity rate being reported from across the state. “Initially, vaccine hesitancy was quite high but then we followed the Lok Sanjhedaari model and collaborated with religious, political and industrial leaders. Day and night camps were also held. Our vaccine wastage of less than 1% is also the lowest in the state,” said Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. The laggard districts Mansa, Sangrur and Ferozepur districts have fared the worst in vaccination. In Mansa, the vaccination per million to date is 61,359; Sangrur stands at 68,771 with Ferozepur at 75,610. Mansa chief medical officer Dr Sukhwinder Singh said the biggest reason behind the low vaccination coverage has been the reluctance of farmer groups. He added that when the drive was started in January, farm groups had told them they wouldn’t wear masks or take the vaccine shots. “We faced major hurdles in carrying out vaccination. Finally, we reached out to religious and social leaders to motivate people. With a deadlier strain now claiming lives, residents of the district are coming forward for vaccination and testing,” the CMO added. The farmers’ agitation was also the biggest hindrance in vaccination not taking off in Sangrur, with an official saying that residents told them that they did not believe in a virus and that the vaccine was a ploy of some sort by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to weaken their agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-leads-in-vaccination-drive-in-punjab-farm-stir-slowed-some-districts-101619634100602.html
28-04-2021||Other||Stage set for final phase of UP panchayat polls today||Voting in the fourth and final phase of the Uttar Pradesh panchayat elections will be held on Thursday, even as the Covid-19 second wave surges. Over 5.27 lakh candidates are in the fray for more than 2.10 lakh seats across 17 districts in this round of the election.The state election commission in a statement said: “More than 2.98 crore voters will cast their votes in the fourth and last phase of the polls which will be held from 7 am to 6 pm.” In the first phase of the polls held on April 15, an average polling percentage of 71 was recorded. The second phase of the polls on April 19 also saw over 71% of polling.In the third phase of the polls held on April 26, a polling percentage of 73.5 was recorded.The 17 districts going to polls are: Ambedkar Nagar, Aligarh, Kushinagar, Kaushambi, Ghazipur, Farrukhabad, Bulandshahr, Basti, Bahraich, Banda, Mau, Mathura, Shahjahanpur, Sambhal, Sitapur, Sonbhadra and Hapur.The SEC statement said that there are 10,679 candidates in the fray for 738 posts of zila panchayat members in the final phase. A total of 55,408 candidates are contesting for 18,356 posts of kshetra panchayat members. Meanwhile, 1,14,400 candidates are in the fray for posts of gram panchayat members, 3,47,436 contestants are fighting for 1,77,648 posts in gram panchayat wards, it said.The candidates will contest on ‘free symbols’ given by the State Election Commission.Meanwhile, more than 170 people, including three candidates for village pradhan posts (gram panchayat), have been charged under the Disaster Management Act, for flouting Covid-19 protocols, at police stations Lodha, Gangiri and Iglas in the past 24 hours.“All the three candidates were holding rallies and processions wherein none of the participants were wearing masks,” Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police, Aligarh, said in a statement in Aligarh.In view of the coronavirus situation, the SEC had last month announced that not more than five people will be allowed to accompany a candidate during door-to-door campaigning for panchayat elections.At the district level, chief medical officers have been made nodal officers to emphasise on following the Covid-19 protocol.Voters will mandatorily have to wear masks and maintain social distancing at polling booths. Instructions have also been issued to make circles maintaining a distance of six feet between voters standing in the queue.The counting of votes will take place on May 2.(With agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stage-set-for-final-phase-of-up-panchayat-polls-today-101619630738600.html
28-04-2021||Other||Now, pilot escort for Oxygen express||The Indian Railways has decided to escort all Oxygen tanker-carrying special trains under South Eastern Railway (SER) zone and enhance strategic force deployment in wake of the recent Maoist sabotage of rail track on Howrah-Mumbai main line, especially after investigation found that highly explosive ammonium nitrate was used in the blast, senior Railway security officials said on Wednesday.“We are providing pilot escort by light engine to all Oxygen Express trains in Chakradharpur and Kharagpur divisions, as Oxygen is now a national requirement. All passengers trains will also be escorted at strategic timings. We are also enhancing strategic deployment of forces, intensive patrolling and boosting up intelligence sharing with state police,” DB Kasar, SER chief security commissioner cum RPF IG, said.Members of banned extremist faction CPI(Maoist) on Monday blew one meter of rail track on Howrah-Mumbai main line between Sonua and Lotapahar stations under Chakradharpur division of SER.Earlier in the day, Kasar inspected the blast site and was scheduled to have a series of meetings with Railway, RPF and state police officers in the next two days.“A comprehensive investigation is going on, as prima facie looked to be a part of larger game plan involving Maoist massacre of 22 CRPF jawans in Chhattisgarh, support to farmers’ protest etc. The banners and pamphlets clearly mentioned both,” said Kasar.Another senior railway security officer said the blasting on the rail track came off as a major concern because preliminary investigation found that they used highly explosive ammonium nitrate instead of steel can IEDs. “The pieces of the track were blown as far as 35m away,” he said.Maoist squads led by Central Committee Member Patiram Majhi alias Anal da, carrying a reward of ₹1 crore on his head, and Suresh Munda, carrying ₹10 lakh reward, are active under Sonua-Chakradharpur belt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-pilot-escort-for-oxygen-express-101619626118424.html
28-04-2021||Other||One V-C, four universities to oversee||PATNAOn Wednesday, SP Singh, vice-chancellor of Lalit Narayan Mishra University (Darbhanga), was given the charge of one more university, Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU), Patna.With this, Singh now holds charge of four universities in the state. AKU became headless after its pro-VC, S M Karim, who was made to officiate as acting V-C by the Raj Bhawan, was reportedly asked to resign over the controversy surrounding the continuance of Rajiv Ranjan as registrar. A few days ago, Karim tendered his resignation after accepting the resignation of the registrar. Raj Bhawan issued the notification Wednesday, accepting Karim’s resignation, and handed over additional charge to SP Singh. The registrar at AKU is also under additional charge from another university. AKU, set up in 2010 to regulate all technical institutions by bringing them under one umbrella, has been without a regular V-C since September 20, 2020, when the term of Arun Kumar Agarwal ended. Since then, Karim had been holding the additional charge of V-C. Earlier, Bihar Raj Bhawan had also given SP Singh the additional charge of Pataliputra University and Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University in Patna in addition to LNMU to make it four. Asked whether it will be tough for him to handle four universities in the midst of the pandemic, Singh said one has to shoulder responsibility when it comes. “I am a performer. In Pataliputra University, I have done what was not done in the last two-and-a-half years. As long as the additional charge is there, I will discharge my duties with full devotion,” he said, after taking charge at AKU. Apart from Singh, TM Bhagalpur University VC Neelima Gupta is also holding the additional charge of Munger University, while BRA Bihar University VC Hanuman Prasad Pandey holds the additional charge of Nalanda Open University (NOU). But then, it is not the first time that any V-C has been given charge of up to four universities in Bihar. It had also happened during the time of former Bihar Governor late Devanand Konwar when the government and the Raj Bhawan were at loggerheads over the appointment of VCs and the matter landed up in the Supreme Court. Advancing summer vacation In view of the pandemic, the LNMU VC and TMBU V-C have moved a proposal to the Raj Bhawan for advancing the summer vacation in universities to May. Earlier, Patna University teachers association and employees association had also approached the VC for it. However, the Raj Bhawan has not yet taken any decision on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-v-c-four-universities-to-oversee-101619625998883.html
28-04-2021||Other||NMCH junior doctors go on strike, their 3rd in a week||PATNAAt a time when the state’s crisis management group (CMG) was discussing on Wednesday ways to tackle the unprecedented phase of the coronavirus pandemic, junior doctors of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMHC), a dedicated Covid hospital in Patna, went on an indefinite strike, their third such stir in a week in protest against the assault on doctors and other staff at the hospital.The junior doctors of the 500-bed government’s premier health institution decided to boycott work after attendants of a Covid-19 patient, who died in course of treatment, allegedly went berserk and assaulted them and other hospital staff on Tuesday night. About 370 Covid patients, most of them under critical care, are undergoing treatment at the NMCH. Junior doctors, numbering around 150, play a crucial role in management of Covid at the hospital, already facing tremendous resource crunch due to heavy load of patients.Health minister Mangal Pandey and principal secretary (health) Pratyay Amrit, refused to respond despite repeated calls. NMCH officials, pleading anonymity, said they were striving hard to win over the agitating doctors to put off their strike during the crisis.One of the attendants, Ashutosh Dubey, said chaos and confusion prevailed in the hospital after PG doctors began refusing to attend on critical patients despite repeated pleas. “Oxygen supply to beds was suspended for some time in the night as well. However, it was restored soon on intervention of senior doctors and NMCH management,” he said.This is the third time this week when junior doctors, who are doing PG courses, went on flash strike, demanding safety and security on the campus. The junior doctors and subordinate doctors allege that they were often abused and assaulted by kin of the patients.Junior doctors’ association president Ram Chandra claimed situation at the NMCH was not improving despite announcements and assurances from the minister concerned and senior officers. “We will not resume work until the health minister and principal secretary, health, visit the NMCH and fulfilled their demands,” said Chandra.The junior doctors have been demanding immediate deployment of paramilitary forces, appointment of doctors and other health staff like nurses and ward boys as per requirement and availability of proper medical infrastructure.Meanwhile, with 13,374 new cases of Covid-infection detected in the last 24 hour, total number of active cases in Bihar has mounted to 98,747 on Wednesday. Chief minister Nitish Kumar expressed his grief over the demise of Pankaj Kumar Singh, director of industries department, due to Covid. He was undergoing treatment at a government hospital where he was admitted in a serious condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nmch-junior-doctors-go-on-strike-their-3rd-in-a-week-101619625938384.html
28-04-2021||Other||4 siblings die as fire ravages house in Patna||PatnaThree sisters and their brother were killed after fire broke out in their house in Patna district on Wednesday, police said.The incident happened around 9 am in Alauddin Chak village in the Punpun police station area when the siblings were cooking while their parents were away.Their house suddenly caught fire and all of them were charred to death, police said.The deceased were identified as Dolly (12), Rakhi (8), Aarti (6) and Ankit (4).During the incident, their father Chhotu Paswan and his wife were working in the field.Chief minister Nitish Kumar expressed condolence on the deaths and announced ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh for each of those killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-siblings-die-as-fire-ravages-house-in-patna-101619625939047.html
28-04-2021||Other||Work for setting up 500-bed Covid hospital begins in Panipat||Work for setting up of the 500-bed temporary hospital for Covid-19 patients began near the Indian Oil Corporation’s Panipat refinery on Wednesday.The hospital is being set up by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in collaboration with the Haryana government.As per officials, 250-bed hospital will be set up in the first phase and the second phase of the 250-bed hospital will be set up later. As per a tweet of Haryana health minister Anil Vij, the Army’s Western Command has been asked to provide doctors and other medical staff for the facilities.Officials said that material has already reached and hundreds of labourers and employees will continue for 24 hours in shifts. The first phase of the hospital will be made operational in the next 10 days and the second phase will start admitting patients in the third week of May.The hospital is being set up near the Panipat refinery due the availability of oxygen within the plant. The hospital will have a direct pipeline from the refinery for uninterrupted oxygen supply. He said that work for setting up of an underground oxygen pipeline will start from Friday.Panipat deputy commissioner Dharmender Singh said that all other formalities for supply of electricity, drinking water, and toilets are being made and an agency for management of the biomedical waste has been hired.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/work-for-setting-up-500-bed-covid-hospital-begins-in-panipat-101619621439189.html
28-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana records 13 deaths, highest single-day toll this year||Thirteen people lost their battle to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours even as 1, 136 more tested positive for the virus, health officials said on Tuesday. This is the highest single-day toll of the year so far. The previous high was recorded on March 30 when 11 persons died due to the infection. On April 26, April 24, April 19 and March 28, Ludhiana had recorded 10 deaths each. On all other days this year, the death count remained in single digit. The all-time high of deaths was recorded during the first wave when the district recorded 18 deaths each on August 31 and September 3. The district’s toll currently stands at 1, 322 while the cumulative tally of cases is 51,492. There are 7, 462 active cases in Ludhiana at present. Mounting cases put stress on medical infra The rising cases are mounting pressure on the medical infrastructure of the district. Currently, 1, 094 beds in private hospitals and 119 in government hospitals are occupied by Covid patients. As many as 31 patients are also on ventilator support at government hospitals, a sharp rise from Monday’s figure of 24. Those who succumbed to the virus on Tuesday include seven men and six women, the youngest being a 39-year-old male resident of Madhopuri. Of these, most of the deaths were reported from rural areas. Among the women who died are an 88-year-old from Udham Singh Nagar, an 80-year-old from Sherpur, a 75-year-old from Subhash Nagar, a 60-year-old resident of Shivpuri, a 59-year-old resident of Basant Nagar and a 45-year-old from Dashmesh Nagar. The men who died, besides the 39-year-old, have been identified as a 68-year-old resident of Aman Nagar, a 67-year-old of Ghungrana village, a 63-year-old resident of Jugiana village, a 58-year-old resident of Macchiwara, a 51-year-old resident of New Satnam Nagar and a 50-year-old resident of Azad Nagar. Bittu takes stock of isolation wards Lok Sabha Member of Parliament Ravneet Singh Bittu on Tuesday visited the Ludhiana civil hospital and took stock of the isolation wards and beds there. After holding a meeting with officials at the Civil Hospital, Bittu inspected isolation wards and all essential equipment being used for treatment of Covid patients. He also asked the drug department to keep a check on the alleged hoarding of oxygen and other essential drugs and said this will be dealt with a heavy hand and the perpetrators of this heinous crime must be brought to book.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-records-13-deaths-highest-single-day-toll-this-year-101619564254104.html
28-04-2021||Other||Patients with mild symptoms don’t need CT scan, say experts||With the second wave hitting the district, as well as the country, with more vengeance, Sanjivani Group, in association with the Ludhiana administration, took to social media on Tuesday to dispel misinformation surrounding the virus and its treatment. They also guided patients in home isolation on how to improve oxygen levels by ‘proning’ (lying on your belly). This, they said, will reduce the load on hospitals.In a Facebook Live session by Sanjivani Group, on the official page of the district public relations officer (DPRO), cardiologist Dr Bishav Mohan, who was the moderator, posed questions on behalf of residents to expert Dr Rajesh Mahajan. RTA secretary Sandeep Singh Garha was also on the expert panel to respond to queries pertaining to the arrangements put in place by the Ludhiana administration.Dr Rajesh Mahajan said Covid patients with mild symptoms do not need a CT-scan after they have undergone an RT-PCR (reverse transcription- polymerase chain reaction) test. He added that they could take multivitamin, vitamin C and simple crocin tablets during their quarantine period with strict monitoring of oxygen level, which should not fall below 95.He said people must continue to wear masks, practice social distancing and hand hygiene to break the transmission chain.Answering to a query of a Covid patient, Dr Mahajan asked him to wear a face-mask even at home to curtail spreading it to anyone who has recovered from the disease, and wait for four weeks before getting the Covid jab.Dr Mahajan also spoke about proning to improve oxygen levels. He added that lying face down was known as proning which was a medically accepted position to improve comfort and oxygenation. He said that if the oxygen level drops below 94, a patient in home isolation must lie on their belly as the position improves ventilation.Expert also said that home isolation patients must practice proning by learning the correct way from their doctors.Meanwhile, RTA secretary Sandeep Garha said the administration was adopting an effective mechanism for patients in home-isolation. He added that the department’s staff members call them every day to enquire about their health status, including oxygen levels, fever, cough or other symptoms so that in case anyone develops serious issues, they can be shifted to nearby health centres.Helpline numbersResidents can reach out to the administration on helpline numbers: (6284912553) for beds, (7837018500 and 0161-2421091) for oxygen, (9814718704) and (6284531852) for any kind of psychological help for Covid patients and state health helpline 104.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patients-with-mild-symptoms-don-t-need-ct-scan-say-experts-101619556152592.html
28-04-2021||Other||Ambulance fares in Ludhiana fixed to check overcharging||The traffic police and the regional transport authorities held a meeting with private ambulance operators on Tuesday after complaints regarding them fleecing the Covid-19 patients and the kin of the deceased poured in from various quarters.Regional Transport Authority (RTA) secretary Sandeep Singh and assistant commissioner of police (ACP, traffic) Gurdev Singh warned the ambulance operators against overcharging for carrying patients and bodies of the deceased.The ACP said that with the consent of ambulance operators, they had fixed the maximum fare for 25 km at ₹2,500. After 25km, the operator can charge ₹12 per km. Similarly, for ventilator-fitted ambulances, the maximum charges for 25km have been fixed at ₹5,000. After 25km, the operators can charge ₹25 per km.The ACP and the RTA secretary said that the people can file complaints against the ambulance operators for over-charging. The police will take stern action against them.On Monday, two families of Covid-19 victims were forced to take bodies of their kin to the cremation ground in an auto-rickshaw and cycle rehri after a private ambulance operator demanded ₹3,500 to 4,000 from them for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ambulance-fares-in-ludhiana-fixed-to-check-overcharging-101619555072445.html
28-04-2021||Other||Hospitals not to release bodies without ambulance: Ludhiana admn||Facing flak after two families were forced to take the bodies of Covid patients, aged 76 and 60, on a cycle rehra and in an auto-rickshaw for cremation to Dholewal ground on Monday, the administration instructed hospitals to not hand over the bodies to family members until an ambulance is made available.The decision was taken during the meeting of a committee formed by deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma to ensure necessary arrangements are in place for the last rites of Covid victims. The committee is head by municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, who conducted a meeting with the MC staff on Tuesday.During the meeting, the department also decided to set up a control room at the civil hospital to arrange ambulances to carry bodies. Videos of family members taking the bodies in a cycle rehra and auto rickshaw had gone viral on social media sites on Monday, following which the administration swung into action. The family members of the victims said ambulance drivers were demanding up to ₹3, 500 for ferrying the bodies.According to Covid protocol, employees or volunteers wearing PPE kits are supposed to ferry the bodies to cremation grounds. Carrying bodies in auto rickshaws and cycle rehras increase the chances of infection among the others.MC secretary Jasdev Sekhon said the cremation of Covid victims is being carried out at three cremation sites in city -- Dholewal area, Model Town extension and cremation ground near Arora palace on Gill road. The MC has also identified five more cremation grounds for the cremation of Covid victims, if the need arises. These include a ground in Barewal area, another one behind KVM School, Daresi area, near Gaughat Gurdwara and Jamalpur area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-admin-instructs-hospitals-against-releasing-bodies-sans-ambulance-101619554772338.html
28-04-2021||Other||Sikh bodies to protest against quashing of SIT report on April 30||Sikh bodies under the leadership of former Akal Takht jathedar Bhai Ranjit Singh will protest against the quashing of the special investigation team (SIT) report on the Kotkapura firing incident in 2015 on April 30. The Punjab and Haryana high court had delivered this judgment. Interacting with reporters at the Amb Sahib Gurudwara in Mohali on Tuesday, Singh said, “We will start our protest from Kotkapura on April 30, where we will burn the copies of judgment.” The former jathedar claimed, “We will burn copies of the judgement at all district headquarters and the central event would be held at Kotkapura Chowk, where these incidents happened six years ago. I appeal to political, social, religious groups of all shades to come together and send a stern warning to powers that be. Since the 1980s, successive governments in India have been meddling in Sikh religious affairs.” He alleged that the Badals were voluntarily playing into the hands of the establishment to enjoy power, perks and privileges. Former leader of opposition MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira claimed, “Our protest is on the lines of farmers burning copies of the three farm laws in Punjab. It’s a democratic form of protest as this judgement has dashed all hopes of justice of the aggrieved family and community.” Former Punjab finance minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa said the CM apart from doing lip service isn’t at all interested in delivering justice to aggrieved family and community. Others present were Hardeep Singh Dibdiba; Sukhraj Singh, son of victim of Behbal Kalan firing; Joga Singh Chappar; Sikh preacher Dapali; MLA Pirmal Singh; MLA Jagdev Singh Kamalu and former MLA Ranjit Singh Talwandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sikh-bodies-to-protest-against-quashing-of-sit-report-on-april-30-101619552492154.html
28-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana night curfew: People rush home, shops down shutters as clock strikes 6||A 1, 500-strong police force and around 50 personnel from the quick response team (QRT) got into action mode on Tuesday evening to enforce the 6pm-curfew in keeping with the state government’s latest directives to curb the spread of Covid-19 infections. Though the curfew was to begin at 6pm, shopkeepers were to bring their shutters down by 5pm. Most shopkeepers at Chaura Bazar, Books Market, Ghumar Mandi, Jawahar Nagar Camp, Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, Model Town and Sarabha Nagar were seen pulling the shutters down on their own but at some places, there was confusion over the timings, with many shopkeepers under the impression that they could operate till 6pm. But once the curfew kicked in, all prominent markets wore a deserted look and only a few people were seen walking on the streets.Joint commissioner of police (JCP, headquarters) J Elanchezian said that earlier the cops were getting shops closed at 8pm but on Tuesday, they began the drive at 5pm.“Checkpoints were also installed at various locations in the city for proper enforcement of night curfew. Action will be taken against residents found violating the orders,” he said while adding that only chemist shops and hospitals are allowed to operate after 5pm.Ajay Kumar, a garment shop owner in Chaura Bazar, said that at 5pm sharp, cops came and asked them to close their shops. “We thought the curfew would start at 6pm. We didn’t even get time to pack up properly,” he said. Jagjit Singh, an eatery owner near Old Session Chowk said, “We had to close our shop too early. Usually, people visit the shop in the evening to eat. The restrictions have brought our earnings down by at least 90%.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-night-curfew-people-rush-home-shops-down-shutters-as-clock-strikes-6-101619552372115.html
28-04-2021||Other||Realty crisis: 108K units remain unsold in Mumbai||The real estate sector continues to stagnate in Mumbai as a staggering 108,929 housing units remain unsold in the city. From January to March, 6,780 housing units were launched in Mumbai, of which 5,775 houses were sold. As an average of 1,908 housing units is sold every month in Mumbai, it will take at least 57 months to sell its unsold inventory, according to a study conducted by real estate research firm Liases Foras, which pointed out the realty sector’s grim situation, especially amid the second wave of Covid-19 lockdown, where the entire sector has been paralysed. In any realty market, the ideal inventory should not be above 15-20 months. According to Pankaj Kapoor, managing director, Liases Foras, this huge inventory is a cause of worry. “The second wave of Covid-19 will only make things difficult for the real estate sector as the sales volume will decrease significantly,” said Kapoor, adding, “In addition, the state government has made things more difficult by withdrawing the stamp duty cut in March-end. The stamp duty cut had helped drive the sales in the past few months,” he added. The Builders’ Association of India (BAI) said both slowdown and government policies have caused havoc in the realty sector, resulting in the piling up of such a huge inventory. “There was an economic slowdown in the past few years which slowed down our sales considerably. In addition to it, the government levied huge premiums and taxes, forcing us to hike the real estate prices, which drove homebuyers away from the market,” said Anand Gupta, chairman, BAI (housing and RERA committee). “Just as things were looking up, the second Covid-19 wave and the subsequent lockdown again dissuaded homebuyers from buying properties,” he added. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) region, which along with Mumbai includes Navi Mumbai, Thane and Raigad, also has an unsold inventory of 286,992 units. It will take at least 48 months to clear MMR’s inventory, given that approximately 6,000 units are sold monthly. Paras Gundecha, founder of Gundecha Group – one of the leading real estate firms – said that the coming days may not be good for the realty sector. “The real estate sector is driven by sentiments, and currently we are witnessing a negative sentiment all across. We will face difficult times in the coming days due to the Covid-19 wave, and for this, the government needs to give us incentives like re-imposing the stamp duty cut,” said Gundecha. The real estate industry in the past few years has been going through a recessionary phase. Builders raised realty prices to unaffordable levels, forcing many buyers to postpone their plans to purchase. In addition, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), as a cautionary exercise, laid down stringent lending norms. However last year, the Covid-19 pandemic caused an upheaval in realty market, with sales plummeting considerably. Last August, the government announced its decision to reduce stamp duty levied on sales of apartments to 2% from September 1 to December 31, 2020, and then hike it to 3% from January 1 till March 31, 2021. The move had played a huge role in boosting sales of both primary and secondary market. However, after March end, the government refused to extend this scheme despite the real estate sector’s plea. The second wave of Covid-19 then hit the country, bringing more distress for the sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/realty-crisis-108k-units-remain-unsold-in-mumbai-101619552012885.html
28-04-2021||Other||Wheat stubble burning starts in Malwa, experts warn covid scenario could worsen||As wheat harvesting season draws to a close in Punjab, 84 fire farms have been reported from south Malwa districts since April 15, even as the practice is banned. Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) data shows that Mansa reported 25 rabi crop farm fires between April 15-25, the highest among seven the southern districts in the state. Bathinda and Fazilka have recorded 16 each, followed by Faridkot (10), Moga (8), Ferozepur (9) and Muktsar (2).Sources said the cases may increase in the next few weeks before paddy transplantation begins, also claiming that the number might be higher, as the data is based on satellite imageries taken by the State Remote Sensing Centre and some fires might have escaped its radar. PPCB state nodal officer Ashok Sharma said in the corresponding last year, no major incident was reported due to the climatic conditions. “Around April 13 last year, parts of Punjab had witnessed spells of rain and hailstorm, and it had delayed harvest. The PPCB started monitoring fires on April 15. Data has been sent to the field staff for cross-verification and to fine the erring farmers,” Sharma added. Bathinda chief agriculture officer (CAO) Bahadur Singh Sidhu said nothing alarming has been noticed. “Wheat stubble is used to make dry fodder for cattle, and few farmers burn only leftover roots. These roots can be easily mixed into the soil, but some farmers find it easier to burn it,” he said.33 INSTANCES IN SANGRURSangrur district has reported 33 cases of wheat residue burning to date, even as the state is battling covid-19 pandemic. The smoke due to stubble burning is likely to worsen the respiratory disease in patients. Farmers claim that if they do not burn the wheat crop residue, their fields will consume more water during preparation for next crop. “Farmers are helpless and have to burn stubble. If the government takes action, we will oppose it,” said Gobinder Singh, Sangrur block chief of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan). PPCB executive engineer Rajeev Gupta said no challans had been issued yet. Sangrur chief agriculture officer Jaswinder Pal Singh Grewal said it was irresponsible of farmers to burn crop residue. “There is no need to burn wheat residue, as it can be managed easily. Nodal officers are looking into the matter,” added Grewal. Dr Rahul Gupta, of Sangrur civil hospital, said the residue burning practice is harmful amid Covid-19 pandemic as the smoke affects throat and lungs. “People suffering from asthma and old allergies are prone to covid infection and residue burning precipitates it. This time, covid patients are coming in large numbers from villages. If stubble burning cases increase, the number of covid patients will also rise,” added Dr Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wheat-stubble-burning-starts-in-malwa-experts-warn-covid-scenario-could-worsen-101619552012424.html
28-04-2021||Other||Study group to look into litigation by school staff in Maharashtra||With a large number of cases pertaining to service conditions, salaries and other issues of teachers and non-teaching staff of schools in the Maharashtra being filed in various courts, the state government has now formed a study group to look into the common areas of dispute. The education department announced the formation of the study group in a government resolution (GR) dated April 26. As per the GR, the study group was formed in light of the “confusion and miscommunication” caused among the government officials while representing various cases filed by school staff. “The government pleader representing the state and in turn the school education department’s officers in each such case are usually not the same. On many occasions, it is observed that there is a lack of coordination among the officers of the department giving instructions to such government pleaders, and resultantly, such submissions are made on behalf of the state government by such government pleaders in similar matters, which are substantially inconsistent,” stated the GR. With similar cases being filed by staffers and in light of the inconsistency in response from the government, the Bombay high court had vide its order dated April 1 observed, “Once the position of law is laid down by this court and if the state does not challenge the view taken, there is no reason why the state government should not issue clarificatory instructions to its officers to bring the position in consonance with the law laid down.” The government has thus formed a 12-member study group with the joint secretary of the school education department as its chairman. “This study group ought to give suggestions as to how this type of litigation does not arise in the first place. It will also give suggestions as to how in respect of such common disputes, the state government and resultantly, the school education and sports department is able to put up a common as also consistent defence in all such matters, before the hon’ble courts” stated the GR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/study-group-to-look-into-litigation-by-school-staff-101619551951519.html
28-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana cyber cell warns of fake oximeter apps||If you happen to receive a message asking you to download an app from the Google Play Store that can check your blood oxygen level using your phone, then beware! It’s most likely a phishing attack to hijack your biometric as well other confidential data from your cellphone.The police have warned users not to install fake oximeter mobile applications from any links they may have received over email, SMS or social media. According to them, cyber criminals are employing such means to steal personal data and passwords, which can be misused in stealing cash from bank accounts and blackmailing.Amid the ongoing surge in Covid-19 cases, links for downloading such applications are doing the rounds on various social networking sites.Cyber cell-1 in-charge inspector Pawan Kumar said that they found such dubious apps and consulted medical experts about their authenticity. The experts claimed that phones cannot measure blood oxygen levels as they have no physical SpO2 blood oxygen sensor.Kumar said that after downloading such apps, the users are asked to put their finger on the rear camera of their phone. “These apps steal biometric details such as fingerprints. Some applications also claim to measure body temperature, heartbeats and even blood pressure to trap the users,” he added.“Cyber criminals have also launched other phishing applications such as pink WhatsApp to defraud the users. We advise all not to download such apps,” he said.Perils of video chat with strangers Sub-inspector Jatinder Singh, in-charge of cyber cell-2, said that fraudsters are trapping people through video calls too.“Cyber criminals, including women, honey trap phone users by sending them friend requests and ask them to video chat with them. The fraudsters then record these videos, morph them, and blackmail people to extort money from them,” he said.The police have received some complaints regarding such fraud and are investigating the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-cyber-cell-warns-of-fake-oximeter-apps-101619551832059.html
28-04-2021||Other||4-MW waste-to-energy plant at Deonar: Mumbaiites oppose plan||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s proposal to set up a 4-megawatt (4MW) waste-to-energy (WTE) plant at the Deonar dumping ground was largely met with objections from citizens and experts, during an online public hearing on Tuesday, organised as per the procedure for obtaining environmental clearance (EC). Several attendees also raised objections as a copy of the draft environment impact assessment (EIA) report has not been shared publicly, as per the rules of the Environment Impact Assessment Notification (2006), for the project. “Central guidelines clearly state that the full EIA report is to be shared publicly in multiple languages, 30 days before the public hearing. This is a crucial step towards educating people about the projected benefits and pitfalls of a certain project, which has been completely sidestepped by BMC. How are stakeholders expected to make their decisions based on incomplete information,” said Shweta Bhatt, director (conservation) of Conservation Action Trust. The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has only shared an executive summary of the EIA report on its website. As per the document, the project is being executed at a cost of ₹504 crore. An environment management plan (EMP) has also been drawn up with a capital cost of ₹ 815 lakh and recurring cost annual cost of ₹96 lakh. “An additional air pollution control plan has also been put in place with a budget of ₹25 crore,” said Minesh Pimple from BMC’s solid waste management department. In response to citizens’ objections, Pimple said BMC will be putting up a copy of the full draft EIA report under the ‘solid waste management’ section of its website. “The executive summary covers the project in totality. But as some people are seeking more technical information, the full report is being uploaded on our website. Any inquiries based on that should be directed to us by Monday [May 3],” he added. Bhatt, among other attendees, also pointed out that the WTE model has seen little success as well as public resistance in other parts of the country. “This model incentivises the production of waste instead of focusing on-source segregation. Across Europe, WTE plants are being shut down because they emit carcinogenic dioxins and furans. In India, the calorific value of waste is low, making it unsuitable for incineration and more harmful, emissions wise,” said Sushant Bali, an environmentalist who attended Tuesday’s meeting. Moreover, of the 100-odd attendees who were present during the online hearing, only one, Mejaz Ansari, was a resident of the area. “There are lakhs of people who live near the Deonar garbage dump whose lives are already affected. Most of them will not able to attend online hearings. This public hearing should be delayed till the Covid-19 situation has improved. How can a public hearing be held when the people most directly concerned cannot attend,” said Ansari. BMC officials, however, maintained that the project is essential to tackle Mumbai’s burgeoning waste problem. “People need to understand that our aim is not power generation, but eliminating waste. Take any country in Europe where source segregation is done. It has taken them decades to reach there. The larger public does not follow the solid waste management rules at source, necessitating such an intervention,” said Pimple, clarifying that a second public hearing would not be held, despite citizens’ requests. The Deonar dumping ground is India’s oldest landfill, set up in 1927. Currently, the site receives 800 tonnes of solid mixed waste and 1,200 tonnes of construction and demolition waste each day. As per the summary EIA, “Entire waste is being dumped in an unorganised way. This causes environmental damage, which makes the surrounding areas of Chembur, Govandi and Mankhrud unfit for habitation.” The proposed WTE plant is being built at a budget of just over ₹500 crore, and will produce 4MW of power. BMC’s proposal allows for expansion up to 8MW. An area of 12 hectares has been earmarked within the dumpsite to set up the power plant. The terms of reference were granted by the state environment department last June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4mw-waste-to-energy-plant-at-deonar-mumbaiites-oppose-plan-101619551771556.html
28-04-2021||Other||Constituents in distress, UP lawmakers press for oxygen supply||Cutting across party lines and looking out for the interests of their constituents with less than a year to go for the state assembly elections, lawmakers in Uttar Pradesh have urged the state government to expedite the supply of oxygen to hospitals in their respective districts to save the lives of Covid-19 patients.In a tweet, former Uttar Pradesh finance minister and Bharatiya Janata Party’s Bareilly Cantonment MLA Rajesh Agarwal urged chief minister Yogi Adityanath to ensure the supply of oxygen to hospitals in Bareilly district.Bareilly should not be considered less important than Lucknow and Gorakhpur divisions, he said, adding that the hospitals in Bareilly required 25-30 MT (metric tonnes) of oxygen daily. The chief minister’s office should give orders for the supply of oxygen to districts located in Bareilly division, he said.Jawahar Lal Rajput, the BJP MLA from Garautha assembly constituency in Jhansi, said the hospitals in Jhansi were facing an oxygen crisis. There was an immediate need of oxygen to save lives, he added.“I have written a letter to the chief minister and informed the officers in the chief minister’s office as well. On Monday, I talked to chief secretary RK Tiwari to expedite the supply of oxygen to Jhansi (from the stock) that Uttar Pradesh has received from Bokaro (Jharkhand) and the central government,” he said.Rajput said that in order to expedite the supply of oxygen to hospitals in the seven districts of Bundelkhand region, the state government should run an Oxygen Express train to the oxygen plant at Rourkela Steel Plant in Odisha.“In comparison to Bokaro, it will take less time to get lifesaving oxygen from the Rourkela Steel Plant for the Bundelkhand region,” he said.BJP MLA from Bairia seat in Ballia Surendra Singh said, “I have sent a letter to the chief minister to ensure the rapid supply of oxygen to hospitals in Ballia district. The hospitals in the districts are facing an acute oxygen crisis. The lives of a large number of patients are at risk. Rather than centralized supply from Lucknow, the state government should decentralize the oxygen supply across the state. The Oxygen Express and tankers should unload oxygen in east UP, rather than in Lucknow. Valuable time will be lost in the supply of oxygen from Lucknow to the other districts,” he said.Leader of Opposition and Samajwadi Party (SP) MLA from Bansdih in Ballia Ram Govind Chaudhary said, “I am regularly drawing the attention of the state government toward the oxygen crisis not only in Ballia, but also in various other districts of the state. I have told the chief minister that officers are misguiding him and giving wrong data regarding supply of oxygen to various districts. Since Saturday, the officers are saying that oxygen is reaching the hospitals in east UP. Three days have passed, but oxygen has not reached the hospitals. The state government should take the Opposition into confidence, hold meetings and make the oxygen supply transparent to instill confidence among the people,” he said.Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA from Bhinga Aslam Raini said, “I am writing letters regularly to the chief minister’s office to draw attention to the lack of health facilities in the hospitals in Shravasti, Balrampur and Bahraich districts. The government and private hospitals located in these three districts are facing oxygen shortage and several patients have died. The supply of oxygen by road to districts in the Terai region of UP will take time. The state government should airlift oxygen cylinders to the airstrips and helipads in the area for quick supply.”UP Congress Committee president and MLA from Tamukhiraj in Kushinagar Ajay Kumar Lallu said his party had been drawing the state government’s attention to the “oxygen crisis” following a surge in Covid-19 cases. “The districts in east UP and hospitals located in the far-flung areas are the worst affected. The coronavirus infection has spread in the rural areas. The patients admitted in the community health centres require oxygen. The Congress government in Chhattisgarh has sent oxygen tankers to a private hospital in Lucknow,” he said. For his part, Congress MLC Deepak Singh on Tuesday said he committed his legislators’ fund for Covid management, especially for oxygen and ventilators for Amethi district.“I wrote to the district authorities asking them to purchase and install oxygen concentrators. Also, I have asked them for the training of staff for handling the ventilators,” he added.Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) national secretary Anil Dubey said, “We do not have any legislators (MLA or MLC), but I wrote to the chief minister, demanding oxygen supply, especially allowing cylinders to the individuals and also removing the rider of CMO’s referral for admissions to Covid hospitals.”Samajwadi Party MLC Udaiveer Singh said: “This government, its ministers, and district officials are not listening to anyone. They have become inaccessible. District officials have been busy with panchayat polls more than the Covid management. Leave alone the Opposition, this government is not listening to its own party MLAs. It has made things so centralised that now people like us cannot help people directly--be it with oxygen, ventilators, hospital beds, or Remdesivir. How can a legislator help a person with his Covid treatment, if he is not getting a bed? The issue is not funds but management. Last year, ₹1500 crore of MLA funds accumulated for Covid was not utilised, oxygen plants were to be made but they were not installed. The CM and PM CARES funds were unutilized.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/constituents-in-distress-up-lawmakers-press-for-oxygen-supply-101619551713213.html
28-04-2021||Other||Searching for live-saving drugs at night is an ordeal in Lucknow, say Covid patient’s kin||Pawan.dixit@htlive.com LUCKNOW If Covid patients need medicines at odd hours in case of an emergency, they are at God’s mercy. Almost all medical stores are pulling down their shutters by 10pm, including those in front of KGMU, Balrampur Hospital and Ram Manohar Lohia hospital in Gomti Nagar. As a result, many families are having a harrowing experience while searching for life-saving drugs in the state capital during late night hours. Vikas Thakur, 48, a resident of 645A/1276, Saraswatipuram, Jankipuram, reported breathing trouble on Monday around 4pm. His oxygen level was hovering between 88 and 92. The family booked an online consultation with a doctor. By the time Vikas’ turn came and the family received doctor’s prescription suggesting immediate hospitalisation, it was 9pm. Thereafter, Vikas’ wife, Kavita Singh, daughter Muskan, 22, and family friends began a frantic search for medicines prescribed by the doctor. These life-saving drugs were the only hope for the family as arranging an oxygen cylinder was next to impossible. “All medical stores in front of KGMU, Balrampur Hospital and Lohia (RML) were closed. Not a single one was open. We managed to get only three medicines from a local medical store. We could not get a single life-saving drug prescribed by the doctor, including Medrol 16mg and Fabiflu,” said Kavita Singh. All of us returned with no option but to pray and wait for the morning, she added. At 9am on Tuesday, a family friend queued outside Sachdeva Medical Store at IT Crossing. It was around 11am that he was able to get all medicines barring an injection. “From IT Crossing to Jankipuram, we tried to reach home by a two-wheeler. After around 15 hours of doctors’ consultation we were able to give medicines to Vikas,” said Ravi Kumar, Vikas’ friend. But the search for medicines did not end here. Injection Medrol 40mg was yet to be procured. “This is an important injection advised by the doctor for infection in the chest. From Jankipuram to IT Crossing it was not available in any other medical store,” said Kavita. Finally at 3pm, the family managed to get the injection from the medicine market, Aminabad. After oxygen cylinders, getting emergency drugs is also proving to be an ordeal for family members of Covid patients, said kin of Vikas. “No one wants to take a risk. No medical store owner is willing to keep the store open through the night. Generally, by mutual consensus medical stores operate turn-wise during night outside KGMU, Balrampur Hospital and RML hospital,” said a medical store owner near Balrampur hospital. The fear of the pandemic is such that no one is willing to keep his medical store open during night hours, he added. Experts suggest that some medical stores all across the city must be kept open through the night on rotation basis so that patients can get emergency drugs even at odd hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/searching-for-live-saving-drugs-at-night-is-an-ordeal-in-lucknow-say-covid-patient-s-kin-101619551471486.html
28-04-2021||Other||82-year-old woman defeats Covid in Gorakhpur||Age is just a number for those blessed with strong willpower and a calm approach to tackling challenges.An embodiment of these qualities, Vidya Devi, 82, has become an inspiration for the people of Gorakhpur battling the second wave of the Covid-19 infection. After 12 days of home isolation, she was declared negative for the SARS-CoV-2 pathogen in the RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) test on Monday.She had seen several people falling prey to Covid-19 infection in her locality Alinagar in the heart of the city. And when she, along with five family members, got infected, she told them not to panic but follow the Covid protocol and take the medicines prescribed by the doctor.Her son Hari Mohan Srivastava said, “My mother is co-morbid. She has high blood sugar and blood pressure. When her oxygen saturation level declined to 79, the family members became anxious, but my mother immediately started doing exercise to increase the oxygen level. She also used the lung exercise instruments to get normal oxygen saturation counts. For a day, she remained on oxygen support at home. Her endeavour to recover paid dividends. Soon, the oxygen level shot up to 94 and, on Monday, it increased to 97.”After 12 days, not only Vidya Devi, but the remaining family members, who had been Covid-19 positive, also recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/82yearold-woman-defeats-covid-in-gorakhpur-101619551351440.html
28-04-2021||Other||4,437 new Covid-19 cases, 39 more deaths in Lucknow||The state capital on Tuesday reported 4,437 new Covid-19 cases, 39 more deaths and 5,960 fresh recoveries, according to official data. The overall death toll in the city has gone up to 1,713. The number of deaths on the day was the highest since April 24 when 42 fatalities were recorded.The number of active cases has dropped below 50,000 in the state capital for the first time since April 18. At present, there are 49,064 active cases in Lucknow. So far, a total of 1,42,132 people have defeated Covid-19 in the state capital.Dy CM Dinesh Sharma admitted to Rajdhani HospitalUttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma was admitted to the Rajdhani Covid Hospital here on Tuesday after he complained of a problem in breathing, nearly a week after testing positive for the coronavirus. Sharma informed about his hospitalisation through a tweet.The deputy chief minister and his wife had tested positive for the coronavirus on April 21.Meanwhile, Vijay Sahu, owner of Sahu group and Sahu Cinema, died due to the coronavirus disease on Tuesday. He was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram after testing positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4437-new-covid-19-cases-39-more-deaths-in-lucknow-101619551231463.html
28-04-2021||Other||UP panchayat polls: HC seeks SEC’s explanation over deaths, Covid violations||The Allahabad high court on Tuesday took note of reports related to deaths of government employees on panchayat election duty and directed the State Election Commission (SEC) to explain by the next hearing as to why it failed in checking non- compliance with Covid-19 guidelines during various phases of the panchayat elections in the state. The court also asked the SEC to explain why action may not be taken against it and 27 of its officials for the same, including prosecuting those responsible for such violations. The court mentioned a news report which alleged there were 135 deaths of government employees on panchayat election duty due to Covid-19. The state is witnessing four-phase panchayat elections that began on April 15 and will end on April 29. Fixing May 3 as the next date of hearing in the case, the court directed the state government to place before it by then the details of beds for Covid-19 patients, medicines and oxygen supplied in various hospitals of Prayagraj, Lucknow, Varanasi, Agra, Kanpur Nagar, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Gorakhpur and Jhansi. The high court also directed the state government to ensure health bulletin, twice a day, in major government hospitals of Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Agra, Kanpur Nagar, Gorakhpur and Jhansi, giving health updates of the patients. The hospitals were asked to use large screens to give details of patients and their oxygen saturation levels. Further, the state government was directed to declare on the district portals of these cities the number of beds that were occupied and vacant in Covid-19 wards and ICUs of all government and private hospitals. The bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar passed the order on a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) on the spread of Covid-19 in the state and the condition of quarantine centres. The court said that mere antigen negative report should not be a ground to discharge a patient as such patients could still infect others. They needed to be shifted to non-Covid wards for at least a week. For this, the government needed to gear up to set up makeshift wards on the campuses of hospitals, the court said. The court directed that government hospitals be provided with sufficient medicines and injections, including Remdesivir, for patients. The oxygen supply to hospitals should remain uninterrupted, the court said. On the difficulties faced by Covid-19 patients, the court observed, “If even after seven decades of our attaining freedom with so many heavy industries set up, we are not able to provide oxygen to our citizens, it’s a matter of shame.” The court said the authorities concerned must ensure proper management of doctors, medical and paramedical staff as they were all working day and night and getting infected as well. On certain reports of attacks on medical staff by the public, the bench said, “When near and dear ones die, they go frustrated at the system of healthcare in the state and soft targets of their ire are the medical and paramedical staff.” “The situation overall in the major cities of Uttar Pradesh has gone very chaotic for the current Covid surge. Whether it is day or night, the ghost of Corona is marching on the roads and streets of the major cities of the state and it can be anybody’s fate. Those who are resourceful will survive and the rest as histories of past pandemics tell us may die for want of proper healthcare. As the government in its wisdom has resolved to only two days’ weekend lockdown to break the chain and has further proceeded with some measures as a sequel to that, but mere fact that number of positive cases, as have been shown to have been reduced a little in numbers due (to) two weekend lockdown days, nothing remarkable seems to have been achieved on the front of public health care to the satisfaction of the people,” the bench observed. The state government was asked to increase the number of ambulances immediately and to ensure that ambulances must be well equipped with life-saving devices. The bench also directed the government to ensure that every Covid related death was reported to a judicial officer to be appointed by district judge at the end of the day. The government should also ensure the correctness of the data forwarded to the officer concerned each day. Further, cremation in Covid death cases must be done as per the guidelines issued by the government. The bench observed, “We make it clear that we will not tolerate any paperwork or public announcements to show account of the steps taken and its sufficiency as it is now an open secret that government had gone complacent due to weakening of virus impact by the end of 2020 in the state and the government got more involved in other activities, including panchayat elections.” “Had it been constantly vigilant, it would have prepared itself to face the onslaught of the pandemic in its second wave. Posterity would never forgive us if we remain oblivious to the real public health issues and let the people die for want of adequate health care,” the bench added. The court said, “Though we acknowledge the fact that government alone cannot fight with its available resources and needs people’s cooperation and active participation of various other non-government bodies, but those in power must shun the attitude of ‘my way or no way’ and should welcome suggestions from all the quarters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-panchayat-polls-hc-seeks-sec-s-explanation-over-deaths-covid-violations-101619550632682.html
28-04-2021||Other||SGPC chief meets CM; says govt must not acquire gurdwara land in Mohali||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur on Tuesday met Punjab chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh in Chandigarh to raise issues related to the Sikhs. “Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) wants to acquire about 12 acre land of Gurdwara Amb Sahib at Mohali. This is the property of the community and the SGPC cannot sell it or let anyone acquire it forcibly. The CM has assured us that the land will not be acquired at any cost,” Kaur said. Kaur added that the issue of the solar system being installed at Golden Temple Complex has also been taken up with the Punjab CM. “The SGPC wants to install a 2.2 megawatt (MW) solar system in collaboration with the Sikh sangat. Due to lack of space, the system will be installed at the Gurdwara Satlani Sahib. We have appealed to the CM for clearance,” she said.“The CM was also asked to immediately release ₹43 crore scholarship funds for Scheduled Caste (SC) students enroled in SGPC’s educational institutions. The balance of 2017-2019 has not been released. We are struggling to pay salaries,” Kaur added. Kaur also asked the CM to issue instructions for passing the construction plans of new sarais (inn) for the sangat arriving at the Golden Temple. She added that the CM was also asked to hand over the Bassi Pathana Jail in Fatehgarh Sahib district to the SGPC and allow renovation of the historic Diwan Todar Mal’s Haweli (mansion). “Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji, the 9th Guru, was kept in Bassi Pathana Jail and it must be preserved with its heritage intact,” she added.Kaur said the SGPC has invited Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to the function being organised at Gurdwara Guru Ke Mehal in Amritsar on May 1 to mark the 400th birth anniversary of ninth Guru. She said, “Due to the pandemic, the centenary celebrations will be held in a symbolic manner.” She appealed to the CM to relax the lockdown on weekends, in view of the celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sgpc-chief-meets-cm-says-govt-must-not-acquire-gurdwara-land-in-mohali-101619550451913.html
28-04-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Naini jail inmates make masks, soon to supply outside||The inmates at Naini jail of Prayagraj are offering their part in the fight against Covid-19 by manufacturing masks not only for themselves but for other people as well. With the help of the Naini Jail administration, the prisoners are producing a large number of masks every day which is being distributed to prisoners and jail staff to stay safe from coronavirus infection. The prisoners with stitching experience are supervising the team of dozen prisoners who are engaged in manufacturing masks.The Naini jail officials said that raw material for masks and stitching machines are being provided to the prisoners who are producing not only enough masks to be used inside the jail premises but soon they will be supplied outside to be used by others.Senior superintendent at Naini Jail PN Pandey said a team of 12 prisoners are engaged in the production of masks at Naini Jail under the supervision of jail inmates who have experience in stitching. Using sewing machines, the prisoners are producing at least 600 to 700 mask per day which is used by a large number of prisoners lodged at the Naini Jail. The excess masks will soon be supplied outside to be used by the government staff engaged in Covid duties, he added.It is worth mentioning that Covid-19 infection has spread at a fast pace among prisoners and jail staff. While a total of 21 prisoners and jail staff were tested positive over a week back, the number has increased to 135 now. These include 114 male prisoners and 9 in women barracks. Moreover, 12 jail staff including jailor and deputy jailors has also been tested positive for Covid-19.Senior jail superintendent PN Pandey said all prisoners who tested positive for Covid-19 have been shifted to Covid care centre at jail premises where they are being taken care of round the clock by a team of doctors and medical staff. The serious patients whose oxygen level goes down are being referred to SRN hospital for further treatment. Due to intensive care and strict implementation of guidelines, no deaths due to Covid have occurred at Naini Jail so far. At present Naini jail has 10 oxygen cylinders and an adequate supply of necessary medicines, he added.It is worth mentioning that at present around 4500 prisoners are lodged at different barracks of Naini jail in contrast to its capacity of 2060 prisoners. Jail officials say that despite all precautions strict implementation of guidelines, it is hard to control the spread of Covid infection in overcrowded barracks. If a single prisoner gets infected, then all others in the barrack are exposed to Covid-19 threat. Jail officials said special care is being taken of old age prisoners while regular sanitisation of jail premises is being carried out using fire tenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-naini-jail-inmates-make-masks-soon-to-supply-outside-101619550332308.html
28-04-2021||Other||Appoint staff to ensure oxygen supply in hospitals is constant: TMC||A day after four patients allegedly died due to lack of oxygen in a private hospital in Thane; the civic commissioner held a meeting with all doctor representatives from private hospitals across Thane city. Members of the Covid task force were also present in the meeting, wherein, all private hospitals have been asked to appoint one person in each hospital to ensure the smooth functioning of all safety norms and continuous supply of electricity and oxygen. “Hospitals should be in touch with Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) oxygen cell and ensure there is enough supply of oxygen at all times. We have to ensure there are no untoward incidents caused due to any lapses. Hence, we are putting into place certain rules like appointing an officer for this purpose,” said Vipin Sharma, TMC commissioner.Urban development minister, Eknath Shinde has ordered a structural, fire and oxygen audit of all hospitals, private and government, within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Moreover, instructions have been given to deploy fire engines outside every Covid centre to prevent accidents. In every civic body, the assistant commissioner and the ward officer will be responsible for monitoring the oxygen supply in private hospitals. Similarly, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has set up a war room for oxygen supply, intending to not inconvenience the patients’ family. A team of six officials led by deputy municipal commissioner Babasaheb Rajale has been deployed. This team will monitor the oxygen reserve in every government as well as private facilities every three hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/appoint-staff-to-ensure-oxygen-supply-in-hospitals-is-constant-tmc-101619550091941.html
28-04-2021||Other||Oxygen shortage: 7 patients shifted from Thane’s Diya Hospital||Seven patients had to be shifted from Diya Hospital in Waghbil to Universal Hospital in Gokul Nagar due to a shortage of oxygen. Despite Universal Hospital being a non-Covid facility, permission was granted for the same by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) at the eleventh hour.Moreover, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) provided five jumbo cylinder to Diya Hospital. The hospital raised an alarm when it was depleting its supply and asked the relatives of the seven patients admitted in the hospital to be shifted elsewhere. Dr Harish Kedar, a partner with Diya Hospital, said, “There are seven patients in the ICU, all of them are on oxygen support. We realised about the depleting oxygen supply at 4pm and contacted the vendor. But as there was no assurance of supply. We then informed the TMC.”Although TMC made provision for 20 jumbo cylinders late on Tuesday evening and gave a backup too for these patients, as a precautionary measure the hospital shifted the patients to a different hospital around 8pm.This saved the seven patients and their relatives a lot of anxiety and nightmare of shifting hospitals at the last moment. One of the seven patients had tested negative but still required oxygen for breathing assistance, she was also moved to Universal Hospital. Officials of the TMC rushed to a private vendor at Turbhe who provided oxygen cylinders. Shankar Patole, Assistant Municipal Commissioner, TMC said, “If hospitals inform us at the eleventh hour it is very difficult to make provisions for the supply; in this instance, the said hospital’s vendor could not continue the supply of oxygen. Hospitals should ensure that there is confirmed provision of oxygen for at least next 24-48 hours.” He added, “When we come to know of a shortage, we need to coordinate, make arrangements for the supply and the cylinders have to reach the hospital as well, all of this requires time. We have currently provided 25 jumbo cylinders to Diya Hospital. Moreover, two dura cylinders will also be given, to be kept as a standby in case of an emergency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-shortage-7-patients-shifted-from-thane-s-diya-hospital-101619550032433.html
28-04-2021||Other||Thane to get two jumbo vaccination centres||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has made preparations to set up two jumbo vaccination centres and is in the process of roping in more private hospitals for the next phase of vaccination that will begin from May 1. Currently, the city has 56 vaccination centres including private and government centres; however, only around 40 are functional regularly due to the shortage of vaccines. Preparations are in place for two jumbo centres; one will be set up at Kausa stadium and the other at Vartak Nagar. “We will be following the same model as BKC and NESCO facilities. It will help in accommodating a large number of people and in conducting vaccination drive for more beneficiaries. Moreover, we have shortlisted a few more private hospitals that can partake in the vaccination process. As of now, the state government directives have mentioned the involvement of private hospitals for vaccination from May 1 onwards. So preparations are also on those lines, however, considering the shortage of vaccines we are not sure how much of these can be possible. We have all the infrastructure in place and even now if we get the desired number of vaccines we can begin with the vaccination process,” said Khushboo Tawri, medical officer, TMC.Currently, TMC has 56 vaccination centres including 13 private hospitals, with the capacity to conduct 10,000 vaccinations daily. However, only around 40 centres are operational regularly due to the shortage of vaccines. As of now both the first and booster dose of Covishield is being administered and the only booster dose of Covaxin within TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-to-get-two-jumbo-vaccination-centres-101619549791325.html
28-04-2021||Other||In 2nd covid wave, 25% of deaths reported from Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur||For the past two months, the two Doaba districts of Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur have reported around 25% of Punjab’s 2,716 deaths due to covid-19, data with the state health department shows. From Feb 26 to April 26, Jalandhar recorded 351 deaths, while Hoshiarpur reported 338 deaths for a total of 689. Amritsar saw 303 deaths and Ludhiana 283. After a quick analysis of this data, the Punjab health department has sent a team to Hoshiarpur to study the other contributing causes of these deaths, as the district has a relatively low population. Punjab reported 1,64,362 new positive cases, with 43,348 (25%) cases coming from Doaba region. Overall, Jalandhar has seen 1,054 deaths; Hoshiarpur (704); Amritsar (896); Patiala (735), while Ludhiana has 1,309 highest in the state till April 26. From March 25-April 26, Amritsar has recorded the most deaths at 245; Hoshiarpur (222); Ludhiana (211); Patiala (178) and Jalandhar 176. Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Kapurthala and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar have also doubled their case count since February. The health department believes that UK strain of Covid-19 has led to the steep rise in active cases in Punjab. Over 80% of samples of Covid positive people sent for genome sequencing to the Pune laboratory in March were found having the UK strain. In Jalandhar, the UK strain had mainly hit Phillaur and Nurmahal towns that reported a high number of cases. In Hoshiarpur, 31 cases of the UK strain were detected. State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said, “The high number of deaths in Hoshiarpur is a concern and we have been studying the situation of the district. In Dasuya and Hoshiarpur hospitals, patients refused to be treated in hospitals outside the district for level-3 care. Late reporting of patients was another reason for higher number of deaths.” Hoshiarpur civil surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said level-3 treatment had now been started in Hoshiarpur and private hospitals had also been roped in. Jalandhar district family welfare officer Dr Raman Gupta claimed late reporting of patients led to the deaths and co-morbities was also a factor. “Now, however, we are also seeing deaths of pregnant women,” he said, adding that the new strains of the virus, including the UK one, has been very infectious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-2nd-covid-wave-25-of-deaths-reported-from-jalandhar-hoshiarpur-101619549673161.html
28-04-2021||Other||New cases in Navi Mumbai down by 42%: NMMC credits lockdown||The number of Covid-19 cases in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) jurisdiction has now come down by 42%. While lockdown is considered to be a major reason, there was a dip in the testing rate by 12%. During the surge, the average number of per day cases was 1,200 with the highest on April 4 with 1,536 cases. The number of tests conducted, including both RT-PCR and antigen, during the same time was around 8,000 daily. Since April 18, the number of cases has been below 1,000. NMMC has been reporting around 700 cases daily on average. The minimum number of cases recorded was 503 on April 26. However, the testing has gone down to 7,000 per day. NMMC commissioner Abhijit Banagar said, “The RT-PCR testing that was being done at private labs has gone down, due to which, the average number of daily testing has also gone down. In a way, it is a good sign that people are not panicking and rushing to do RT-PCR tests and are doing the same as per the need. Our lab has a capacity of conducting 3,000 tests which we manage to stretch to 3,500.” Bangar added that lockdown has played a major role in the decrease in cases. An officer from NMMC requesting anonymity said, “As per the pattern observed in other states, the surge in cases is quick, however, the decrease too is equally fast. We had reached the peak in early April and the cases are now coming down as per the pattern seen elsewhere.” According to activist Anarjit Chouhan, “Even as the cases might have come to 500 per day, there was a time when we had only 50 to 55 cases per day. So definitely, this not the best that the corporation can do. Also, I am sceptical regarding the death rate being recorded by NMMC. The deaths might be much higher than those reported.” While the mortality rate from April 1 to April 17 was 0.04%, it went up to 0.53% from April 18 to April 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-cases-in-navi-mumbai-down-by-42-nmmc-credits-lockdown-101619549491262.html
28-04-2021||Other||68% surge in IIT-Bombay’s intellectual property rights applications||The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) recorded a 68% rise in the number of intellectual property rights (IPR) applications for its innovations in 2020-21, , even as the pandemic had locked the campus for students last March. The institute filed 262 applications for IPR in the financial year 2020-21 as compared to 156 IPRs in 2019-20. Of the 262 applications, 15-20 were for innovations and solutions for Covid-19, 163 were patent applications, 88 were trademarks (as compared to mere eight last financial year), and 10 design registrations. IPR protects innovations from misuse, fosters competitive research and also helps commercialise new products and solutions in the market. The increase in trademarks indicates more licensing possibilities, said Milind Atrey, dean (research and development), IIT-B. “Trademarks are usually applied when either an industry partner is showing interest in getting a licence or when the researcher wants to start up a company. So an upward trend in more trademarks is a sign that more research is now getting ready for licensing,” said Atrey. The campus closed down on March 14, 2020, as Covid-19 cases surged. Soon, the institute announced an early summer vacation and semesters kicked off thereafter with online classes. Currently, there are around 3,000 research scholars and students on campus, but most of the 11,000-odd students are still studying online. “The pandemic shut down the campus for students but changed the priorities for resident faculty members and researchers. They could allocate more time to their research activities and prepare for the application process, which would have been put off otherwise,” Atrey added. The number of patents granted to researchers in the institute has also doubled, from 67 last year to 120 this financial year. Atrey attributed this rise to a more efficient filing process of the central government. “With streamlining of the patent filing process by the Indian patent office of the central government, the applications are now processed faster,” he said. While earlier innovators had to wait for five-seven years to get a patent, now the process takes around three years, he said. IIT-B’s director Subhasis Chaudhuri said that protecting IP is the first step towards the institute’s new focus on the translatability of research output. “IIT-B plans to put more emphasis on the translatability of our research output when protecting IP is the first step. Along with our incubator SINE (Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship), newly established school of entrepreneurship and the forthcoming Research Park, we plan to set up a TRL (technology readiness level) booster in the campus. Hopefully, with such efforts, IIT-B can catalyse the growth in Indian industry,” said Chaudhuri. “We want to emphasise on the importance of industry collaboration in this process. So every research statement or problem should come from the industry, and every time a research is published or patented, it would be ideal to have an industry partner waiting. This is foster a more competitive research culture,” said Atrey. For all Indian patents, the institute bears the expenses for the application process. “Thereafter, if an innovator wants to apply for a patent abroad, we take a call on the commercialisation possibilities of the application process, taking into account the commercialisation aspect of the technology,” said Atrey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/68-surge-in-iit-bombay-intellectual-property-rights-applications-101619549071165.html
28-04-2021||Other||HC deplores Maharashtra govt’s failure to procure more Remdesivir vials||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Tuesday expressed exasperation at the failure of the state to provide sufficient Remdesivir vials to Nagpur and adjoining districts even though the Central Committee had allocated nearly 4.35 lakh vials for 10 days. When the state argued the Centre had not sent vials as per the state-wise chart, the HC bench admonished the state for not pursuing it with the Centre. The next hearing has been scheduled on April 29. A division bench of justice Sunil Shukre and justice Avinash Gharote, while hearing the suo motu public interest litigation, was informed that on April 24, following its April 23 directions to the state to seek allocation of more Remdesivir injections for 10 days from April 21 to 30 in view of the shortage being faced by Maharashtra, the Central committee had revised the allocation list. The committee had increased the allocation to 4.35 lakh vials for the period. The central committee order dated April 24 required the state to take certain steps and place its supply order with the manufacturer. However, advocate S P Bhandarkar, amicus curiae, submitted that despite orders from the bench the shortage persisted and even oxygen and beds for the growing number of Covid-19 patients were in short supply. The government pleader for the state informed the bench that nodal officer for the state of Maharashtra has been appointed and he was coordinating with other nodal officers and manufacturers. The bench then asked the nodal officer to file an affidavit to place on record steps in pursuance of April 24 central government order. The bench questioned why private pharmacists in Vidarbha were allowed to directly place orders with manufacturers. The state further informed that apart from sourcing Remdesivir and other life-saving drugs locally, it was also planning to import from Bangladesh, Singapore, Hong Kong etc and permission was sought from the Centre and a response was awaited. On being informed of Covid care centres not making Remdesivir available for needy patients, the court directed the district collector Nagpur and NMC to carry out individual checks at different hospitals. The bench also directed the DC Nagpur to set up control room of 30-40 officials on 8 hour shifts to oversee allocation of beds and oxygen cylinders. The bench also sought to know why the manufacturing plants around Nagpur had not supplied oxygen. The bench was then told that the collector of Nagpur had messages that from Wednesday Nagpur would get 110- 130 MT oxygen from Bhilai Steel Plant, as per earlier order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-deplores-maharashtra-govt-s-failure-to-procure-more-remdesivir-vials-101619548957213.html
28-04-2021||Other||Hajis to get two doses of vaccine before applying for pilgrimage||The Haryana government has directed Hajis to take both doses of Covid vaccines during 2021.An official spokesperson of the Haryana State Haj Committee said that the Haj ministry of the Government of Saudi Arabia has informed that it is mandatory for applicants applying online for Haj to take both doses of Covid vaccine before going on pilgrimage.The spokesperson added that the Hajis will have to take the first dose of the vaccine before going to Saudi Arabia and the second dose while going there. He said that without certificate of the Covid vaccine, no one will be allowed to go to Saudi Arabia.The spokesperson said that any Haji, who wishes to go on the pilgrimage, can get a certificate by contacting medical officers of their respective district and take a dose of Covid vaccine.The spokesperson said that the decision to call or not to call the Hajis will be taken by the Saudi government on its own. The Haj Committee India, Mumbai, and the State Haj Committee will take further action only according to the decision of the Saudi government.The applicants have been asked to be prepared at their level by taking both doses of Covid vaccine before going on Haj.The spokesperson said if Hajis face problems regarding vaccine administration, the Haryana Haj Committee can be contacted on helpline number 0172-2741438 and 9815489590.VACCINATION DRIVE START AT FARMERS’ PROTEST SITE IN JINDThe Jind health department on Tuesday started a vaccination drive at Khatkar toll plaza in district where farmers have been protesting against Centre’s three farm laws for the last few months.The vaccine jabs were given to 25 farm leaders who are leading the protest in district.BKU district chief Azad Palwan said they have agreed on health officials’ advice to start a vaccination camp at the toll plaza.“I have also received the vaccine jab to fight the virus. Farmers will cooperate with doctors to get the vaccine jab and will continue the protest until our demands are not met,” he added.Satbir Singh Pehlwan, head of the Khera Khap, also received the vaccine jab and assured doctors that farmers from different villages visiting Khatkar toll plaza will get the vaccine dose.“We are with the doctors in this fight against the contagion. We have asked the doctors to start a vaccination camp at the toll plaza,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hajis-to-get-two-doses-of-vaccine-before-applying-for-pilgrimage-101619548956534.html
28-04-2021||Other||Row erupts over CM Khattar’s ‘dead won’t come back’ comment||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar came under sharp criticism from the Opposition Congress over his comment that “it was pointless to argue over Covid-19 fatality figures as the dead won’t come back to life, and the focus should be on providing relief to those suffering now”.Khattar was replying to questions on the alleged under-reporting of deaths due to coronavirus as the figures of crematoriums and burial grounds do not match with the official numbers. “The kind of difficult situation we are going through, we don’t have to play with data. Our entire focus should be on how people will recover and how we can provide them relief,” he told reporters in Rohtak on Monday.“And those who have died will not come back by creating a furore over it,” he said at one point, arguing that there was no point in getting into a debate on whether or not the official number of deaths was correct.The opposition Congress was quick to slam his remarks with party general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala saying, “These can only be the words of a merciless ruler. There is a need to make a noise over every death which is the result of the government’s inefficiency so that the deaf BJP government can hear the echo.”Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja also slammed Khattar for such an “irresponsible” statement. “The people are suffering from serious disease and waiting for medicines, oxygen supply and ventilators and Haryana chief minister is making irresponsible statements on Covid patients’ deaths. Congress condemns his statement,” she said.Adampur MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi also condemned the CM’s comment. “These remarks are shameful. I strongly condemn the thinking of the chief minister,” the Congress leader tweeted.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/row-erupts-over-cm-khattar-s-dead-won-t-come-back-comment-101619548832430.html
