29-04-2021||Other||‘Why are some states getting more O2 than they need, while Delhi gets less?’ Delhi HC asks Centre to respond||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Thursday questioned the Centre for allocating more medical oxygen then asked for to certain states while not providing the quantity being sought by Delhi, which is facing acute shortage.“We are not saying that people in the other parts of the country should die. But if the demand of a particular state is ‘x’, then why did you give it ‘x+y’? Why don’t you give ‘y’ to Delhi?” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli asked the Centre, represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The Centre has allocated 490 MT medical oxygen to Delhi, which has been demanding 700 MT.With cases in the Capital rising, and most hospitals not adding beds or intensive car units because they do not have access to adequate oxygen, the Delhi government , separately, on Thursday urged the Central government to raise the national capital’s daily quota of medical oxygen from 490 MT to 976 MT and provide logistics support for the enhanced allocation.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s nodal minister for Covid-19, wrote to Union minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday stating that the national capital will require more medical oxygen as the government plans to add around 15,000 beds in the next 10 days.“The people and the Government of NCT of Delhi will be extremely grateful to the Government of India if it can kindly increase the allocation from the present 490 MT per day to 976 MT per day, preferably from nearby oxygen plants, reducing the turnaround time,” Sisodia wrote to Goyal, who is also the minister of commerce and industry and the minister of consumer affairs. He is also the railway minister On Thursday, the high court rejected the submission of Mehta that the present oxygen supply to Delhi was sufficient, and asked the Centre to respond on why other states were getting more oxygen or almost as much as they demanded.The bench clarified that it was by no means interested in securing more oxygen for Delhi than required, and that too at the cost of any state or Union territory.“We make it clear that by no means are we interested in securing for Delhi more than what’s required, and that too at a cost of any other state or Union territory. However, if submissions of Delhi or amicus were to be accepted, it would appear the central government needs to explain this, for which we are granting time. It goes without saying the aforesaid reflect arguments advanced by amicus and (lawyer Rahul Mehra) Delhi,” the court noted in its order.The question was posed after senior advocates Rajshekhar Rao, amicus curiae in the matter, and Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that as per the national allocation plan, Maharashtra demanded 1500 metric tonne (MT) of oxygen per day and was allocated 1661 MT; similarly, Madhya Pradesh demanded 445 MT and it was allocated 543 MT, and that the situation was similar for several other states.The discussion on the national allocation plan came about after Mehra told the court that Delhi’s demand of 700 MT is not being granted . He told the bench that the city was working to augment its bed capacity and would add 15,000 more beds to meet the surge in the cases in mid May predicted by experts; however, they do not have sufficient oxygen. “I will place it now and my instructions are from the top of the bureaucracy. They (Centre) are skirting the oxygen supply (issue). As a state government we are being put in the dock but the Centre has miserably failed the people of the country... Some responsibility should be fixed. Only paper orders have been passed. This is not oxygen in air, it’s oxygen in cylinders. Except giving sermons, the Centre has not done anything. There is complete apathy for the people of Delhi. We cannot be mute spectators just because they are the Centre,” Mehra argued. Solicitor General Mehta, justifying the allocation plan, said the Centre is making all possible efforts to augment the supply and claimed the current supply is sufficient to meet current needs. He said that oxygen has not reached Delhi because the Union territory has been facing difficulty in picking the allocated amount to them. He said that the national allocation plan should not be touched by the court because several factors have been taken into consideration while deciding. He also justified that Maharashtra has been given more oxygen because of the raging pandemic, while Madhya Pradesh’s population is three times that of the Capital..Maharashtra had 675,451 active cases as on Wednesday night, but Madhya Pradesh only 92,773, and Delhi over 100,000.“Suppose there is a huge, unprecedented surge tomorrow, which nobody can anticipate… I do not want to create panic… then the situation would be different. The Delhi government did demand 700 MT. For me, a Delhi citizen is as dear and important as a Kerala citizen. They did demand 700. Allocation is 480-490, the actual quantity coming to Delhi 335-340 which according to our assessment is sufficient,” Mehta submitted before the court.“Delhi is facing difficulty because it has not been able to pick up the allocated amount.. 90% of our time is going out firefighting for Delhi. There are transport and logistical issues,” he said. “No resources are unlimited and we are augmenting. There can be lapses but those could be rectified.” During the hearing, an agitated Mehta told a senior officer of the Centre, “You cut from MP and give it to Delhi. It would be at the cost of some lives in MP but let us do it for Delhi.”However, the bench objected to this and said, “Don’t give an impression as if we are asking something extra for Delhi. We don’t appreciate this. We are asking this on the basis of facts and figures. You can’t be emotional about it. You have to take this head on, you can’t duck it.”SG Mehta said that the Centre will file an affidavit on the court’s query and will give the reasons for giving more oxygen to Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. “There are states which received less than what they had asked for. We have been rationalizing,” he said adding that hysteria should not be created and the situation is dynamic”. Earlier this week, Mehta said in court that Delhi was behaving like a “crybaby”. To this, the bench said the panic is because of lack of resources.“It’s not because of what judges or lawyers say; panic is on the ground. People are suffering but hospitals are not taking patients. We already had loss of lives in Delhi due to shortage of oxygen. It has fallen on you to resolve this. How you resolve is your problem,” the court said.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who along with several hospitals sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the city. In his letter to Goyal, Sisodia said Delhi has been witnessing around 25,000 fresh COVID cases a day and about 10% of the patients require some form of hospitalisation, including oxygen support. Sisodia said that merely increasing oxygen allocation to Delhi will not do and that the Central government will also have to arrange transportation to bring the same to the national Capital. “It is also our humble request to provide transport infrastructure, including railways and tankers, for the additional allocation since Delhi is a non-industrial state and accordingly, does not have its own infrastructure,” he said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/why-are-some-states-getting-more-o2-than-they-need-while-delhi-gets-less-delhi-hc-asks-centre-to-respond-101619720983391.html
29-04-2021||Other||After 4 die of Covid, Tihar asks govt to allow release of inmates on parole||New Delhi: The death of four prisoners due to Covid-19 in the past three days has prompted Tihar Jail authorities to write to the Delhi government, requesting them to release some prisoners under “emergency parole” as one of the immediate measures to decongest the prison. While two prisoners died of the viral infection on Tuesday, two more succumbed to the disease on Thursday. HT had reported that with over 20,000 inmates currently lodged there, Tihar is at its most congested ever. It is almost double the official capacity of the prison, which has made social distancing and isolation a major problem.  Delhi government officers, who wished not to be named, said they have received the jail’s proposal and were looking at different solutions to decongest the prison complex. Until April 6, the jail had only 19 infected prisoners. At that time, not a single jail staff had the disease. Currently, there are at least 261 Covid-19 positive inmates and 115 infected jail officers, underlining how fast the infection has spread throughout the jail in just 23 days. The Delhi high court also heard a petition on the issue on Wednesday and sought the response of the Centre, the Delhi government and the prison authorities. The petitioner demanded parole for prisoners involved in non-heinous crimes from three jails in the city in view of the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jasmeet Singh issued a notice to the ministries of law and health, the Delhi government, police, office of the Lieutenant Governor and the director general of prisons, seeking their stand on the petition by May 4.The two prisoners, who died on Thursday, were admitted at the GTB hospital. One of them Kamaljeet, 75, an inmate of jail 3 was admitted to GTB on April 21. The second, Kehkashan, 41, was admitted to the hospital on April 22.On Tuesday night, prisoner Mukesh Talwar, 61, had succumbed to the disease. Talwar, who was arrested in a rape case last month, was lodged in jail 7 and had tested positive on April 22. Hours before Talwar’s death, a 43-year-old prisoner Mohammed Anis, who was lodged in jail number 4, too had died of the disease at the DDU hospital. Last year, nearly 6,000 prisoners were released on special parole and bail to decongest the jail when the pandemic spread in March. They were directed to later on dates decided by a high-powered committee of the high court, which included members of the state government, courts and prison.With cases declining after the third wave of the infection in October-November, the Delhi high court in December ordered the prisoners to surrender in a phased manner between February and March.Until February, the prison population was less than 13,000. However, with over 6,000 inmates back in jail, the total number of inmates went beyond 20500, twice the jail’s capacity of 10026. Officials said it is the highest population of inmates in the jail till date. A mid-level prison officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “ The government should act fast and decide. During the first, second and third wave, the cases were under control in our jails. Two persons died in June and July, last year. In February, there was a time, when there was not a single case. It is scary today. Even prisoners, like Rajan(Chhota Rajan) who were in isolation have tested positive. Four inmates have died in three days.” Among the famous prisoners who are currently Covid-19 positive are underworld gangster Chhota Rajan and former politician turned gangster Mohammed Shahabuddin. While Rajan has been admitted to AIIMS, Shahabuddin is under treatment at the DDU hospital. Student activist Umar Khalid, arrested for his alleged role in the Delhi riots, too, is in isolation after testing positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-4-die-of-covid-tihar-asks-govt-to-allow-release-of-inmates-on-parole-101619720983985.html
29-04-2021||Other||Farmers will not clear protest sites amid rise in Covid cases: Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday said that they will not leave the protest sites at Delhi borders, if the government asks them to do so amid rise in Covid-19 cases.Addressing a kisan mahapanchayat in Bhiwani’s Prem Nagar village by flouting Covid norms, Tikait said they will cancel their programmes only after the government concludes its programmes and rallies.“Government is trying to muzzle the voice of farmers amid rise in Covid cases. We are ready to hold talks with the government and the same are expected to be held by November and December. Farmers in Gujarat are worst affected and if the farmers’ issue won’t be resolved, the BJP government will implement this Gujarat model across nation,” Tikait added.“Instead of giving donations for Ram Mandir, donation drive should be started to build new AIIMS. The Haryana government has failed to build a medical college in Bhiwani even after remaining in power for the last six years,” he said.Farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said over 400 farmers have sacrificed their lives but none of them has died of Covid.“If patients don’t get bed, medicines and oxygen at hospitals, their kin should visit houses of their respective areas MPs and MLAs and ask them to make proper arrangements. Also, FIRs should be registered against the BJP government as it failed to provide adequate medicines, ICU beds and oxygen to people suffering from the virus. We will continue our protest even if the government imposes Section 144 of CrPC across country,” Charuni added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-will-not-clear-protest-sites-amid-rise-in-covid-cases-tikait-101619720926795.html
29-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana MLA’s gunman killed in accidental fire||The gunman of Lok Insaaf Party chief Simarjeet Singh Bains was killed after his service revolver accidentally went off at his house in Harkrishan Nagar on Thursday morning. Police said the deceased, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sewa Singh, 48, was with the MLA’s security cover for the past five months.The ASI’s son Maninder Singh said after getting ready for work on Thursday, his father was cleaning his service revolver when it suddenly went off and hit his head on the right side.Maninder and his mother rushed to Sewa’s room on hearing the gunshot and found him lying on the floor in a pool of blood. He was rushed to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), where he succumbed during treatment, police said.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said the revolver fired two shots, of which one hit the room’s ceiling and another hit the ASI’s head.The body was handed over to the family after autopsy at the civil hospital. Shimlapuri police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure following the statement of the deceased’s son.In March, the gunman of Punjab BJP spokesperson Anil Sareen had died in a similar incident after his service rifle fired accidentally on March 22. The bullet had pierced through the head constable’s head after hitting the chin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mla-s-gunman-killed-in-accidental-fire-101619720924067.html
29-04-2021||Other||Delhi Police bust fake Remdesivir manufacturing unit in Kotdwar||New Delhi: The Delhi police on Thursday busted an industrial unit that was manufacturing fake remdesivir injections in Uttarakhand’s Kotdwar. Delhi Police Commissioner, SN Shrivastava, shared information about the raid on Twitter. He said the suspects have revealed that they sold nearly 2,000 fake remdesivir injections to people who were desperately looking for them.“Delhi Police working on useful information arrested 5 culprits in a prolonged investigation & unearthed a ‘pharmaceutical’ unit at Kothdwar, Uttarakhand manufacturing large quantities of fake Remdevisir injections (COVIPRI) sold at price over Rs. 25000/-” Shrivastava tweeted. The commissioner said that each injection was being sold for as much as ₹25,000.Shrivastava said that apart from 196 such fake injections, the police also seized packing machines and 3,000 empty vials in which the fake medicines were intended to be packed. He said that five suspects were arrested following a “prolonged” investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-bust-fake-remdesivir-manufacturing-unit-in-kotdwar-101619720744520.html
29-04-2021||Other||Two in Delhi arrested for selling fire extinguishers as oxygen cylinders||New Delhi: Two men in west Delhi’s Dwarka were arrested for passing off fire extinguishers as oxygen cylinders and selling them to people, whose relatives have contracted Covid-19, said Delhi Police on Thursday. In one of the cheating cases, the patient for whom the equipment was procured died of Covid-19, read the complaint lodged by the victim’s acquaintance. Police could not immediately ascertain if the alleged cheating, or a possible delay in providing relief to the patient, had any direct bearing on the death. However, a relative of Narender, the 32-year-old patient who died, alleged that the delay in getting an oxygen cylinder led to his demise. “Had we not been cheated, my brother-in-law could have survived,” said the relative. Police said suspects Ashutosh Chauhan and Ayush were rendered jobless during the pandemic and passed off fire extinguishers as oxygen cylinders to make a quick buck. “They sold one such empty cylinder for ₹10,000,” said Santosh Meena, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka).Geeta Arora, a resident of Bindapur in West Delhi, was looking for an oxygen cylinder for her friend’s relative, who lived in Noida. “The relative, a patient of Covid-19, had breathing issues and low oxygen levels. Her family was unable to find her a hospital bed,” said Meena.After reaching out to many people for a cylinder, Arora finally got in touch with Chauhan and Ayush, who asked her to visit near Uttam Nagar metro station to collect the cylinder on Monday night.A red coloured cylinder was handed over to Arora in lieu of a payment of ₹10,000. The same night, Arora handed over the cylinder to the patient’s family in Noida. The cheating came to the fore when the patient’s family went to get the cylinder filled on Tuesday morning and realized that it was a fire extinguisher. When Arora asked the suspects to return the money, they refused. On Wednesday, Arora learnt that the patient, for whom the cylinder was purchased passed away, read her statement to the police. She again pursued the suspects. They allegedly called her near the metro station, but didn’t meet her, despite making her run around for two hours. She finally decided to lodge a complaint, based on which a case of cheating and criminal conspiracy was registered at Uttam Nagar police station.The DCP said technical surveillance and local enquiry facilitated the arrest of the suspects, from whom they recovered four fire extinguishers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-in-delhi-arrested-for-selling-fire-extinguishers-as-oxygen-cylinders-101619720745039.html
29-04-2021||Other||IIT-D removes attendance clause, extend deadlines after 22% respondents of survey test positive for Covid||New Delhi: Officials at the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi (IIT-D) announced several relaxations, including of deadlines and attendance norms, after 22% respondents of an internal online survey said they tested positive for the coronavirus disease between March and April.More than a tenth of students surveyed said they were considering withdrawing from the ongoing semester due to the stress caused by the pandemic and associated personal grievances, while over 40% said they wanted the semester halted for a while.Of the 3,910 students who participated the survey, which was conducted between Sunday and Tuesday, 857 said they contracted the infection since March, while 61% said a family member, or someone close to them, tested positive in the same period.HT has seen a copy of the survey report.The respondents included students enrolled in undergraduate, postgraduate and research programmes, as well as those pursuing diplomas and dual degree courses at the institute.The institute currently has over 10,000 students enrolled across courses.After the survey’s results were analysed, the college administration decided on several relaxations for students for the ongoing semester, including exempting attendance from its evaluation policy, and extending deadlines for assignments. The decision was approved by the IIT-D’s senate, the institute’s highest decision-making body, during a meeting on Wednesday. To be sure, not all the students tested positive for Covid-19 on campus. Most students who took the survey were at home. The campus has been closed for physical classes since March.Students were allowed to resume research and laboratory work with Covid-19 guidelines as laid down by a University Grants Commission (UGC) directive last November. Earlier this month, the administration advised all students who had returned to the campus to leave after a sharp rise in Delhi’s Covid trajectory.On April 18, the IIT-D administration said at least 30 students on campus tested positive in the previous 30 days.The survey revealed that 11% of the students were considering withdrawing from the ongoing semester. About 43%, or 1,688 students, said they wanted the current semester to be put on hold for a few weeks. Though the administration did not halt the semester, it has decided to extend deadlines for any student adversely affected by the pandemic. Students ill for more than four weeks will also be considered for these relaxations, officials said. Shantanu Roy, the institute’s dean of academics, said, “The senate did not think halting the semester was a solution, since we are towards its very end. It decided to give relaxation to students directly or indirectly affected by the pandemic. They can take the exams whenever it will be possible for them.”Several students continued to demand that the semester be halted by a few weeks for everyone. “It looks like the administration doesn’t trust students even after conducting a survey. They think all the stories of students suffering are cooked up,” said an undergraduate student, who wished not to be named. The institute also decided to give students a week off, from May 1-7, before the online exams begin on May 9. “Normally in the regular time, we ask for documents like medical reports and test reports in case students decide to not take an exam due to a medical reason. However, during the current situation, IIT-D has decided not to ask for any such document immediately. They can also decide to take exams later, whenever it is possible for them,” Roy added.The senate also recommended a six-month extension for PhD scholars to finish their research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iitd-removes-attendance-clause-extend-deadlines-after-22-respondents-of-survey-test-positive-for-covid-101619720743354.html
29-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana admn issues standard protocol to ferry bodies of Covid victims||Springing into action after finding hospitals violating safety guidelines while handling bodies of Covid victims, the administration on Thursday constituted a Covid cremation management cell. A standard operating procedure (SOP) has also been chalked out that mandates that all hospitals immediately intimate the cell’s nodal officer about a Covid patient’s death at 98154-77868. The body must then be kept at the hospital’s mortuary until the medical officer allots a van to transport the body to the crematoriums/cemetery, which is expected to be done within an hour.The health facilities have been warned against releasing any Covid victim’s body in the absence of adequate arrangements to move it. ALSO READ: Probe ordered as norms flouted while taking Covid victims’ bodies for cremation in LudhianaAnother medical officer from the cell will make sure that teams handling the bodies follow all safety protocols, while cops will ensure social distancing and masking at the crematoriums.On Wednesday, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma had marked an inquiry against Aastha Hospital for sending a female deceased’s body to the cremation ground without a PPE kit or a sheet. The action came after photographs emerged on social media, showing the elderly woman’s body lying abandoned on a cart at the ground.Before this, two families were forced to take bodies of their family members in an auto-rickshaw and a cycle cart in the absence of an affordable ambulance service. Even here, the bodies were transported in the absence of due protocols.“An SOP has now been issued so that the Covid victims are cremated with dignity and as per safety guidelines to limit the risk of infection,” said an MC official.10 vans arranged, more on the wayMC joint commissioner Swati Tiwana, who will supervise the cremation management cell, said the district administration had 10 mortuary vans, including five dedicated by NGO Samvedna.Stating that more vans and ambulances will soon be roped in with the help of the RTA secretary, Tiwana urged NGOs to assist the administration in this hour of need.Meanwhile, MC commissioner Pradeep Sabharwal held a meeting with all private hospitals with facilities for L2 (mild to moderate symptoms) and L3 (critical) patients to reiterate the safety protocols for bodies of Covid victims.Cremation helplines for familiesThe administration has released three helpline numbers for the deceased’s families – 9501-500-101, 7719-712-797 and 9501-500-102.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-admn-issues-standard-protocol-to-ferry-bodies-of-covid-victims-101619720624239.html
29-04-2021||Other||Pandemic compelling non-Covid patients to keep away from hospitals||The Covid-19 pandemic is keeping non-Covid patients away from hospitals. In some cases, even cancer patients have requested doctors to postpone their chemo-therapy cycles and suggest alternate medicines for the next one or two months till the pandemic subsides. Amar Singh, 55, a native of Ayodhya district, suffers from oral cancer. He is undergoing treatment at the department of oral and maxillofacial surgery, KGMU. After he successfully underwent three chemo-therapy cycles, the second wave of Covid-19 struck, with Lucknow reporting the maximum number of cases. Family members and friends advised Singh against visiting KGMU till the pandemic subsides. This was not an easy decision for him. Stopping chemo-therapy cycles in between was a high-risk decision that could harm recovery prospects. But travelling to Lucknow was a bigger risk in this pandemic. “After the surge in cases, I was afraid to move out of the house, forget about travelling to Lucknow. As chemo-therapy cycles are going on, my immunity level is down making me susceptible to all kinds of infection, including Coronavirus,” Singh said, adding, “My family consultant also suggested against going to Lucknow for chemo-therapy cycles, if possible.” Singh’s family contacted Prof Hari Ram of the department of oral and maxillofacial surgery, KGMU, who is treating him. “After consulting several doctors we decided not to visit Lucknow and requested Prof Hari Ram to suggest alternate medicines for the time being,” said Vikas, his son. “We forwarded the papers of the last chemo-therapy cycle to the doctor on WhatsApp. On its basis, he recommended medicines till the chemo-therapy cycle resumes,” he said. The family is also planning on consulting oncologists online through apps and seek their advice. But, Singh’s family members are praying for the pandemic to subside so that treatment is resumed. Even in private hospitals, the turnout of non-Covid patients has dropped. Only in extreme emergency cases where a visit to the doctor cannot be avoided, do patients visit hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pandemic-compelling-non-covid-patients-to-keep-away-from-hospitals-101619720563351.html
29-04-2021||Other||Hope resides in ‘tents’ on SRN campus, ready to lend a hand||A small park on the SRN Hospital premises has become the temporary shelter for attendants of Covid-19 and other patients admitted to the hospital. Some of them have arrived recently while others have been staying for over 10 days to look after their dear ones admitted here, hoping that their dear ones recover and get discharged soon. The attendants living under the shelter of foldable, mosquito nets give a scene of small tents in the garden. At least two attendants are accompanying each patient but as no one is allowed inside the Covid-19 wards, they usually stay in the small park or under a shade on the SRN Hospital premises. Some make do by seeking shelter under trees, braving all difficulties One among hundreds of such attendants is Sudhir Kumar, a resident of Kaushambi, whose relative is admitted to the Covid-19 ward, said he has been here for the last 10 days. He is allowed to send eatables and juice to the patient although he has been not allowed to enter and meet his relative. Enduring all difficulties which include those of food and water for themselves, attendants of patients are leaving no stone unturned in ensuring that their patients are taken good care of and return home healthy. Sajjan, another attendant, who has been living here for a week, said that his father is admitted in the Covid-19 ward. Each day, Sajjan makes several rounds to the ward to see his father from outside. He even asks about the well-being of his father from the hospital staff. While Sudhir and Sajjan have hope and continue to do all in their power for their sick relatives, weeping and panic-stricken relatives of dead patients have also become a regular scene on SRN Hospital premises. Soon after the death of a patient, attendants arrange for an ambulance to take the body to the ghat for cremation while making calls to inform of the demise to their relatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hope-resides-in-tents-on-srn-campus-ready-to-lend-a-hand-101619720387428.html
29-04-2021||Other||L1, L2 hospitals for cops in 11 districts of Kanpur zone||Level 1 (L1) and Level 2 (L2) hospitals are being opened in all the districts of Kanpur police zone, comprising 11 districts, to assure all personnel that they and their families will be looked after, should the need so arise. “The idea behind the move is to assure police personnel and their families that they are well looked after in these trying times and all verticals of the department are working for them. Policemen are exposed to greater risk due to the nature of work. That is why we will be extending the facility to everyone, including the PRD jawans, village chowlidaars, homeguards and their families,” a senior police official explained.The SPs of the districts will set up special Coronavirus control centres to keep a track of the health of policemen and even village chowkidaars and their families. Four districts have set up these hospitals —the biggest being in Jhansi with 70 beds and oxygen support. Etawah, Kannauj, Farrukhabad have set up similar hospitals, while other districts were in the process of doing so. “We can accommodate policemen from other districts too. The facility has round-the-clock presence of doctors and nurses, and even has a mess,” said Rohan P Kanay, SSP, Jhansi. ADG Kanpur zone Bhanu Bhaskar has asked hospitals to map critical care resources at range and district levels for personnel and their families. The health status of police personnel affected will be monitored on a six-hour basis and updated in real time. Similarly, the district police chiefs will coordinate with policemen to donate blood and plasma in case of need. While immunity boosting dosages will be given to police personnel, digital consultation of policemen and their families from pulmonologists and general physicians will also be arranged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/l1-l2-hospitals-for-cops-in-11-districts-of-kanpur-zone-101619720206375.html
29-04-2021||Other||No shortage of oxygen, ICU beds, ventilators in Haryana: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday said that there is no need to panic as there is no shortage of oxygen, ICU beds and ventilators in state.During his visit to Karnal, the CM said that the number of Covid cases have increased four-fold, leading to pressure on hospitals but now efforts are being made to ensure supply of oxygen. Patients from Delhi are also coming to Haryana for treatment.Over supply of oxygen in state, the CM said the Centre has also increased Haryana’s oxygen quota from 162 MT to 232 MT but the state requires around 300 MT oxygen every day and this has already been conveyed to the Centre.He said that supply of an increased quota of 70 MT will be made from Odisha and efforts are being made to ensure speedy arrival of oxygen from there via trains and by air.Khattar said that due to failure in oxygen plant at Roorkee, Uttarakhand, which supplies 20 MT oxygen everyday to Haryana, the supply of oxygen was hit but it will be restored soon.Earlier, the CM had held a meeting with officials of the district administration. He inaugurated a 30-bed ICU in the Covid ward of KCGMCH.He added that patients from Delhi are coming to Haryana for treatment as there is shortage of remdesivir injection and oxygen in some states.Over the protests by attendants of patients in hospitals across state, the CM said that there was problem with small private hospitals that were not on board but they are now admitting Covid patients.He said that strict action will be taken against people involved in black-marketing of oxygen and remdesivir.On allegations by the Opposition that spread of Covid is government’s failure, he said Opposition leaders should not politicise this issue and support the government in its fight against the virus.The CM inspected oxygen storage plant and said another tack of 10,000 kg liquid oxygen will be set up in the hospital. During a meeting, Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav told Khattar that of 444 oxygen beds only four are empty and of total 228 ICU beds, 19 are empty, but there is no shortage of oxygen.Khattar, while reviewing the Covid situation in Ambala, said he has instructed the officials concerned to take action against private hospitals for admitting infected patients without authorisation.“It has come to our notice that small private hospitals treating general illness have started taking Covid infected patients,” Khattar said at a civil hospital in city.Khattar met some patients at the trauma centre and OPD of the civil hospital and inspected the upcoming oxygen plant here.The CM said, “There is difficulty in meeting demands of essential drugs and injections at some places as these are coming in less quantity, hence a board of doctors has been constituted to allocate these only to those who genuinely need them.”In Yamunanagar, the CM chaired a meeting and inspected arrangements at ESI Hospital, Jagadhari. He said the administration and police are keeping an eye on those hoarding essential or non-essential commodities in state.Khattar also visited Jind civil hospital to check preparations made for Covid patients.FARMERS OPPOSE CM’S VISITAfter getting information of the CM’s visit to Jind, farmers protesting against Centre’s three farm laws reached near the PWD rest house but till then, the CM’s helicopter had taken off.The farmers alleged that the district administration had arranged the CM’s visit after declaring that area as a containment zone so that they cannot oppose the visit.Farmers thereafter moved towards local BJP MLA Krishan Midda’s residence and held a protest for over two hours. Farmers tried to break the barricading outside the MLA’s residence to stop farmers but police somehow pacified them.“We have called a sarv khap mahapanchayat on May 3 at Khatkar toll plaza where we will take further decisions against BJP-JJP leaders,” the farmers added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-shortage-of-oxygen-icu-beds-ventilators-in-haryana-khattar-101619720205946.html
29-04-2021||Other||Release essential medicines and oxygen seized from hoarders to hospitals and needy: HC to Delhi govt||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Thursday directed the Delhi government to immediately release the essential medicines and injections like Remdesivir to the hospitals seized by the police from the black marketers and hoarders.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli issued the directions to the deputy commissioner (DC) of the city government’s revenue Department to ensure that the seized drug and oxygen cylinders does not remain as case property and instead given to the needy, owing to shortage in the market.The court, however, said that oxygen cylinders should not be seized from individual patients and their attendants. “Whenever any seizure is made, the IOs should immediately inform the DCs and also ascertain the genuineness of medicine. The medicine should also be immediately put in refrigerated environment. We also direct the Delhi Police to not seize any cylinder or medicine from patients or attendants. It goes without saying that Delhi Police would be bound to conduct investigation with cooperation of public at large,” the court said in an oral order.The directions come after the bench took note of the suggestions made by Kanwaljeet Arora, member secretary of the Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) on raids conducted on Wednesday, during which the police had seized 200 oxygen cylinders and remdesivir injections from the blackmarketeers.Arora suggested that such seized medicines and oxygen cylinders ought to be put to use, instead of being kept as case property, in the present situation when there is a dearth of the same. He also submitted that the police had moved an application for the release of such medicines in a city court. However, the same was rejected because it was not under judicial review.He said that under the Essential Commodities Act, the DC (Deputy Commissioner) had the powers to release the confiscated item.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that after the raids on Wednesday, the government had spoken to the Commissioner of Delhi to take necessary actions and the Crime Branch, cyber Cell of the Delhi police have also been taken aboard.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who along with several hospitals had sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the city.Two more PSA oxygen plants from todayThe Delhi government told the high court on Thursday that two more pressure swing absorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants will become operational in the city from Friday, adding that it needed 1,000 metric tonnes of oxygen to augment intensive care unit beds needed to handle the rush of critical Covid patients as a deadly wave of Covid-19 was sweeping through the city. Delhi government’s counsel Rahul Mehtra made the submission before a high court bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli while giving a status report on the Centre’s plan to set up PSA oxygen units at different Delhi hospitals. Mehra said two PSA oxygen plants are operational in the city. Regarding the remaining four plants, the senior advocate said the vendor allotted by the Centre has been called to some other state and only two units are running currently. He said that setting up of these plants will help the Delhi government augment its bed capacity to prepare for a predicted surge in mid May.According to the Delhi government’s Corona app, only 11 of the total 4,933 ICU beds were available in the city on Thursday at 9.30pm.The court asked the Centre to expedite the installation of the remaining four PSA oxygen generation plants.Seek DRDOs helpThe bench also directed the Delhi government to take immediate steps to request the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for its “on board oxygen generation system”, developed for use on aircrafts, which can be installed in hospitals to produce medical grade oxygen.The direction to approach DRDO was issued by the court after it was informed that the Uttar Pradesh government has already made such a request for the system which can produce 1000 litres of oxygen per minute. The court said these measures would help augment the oxygen generation capacity of Delhi which is grappling with a scarcity of the life saving gas.Suppliers told to join hearingThe court also issued notice to the companies which supply oxygen to hospitals in Delhi and asked them to join the hearing on Friday. It directed them to keep ready with them the “hospital-wise, quantity-wise and time-wise” data on oxygen supplied by them to the hospitals here after several of them complained that they were not getting the full quota of oxygen allocated to them by the Delhi government.The direction was issued after S Bankata, executive director of the Batra Hospital, told the court that one of the suppliers had not given them oxygen despite an addendum by the Delhi government. He anticipated a deep crisis in the next three-four hours as the supply was going to finish.Set up a portal for philanthropistsThe bench, during the hearing, also said that setting up more oxygen generation would help the Delhi government to provide oxygen supply to individual citizens who might be isolating themselves at home for treatment. It also asked the Delhi government to set up a portal for NRI’s and people wanting to donate medical equipments for the Indians.“Let the Delhi government create a portal for this purpose so that persons sitting abroad and desirous of making imports of equipments to India are in a position to give all details and ship in the name of Delhi government. A status report be filed in this regard by tomorrow,” the bench said.The court was informed that there are NRIs who are ready to assist India in its fight against COVID-19 by gifting medical equipment like oxygen concentrators but they do not know where to send it. They said there is no mechanism by which Delhi government can accept such imports of medical equipments.Oxygen supply to HaryanaThe bench also clarified that its order on Delhi government taking over the supervision of an oxygen refiller plant, which also supplies to neighbouring states, will not adversely affect the oxygen supply to Haryana.The court’s order came on an application filed by the Haryana government seeking clarification regarding the April 27 order of taking over charge of ‘Seth Air’ which is situated in Palwal and supplies oxygen cylinders in Delhi and Haryana.It was informed that the allocation for Haryana and Delhi was 21 and 38.5 MT per day of liquid medical oxygen respectively from this refiller plant.The bench also turned down individual requests of patients who had moved to the court seeking directions to allot them hospital beds saying that if it allows one request, there would 20,000 petitions flooding the court.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who along with several hospitals had sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the city. The matter will be now heard on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/release-essential-medicines-and-oxygen-seized-from-hoarders-to-hospitals-and-needy-hc-to-delhi-govt-101619716843112.html
29-04-2021||Other||Lucknow’s Covid-19 case tally cross 200,000-mark||The total number of Covid-19 cases in Lucknow crossed the two-lakh mark with 4,126 fresh infection cases reported on Thursday and the death toll went up to 1,762 with 37 more fatalities, according to official data.The state capital has reported 200,832 cases in 424 days since the first case was reported in March 2020, an average of about 473 cases per day. The overall case positivity rate in Lucknow is about 7%. The state capital has tested over 28 lakh Covid-19 samples since the pandemic began.“With 152,771 recovered patients, the recovery rate in Lucknow is 76.06%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.The state capital has 46,299 active cases under treatment and a majority of the patients are in home isolation. Owing to poor oxygen levels, the request for hospitalisation is piling up at the Covid command centre here. Besides, many patients in home isolation are looking for oxygen cylinders and their attendants have been seen standing in long queues outside filling stations during the day.“I had asked my friend to arrange for an oxygen cylinder so that I can raise the oxygen level if it falls. But he could get the cylinder filled only after trying for the entire day,” said a Covid patient and resident of Jankipuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknows-covid-19-case-tally-cross-200000mark-101619715103085.html
29-04-2021||Other||105-year old World War II veteran, Lieutenant Shridhar Gopal Ballal, no more||PUNE A World War II veteran, honorary Lieutenant Shridhar Gopal Ballal, passed away due to a brief illness on April 22 at Kamshet near Pune, at the age of 105, according to Col Vinay Dalvi, founder and director of ‘Mission Victory India’. Ballal was born on November 29, 1915, in Pahur, district of Yavatmal in Maharashtra, and joined the Ordnance Corps of the Army in 1941. He was posted in Iraq during World War II, where he saw an action at Shaiba, Mosul and Kirkuk. “Ballal was decorated with 1939-1945 Star, The Defence Medal and Indian Independence medal for his dedicated service. He retired from the Indian Army in February 1969 after 28 years of active service,” said Col Dalvi. Post-retirement he had settled at Ghorawadi, Talegaon-Dabhade. He followed a strict regimen of exercise, walk and a balanced diet. He also kept his mind spiritually active by reading philosophical books. This ensured a good health even after crossing the age of 100 years.After WWII, he was posted in Mardaan and Chaklala, which are now in Pakistan. Post- Independence he saw action during the conflicts in 1947 and 1965 with Pakistan, and in 1962 with China. He is survived by a son, a Naval Commander and two daughters, all settled in Pune. He also has six grandchildren and seven great grandchildren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/105year-old-world-war-ii-veteran-lieutenant-shridhar-gopal-ballal-no-more-101619714202976.html
29-04-2021||Other||Police raid farmhouse party, arrest nine, rescue 5 bar dancers||PUNE The Pune police arrested nine persons, including four contractors associated with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), during a night raid on a farmhouse on the outskirts of Pune.The police also rescued five dancers who were brought in to perform, officials said on Thursday. According to police, four of the girls are from Mumbai and one is from Katraj. A case has been registered under sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956, and the Mumbai Police Act, at Uttamnagar police station.A number of bottles of liquor have also been seized during the raid. Police added that during the investigation it was revealed that a 39-year-old Sameer Paigude, a manager at the farmhouse, had organised the party at near Kudje village and had asked one of the accused, Prajkta Jadhav, a resident of Mumbai, to bring in the girls from Mumbai for the party. The other accused have been identified as Mangesh Shahane, Nikhil Pawar, Dhwanit Rajput, Sujit Ambwale, Nilesh Bordhe, Aditya Madne, and Vivekanand Badhe. “During the raid, a man and a young woman were found in compromising position in a room located on the farmhouse,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-raid-farmhouse-party-arrest-nine-rescue-5-bar-dancers-101619712462795.html
29-04-2021||Other||Bokaro emerges as lifeline of 7 states||As crisis due to shortage of medical oxygen deepens across the country amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, Bokaro Steel Limited (BSL) has become lifeline seven states with the company maintaining a continuous supply for last 15 days. According to per official sources, it has supplied 2,124 tonnes of liquid oxygen to seven states, including Jharkhand, between April 12 and 25.Besides, hospitals in five states were also directly supplied oxygen by either road or rail transport. Chas (Bokaro) sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Shashi Prakash Singh said on Thursday, “Bokaro-based companies have enough stock of liquid oxygen and gas. As soon as an order is placed from any corner of the country, oxygen is supplied without delay.”Official sources in Steel Authority of India Limited, under which BSL comes, said the highest 498 tonnes of oxygen have been sent to Jharkhand, followed by Uttar Pradesh (812 tonnes), Bihar (619 tonnes), Punjab (117 tonnes), Madhya Pradesh (40 tonnes), West Bengal (19 tonnes) and Maharashtra (19 tonnes).BSL was also supplying oxygen directly on demand to hospitals in Madhya Pradesh ( 464 tonnes), Uttar Pradesh (243 tonnes), Bihar (66 tonnes), Jharkhand (66 tonnes) and West Bengal (9 tonnes).“On Tuesday, six tankers left for Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh and three tankers for Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh through Oxygen Express. From April 1 to 12, we supplied 67 tonnes liquid oxygen,” the SAIL official said , requesting anonymity.The official said the total 2,124 tonnes oxygen that has been supplied so far can fill up 2.40 lakh jumbo cylinders and cater to the requirement of over 2.5 lakh patients for 30 to 36 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bokaro-emerges-as-lifeline-of-7-states-101619712163487.html
29-04-2021||Other||Former state BJP chief dies of Covid-19||Former Singhbhum MP and state BJP president Laxman Gilua succumbed to Covid-19 at the age of 57 years here at Tata Motors Hospital in the wee hours of Thursday, officials said. As per hospital officials, Gilua was admitted on April 22. He breathed his last during treatment around 2.30am Thursday. Meanwhile, Gilua’s wife, two sons and a daughter, who also tested positive for Covid-19, were currently undergoing treatment.Gilua was a two-time MLA from Chakradharpur and represented the Singhbhum Lok Sabha seat twice. He became an MLA for the first time after winning Assembly election from Chakradharpur seat in 1995, while he won the parliamentary election for the first time in 1999 after defeating Congress strongman Vijay Singh Soy.BJP fought the last Lok Sabha and Assembly elections under his leadership when Raghubar Das was the chief minister.His eldest son Amit Gilua performed his last rites at Jata village in West Singhbhum district. Central minister Arjun Munda, chief minister Hemant Soren, former chief ministers Babulal Marandi and Raghubar Das, state BJP president Deepak Prakash, Kunal Sarangi and a host of BJP leaders and politicians from other political parties expressed shock and grief over Gilua’s death. Another former MLA Sanatan Majhi from Potka died at Kolkata-based Medical Research Institute recently on Tuesday. Majhi used to live in Sonari area of Jamshedpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-state-bjp-chief-dies-of-covid19-101619712162802.html
29-04-2021||Other||Revenue officers resent survey work amid pandemic||PATNAEven as the state government has issued guidelines for government staff to work from home with only 25 % attendance in offices owing to the massive surge in Covid cases, revenue and settlement officials posted in the districts are miffed over the latest directive from the revenue department to ensure land survey related work is carried out and completed as per targets set.In a letter issued by the land revenue department’s land records and survey directorate on Wednesday, it has been instructed that all officials in districts would take part in the review meeting every fortnight by giving information about progress of ongoing land survey related work and other updates through online mode.It has also been directed that district revenue and settlement officers would hold review meetings with officials posted at the camps in villages to take updates on survey work through online mode. The emphasis has also been that survey work should be carried as per targets.“Though the department has asked us to attend review meetings through online mode, the survey work is continuing and we have make field visits to get updates Field officers are also working with great risk.At this point, when Covid cares are surging, is it feasible to interact with people at village level for different aspects of survey work to complete pending works in a targeted manner?” asked a settlement officer, seeking anonymity. He said the department should have suspended the survey work for the time being in light of Covid cases.“In many districts, the survey work has progressed while in some districts in central and north Bihar, it is still in initial stages where camp officials are required to interact with villagers for map verification and boundaries. This will only expose people to the risk of Covid infections since cases are rising in rural areas too,” said another revenue officer, posted in Begusarai.Reports said that in Munger, around 25% of officials engaged in survey work have been infected. “Even villagers are now refusing to co-operate in the survey work and asking us not to come to their villages. Many mukhiyas have given in writing to the department to suspend the work,” said another survey officer, pleading anonymity.In Bihar, the special survey to update land records is going on in 90 circles covering 5,099 villages in 20 districts.However, Jai Singh, director, land records and survey, said that the letter issued to district settlement officers was in context of holding review meetings through online mode. “ Yes, the survey work is going on and has to be completed as per targets set. But we are not insisting on people to take outdoor work right now . Things like uploading data and other documentary work can be done at office level,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/revenue-officers-resent-survey-work-amid-pandemic-101619712042809.html
29-04-2021||Other||Bihar reports over 13,000 Covid cases 2nd day in a row||PATNABihar recorded over 13,000 new Covid cases and 89 related deaths even as the new restrictions imposed by the state government came into force on Thursday.The state recorded 13,089 positive cases on Wednesday as against 13,374 cases the previous day. The total number of active cases in the state is now 100,821. The oxygen crisis, meanwhile, continues to haunt the state government. On Thursday, Patna district magistrate Chandrashekar Singh wrote to principal secretary (health), requesting him to form a technical group immediately to audit the demand for medical oxygen and actual need of premier hospitals in Patna. “The three hospitals of Patna, PMCH, NMCH and IGIMS, have demanded 1,000 jumbo-sized oxygen cylinders each per day. PMCH and NMCH were supplied with 1,000 cylinders while IGIMS was given 600. These three hospitals have 700-800 beds dedicated for Covid patients whereas there are around 2,000 beds in 90 private hospitals identified for Covid treatment,” the DM said in his letter. He further said these private hospitals are demanding 4,000 cylinders per day whereas the total production capacity of oxygen in Patna district is 7,000 cylinders per day. Singh requested the health department to ensure supply of additional 1,770 cylinders through industries department. Meanwhile, junior doctors of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMHC), a dedicated Covid hospital, called off their strike after talks with health minister Mangal Pandey on Thursday. They had decided to boycott work after attendants of a Covid patient, who died in course of treatment, allegedly went berserk and assaulted them and other hospital staff on Tuesday night. A seven-member delegation of the Junior Doctors’ Association, led by its president Ram Chandra and secretary Kushagra, met the minister and apprised him of the situation. The association also placed a charter of demands, including deploying MBBS final-year students for duty in Covid wards and giving powers to NMCH superintendent to appoint ward boys and other medical staff and immediate supply of medicines. The minister accepted the demands and assured them to redress them at the earliest. Patna DM inspected the ESIC hospital at Bihta and announced that 100-bed dedicated Covid care centre will start functioning from Friday. This will be in addition to 50-bed hospital being run by the Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-reports-over-13-000-covid-cases-2nd-day-in-a-row-101619711984637.html
29-04-2021||Other||No vaccination for 18-plus category in Bihar from May 1||PATNAThe next phase of vaccination for those above 18 years of age will not begin in Bihar from May 1, a top health official said, citing inability of Serum Institute of India (SII) in supplying the vaccines in bulk. Manoj Kumar, executive director of Bihar State Health Society said on Thursday that Serum Institute of India had refused to supply one crore vials of the vaccine demanded by the Bihar government. Instead, the Institute wanted the state government to place its monthly requirement. According to Kumar, the SII has informed the central government that it was difficult to meet the demand as several states had placed their orders simultaneously. “The central government has, therefore, decided to make a population-based quota for vaccine supply for states. As a result, the vaccination would not start from May 1. However, the registration for the vaccination will continue,” he said. The state government had earlier decided to start registration for vaccinating people above 18 years of age. Nearly 5.47 crore people in this category are to be vaccinated free of cost at government hospitals. Meanwhile, BJP MP and former deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi has suggested that the Bihar government keep its options open for importing foreign-made vaccines. “The SII, following an appeal from prime minister Narendra Modi, has reduced the price of Covishield from ₹400 to ₹300, which will reduce pressure on state governments. The Bihar government, given the necessity to vaccinate those aged 18 and above, should keep its options open for a global tender of foreign-made vaccines as well. The Centre has already given consent for Russia-made Sputnik and five other foreign vaccines,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-vaccination-for-18-plus-category-in-bihar-from-may-1-101619711984039.html
29-04-2021||Other||State launches home delivery of vegetables in Patna, Motihari||PATNAThe state’s co-operative department on Thursday launched the online delivery system for vegetables in Patna and Motihari.Under the new system, people can go to website “www.tarkarimart.in” where a list of vegetables, including potatoes, onions, cauliflower, bitter gourd and others, are on display with prices mentioned.“We have launched the facility from today so that people staying indoors amid the surge in Covid cases get supplies at their doorstep and visit markets less,” said Bandana Preyashi, secretary, co-operative department.She said vegetables would be procured by primary vegetable co-operative societies from farmers and unions would ensure the delivery of supplies as per orders from customers. Preyashi, who inaugurated the e-commerce platform of the vegetable processing and marketing scheme, said the facility had been launched in Patna and Motihari in the first phase and would be extended to other cities based on feedback from people in the coming days. This initiative, she said, would ensure remunerative prices for growers, delivery of fresh vegetables at competitive prices to customers while adhering to strict hygiene norms during the pandemic and also create employment opportunities in rural areas.Earlier in the day, chief minister Nitish Kumar, while reviewing schemes being implemented by the co-operative department, asked the secretary to ensure that the doorstep delivery of vegetables through online orders is extended to other districts and towns at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-launches-home-delivery-of-vegetables-in-patna-motihari-101619711983403.html
29-04-2021||Other||Cops solve woman’s murder in 24 hours: Boyfriend arrested||PUNE The Vimantal police station, on Thursday, arrested a man for the murder of his girlfriend. The case was solved within 24 hours after the murder took place by the Pune police.The accused has been identified as Santosh Mahadev Rathod (31), of Sai Park labour camp, near Ajeenkya DY Patil University, Lohegaon.Police said corpse of a young woman was found in a field opposite Kuber Park on Ajeenkya DY Patil University-Lohegaon road on Tuesday morning. After getting the necessary information, senior police officers, including DCP (Zone 4) Pankaj Deshmukh, ACP (Yerwada division) Kishor Jadhav, senior police inspector Gajanan Pawar, police inspector (Crime) Mangesh Jagtap and detection branch officer Sachin Jadhav, began the investigation.The cops later identified the woman and learnt that she had been missing after going out with Rathod around 10 pm on April 26. Rathod on detention confessed to having murdered her because she used to talk to other men. They had quarrelled over the issue earlier, investigators said.Police said that Rathod took her to the field on a bike and strangled her. Later he smashed her face with a stone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cops-solve-woman-s-murder-in-24-hours-boyfriend-arrested-101619711982809.html
29-04-2021||Other||Oxygen crisis: HC picks gaping gaps in state’s claims||PATNAThe Patna High Court has directed the Union government and ministry of health and family welfare to take all possible measures to ensure Bihar gets 194 metric tonnes (MTs) of oxygen per day as per the quota fixed for the state and that it should not remain on papers only. “There is requirement of continuous supply of oxygen. In our opinion, any discontinuity shall lead to virtual collapse of the health care system. From the material available on record, shortage of medical oxygen in the state is acute and it is obligatory for the Centre and the state government to ensure that the state’s quota of 194 MTs of liquid medical oxygen, as allocated by the Central government, reaches its destination physically,” the bench of Justice Chakradhari Sharan Singh and Justice Mohit Kumar Shah observed Wednesday evening. The bench also rejected Bihar government’s stand that “the supply of 90 MTs of oxygen from the Central quota on April 26 coupled with the availability of oxygen generated in the State through various sources was adequate to meet the requirement for treating patients in the state”. “Certain disturbing facts have emerged during hearing of the present matter under public interest litigation relating to deficient health care infrastructure in Bihar to meet the challenges posed by exponential rise in Covid-19 cases in its second wave. Acute shortage of medical oxygen in the state, particularly in the hospitals treating Covid patients, is an admitted fact,” the bench observed. The bench said it has formed an opinion that “Bihar is not in a position to increase the number of Covid-19 beds in government and private hospitals because of shortage of oxygen and is unfortunately determining the requirement of oxygen merely on the basis of minuscule number of beds which have been made available compared to the actual need”. The court also underlined the report of the central team, which pointed at inadequate infrastructure even in the state’s big government hospitals like the IGIMS and PMCH. Huge vacancies The court was also surprised by the huge number of vacancies at various levels in the health sector. “It is noteworthy that 4,149 posts of specialist doctors and 3,206 of general doctors are vacant. As against total sanctioned posts of 91,921 at various levels, 46,256 posts are vacant. It is high time the state government looked into this aspect and took remedial measures. We will be taking up this aspect of the matter in future proceedings,” the court observed. The court also wanted to know from the state government the basis for determination of number of Covid deaths in the state and what are the sources which feed data in relation to such deaths. The query is significant as there have been several allegations of underreporting due to growing rush at the crematoriums. Lack of storage tanks In course of the hearing , it came to light that except three hospitals, none of the government and private hospitals in Patna has cryogenic storage tank, a basic requirement for big hospitals. As a result, full utilization of hospital beds is not happening due to lack of oxygen supply. The Central team’s report said All India Institute of Medical Sciences (Patna), Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) Hospital at Bihta and private hospitals Paras in Patna have cryogenic storage tank for oxygen. Even old and big hospitals like Patna Medical College and Hospital, Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) and state’s first dedicated Covid hospital, Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) don’t have the facility. The government’s announcement to convert Medanta-Jai Prabha Hospital, which has come up on the government land, into a Covid hospital has also remained a non-starter. The court directed the health department to ensure that Medanta, which did not have oxygen supply facility at present, could provide a 50-bed facility. It also directed that facility created for Covid patients at the Pataliputra Sports Complex be put to use. The report of the central team said the PMCH has 1,750 beds, but nearly 1,000 remained unused for want of oxygen. The ailing systemDemand and supplyBihar’s quota for medical oxygen per day,as fixed by Centre, is 194 MTs. It received only 90 MTs on April 26. State says the supply, coupled with oxygen generated in the state, is adequate to for treating patients, a claim trashed by the HC. Storage problemsOnly three hospitals in Pana — AIIMS, ESIC Hospital at Bihta and private Paras Hospital, have cryogenic storage tanks for oxygen, a basic requirement for big hospitals. Even premier hospitals like PMCH, NMCH and IGIMS don’t have the facility.Manpower gapAs against the total number of sanctioned posts of 91,921 at various levels, 46,256 having been lying vacant at various state-run hospitals. State has now decided to hire doctors and nurses on a one-year contract through walk-in interviews.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-crisis-hc-picks-gaping-gaps-in-state-s-claims-101619711922784.html
29-04-2021||Other||Thunder, lightning, light rain... but max temp at 38.6 deg C||PUNE Pune city on Thursday witnessed thunderstorms and lightning, followed by light rainfall. Aundh, Baner, Pashan, Fergusson College toad, Vishrantwadi, Pune Station, and Kothrud witnessed light rains. Pune, on Thursday, reported 0.2 millimetres of rain, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), with dense black clouds towards the evening.Pune also recorded a maximum temperature of 38.6 degrees Celsius and minimum temperature of 21.9 degrees Celsius, on Thursday.“Thundery activity with lightning is likely to continue in the city till May 3. The day temperature will be around 39 degrees Celsius and the night temperature will be 21 degrees Celsius,” said IMD officials.As per IMD, thunderstorms accompanied with lightning, rain and gusty winds with speed reaching 30 to 40 kilometres per hour, are very likely to occur at isolated places across Maharashtra till May 2.“These conditions will prevail in Marathwada, Madhya (central) Maharashtra and Konkan and Goa from Thursday till May 2,” said IMD.Kolhapur, Nashik, Sangli, Satara and Mahabaleshwar also reported rainfall On Thursday.IMD officials said that due to local instability and various weather systems at work over Maharashtra, there is moisture incursion leading to light rainfall.The highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra was at 44.6 degrees Celsius at Brahmapuri in Vidarbha. The lowest minimum temperature reported was at 19.6 degrees Celsius in Mahabaleshwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thunder-lightning-light-rain-but-max-temp-at-38-6-deg-c-101619711682703.html
29-04-2021||Other||ACs, lifts in all Pune hospitals, Covid centres to go under audit by energy dept||PUNE A total of 146 Covid care centres in Pune will be inspected and audited by the department of energy. This is following recent incidents of fire in hospitals. The audit is to inspect electrical installations in government, as well as in private Covid hospitals. A major area of the audit will be AC systems and lifts.State energy minister Nitin Raut has asked the chief electrical inspector to conduct the audit.Dinesh Khonde, chief electrical inspector, issued an order for inspections on April 28. The order consists of a check-list and SOPs for the inspections, to follow Covid 19 lockdown protocols and observe safety measures to prevent infection.“Fire incidents in some ICU wards have happened due to a short circuit in the AC system in some hospitals. Hence, the AC systems will be inspected carefully. The task is now to bring to the notice lacunae, if any, to hospital authorities in time to prevent mishaps. It is mandatory that all Covid hospitals or centres must have a standby for electricity supply in case of any power break down. If any Covid centre doesn’t have this we will not give permission to operate,” said Thorat, electrical inspector, energy department, Pune. “Faulty electric installations will be rectified. If height of the building is above 15 metre, then they should have all necessary clearances,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/acs-lifts-in-all-pune-hospitals-covid-centres-to-go-under-audit-by-energy-dept-101619710962694.html
29-04-2021||Other||Police arrest man for selling fake e-passes for Rs800 each||PUNE The Crime Branch of the Pune police has arrested a man for allegedly cheating people by selling fake e-passes for inter-district travel. He sold over 50 such passes at ₹800 each.Due to Covid-19 , the Maharashtra government has restricted travel and people with the e-passes only can travel to other districts.On April 28, sub-inspector Shridhar Khadke of the Social Security Cell, Crime Branch, received a tip-off that a man was selling fake e-passes in Hadapsar. A trap was laid and a decoy was sent to the accused, identified as Dhanaji Muralidhar Ganganamle (29) of Bhekrai nagar, Fursungi. The accused makes the fake e-passes on his laptop, preliminary investigation revealed.A case under sections 420 (cheating); 465 (punishment for forgery); 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating); 471 (using forged document as genuine); and 484 (counterfeiting); of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-arrest-man-for-selling-fake-e-passes-for-rs800-each-101619710182641.html
29-04-2021||Other||Damage to underground cables blamed for regular power cuts in Mundhwa, Kharadi||PUNE After Sangvi in the western part of Pune, some areas in east Pune, Mundhwa and Kharadi, are also experiencing frequent power outages. The main reason, residents say, is a lack of coordination between the PMC and the Maharashtra state Electrical Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL).Under the Mundhwa sub-division, MSEDCL supplies electricity to Keshavnagar, Mundhwa gaon, Magarpatta, Loknagar vasti, Koregaon park road, and the Sade Satra Nali areas. There are a total 33,000 residents who get power supply from 30 different low-tension and high-tension underground cables.Over the last few days, people have been facing power failure problems frequently. Given it is summer, residents are facing very annoying conditions staying at home.As per MSEDCL statistics, 85 underground electrical cables have been damaged over the last one yearSheetal Kanoje, a resident of Plenum Park society, Keshavnagar, said, “It is a very difficult situation to stay at home without electricity. We have had power cuts more than thrice a week, of almost one-to-two hours, either in the afternoon or late evening.”Vishal Bhosale, an IT professional from Magarpatta city said, “Our online work is hampered due to the power cuts. Lot of IT professionals are living in Magarpatta. MSEDCL should know that due to lockdown, all IT professionals are working from home. We cannot tell our clients or bosses that there is a problem with electricity. We consider Pune a smart city, but have to struggle to get uninterrupted power supply.”Nishikant Raut, public relations officer, of MSEDCL said, “We are trying to supply uninterrupted power supply to citizens, but, sometimes, it becomes difficult due to the damage to underground electricity cables. We are insisting PMC officials depute officers who can coordinate with MSEDCL before digging for any development work. Our officials would have to rush to spots at night to restore electricity. It takes some time to identify the spot.”He added, “If PMC officials tell in advance about development work, we will take measures to use another source to supply power to local residents.”The PMC has started road and drainage work. Besides that, PMC allows private mobile companies to lay down underground cables. The corporation is utilising the lockdown period to complete development works by May. VG Kulkarni, chief superintendent Engineer of PMC, said, “We have started development work in different areas. Therefore, there may be some incidents of damaging electrical cables. However, we have given strict instructions to contractor and road officials to monitor work and report to MSEDCL officials to avoid interruption of power supply.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/damage-to-underground-cables-blamed-for-regular-power-cuts-in-mundhwa-kharadi-101619709882830.html
29-04-2021||Other||22 railway cops transferred for dereliction of duty after “extortion” video goes viral||PUNE Twenty-two police personnel from the Group Railway Police in Pune have been transferred to Railway Police headquarters after a video posted on social media claimed to show police personnel extorting cash from labourers returning to their home states at the Pune Railway station.Superintendent of police (SP), Group Railway Police, Pune, Sadanand Wayse Patil, explaining the case, said, “We have registered an FIR against those persons who posted the video, which aims to defame the railway police. There are 72 cameras installed on the railway station is to keep a watch on illegal activities. We believe that the policemen in the video are fake cops. Since our policemen did not take action against these fake cops, we have transferred 22 of them on grounds of negligence.” MNS corporator Vasant More, who was informed about the extortion video, furnished pictures of it as evidence before senior railway police officers on Wednesday. More said, “After getting complaints of extortion I personally went to the station as a commoner and investigated the allegations. We submitted photos to the police as proof and appreciate the action.”Patil added: “If the Railway Police staff does not put an end to this menace more will be transferred. However, defamation of police on social media is wrong. We have lost four policemen to corona and 100 others have contracted the infection while working for commuters.” To replace the 22 cops transferred, Patil claimed that 50 police personnel have already been brought to patrol the Pune railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/22-railway-cops-transferred-for-dereliction-of-duty-after-extortion-video-goes-viral-101619706882532.html
29-04-2021||Other||Number of fines issued for mask violations by PMC lower in April than in March||PUNE The number of fines issued by the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) to residents found not wearing a mask dropped from 4,417 in March to 2,597 in April, till the 28th of the month.PMC had collected a total of Rs22,08,500 from mask violators in March 2021.In February 2021, PMC had taken action against 2,162 mask violators. The fines levied by the PMC in March are the highest for a particular month since the pandemic began. In September 2020, 3,438 were fined for not wearing masks, the month with the second-highest number after March 2021.According to PMC officials the number of fines have reduced as people’s movement is currently restricted. “People are mostly out on the roads from 8 am-11 am. We are carrying out actions during this time. Action against Covid violators has not stopped,” said Vaibhav Kadlakh, assistant municipal commissioner (Yerawada ward office). “We have continued site inspections and fines have been imposed on those found in violation,” Somnath Bankar, assistant municipal commissioner (Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward). Mask violators in the bookJan 2021Number of fines levied - 241 Fines collected - Rs1,20,500 Feb 2021Number of fines levied 2162 Fines collected - 10,81,000 March 2021Number of fines levied 4417 Fines collected – 22,08,500 April 2021 (till the 28th)Number of fines levied 2497 Fines collected – 12,48,500||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/number-of-fines-issued-for-mask-violations-by-pmc-lower-in-april-than-in-march-101619705862494.html
29-04-2021||Other||Standing committee clears Rs20 lakh for foreign language courses in PMC schools||PUNE Even as schools run by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) keep classes online due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the standing committee has approved Rs20 lakh on Thursday, to be invested in teaching foreign languages to students of the PMC’s Vidhyniketan schools. The Vishwa Bharati institute of foreign language will be contracted to conduct the classes.The ₹20 lakh aims to include teacher’s salaries, preparation of course module, books, internet and online examinations, and audio-visual material. Vishwa Bharati will charge the PMC ₹1,300 per student, as per the proposal.The civic body has decided to offer foreign languages to secondary school students under the “Global Punekar” initiative in online mode.The standing committee passed the proposal last week to teach German, Japanese, Spanish and French to secondary school students (Classes 8 and 9), for the academic year 2021-22. PMC has six Vidya Niketan schools with 400 students studying in Classes 8 and 9. Hemant Rasane, standing Committee chairman said, “The course will not start right now. When the academic year starts, it will precede it. The aim is to provide professional and career-orientated course to PMC school students under the Global Punekar initiative.” A senior official of the PMC school board, requesting anonymity, said, “We don’t have the budget to run foreign languages courses. Schools have not opened. There is a prediction of a third wave of Covid-19. Therefore, no one knows when the new academic year is going to start. The most important is that PMC cannot allot work to one institute without calling for an expression of interest (EOI).” Mukund Kirdat, coordinator, Pune Parent’s Association, said, “It is a waste of money. This is not the right time to start any such courses. The entire education system has collapsed due to Covid-19. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/standing-committee-clears-rs20-lakh-for-foreign-language-courses-in-pmc-schools-101619704905838.html
29-04-2021||Other||Thane hospital fire: Local youths save 9 patients||A group of 10-12 men, up early on Wednesday for Ramzan Sehri, helped rescue patients from Prime Criticare Hospital, where a fire broke out, killing four patients. The toll would have been higher if not for these good Samaritans, all in their 20s, breaking open the grilles and glass of the windows at the back of the hospital to rescue at least nine patients. They also carried 30 unused oxygen cylinders away from the site, so as to avert any explosion.The men live in three chawls — Dongre, Parkar and Jahur —surrounding the hospital in Rashid Compound. Farhan Ansari, 29, an advocate, said, “I was up for Sehri, when around 3.45am I heard few women shouting. I opened the window and saw flames rising from the building. I thought some house is on fire and alerted few others in my chawl and we rushed to the spot without a second thought. When we reached, the entire hospital was engulfed in fire, the entrance was in flames and the patients could not escape.” The group decided to go to the back of the hospital. He added, “There was a window with grilles at the back of the hospital. We saw patients crying for help from this window. We decided to try and break open the window, which was difficult as we tried different tools, but managed it after several attempts. We asked for a digging bar from one of our neighbours and using the iron rod, pulled the grille out. We also broke the glass using the same rod. We saw a nurse and asked her how many patients are there inside. She told us the hospital was almost full.” Some of them climbed inside. Mohsin Shaikh, 27, another resident, said, “There were patients from all age groups, some of them were in ICU and critical. The smoke from the fire was suffocating them. We started shifting them on stretchers and took them to the ambulance to be shifted to different hospitals.” Shaikh added that while rescuing, they saw over 30 oxygen cylinders, which they decided to move away from the hospital. “We carried them on our back and outside the hospital to safety.” Ansari added that the fire brigade, too, had reached the spot by the time they rescued a few of the patients from the window side. Insurance advisor, Sayyed Rehan, 50, a patient who was rescued from the window, said, “I was admitted in the general ward on April 22 for pneumonia. On Wednesday morning, my son had gone for Sehri, while I was sleeping. I woke up due to the commotion and saw smoke in the entire room. I tried to run, but the door was jammed, when I saw few people at the window. For almost 10-15 minutes, they were trying to break the window. They managed to raise the grille and those of us who could walk, crawled from the space. If not for these men, I would have not survived.” He was shifted to Bilal Hospital in Mumbra.(Inputs by Faisal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-hospital-fire-local-youths-save-9-patients-101619692721837.html
29-04-2021||Other||High Court quashes 8 allotments of JMC flats in Jammu’s posh Gandhi Nagar||Acting upon a PIL, a division bench of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court comprising Chief Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Rajnesh Oswal on Wednesday quashed eight allotments as well as consequential rent deeds made by the Jammu Municipal Corporation (JMC) in respect of municipal flats situated at posh Gandhi Nagar locality in Jammu city. The bench observed, “We have reached an un-escapable conclusion that impugned allotments are illegal and contrary to the principle of equality as enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution of India.” The division bench directed the allottees to vacate the premises under their occupation within a period of six months from the date of this order. The division bench also directed that so far as 587 municipal shops, 191 flats and 30 garages are concerned, the UT government and Municipal Corporation Jammu are directed to examine the individual cases and proceed in accordance with the law laid down by the apex court in numerous decisions mentioned in this judgment and take appropriate action within a period of six months, extendable by another period of six months only. The beneficiaries of the JMC flats include Jeet Lal Gupta (IAS), former commissioner secretary, housing and urban development department; RS Jamwal (KAS) former joint commissioner of Jammu Municipal Corporation, Madan Mohan Khajuria, former PA to commissioner JMC; Narender Sharma president of an NGO ‘PEACE’; Surinder Kumar, PSO to former commissioner secretary housing and urban development department; two drivers Balbir Singh and Bharat Bhushan besides two others Chain Singh and Khairati Lal. The PIL was filed by a practising lawyer Irtiza Mushtaq Salaria, who had challenged eight allotments of prime municipal flats situated at posh Gandhi Nagar area. After hearing advocate Sheikh Shakeel Ahmed for the petitioner and senior AAG SS Nanda for the housing and urban development department, the division bench referred to several judgments of the apex court. Advocate Sheikh Shakeel Ahmed vehemently argued that in absence of any policy, the Municipal Corporation has adopted a pick and choose a policy in allotting the flats and quarters to the blue-eyed persons and the Municipal assets being a public property could not have been distributed in a manner as has been done by the JMC. “Rather the allotments were required to be made via auction only, so as to enable the wider participation of the common public in so far as allotments to private persons are concerned,” he argued. He also vociferously argued that in the posh area of Gandhi Nagar, the JMC has allotted a flat to former commissioner secretary, Jeet Lal Gupta at a nominal rent of ₹990/- per month for a period of 40 years and similarly a cattle pond at Gandhi Nagar in Jammu was converted into flat after making a renovation and repair to the tune of ₹35 lakhs and thereafter it was allotted to former joint commissioner of JMC RS Jamwal at a modest rent. The attention of the bench was also drawn towards 587 shops, 191 flats and 30 garages which have also been allotted in a fishy manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/high-court-quashes-8-allotments-of-jmc-flats-in-jammu-s-posh-gandhi-nagar-101619692302310.html
29-04-2021||Other||Good Samaritans come to the rescue of Covid-19 patients in Odisha||One in every two calls that young Sikh businessman Satbir Singh receives these days pertains to oxygen cylinders. For Bhubaneswar-based Singh, who started Sikh Aid, a non-profit organisation last year, the day starts with people calling up for oxygen and ends with lugging filled oxygen cylinders till late evening.“While I feel happy taking cylinders to people who need it most, I don’t like when we have to say no to people as there not enough cylinders available. We have very few cylinders and I am unable to get any new ones due to restrictions imposed by the government. My team and I are trying my best,” said Singh. With Covid-19 cases escalating in Bhubaneswar, the demand for oxygen cylinders has gone up in the last fortnight.“We have provided at least 60 cylinders in last fortnight,” said Singh, whose fellow volunteers have pooled in money to buy cylinders, fill them and provide them at the doorsteps of Covid-19 patients who need them. Sikh Aid members are also sending cooked meals to many patients who are living alone.Like Singh, several good samaritans in Odisha are trying their best to provide help to Covid-19 patients, particularly a large number of patients who are in home isolation. Of the 55,000-odd positive patients, more than 40,000 are in home isolation who would need lunch and dinner at their homes. As Covid-19 cases surge in Odisha, several organisations, like Sikh Aid, are providing free lunch, dinner to Covid-19 patients while others are donating oxygen cylinders, masks and medicines to the patients.In Rourkela, journalist Sanjiv Mohapatra and his family have been sending cooked lunch and dinners to families for the last three days. Rourkela municipal area has been the worst-hit in Sundargarh district that currently has a TPR of 43. With close to 700 positive patients in Rourkela, Mohapatra said he has been getting several calls from many Covid-19 positive patients for dinner and lunch.“Many of the patients are senior citizens whose children live abroad. After they tested positive, they are unable to go to the kitchen. There are also many single parents who also require meals and we are sending them food. On average, we are sending 170 meals every day,” said Mohapatra, who wants to carry on the free meal scheme for at least a month.In Bhubaneswar, where there are around 6,500 active Covid-19 cases, the So Am I (SAI) Foundation Trust and FICCI FLO have jointly started free lunch and dinner services for Covid-19 patients under home isolation and attendants of patients admitted in government-sponsored hospitals in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. For the past two days, Vandana Gupta from the SAI Foundation Trust has been sending 200 vegetarian lunch and dinner packets to senior citizens, small families as well as single parents who have tested positive.“We have tied up with Pick Up Ninja to deliver hot lunch parcels at their doorsteps by 1.30 pm and dinner packets by 9.30 pm in the BMC area. Our volunteers will deliver in Cuttack and distribute food to the attendants of the patients across different hospitals. We are planning to provide food as long as the cases surge,” said Gupta.The Narula family in Bhubaneswar runs vegetarian restaurants and is known for its special kulfis. The family has started a similar home delivery service of free lunch and dinner for Covid-19 patients. Nitesh Narula, who is looking after the home delivery, said as of now they are providing vegetarian meals to 200 people in Bhubaneswar. “Delivery is still an issue. We are in talks with delivery agencies like Rapido and then we can scale up. We are prepared to provide food to as many people as we can for the next few months,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/good-samaritans-come-to-the-rescue-of-covid-19-patients-in-odisha-101619686482335.html
29-04-2021||Other||Odisha planning 7-day lockdown in Bhubaneswar, western districts amid high TPR||Odisha government is planning to impose a lockdown for at least a week in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and several western districts later this week as the state reported a single-day surge of 8,386 cases and a high test positivity rate of nearly 20 per cent, officials said.Director of health services, Bijay Mohapatra, said community transmission is one of the reasons behind the spike. “The number of cases in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack is increasing as many people are coming to the city from different places. One person can infect many others. As there are many returnees in the Bhubaneswar and Cuttack from outside the state, the number of cases is increasing in the two places. One positive person is infecting multiple persons. Hence the cases are increasing,” he said.Mohapatra said the state government is monitoring the situation daily and accordingly increasing the number of beds when and wherever it is required.Senior state government officials said lockdown in the state capital, as well as nearby Cuttack and western districts like Kalahandi, Nuapara, Sambalpur, Jharsuguda, Sundargarh and Nabarangpur, seemed to be the only way out as weekend shutdown since last week has not helped in bringing down the TPR. While the rise of TPR of 1.5 on April 1 to 19.7 on April 27 has been swift, in western districts it has been staggering.Kalahandi on Wednesday reported 55.7 TPR while Sundargarh reported a TPR of 42.64. Sambalpur had a TPR close to 40 while Bhubaneswar’s was around 20.Noted neurosurgeon and former director of AIIMS Bhubaneswar, Dr Ashok Mohapatra, said gatherings at vegetable, fish markets and liquor shops are the main reason behind the exponential rise in cases. “New strategies are need of the hour,” he said. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation on Wednesday sealed the city’s busy market building for 48 hours as people were not following Covid appropriate behaviours.“Social distancing is being blatantly violated here. Many people are roaming freely without masks and there are no systematic arrangements at shops here to avoid crowding. We are amid a pandemic, we can never beat the virus if the safety protocols are flouted in such a manner. Therefore, we were forced to seal the market area for 48 hours,” said BMC Additional Commissioner, Laxmikant Sethi.As Covid-19 cases continued to surge in Odisha there has been a mad rush for hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, injections and medicines with the health infrastructure in the state almost stretched to its limit.Though health officials said Odisha has now over 31,471 beds in Covid care centres, as well as dedicated Covid hospitals with oxygen facilities available in 17495 beds, in Bhubaneswar, Covid patients were running from pillar to post in getting themselves admitted in various hospitals. Covid hospitals run by SUM, AMRI, Apollo, CARE as well as other hospitals reported full occupancy. Many were seen posting messages on Twitter, seeking beds and oxygen cylinders for their kith and kin.Bhubaneswar Municipal Commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhary said steps are being taken to augment the capacity at Covid hospitals by 3,000 more beds in the next 10 days. “Of the present capacity of around 3,000 beds at the Covid hospitals, 50% beds are occupied. However, in view of the relentless surge, the city’s bed capacity will be increased to 6,000 in the next 10 days to meet the demand,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-planning-7-day-lockdown-in-bhubaneswar-western-districts-amid-high-tpr-101619680841772.html
29-04-2021||Other||Week on, no headway in PAU museum burglary case||Over a week has passed since burglars broke into the museum of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) and fled with rare artifacts depicting the heritage and culture of Punjab but police are still groping in the dark for leads. The theft had taken place when the varsity was closed for outsiders and entry was allowed only from one point, Gate Number 4. PAU officials had found out about the theft on April 19 when the varsity reopened. They, however, waited for two days before filing a complaint on April 21. On April 26, police had apprehended a youth, who was said to be the son of a Class 4 employee working at the varsity. They had recovered two brass plates from him but the university authorities said the recovered articles did not belong to the museum.Police are now keeping tabs on the internet as there is a possibility that the thieves may try to sell the stolen artifacts online for a huge amount. According to university officials, the stolen items were antique and some of these were centuries-old artwork depicting life in rural Punjab. These included bells, brass utensils, traditional jewellery, such as Rani haar (necklace), earrings, anklets and phulkari. “These items were rare and priceless. The collection process of the museum began in 1971,” said Sandeep Bains, dean, College of Community Science, who is the custodian of the museum. PAU security in-charge Shiv Kumar said there was no closed-circuit television (CCTV) camera in and around the museum. When asked how the thieves could have entered the university when there was security cover to bar the entry of outsiders, Shiv Kumar said the matter is being probed. “The thieves may have scaled the wall of the university. Right now, we can only speculate. Also, we only keep tabs on the registration number of vehicles entering the campus and ask the driver about the purpose of visit. No vehicle is searched before entry or exit,” he said. Ashok Kumar, the university’s estate officer, said police are probing the matter and hopefully, the accused will be behind bars soon.Sarabha Nagar assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Gurpreet Singh said there have been lapses on the part of the varsity. “They should have informed the police immediately after they found out about the theft. Since, the museum was of historical importance, CCTVs should have been installed around the premises for safety. However, we are working on many theories. A man was rounded up with two brass plates but the PAU authorities said that these plates did not belong to the university,” said the ACP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/week-on-no-headway-in-pau-museum-burglary-case-101619641240549.html
29-04-2021||Other||Family feud turns ugly as cop shoots brother in Ludhiana||A family feud turned ugly after an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) in the police department who is currently posted at the PAU police station shot at his elder brother, who is also a cop, after a scuffle at Pavitar Nagar Puli in Haibowal on Wednesday.The injured cop, identified as Vijay Kumar, was rushed to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), where his condition is stated to be stable.The incident took place in the morning when ASI Janak Raj learnt that his elder brother, who is an ASI attached with the anti-encroachment squad of the municipal corporation (MC), was visiting the area to supervise the anti-encroachment operation. Janak was upset that he was not invited to the wedding of his sister’s daughter scheduled for Thursday. He suspected that his brother, with whom he was in a property tussle, was behind the boycott.The brothers got into a heated argument and in no time, their sister also reached the spot. In a fit of rage, Janak pulled out his service revolver and fired one shot in the air and aimed the second at his brother. The second bullet hit Vijay in the stomach following which he started running to get away from his brother, triggering panic in the area. The accused fled after the incident. The MC officials who were present at the site for the anti-encroachment drive took him to the hospital. Joint commissioner Deepak Pareek said the brothers were having a long-pending dispute which resulted in the incident. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-3) Sameer Verma said efforts are on to nab Janak Raj.Haibowal station house officer Neeraj Choudhary said the case was being registered against Janak Raj on the complaint of Vijay’s sister Veena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/family-feud-turns-ugly-as-cop-shoots-brother-in-ludhiana-101619640822976.html
29-04-2021||Other||15 more lose battle to contagion in Ludhiana||A day after recording the highest single-day toll of the year with 13 fatalities, Ludhiana shattered its own record, logging 15 more deaths on Wednesday. Of these, eight are men while seven are women, the youngest being a 33-year-old woman from Khanna. The district’s cumulative death count has now gone up to 1, 377. Among the women who died are an 81-year-old resident of Golf link, a 63-year-old of Ajit Nagar, a 62-year-old of Shimlapuri, a 57-year-old from Dugri, a 50-year-old from Meharban, a 47-year-old from Sukhdev Avenue, besides the 33-year-old Khanna resident. The men who succumbed to the virus include a 79-year-old resident of Rara Sahib, two 77-year-old residents of Shivaji Nagar and Nehru Nagar, a 76-year-old of Sunder Nagar, a 71-year-old resident of Hiran village, a 69-year-old resident of Tajpur road, a 64-year-old resident of Subhash Nagar and a 49-year-old resident of Vikas Nagar. The rising deaths are putting pressure on cremation grounds and mortuaries, prompting the Ludhiana administration to issue orders that bodies of Covid victims can be cremated in any cremation ground in the city. As many as 952 residents also tested positive, taking the cumulative count of cases to 52,444, of which 7, 853 are active cases. Currently, 1, 313 beds in private hospitals are occupied while 113 beds are occupied in government hospitals. As many as 30 Covid patients are on ventilator-support. Healthcare system overstretched, need residents support: DC Reiterating that the current healthcare system has already been stretched a lot due to unprecedented rise in Covid cases, especially Level-III patients, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma urged residents to “hibernate” for 14-days to help flatten the second Covid wave which is more ferocious than the previous one. He said due to the sudden surge in Level-III patients, who require ventilator support, and inflow of patients from other states including NCR, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and other parts of Punjab, the district administration was supplying 3,600 oxygen cylinders daily to Ludhiana hospitals. He said that every system has its own limitation and if people continue to be negligent towards Covid protocols, this will create conditions similar to Delhi and Mumbai. Administration to hires specialised doctors To combat the second wave of Covid-19 more efficaciously, the district administration on Wednesday announced to hire medical specialists on daily honorarium basis in the district. Sub-divisional magistrate (east) Baljinder Singh Dhillon said qualified medical specialists must come forward to help the administration in the battle against the contagion. He said interested candidates could contact the senior medical officer of the Civil Hospital, Ludhiana. Dhillon said the decision has been taken to enhance the manpower resources for ensuring quality treatment for infected patients. He said the state government has decided to give daily honorarium for the medical specialists being hired for Covid duty. The SDM added that walk-in interviews will be organised for applicants applying for these posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15-more-lose-battle-to-contagion-in-ludhiana-101619640641139.html
29-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s Good Samaritans send home-cooked meals to Covid patients||As Covid-infected patients in home isolation battle cold, fever and body aches which are rendering them unable to cook, a few women’s groups and clubs are helping them in the recovery process by providing them free home-cooked food at their doorsteps. To keep their morale up during the fight, these Good Samaritans are also pasting motivational messages, wishing them speedy recovery, on these food packets. Maneet Makkar, the owner of Club Sixty Nine, who is one of the persons running the free food delivery service, said, “We came to know that a lot of families are unable to cook food as they are not even able to get up from their beds. So we decided to start a Covid kitchen to provide meals free of cost to the patients.”“We are just a phone call away and want to help everyone going through these tough times. Our chefs prepare simple and healthy meals that include yellow dal, mix vegetable, rice and chapatti for delivery,” she said. “This morning, we got a call from a family on Dhandara road and we delivered the meal to them through a private delivery platform. Another call came from a Delhi-based family, which is getting treatment from a city-based hospital,” she revealed.‘Got to fight this battle as a community’Fifty-five-year-old Dimple Kant, who is another resident helping Covid patients in their battle, said that she started her initiative just two days ago. “I am very fond of cooking so I decided to support the infected patients through this initiative. On the first day, I received calls from four people and yesterday, the number went up to eight. I am receiving calls from South City, Barewal road and Aggar Nagar.”“Many told me that they are so unwell that they are not in a position to cook. This morning, I got a call from a woman who was crying. We sent food to everyone who called us. On Wednesday, we delivered food to 25 to 30 patients and received thank you messages from everyone,” she said, adding that this fight has to be fought as a community and everyone can do their bit by helping infected patients in their own area. Dimple said she packs dal, seasonal vegetables, curd, chappati and rice in these food packets and her own family members help her in the delivery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-good-samaritans-send-home-cooked-meals-to-covid-patients-101619640279747.html
29-04-2021||Other||Covid care centres can open sans nod: Chennai civic body||As people scramble to find hospital beds amid the raging second wave of Covid-19, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) on Monday allowed private hospitals to open Covid Care Centres in collaboration with private hotels without approval from the civic body. GCC commissioner G Prakash said the centres with necessary facilities can begin operations “straight away” by just informing the civic health officer via email. “This is to ensure that less symptomatic and asymptomatic patients go here. It will therefore relieve the load of hospital beds particularly,” he said, adding that pricing will be decided by the market.The move comes as Tamil Nadu reported 16,665 new Covid-19 cases and 98 deaths on Wednesday, with Chennai recording 4,764 cases and 32 deaths. The state has, so far, recorded 1,130,167 infections and 13,826 fatalities due to viral disease.Chennai accounts for 23% of the 100,000 tests conducted across the state daily. As beds in the city’s top private hospitals are occupied, the civic body has turned educational institutions in the city into Covid Care Centres where more than 11,500 beds are available free of cost. Over the past one week, the bed occupancy has increased from 1,487 to more than 2,700. As per government protocol, those who test positive for the viral disease are brought to the corporation’s screening and triage centres from where they are allotted home quarantine, Covid care centres and hospitalisation, depending on the severity of the symptoms. The care centres are for those with mild or moderate symptoms and those who do not have the facilities to isolate at home.“Patients who require admissions but can wait for a day or two are reserving their beds to avail them when they become available after discharges,” said a doctor working with a private hospital. More than 12,000 oxygen supported beds are scheduled to be made operational across Tamil Nadu, of which 2,000 will be ready by the end of the week, health secretary J Radhakrishnan said.Officials, meanwhile, said that the Sunday lockdown and stricter restrictions have helped curb the steady rise in infections and, if the trend continues, the state could even see a plateau.On Tuesday, health secretary J Radhakrishnan said: “In Tamil Nadu, we do not have a high number of infections like other states but we should keep our guard. 30% of those diagnosed require hospitalisation.”“With cases falling over the last two days, we can plateau or reduce if we continue to wear masks and do not go out unnecessarily,” he added. Gearing up to vaccinate the above 18 population from May 1, Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) on Wednesday placed orders for 1.50 crore vaccines. The state has vaccinated 5,551,744 people so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-care-centres-can-open-sans-nod-chennai-civic-body-101619638959067.html
29-04-2021||Other||Fraudsters con people as pleas for help pour in on social media||New Delhi: Rashmi Mehra, a public health professional, came across a phone number in a WhatsApp group on April 24. She had received the number from another acquaintance who had spotted the message on Twitter. The tweet read: “Oxygen cylinders available for all. Contact number- (mentioned number) (Dheeraj) Location: Delhi (Rohini). ‘Available, Just Spoke on call’ (sic)” Mehra passed on the number to her friend, whose father, along with other family members, are down with Covid-19. With the oxygen saturation levels of her friend’s grandmother dipping, oxygen was the need of the hour. “My friend needed an oxygen cylinder for her grandmother. On her behalf, I found a lead. Even though he was charging a lot, we settled for him. In a state of distress, my friend made an advance payment of ₹10,000 as sought by the vendor. He was not reachable after she made the payment in the noon. By evening, even our messages were not getting delivered,” said Mehra. She said the family is still battling Covid. “My friend’s family members are battling for life right now. In such a situation, filing a complaint is the last thing on her mind,” said Mehra. Mehra’s friend is among the scores of people who are getting scammed as they desperately seek help amid the ongoing crisis. The second wave of Covid-19 across the county – and the fourth in Delhi— has spelt doom with a record number of people testing positive for the virus daily and at least 300 people dying of the infection in the Capital everyday over the past few days. Amid this unprecedented surge in cases, social media platforms are flooded with desperate pleas for help to find vacant hospital beds, ventilators, oxygen cylinders, and medicines such as remdesivir. While there are many citizens who have stepped up to help, some fraudsters are exploiting the situation and cashing in on people’s misery in these trying times. Outlining the gravity of the situation, Mehra said her friend was a doctor but had failed to secure a bed for her own family members. Driven by the helplessness of the situation, she was compelled to make the transaction. “I know someone who lost ₹30,000 she had paid for a vial of remdesivir. The vendor blocked the number soon after receiving the payment. In a normal situation, one would think before making any payment. But the crisis is so bad that one is left with no choice but to take decisions fraught with great risk,” she said. Harish Arunachalam, who works with a multi-national technology company in Dublin, paid an advance of ₹10,000 for an oxygen cylinder for a family member whose oxygen levels had started dropping. Sitting miles away from home, Arunachalam made desperate calls to friends in Delhi who were able to find a lead on Twitter. Soon after the payment, the calls on the vendor’s number went unanswered and the promised oxygen cylinder never came. “Since I am not in the country, my friends were coordinating on my behalf. They found a lead on Twitter and called the number. The vendor seemed genuine to us. He sought our Aadhar number and other details. We made a calculated risk but the delivery never happened,” said Arunachalam. He said with so many verified leads floating on social media and other users vouching for the authenticity of these leads, people fall for such vendors. “The word verified has lost its meaning. When friends tell you that a lead is verified, it just becomes more believable. We didn’t realize that there are others trying to use the crisis to their advantage,” said Arunachalam.The cases are one too many. When 25-year-old Feroze’s father’s oxygen levels started dipping below 90 this week, the banking professional started hunting for an oxygen cylinder. A lead, originally shared on a social media platform, came his way. He called on the number and was asked to make an advance payment of ₹5000, which he promptly complied with. “Since the situation was critical, I immediately made the payment only to realize that the vendor was a fraud. In these terrible times, along with the loss of life, we are also witnessing loss of money,” said Feroze. Another citizen, who declined to give his name, lost ₹12,000 for Remdesivir vials that he ordered for his aunt, who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19. The vendor seemed genuine and even shared a picture of the medicine, which prompted the journalist to go ahead with the payment. However, the number was switched off soon after and there has been no response since then. “My friend had arranged the number from another acquaintance, who had procured the vials from the vendor. It didn’t work for us,” said the journalist, who is yet to arrange the required medicines. “I am desperately trying to arrange the medicine but have had no luck so far. I am not in the space to go after the vendor,” he added.Delhi police officers said they would take action against fraudsters misusing pleas for help on social media. Chinmoy Biswal, spokesperson for Delhi Police, said, “If people who have been duped file complaints, we will conduct investigation and take strict action against the fraudsters if the allegations are found to be true. We are already keeping a vigil on hoarding and black marketing of life-saving medicines, injections and oxygen. More than 20 people have been arrested for such offences in the last one week or so.” Deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell) Anyesh Roy said given the current situation, people are desperate and as a result, verification--that they would have done in normal circumstances, have taken a back seat. Roy said while there are some people who have not delivered since they had exhausted their capacity, there were instances of frauds too. “If you are asked to pay in advance, you should meet the vendor once. Insist on getting the physical location. This is a basic precaution. People should go through proper channels, such as hospitals, instead of informal means,” said Roy. He said that now medicines were being available through the formal channels which meant that anyone still claiming to sell these medicines is likely to be a fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fraudsters-con-people-as-pleas-for-help-pour-in-on-social-media-101619638358940.html
29-04-2021||Other||Delhi HC seeks response on plea seeking parole of prisoners||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought the response of the Centre, the Delhi government and the prison authorities on a plea seeking parole of prisoners involved in non-heinous crimes from three jails in the city in view of the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued a notice to the ministries of law and health, the Delhi government, police, office of the Lieutenant Governor and the director general of prisons, seeking their stand on the petition by May 4.Advocate Ajay Verma, appearing for the petitioners, told the court that recently, 190 inmates and 304 prison staff of Tihar jail tested positive for Covid-19 and the infection has spread across the prison.The petitioners-- three lawyers and a law student --have contended that at a time when there is a surge in Covid -19 infection, decongestion of the prisons is necessary as they are filled much beyond their capacity.“That the present total number of inmates as on April 7 is 17,285 as against a total capacity of 10,026 of the three jails -- Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini,” states the petition. Meanwhile, another single bench of the Delhi HC, directed the Delhi government and the prison authority to ensure proper medical supervision of former RJD MP Mohammed Shahabuddin, who is suffering from Covid-19 and is currently admitted in Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Hospital.Justice Prathiba M Singh said the doctor on duty looking after Covid-19 patients shall monitor Shahabuddin’s health and if required, also consult senior doctors of the hospital.The court also directed that the former RJD MP, serving life sentence for murder, be permitted to speak to a family member twice a day and disposed of his plea seeking protection of his life and monitoring of the treatment being administered to him at DDU Hospital.In his plea, Shahabuddin said he apprehended that he will not get proper treatment as there is a scarcity of oxygen and other medicines in Delhi. He also alleged that he is “apprehending the mismanagement of his health situation at the hands of the doctors at the behest of the opposite political leaders” in Delhi.According to the petition, he was lodged in a cell, in the high risk ward of Tihar Jail, which he was sharing with another inmate.Despite the other inmate testing positive for Covid-19 early April, Shahabuddin was kept in the same cell with the infected inmate and “no separate arrangement was made by the jail authorities,” read the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-hc-seeks-response-on-plea-seeking-parole-of-prisoners-101619638301700.html
29-04-2021||Other||After killing wife, man tries to jump off Covid centre building||A 40-year-old man from Panvel who allegedly killed his wife on Saturday, was rescued by police and fire brigade officers after he tried to jump off the 15th floor of a Covid care centre on Wednesday. The man was unwell for the past few days and instead of taking him to a doctor, his wife Sandhya had allegedly forced him to isolate himself in the balcony of their house. Patil was upset with her and on Saturday following a dispute, he hit her with a sickle on her head and killed her. “We arrested him on the same day and also conducted his Covid test. After he was found Covid positive, he was admitted to a Covid care centre at Indiabulls building in Kon village,” said an officer. “On Wednesday, as he was going to the 15 floor, a security officer spotted him and informed us about it. We along with the fire brigade officers reached the spot in no time. Even as Patil was repeatedly heading towards an open window, we convinced him not to do so and finally took him out of the premises,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-killing-wife-man-tries-to-jump-off-covid-centre-building-101619638239532.html
29-04-2021||Other||Probe ordered as covid norms flouted while taking covid victims’ bodies for cremation in Ludhiana||Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma has marked an inquiry against a private hospital for sending bodies of Covid victims to cremation grounds in violation of norms. This was after photographs emerged on social media, showing an elderly woman’s body lying at a cremation ground. The body was not wrapped in Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kit and did not have even have a bedsheet as cover. “Not only is the infection being spread, but the dead are being brought in the most undignified manner to the cremation ground. This is unacceptable. I have spoken to the authorities of the Aastha Hospital. Strict action will also be taken against employees for negligence. I have asked the civil surgeon to complete the inquiry in 24 hours,” the DC said. The DC’s action comes just two days after bodies of two Covid-19 victims were taken to the cremation ground in a cart and autorickshaw. “This is the second day that we have had to face this. Blood is oozing out of the mouth of the body. It was not even covered, leave alone having a PPE kit,” said a worker at the cremation ground. Dr Sanjeev Gupta of Aastha Hospital said, “One of our junior staffers might have made this mistake. We are trying to fix responsibility and to ensure this is not repeated. We have separate wards for covid and non-covid patients and are discharging six-seven patients everyday from our hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/probe-ordered-as-covid-norms-flouted-while-taking-covid-victims-bodies-for-cremation-in-ludhiana-101619638000184.html
29-04-2021||Other||In public perception, Capt and Badals hand in glove: Pargat||After former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, Congress MLA Pargat Singh attacked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday for the state government’s sloppy handling and legal setback in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case. Pargat, who met the CM along with other MLAs from Doaba region as part of the two-day consultation exercise held by the latter on the emotive issue, said that Capt Amarinder should take responsibility being the home minister of the state. “I told the CM about the perception among the people that he (Amarinder) and the Badal family are hand in glove with each other. We have to work to remove this perception. The new SIT should get cracking and produce results in a time-bound manner by taking action against culprits in these cases,” he said, after attending the meeting. The Jalandhar Cantonment MLA said the party won the 2017 assembly elections under Capt’s leadership and in his name, but he should now get a survey done to see where his popularity stands today. “It is due to the attempts to cover-up on just about everything…they do not want anyone to speak up,” he said in blistering remarks. Considered close to Sidhu, Pargat is the second Congress MLA to directly target the CM for failing to deliver justice in the politically sensitive cases in four years. In 2019 also, he had, in a letter to the CM, asked him about the doubts people had about the steps taken by the government to put the culprits in the dock. On the CM’s challenge to Sidhu to fight the election against him from Patiala, Pargat said such a statement did not befit a leader of his (Amarinder’s) stature. “He should not have talked in this manner. We should not digress from the real issue (justice in sacrilege cases),” he said. On day two of the CM’s meetings, a number of other party MLAs from Majha and Malwa also spoke about the public mood, which, in their words, varied from trust deficit to anger in different parts of the state. “The MLAs spoke about the loss of face they have suffered. Majha MLAs said this was the only issue in their region. I hope these meetings are not just a formality,” said one of the participants who did not want to be named. Congress MLAs from Malwa, who met the CM on Tuesday, had conveyed to him their apprehensions about the adverse political fallout of the state government’s handling of this issue, if justice is not delivered quickly. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, advocate general Atul Nanda, director general of police Dinkar Gupta and Justice Mehtab Singh Gill (retired) were also present on both the days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-public-perception-capt-and-badals-hand-in-glove-pargat-101619637519414.html
29-04-2021||Other||Excommunicated Langah’s parents move Akal Takht for his pardon||Over three years after former minister Sucha Singh Langah, 55, was excommunicated from the Sikh Panth his octogenarian parents on Wednesday approached the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of Sikhs, to seek pardon for him. The action against Langah was taken after a video clip showing him in an objectionable position with a woman had gone viral in October 2017. Langah’s father Tara Singh, 89, and mother Pritam Kaur, 88, have submitted an application in the Akal Takht secretariat. They said the family had suffered mentally and socially as the acting Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpeeet Singh has been rejecting Langah’s repeated pleas of clemency. Langah had been spotted outside the Akal Takht for a few days last week. On April 21, Sikh bodies had submitted a memorandum to the jathedar requesting him not to entertain Langah’s clemency plea. Langah and his family have been trying to secure pardon ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in Punjab. Langah’s son Sukhjinder Singh Sonu Langah may contest the election.“We are old and in the final stages of life. We have faith in Gurmat (teachings of the Sikh religion). Our son has been seeking pardon for his mistakes by visiting the Akal Takht time and again. He has also assured that he would comply with the orders of the Akal Takht in future. We request that he should be brought back into the panth,” Langah’s parents say in their application to the Takht, while also citing their infirmity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/excommunicated-langah-s-parents-move-akal-takht-for-his-pardon-101619636919418.html
