30-04-2021||Other||16-yr-old forced into flesh trade, rescued from Panipat||The child helpline of Panipat has rescued a 16-year-old girl of Bihar, who was allegedly married to a 40-year-old man of Taraori in Karnal.As per police, the girl belongs to Chapra district in Bihar and was brought to Panipat by a woman of her village, who then got her married to the man.The girl alleged that her husband sexually exploited her and forced her into flesh trade.On Thursday, she managed to reach Panipat and told the woman about the incident.Pooja Malik, coordinator of Child Helpline, said they got the information, following which, she along with police reached the house. The girl was rescued and sent to Nari Niketan.She said that the girl will now be taken to child welfare committee and her statement will be recorded.Panipat DSP Satish Vats said as per statement of the victim, a zero FIR under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has been registered and forwarded to Karnal police for action against the man.Police have also arrested the woman who brought her to Panipat and said that action will be taken as per probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/16yrold-forced-into-flesh-trade-rescued-from-panipat-101619806189237.html
30-04-2021||Other||TV journalist Rohit Sardana cremated in Kurukshetra||Senior television journalist and news anchor Rohit Sardana’s mortal remains were cremated at his hometown in Kurukshetra on Friday.Sardana, 41, died of cardiac arrest, days after he tested positive for the virus.Sardana, who was an executive editor and TV news anchor with Aaj Tak of the India Today Group, is survived by his wife, two daughters and parents. He was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Noida.On April 24, he had tweeted saying that he has developed Covid symptoms and later a CT scan confirmed the infection. Haryana home minister Anil Vij, sports minister Sandeep Singh and Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini attended the cremation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tv-journalist-rohit-sardana-cremated-in-kurukshetra-101619806069226.html
30-04-2021||Other||Govt hospitals in parts of Haryana face shortage of ventilators||Amid reports of high demand of ventilator beds due to rise in Covid-19 cases, ventilators in many government hospitals in Haryana are not functioning.As per data gathered from the district health officials, nine of 16 ventilators in government hospitals in Jind are functioning, seven of nine in Bhiwani, three of 14 in Hisar, and no ventilator in government hospitals in Jhajjar are functioning.Dadri and Rewari have 11 and three ventilators, respectively but these are not functioning as they don’t have trained staff to operate the ventilators.PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said they have 113 ventilator beds and all are full.Rohtak civil hospital has two ventilator beds, all of which are occupied.VENTILATORS OCCUPIED IN PVT HOSPITALS TOOMost private hospitals in Rohtak, Jhajjar, Sonepat, Hisar and Rewari have no ICU bed with a ventilator vacant.Jhajjar has 26 ventilator beds (all in private hospitals) and only two were vacant till filing of the copy. Rewari has 21 ventilator beds in private hospitals and 17 are occupied.“As soon as a ventilator is available, we will admit the next patient. We are regularly checking oxygen supply and patients require it as per severity of their condition. We are getting calls for ventilator beds and are providing treatment as per our capacity,” Dr Dahiya said.A senior health official from Dadri said they have contacted two private hospital doctors to give them some time to operate their ventilators and they had agreed to the request.“Now, both doctors have refused to join our hospital as more Covid patients are being admitted at their hospital. A Delhi-based woman, who got admitted here died this week as we do not have trained staff to operate the ventilator. We have ventilators but not the required staff,” the official added.A senior district official from Rewari said state cooperative minister Banwari Lal reprimanded health officials as three ventilators are non-functional due to staff shortage.“The minister asked the health officials to provide the same to private hospitals if they do not have trained staff to operate the ventilators,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-hospitals-in-parts-of-haryana-face-shortage-of-ventilators-101619805829140.html
30-04-2021||Other||‘Third phase of vaccination to be delayed in Haryana’||The district health officials of Rohtak, Jhajjar, Rewari, Dadri, Jind and other parts of Haryana on Friday said that the third phase of vaccination which will cover people in the 18-44 age group will not start from May 1 as they have not received the vaccine doses.Jind immunisation officer Dr Navneet Kumar said registration for eligible persons aged above 18 has been opened on CoWIN portal but vaccination will not start from May 1 as they are yet to receive the vaccine doses.“We will continue vaccination of all aged above 45 as we have enough stock to inoculate them. Those above 45 are allowed to walk in for vaccination but those above 18 will have to pre-register. We have not received information from the state headquarters as to how many persons above 18 have registered for inoculation,” Dr Kumar added.Jhajjar deputy civil surgeon Dr Ranbir Singh said no slots have been opened for booking a session and the same will be started after they get details of those who will get the jabs.“The beneficiaries will have to report at the given vaccination centre to receive the jab. Walk-ins will not be allowed. We are hoping that the third phase of vaccination will get more pace as compared to the other two phases. We will ensure that there is no rush at the vaccination centres,” Dr Singh added.A senior PGIMS functionary said they are yet to receive the vaccine doses for third phase of the inoculation drive.“Vaccination will start once the state receives substantial number of vaccine doses from pharma companies. For the third phase, Centre has given assent to state governments to directly place orders with pharma companies,” the official added.Ambala civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said vaccination for the 18-45 age group which was scheduled to start from Saturday has been postponed in district.“It might get delayed for 3-4 days as we are yet to get data of those who have registered for vaccination,” he said.He added that there are over 10,000 doses (of Covishield and Covaxine) available with the department for beneficiaries coming in for second dose.While Yamunanagar civil surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya said he has a target of inoculating 10,000 residents of the age group on the first day, but the doses are yet to arrive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/third-phase-of-vaccination-to-be-delayed-in-haryana-101619805652061.html
30-04-2021||Other||Mamata Banerjee’s virtual crash course for candidates, polling agents ahead of counting day||Trinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee organised a crash course for her party’s candidates and their counting agents on Friday, ahead of the counting of votes scheduled on May 2.Out of the 294 assembly seats, the 45-minute virtual session was attended by 287 candidates and their counting agents who would be on the ground on the big day, other than top leaders of the party including TMC MP and chief minister’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee. “The chief minister stressed on the fact that we should not fall for any rumours and should remain focussed on the counting till the end. For some assembly seats, agents have been alerted that the TMC may lag in the first few rounds but would ultimately have the last smile. So, the agents should not leave their seats at any point of time feeling dejected,” said a candidate, who attended the meeting.“She also advised that counting agents, at no point in time, should accept any food, drinks or even cigarettes from anyone. A mobile number has also been given to everyone, which would act as a helpline if the agents and candidates face any problem,” another candidate added.Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in West Bengal, said, “She (Banerjee) may give a last-minute vocal tonic to her candidates, but BJP would have the last smile and would win more than 200 seats as projected by Amit Shah. It’s now a matter of just a few hours”. The Election Commission of India (ECI) has already announced a three-layer plan on Wednesday to ward off the threat of coronavirus infections during the counting of votes for assembly elections, ordering more counting halls, banning public gatherings outside centres and allowing entry to candidates or polling agents only if they are fully vaccinated or have a Covid negative report.On Friday 48-hours ahead of the polling day preparations were in full swing across all the 108 counting centres and more than 700 counting halls. Candidates and polling agents queued up at various centres to get their Covid-test done. At Howrah, a scuffle broke out between the counting agents when they were standing in a queue to get their tests done. “This year the counting process would be lengthier as all Covid protocols need to be followed and materials would have to be sanitised thoroughly. Unlike previous years when the trend starts showing by 12 noon and 1 pm, this year it may take much longer,” said a poll panel official. The month-long poll season, which began with a high octane political battle between the BJP and the TMC but was overshadowed by the surge in Covid-19 infections in the state, came to an end on April 29. The counting of votes is scheduled for Sunday. Exit poll results for the assembly elections were announced on Thursday. Pollsters projected a cliffhanger in West Bengal, where the TMC is looking to retain power for the third term and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is confident of securing a majority of over 200 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mamata-banerjee-s-virtual-crash-course-for-candidates-polling-agents-ahead-of-counting-day-101619803909434.html
30-04-2021||Other||Nearly 4,000 police personnel test positive in 20 days in UP, 34 die||As many as 3,977 police personnel tested positive and 34 died in the past 20 days during the second wave of Covid-19 that gripped the state since April 10, said senior police officials here on Thursday.“There are 3,490 active cases in the police department on April 30,” said a senior official, adding that 2,514 fresh cases were reported in the past eight days.The official said 2,780 active cases were reported from the district police units, 239 cases from the other police office units, 188 cases from the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC), 145 cases from the Government Railway Police (GRP), 69 cases from the police training centres, 59 cases from the state police headquarters in Lucknow and 10 cases from the home guards’ wing.He also said the active cases in the police force were merely 105 on April 10, which had increased to over 33 times in 20 days.Overall, 16,698 police personnel had tested positive and 116 of them died during treatment between April 24, 2020 and April 30, 2021, the official added.During the year-long period, 96 of the deaths were reported from the district police units, eight from PAC, four from the director general of police (DGP) headquarters, three from other police units, two each from GRP and home guards’ wings and one from a police training centre, the official said.He also said 13,291 police personnel on field duty in districts across the state tested positive between April 24, 2020 and April 20, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nearly-4-000-police-personnel-test-positive-in-20-days-in-up-34-die-101619802348482.html
30-04-2021||Other||Record 15,000-plus cases in state in a day||PATNABihar reported 15,853 new Covid cases on Thursday, its largest single-day spike so far and far higher than its peak last year when it recorded 12,686 cases in September-end.Patna once again led the tally with 2,844 new cases, followed by Gaya (1203). Barring two districts, Buxar and Sheohar, the rest 36 districts reported more than 100 cases on Thursday. Meanwhile, according to executive director of State Health Society, Manoj Kumar, Bihar received a supply of 76 metric tonnes of oxygen on April 22, 63 MT on April 23, 156 MT on April 25 and 90 MT on April 28. “The state has a storage capacity of 350 MT,” he said. In a related development, Patna’s Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), which the state government had earlier announced to convert into a dedicated Covid hospital, has decided to stop registering other patients. The government has announced to make it a 400-bed dedicated Covid hospital. In an order issued on Friday, the hospital administration clarified that OPD, other surgeries and works in other departments will remain closed till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/record-15-000-plus-cases-in-state-in-a-day-101619798628934.html
30-04-2021||Other||Chief secretary dies of Covid||PATNABihar chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh, who has been suffering from Covid-19, passed away Friday at a private hospital in Patna. Singh, a 1985-batch IAS officer, became the chief secretary on February 27 this year and was to retire on August 31.The news of chief secretary flashed came in while chief minister Nitish Kumar was in the Cabinet meeting, held virtually. The cabinet observed silence for a minute to condole his demise.“He was an able administrator and was liked by his colleagues. It is a big loss,” the CM said. Governor Phagu Chouhan described Singh as “an able administrator”.“Arun Kumar Singh led from the front in State’s #FightAgainstCOVID19 and made supreme sacrifice,” the IAS Association tweeted. Additional chief secretary Amir Subhani has already been officiating as acting chief secretary since Arun Kumar Singh fell ill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chief-secretary-dies-of-covid-101619798628290.html
30-04-2021||Other||Bihar clears ₹4,000cr for free vaccination to all aged 18-45 years||PATNAThe Bihar cabinet on Friday approved allocation of ₹4,000 crore for Covid-19 vaccine to be given free of cost to all aged between 18 and 45 years this fiscal. The cabinet also gave its nod for allowing the health department to rope in qualified firms to supply medical oxygen to all government hospitals and the policy to encourage setting up of plants for generation of medical oxygen.As the vaccination for all those aged between 18 and 45 was scheduled to start from May 1, the cabinet meeting was scheduled urgently on Friday to approve the fund allocation for vaccine procurement, said a senior official who was present in the meeting. The cabinet meetings are usually held on Tuesdays.Officials, however, said the fresh vaccination drive is unlikely to take off as scheduled for want of adequate doses of vaccines, even though the cabinet approved the release of ₹1000 crore from the total allocation of fund for vaccination. They said the state government had sought supply of around 1 crore doses of vaccines from Serum institute of India (producer of Covishield) and Bharat Biotech (Covaxin), but the firms declined sending the consignment to the state for want of vaccines’ availability. SII and Bharat Biotech had assured to supply the vaccine by 3rd week of May, they said.The department has been allocated ₹90 crore to ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply all medical college and hospitals for the next five years. As per the agreement, the engaged firms are deemed to develop cryogenic storage for liquid oxygen in the hospital premises. Premier medical colleges used to consume medical oxygen worth over ₹2 crore per annum.In another important decision, the cabinet also approved the oxygen policy under which the government would offer up to 30% subsidy on cost of establishing oxygen generation plant to any private investor in the state.The formal press briefing of the cabinet decisions, however, was put off owing to death of Bihar chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh, a 1987-batch IAS officer, due to Covid in a private hospital on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-clears-4-000cr-for-free-vaccination-to-all-aged-18-45-years-101619798508934.html
30-04-2021||Other||HC pulls up state for lack of info on Covid hospitals, care centres||PATNAThe Patna High Court Thursday evening expressed displeasure over lack of a strong information system and directed principal secretary (health) in the state to ensure that the information regarding Covid care centres and dedicated hospitals, with their addresses and phone numbers, are put on the website of the health department by Friday. The court has been hearing the matter in the form of a suo motu PIL. The bench of Justice Chakradhari Sharan Singh and Justice Mohit Kumar Shah was also upset with different facts presented before it regarding allocation of quota of oxygen by the central government. “Previously, we were told 194 MTs of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) had been allocated as daily quota for the state by the Centre in addition to state’s own generation. Now the state counsel says 194 MT quota includes 34 MT generated inside the state, which means the state is entitled to lift 160 MT of LMO only,” the bench added. The court also pointed out that the sources of oxygen supply and the volume, as furnished by the state government, was not adding up. “The least said the better,” the court remarked.Meanwhile, additional solicitor general for India, KN Singh, told the court that the Centre had purchased 102,000 cylinders, of which 2827 D-type cylinders and 13309 B-type cylinders are being allotted to Bihar and the supply will commence by first week of May. “The court expects that the said process is expedited, considering the dire need of medical oxygen and cylinders in different hospitals treating patients,” the bench observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-pulls-up-state-for-lack-of-info-on-covid-hospitals-care-centres-101619798508234.html
30-04-2021||Other||Railway engineer booked for molesting woman, duping husband of Rs1.5 lakh||PUNE A railway engineer has been booked by the Pune police on Friday for molesting a woman and duping her husband of ₹1.5 lakh, under the guise of getting him a job in the railway department. The engineer also allegedly used a castiest slur against the couple, for which he has been booked under the Prevention of Atrocities against Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act.The couple were employed at the engineer’s house as since 2019, according to the police. Over the years, the man promised the man a job in the railway department and had taken a sum of ₹1.5 lakh.“ We have got the information about the amount from their complaint. The investigation is going on,” said ACP Chandrakant Sangale of Lashkar division of Pune police.However, as he allegedly failed to get him a job and failed to return their money, the couple started asking for the money. The man then allegedly pulled the woman inside the house and forced himself onto her, according to her complaint.The complainant woman is a 27-year-old who lives with her husband in an outhouse in the railway quarters.A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Atrocities against Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act has been registered at Bundgarden police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/railway-engineer-booked-for-molesting-woman-duping-husband-of-rs1-5-lakh-101619796168228.html
30-04-2021||Other||Cook on the run after stealing Rs60 lakh from employers||PUNE A 28-year-old cook employed by a construction company for four engineers living in Pimpri has been booked for stealing ₹60 lakh in cash from them.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Ajit Sanjaykumar Rajhans (31), who lives with three others in Mahindra Antheia in Nehrunagar, Pimpri.The complainant and the three others work for a private multi-national construction company.The 28-year-old suspect is on the run from the police with the cash, meant to pay salaries of the workers on the company’s construction site.“We are on the lookout for him,” saidassistant police inspector S Lodhe of Pimpri police station who is investigating the case.The theft happened between 3pm and 7pm on Wednesday from the house where the complainant lives.The cook used a duplicate key to open the locked wooden cupboard and the locker inside it in order to steal the cash, according to the complainant.A case under Section 381 of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cook-on-the-run-after-stealing-rs60-lakh-from-employers-101619794488082.html
30-04-2021||Other||Police arrest four for attacking “gaurakshak” in Junnar||PUNE The Pune rural police have arrested four people for attacking a gaurakshak (cow protector) in Junnar on Thursday. Two accused are on the run.The arrested men have been identified as Khalid Gulam Gaus Bepari, Mohammad Khalid Bepari, Faizal Nisar Qureshi, and Yasir Nisar Qureshi, all resident of Ale in Junnar, according to police.The case was registered after a complaint was registered by Shivshankar Rajendra Swamy (27), a resident of Shivajinagar, Pune, and a member of an organisation called Akhil Bharatiya Krushi Gauseva Sangh.Swamy claimed to have been returning from a court hearing in Ahmednagar when he came across a tempo which he suspected was carrying bovine meat. He was accompanied by three friends, and they were all travelling in a four-wheeler. The four allegedly started following the tempo and found they were being followed by men on bikes.In his complaint, Swamy said, “These vehicles started following us. In Rajuri village, when our vehicle slowed down in front of a speed-breaker, they parked their vehicles to block our vehicle and six people who got off said “do not leave this Swamy today, kill him”. Four of them used a metal pipe and wooden rods to attack the glass on our car while the two others threw rocks at us.”A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 341, 336, 427, rioting and 135 of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Alephata police station||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-arrest-four-for-attacking-gaurakshak-in-junnar-101619793708048.html
30-04-2021||Other||Dist admin monitoring movement of every oxygen tanker coming in to Pune||PUNE Though the positivity rate in Pune has decreased, the demand for medical oxygen is constantly increasing. Pune district has been allotted an additional oxygen quota from Jamnagar in Gujarat and Bellary in Karnataka, in addition to quotas from oxygen plants in Chakan. Ensuring timely arrival of oxygen tankers from Gujarat and Karnataka has become an additional task for the district administration. Currently, the demand for medical oxygen per day inPune district is 386.1 metric tonnes (MT). Pune Division’s total requirement of medical oxygen has reached 511.06 MT per day.“Oxygen demand has been increasing. As the oxygen supply has is coming from other states, we have to take care of the logistics. We are literally monitoring the movement of every oxygen tanker coming to Pune,” said Rajesh Deshmukh, collector, Pune.In January, the demand was for 67.0 MT per day in Pune district. “We are mulling an audit process and also asking hospitals to use medical oxygen judiciously. As the supply is limited, the demand has to be reduced. Hospitals are advised to use the step-down method,” said Vijay Deshmukh, Pune’s additional collector.The administration is also trying to step-up Pune’s capacity for oxygen production. Some plants which were closed are to be restarted. Also, building new oxygen plants at the main hospitals in the district has been proposed.Per-day oxygen demand in Pune division District-wise, all figures for last week of the monthPuneJanuary - 67.5 MTApril -386.1 MTSangliJanuary - 5.1 MTApril - 33.5 MTSataraJanuary - 3.2 MTApril - 31.1 MTSolapurJanuary - 6.8 MTApril - 44.2 MTKolhapurJanuary - 8 MTApril - 16 MT* Metric tonnes (MT)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dist-admin-monitoring-movement-of-every-oxygen-tanker-coming-in-to-pune-101619793348092.html
30-04-2021||Other||Two minors apprehended for setting car on fire in Yerawada||PUNE Two minors have been apprehended by the Pune police for setting a woman’s car on fire in the early hours of Thursday.The boys were apprehended and produced in the Juvenile Justice Board on Friday.A complaint in the matter was lodged by a 38-year-old woman, who lives in the same locality as the minors.Her car was parked in an open ground located in Rajiv Gandhi nagar, Yerawada, according to her complaint. The car was set ablaze at around 3:45am on Thursday morning, the police said.The burnt car was a Swift Dzire and the damage caused was estimated to be around ₹3 lakh by the police.“The boys are teenagers who are known to be drug users who create ruckus in the area. Sometimes they fight among themselves and brawl. The complainant had told a local social worker to counsel them,” said sub -inspector Ravindrakumar Vanrangule of Yerawada police station, who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 435 (mischief by fire or any explosive substance intending to cause property damage upwards of one hundred rupees); and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Yerawada police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-minors-apprehended-for-setting-car-on-fire-in-yerawada-101619791607946.html
30-04-2021||Other||2 Nigerians held for cloning ATM card||PUNE: Two Nigerian nationals have been remanded to the custody of the Pune police’s cyber-crime cell on Friday, in a case of cloning of ATM cards. The police arrested the two men in the case after a man complained of having lost ₹1 lakh from his account without him conducting any transaction.The unauthorised transactions were done on three consecutive days at the same ATM in Kasarwadi, each between 6am and 8 am, according to the police.The two accused have been identified as Nnam Gabriel Chukwuebuka, who lives in Aundh, and was arrested on Thursday; while the other was identified as Bashir, alias Lucas William, alias Omoike Godson, who was staying in an Oyo facility in Rahatani, from where he was arrested on Friday.The police set a trap at the ATM on Thursday at 5:30am and arrested Chukwuebuka.After his arrest, Godson was found to have been earlier arrested by Pune cyber-crime cell in another case of card cloning. He is out on bail in that case.The two have been remanded to police custody until May 2, according to public prosecutor Kiran Bendbhar.The police have recovered four ATM cards from Chukwuebuka while they recovered 10 cards from Godson’s residence. Along with the cards, the police claim to have found a card reader, a software CD, and adhesive tapes in two colours.The two have been arrested in a case registered under Sections 419, 420, 465, 467, 471, and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c), and 66(d) of Information Technology Act at the cyber-police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-nigerians-held-for-cloning-atm-card-101619791307889.html
30-04-2021||Other||Chetan Tupe asks NCP’s state leadership to relieve him of city president’s post||PUNE Chetan Tupe, the Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP), member of the legislative Assembly (MLA) from the Hadapsar constituency, wants to be relieved from the responsibility of Pune city president, a post her concurrently holds.He has written a letter to NCP state president Jayant Patil where he stated wanting more time to take care of his Hadapsar constituency, as the reason for wanting to step down.Tupe said, “I represent more than 0.5 million voters in my constituency, including farmers, slum dwellers, industrial labour, and residential townships. I don’t get enough time to tackle their problems as well as communicate with them. So, I have requested the party leaders to appoint a new city president and relieve me from the post.”Tupe was appointed as city president in August 2018. He was elected as MLA from Hadapsar constituency in October 2019. He is also a corporator in the PMC, representing Hadapasar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chetan-tupe-asks-ncp-s-state-leadership-to-relieve-him-of-city-president-s-post-101619790647838.html
30-04-2021||Other||Goa chief minister says no to lockdown, doctors call for extension of curbs||With Goa’s positivity rate going through the roof, crossing 50% on Thursday evening just as a weekend lockdown introduced by the Goa government comes into effect, doctors under the Indian Medical Association (IMA) have called on the Goa government to extend the lockdown-like guidelines for another two weeks or until the positivity rate comes down to around 10%, HT has learnt. “[The] IMA would be in favour of a similar lockdown for at least 15 days from Monday, May 3, 2021, or till the positivity rate comes down from the existing 50% to 10%. Healthcare will be able to manage with a lower positivity rate to decrease mortality,” a statement issued by the IMA state president Dr Vinayak Buvaji, said. The doctors have said such a move would decrease the tremendous workload on the already compromised health system to some extent at both private as well as government establishments. The IMA said that last year’s lockdown did not prove to be detrimental to normal living and was a “calculated” measure. At present, Goa has 20,898 active Covid-19 cases, while 1,146 people have died in the state after contracting the disease. The state has been recording more than 3,000 fresh cases each day for the last few days while more than two dozen people are succumbing to the disease daily. The Goa government announced a three-day lockdown over the weekend with an exception to all essentials services until Monday. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has however ruled out extending the lockdown for now. “I want to assure the people of the state that there will definitely not be an extension in the lockdown for now,” Sawant told the media on Friday. Migrant workers had begun to leave the state en masse after the announcement of the lockdown fearing a repeat of last year in which the harsh lockdown and lack of transport to their hometowns left many stranded and hungry. On Thursday evening, Goa recorded 3,019 fresh Covid cases of the 5,910 tests conducted, throwing up a positivity rate of 51% - the highest the state has recorded till date. The state’s Covid-19 facilities have already run out of beds leaving patients having to wait several hours before beds are made available. Hospital wards are having to deal with more patients than they have the capacity for with patients having to sleep on stretchers and chairs. The Goa Medical College, the state’s premier medical institute has converted its examination hall into a covid ward to help accommodate additional 150 beds. “Even on this day, there are beds available. People should not panic. We are augmenting facilities and in the next four days, another 400 oxygen beds will be made available including an ICU with 150 beds,” CM Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-chief-minister-says-no-to-lockdown-doctors-call-for-extension-of-curbs-101619784408212.html
30-04-2021||Other||Kerala HC takes up matter of robbery and assault on female train passenger||The Kerala High Court on Friday took up the matter relating to the attack on a Kerala woman travelling by train two days back. The court, which took the case suo motu, sent notices to the railways and state government, HT has learnt.According to officials, the 31-year-old woman boarded the Guruvayur-Punalur passenger train from Mulanthuruthy (Ernakulam district) on Wednesday morning. She told the police that in a hurry she boarded a coach which was completely empty. She suffered serious injuries jumping off the moving train to escape sexual assault and robbery. Some locals saw her jumping from the train and rushed her to the nearest hospital.“I dropped her at the railway station in the morning. She told us everything happened in just five minutes. Her condition is stable now,” said her husband, adding that she used to take the train regularly to travel to her workplace in Chengannur.The police have identified the assailant as Babu Kuttan, a serial offender who was released from jail a couple of months back. The woman told the police that shortly after she boarded the train a man came running and leapt into the compartment. While she was talking to her sister on her mobile phone, she noticed the man closing all doors of the compartment. She said the man came towards her, snatched her gold chain and threw her mobile phone out of the window.The woman said when she refused to part with her earrings and bangles, the assailant threatened her with a screwdriver and dragged her to the nearby bathroom. After the scuffle, she managed to open the door and tried to alight from the moving train. She said she clung to the door of the moving train for a while before losing the grip and fell on the tracks. She reportedly recognised the offender from the album of the history-sheeters. The latest incident has triggered outrage and raised questions on women safety in trains and other public transport systems. The state women commission has also registered a case. The railway protection force has registered a case under many sections of the Indian Penal Code, including Section 376 of the IPC (rape) and recovered her mobile phone later. The assailant escaped with her chain and wallet.Ten years ago, a similar incident took place on the Ernakulam-Shornur passenger train. A 23-year-old salesgirl, who was alone in the ladies compartment, was robbed and later raped by a vagabond named Govindachami. Thrown out of the moving train, the victim eventually succumbed to her injuries. Govindachami was sentenced to death by the trial court. The Supreme Court later commuted his sentence to life-term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-hc-takes-up-matter-of-robbery-and-assault-on-female-train-passenger-101619781708121.html
30-04-2021||Other||Bihar’s Darbhanga dist administration launches Covid bulletin app||The Darbhanga administration has launched a mobile application -- Covid Bulletin -- to provide information about patients in the Covid ward of Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH).An initiative of Darbhanga district magistrate (DM) Thiyagrajan SM, the application is available on google play store.The DM said Covid Bulletin App has been made available for the convenience of patients and their attendants. Now families can find out the medical condition of their Covid patients at DMCH. One needs to enter one’s registered mobile number to find out the status update of the patients admitted in the Covid ward. It shows the pulse, temperature, SP O2 level and also identifies the doctors on duty.An attendant outside a ward or those who are out of station can avail information about their patient with the help of the app. Besides, the app also enables district administration to monitor the total number of patients, and the serious ones among them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihars-darbhanga-dist-administration-launches-covid-bulletin-app-101619780447999.html
30-04-2021||Other||Couple found hanging after wife tests Covid positive in Odisha’s Nayagarh||A middle-aged woman was found hanging along with her husband at their home in Odisha’s Nayagarh district two days after she tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, police said. The husband’s Covid-19 report said he was Covid-19 negative as the couple was under home quarantine while their son is undergoing treatment for the disease at a hospital.“The couple’s son, who works in Puri, is under treatment at a hospital there after testing Covid positive. After the son tested positive, the couple gave their samples at the local community health centre for testing. Though both of them had Covid-like symptoms, only the woman’s sample tested positive,” said Jyoti Prakash Panda, a local police officer. Panda quoted their neighbours saying the couple was under great stress since their son was hospitalised. “As per local villagers, the couple was depressed after one of them tested positive. In rural areas, Covid is still considered a stigma.”A 66-year-old Covid-19 patient’s body was earlier last week abandoned for over 20 hours after villagers refused to help the family with his cremation in Odisha’s Bargarh district.Odisha on Friday reported its all-time highest single-day Covid count of 8,681 cases. The active cases in the state have now surged to 61,698, which is 50% more than the number during last year’s peak of 39,184 on September 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/couple-found-hanging-after-wife-tests-covid-positive-in-odisha-s-nayagarh-101619765327149.html
30-04-2021||Other||Covid shadow over 400th anniv celebrations of 9th Sikh guru||Low-key celebrations to mark the 400th Parkash Gurpurb (birth anniversary) of the ninth Sikh Master Guru Tegh Bahadur began in the city on Thursday, with the covid-19 surge a major dampener. An Akhand Path (48-hour uninterrupted recitation of the holy Sikh scripture Guru Granth Sahib) was inaugurated at Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal, the birthplace of the guru, followed by the start of religious events at nearby Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in the Golden Temple complex.The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has dropped the plan of organising a grand event in the open area of New Amritsar locality due to the pandemic. Events are being held symbolically. Some devotees participated in the bhog of Sehaj Paths at the Manji Sahib; other joined in virtually. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur participated in the bhog of Sehaj Paths and addressed the sangat, motivating people to connect with the ideology of Guru Sahib. “The centenary days are a golden opportunity to connect with our history and embrace the values of the faith,” she said.Bhai Rajdeep Singh offered prayers on the occasion while Giani Jagtar Singh, head granthi of Golden Temple recited the holy Hukamnama (decree). Covid-19 norms were flouted by almost all the attendees, with masks a rarity. The main event will be held on May 1, when the SGPC wants relaxation in curfew for devotees. “The sangat which wants to pay homage should not be stopped, one-day lockdown should be relaxed. A Nagar Kirtan will be carried out from the Akal Takht to Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal on April 30.” Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal has been illuminated and flower decoration has been done. Decorative gates and saffron flags have also been placed in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-shadow-over-400th-anniv-celebrations-of-9th-sikh-guru-101619726744545.html
30-04-2021||Other||Sangrur lawyers observe no work day to protest against Sunam SDM||The Bar Associations of Sunam, Sangrur, Moonak, Dhuri and Malerkotla observed a No Work Day on Thursday against what they claimed was the misbehaviour of Sunam sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) with lawyers. Members of the Sunam Bar association have been sitting on an indefinite protest outside the office of the SDM, Manjeet Kaur. Advocates have accused Kaur of delivering verdict in a case of Inteqal (land dealing) in the absence of one of the advocates, who had requested for the next date. They claim the SDM misbehaved with them, when they raised the issue with her.Sunam Bar Association chief GBS Chatha said that they had got a huge response from advocates associated with Bar Associations Sunam, Dhuri, Moonak, Sangrur and Malerkotla who passed a resolution of no work in all civil, revenue and labour courts. The Bar’s secretary Arshdeep Bhardwaj said, “The SDM did not consider the appeal of advocates amid the pandemic and delivered the verdict. She also disrespected us and we demand disciplinary action against the SDM.”SDM Manjeet Kaur said that the verdict was given according to the law and on merit. “The case has been pending since 2018. They sought undue favours and the case had been pending only due to lawyers’ non-cooperation,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sangrur-lawyers-observe-no-work-day-to-protest-against-sunam-sdm-101619726384525.html
30-04-2021||Other||Tarn Taran hooch tragedy accused granted bail||The court of additional sessions judge Kawaljit Singh on Wednesday granted bail to one of the accused in the state’s worst-ever hooch tragedy that claimed the lives of over 140 persons in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts over July and August last year. Gurbaksh Singh, of Sekhan Majra village in Mohali, was arrested by Tarn Taran police during investigation. Two other accused Anil Kumar and Amarjit Kaur are already out on bail. “During investigation, no recovery of any spurious liquor or illicit liquor or any other material used to distil illicit liquor or alcohol has been affected from the applicant to connect him with the contents of alleged secret information. As submitted by the learned counsel for the applicant that co-accused Amarjit Kaur and Anil Kumar have been granted similar concession of regular bail and on the basis of parity also the applicant is entitled for the grant of concession of regular bail. No useful purpose would be served by keeping the applicant behind the bars for an indefinite period, as the trial is unlikely to conclude in the near future,” the judge noted.Applicant’s counsel Hira Singh Sandhu had told the court his client was falsely implicated in the case on the basis of a confessional statement of the co-accused. Of 140 deaths, 84 were reported in Tarn Taran city and its adjoining villages, while the other deaths were reported in Amritsar-rural and Batala’s villages. Separate cases were registered against nearly 100 accused in three districts. Two special investigation teams were formed to crack the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tarn-taran-hooch-tragedy-accused-granted-bail-101619725965895.html
30-04-2021||Other||Mumbai’s coastal road project: 330 metres of tunnelling completed, says civic body||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has completed 330 metres of tunnelling work of the underwater twin tunnels, connecting the 9.98-km Princess Street Flyover with Worli, which are a crucial part of the coastal road project.The first 100 metres of the tunnelling was completed by BMC in the first week of March.The overall tunnelling work is expected to take 18 months and BMC has set a deadline of June 2022 for the completion of the work.The two tube twin tunnels will start run below Girgaum Chowpatty and come out at Priyadarshani park. According to BMC officials, the twin tunnels are being built using the cut-the-cover construction method, wherein the actual tunnel would be only 1.9km, but after including the entire entry and exit portions, its length would run up to 3.4km.In a statement issued on Thursday, BMC said that for the first time that single-pillar technology will be used. This process of building three test columns has started on the beach near Worli and further construction of these columns is expected to be completed by the end of July.Civic officials said that the coastal road is being built on 176 single pillars using a mono-pile system, wherein a single solid column is constructed from bottom to top, instead of a group pile, wherein there are four pillars under each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbais-coastal-road-project-330-metres-of-tunnelling-completed-says-civic-body-101619725904907.html
30-04-2021||Other||Don’t want hospitals to become potential lakshagrihas, says Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday chided the state government and civic authorities over the recent fire incidents in hospitals and said that compliances should be undertaken in an expeditious manner. HC said that it did not want hospitals to turn into potential “lakshagriha (house of lacquer)” of the epic Mahabharata and that the safety of patients was of paramount importance. “We do not want these hospitals to be potential jatugriha [lakshagriha]. These hospitals [which met with fire incidents] are all jatugrihas. This is not the way people should lose their lives,” HC observed. In Mahabharata, the jatugriha (Lakshagrih) was a house made of wax, through which Kauravas attempted to eliminate Pandavas during their exile period. HC took a serious cognisance of the various fire incidents and accidents that took place in the past month across Maharashtra, including the recent one at Mumbra in Thane district where at least four patients admitted in the intensive care unit of a private hospital died after a major fire broke out on Wednesday. The court, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) alleging improper Covid-19 management in the state, asked advocate general of Maharashtra if the government can consider a total lockdown like last year for 15 days to contain the virus spread and if citizens could be indoors unless the absolute need to go out. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a PIL filed by lawyer Sneha Marjadi alleging mismanagement in treatment during the second wave of Covid-19 in Maharashtra, sought directions pertaining to shortage of Remdesivir and oxygen supply among other prayers. Hinting that it would be constrained to widen the scope of the PIL, the bench said, “You [civic authorities] have to conduct a fire audit of all hospitals and seek compliance earliest. If patients are being admitted in hospitals, their lives should be saved there.” Questioning how permissions were granted to hospitals which compromised with stipulated norms, the court held that wherever there are indoor patients, their safety is of paramount importance. The bench noted that the patients were already going through agony and pain when hospitalised, without checking on whether the hospital is safe or not. “We understand these are special times and everything is put to test. We have to leave our work aside and look into basic compliances. We do not want any fire incidents now.” Appearing on behalf of BMC, senior advocate Anil Sakhare informed the court that the civic authority had already initiated action pertaining to fire audit and compliances and would be in a position to give data and respond to the queries of the court in the next hearing. While referring to the Nagpur incident, wherein an octogenarian offered his hospital bed to a younger man saying that he had lived his life and the young man needed to live, chief justice Datta said, “We salute the senior citizen for his sacrifice. If the authorities had woken up earlier, both lives could have been saved.” The bench did not mince words when it came to the citizens flouting safety norms while the Covid-19 restrictions were in place and said that the authorities could not always be blamed for the situation and referred to the incident wherein a district magistrate had to stop a marriage. “We do not appreciate the way in which the DM conducted himself but the fact remains that the citizens are not abiding and hence such action was necessitated,” said the bench adding that such an approach by the citizens contributed to the further spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. “If we as citizens fail, what is going to happen? You want to have marriages, festivals etc without following norms? Are we waiting for the third wave? First we do not care about basic things [protocols] and then we hunt for oxygen and medicines. This is the current state,” noted chief justice Datta. Thereafter, the bench asked advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni to “advise” the government to consider at least a 15-day total lockdown. “We are not passing any mandamus, but please advise the government. At least for 15 days, if people stay indoors unless there is absolute need to come out, we may expect better results,” said the bench. The court while asking the government to ensure Remdesivir injections were sufficiently supplied to private hospitals, sought responses from the authorities and posted further hearing to May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dont-want-hospitals-to-become-potential-lakshagrihas-says-bombay-hc-101619725723959.html
30-04-2021||Other||DRI seizes cocaine worth ₹13.35 crore from 2 foreign nationals at Mumbai airport||Directorate of Revenue Intelligence’s (DRI) zonal officers have arrested two Tanzanian nationals from Mumbai city airport for allegedly smuggling cocaine by concealing the contraband in their body. A total 2.2kg of cocaine, stuffed in 101 capsules, worth ₹13.35 crore has been seized from them under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. DRI on Thursday said that based on specific inputs on April 22, the accused – Mtwanzi Carlos Adam and Rashid Paul Sayula – travelling from Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania, to Mumbai via Addis Ababa, were apprehended. DRI had intelligence that they were carrying some narcotics substances in their body. Hence, DRI officers secured permission from the court for the medical examination of the two suspects and admitted them to the state-run Sir JJ Hospital. The doctors found about the presence of some foreign objects in their stomach during the X-ray screening of the suspects. During interrogation, Adam and Sayula admitted to have swallowed 54 and 97 capsules, respectively, before embarking on the flight to Mumbai. Both were placed under arrest on Thursday, as they were at the hospital till Wednesday. A city court on Thursday remanded them to judicial custody. A DRI officer said that the investigation so far has confirmed that the drug syndicate is also smuggling the narcotics through mules who conceal the contraband in their body and travel to India on medical visa. “This is the third such case of smuggling of narcotics detected by DRI Mumbai in the past six months wherein a medical visa facility has been abused by foreign nationals of African countries,” said a senior DRI officer. DRI further stated that while demand for cocaine has continued during the pandemic – as it is a drug of choice for the elite – its availability has reduced due to international travel curbs, thereby making smuggling by concealing in body a more lucrative option. Hence, this seizure of cocaine during the current lockdown is significant. DRI Mumbai had made record seizures of narcotics drugs and psychotropic substances amid the pandemic in 2020 and this year and seized drugs like heroin, cocaine, mephedrone, ephedrine and ketamine, worth ₹646 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dri-seizes-cocaine-worth-13-35-crore-from-2-foreign-nationals-at-mumbai-airport-101619725603795.html
30-04-2021||Other||Thane Police to probe cop’s plaint against Param Bir Singh||The first information report (FIR) registered by Akola police against former Mumbai police commissioner and Maharashtra home guards commandant general Param Bir Singh, three deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) and 29 others has been transferred to Thane police on Thursday. The FIR has been filed on the basis of a complaint lodged by an inspector from Akola. Singh did not respond to calls and messages.Police sources said the case would now be investigated by an assistant commissioner of police.The complainant, BR Ghadge, posted at Akola city police control room, belongs to the Scheduled Caste community. He has alleged that as he had refused to follow Singh’s illegal orders to benefit some accused in a criminal case, Singh conspired with others and registered three extortion and a corruption case between August 23 and September 3, 2015, against him. Ghadge claimed that the accused policemen falsely implicated him in these cases to harass him.“The then commissioner, in an unruly manner, intentionally deprived me from the post of senior inspector (in-charge) of Bazar Peth police station out of grudge and appointed officers way junior to him on the post. This was also against the August 19, 2015, order of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Commission, Worli,” Ghadge had stated in an earlier complaint to police.“I was placed under suspension by Singh from August 23, 2015, to November 28, 2018, as a breach of my fundamental rights,” said Ghadge, who in the past had made 13 complaints regarding the alleged injustice on him.Other than Singh, those who are made accused in the case include 15 police officers who were posted at Thane when Singh was the commissioner of police at Thane between 2015 and 2018. They face 27 sections under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, Indian Penal Code, Maharashtra Police Act and Civil Rights Protection Act.The FIR (of which HT has a copy) mainly revolves around a 2013 criminal case against the then Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation officials for allegedly giving extra floor space index to builders in the names of deceased people. Ghadge had alleged that while probing this scam, he had made 26 people, including three former municipal commissioners of KDMC and other senior civic officials and builders, an accused. However, Singh had asked him to drop the names of the senior civic officials.Singh had called Ghadge and his staff to his office on April 15, 2015, and ordered him to remove the names of 22 civic officials named in the case and instructed him to send a report to KDMC recommending departmental action against them, Ghadge alleged.However, Ghadge had refused to oblige and informed Singh that he, in due consultation and supervision of the then joint commissioner of Thane Police VV Laxminarayan, had applied appropriate sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, as the accused were involved in criminal misconduct.Ghadge claimed that Laxminarayan had also approved his investigation and invocation of sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act against the officials.Later, only four accused were charge sheeted in the case, while names of remaining 22 officials were dropped, he said.Earlier, Ghadge had written a 14-page complaint against Singh and others on April 20 to chief minister Uddhav Thackerey, home minister Dilip Walse Patil, director general of state police Sanjay Pandey and DG anti-corruption bureau, alleging that while serving as commissioner of Thane Police, Singh indulged in several illegal and corrupt acts and made crores of rupees.In the letter, he had claimed that Singh gave orders to police officers to extricate some influential people from criminal cases registered against them, allegedly in return for huge sums of money.Recently, Singh was removed as Mumbai Police commissioner for “mishandling” of the Antilia explosives case and the murder of Mansukh Hiran, the man in possession of the vehicle in which the explosives were found outside the residence of billionaire Mukesh Ambani. Hiran reported the vehicle stolen around a week before it was found with the explosives in late February. Hiran was subsequently found dead.Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze has been named as the main accused in both cases by the National Investigation Agency. After his removal as commissioner, Singh wrote a letter to CM, alleging that the state’s home minister Anil Deshmukh instructed Vaze and some other Mumbai Police officers to extort money from dance bars, bars and restaurants and hookah parlours in the city.Singh had also approached courts with his complaint, following which the Bombay high court ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation to conduct a preliminary enquiry into the matter, after which Deshmukh was compelled to resign. CBI had subsequently, on April 21, registered a regular case against Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-police-to-probe-cop-s-plaint-against-param-bir-singh-101619725423955.html
30-04-2021||Other||CBI files closure report in 46 of 71 cases against gangster Chhota Rajan||Five-and-half years after his deportation to India, a special Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) court on April 22 acquitted underworld don Rajendra Sadashiv Nikalje alias Chhota Rajan in the two-decade-old Hanif Kadawala murder case. Kadawala, an accused in the March 1993 Mumbai bombings case, had allegedly helped Sanjay Dutt hide an AK-47 rifle that was delivered to the actor. Kadawala was also accused to have transported weapons to Mumbai on the instructions of Tiger Menon, the prime conspirator in the blasts case, which were meant to be used for the bombings. Kadawala was shot dead on February 7, 2001, in his office. The special court acquitted the gangster after the investigating officer of the case revealed that one of the accused in the case, Yusuf Bachkana, who acquitted in 2004, had claimed that Kadawala was killed at the instance of his elder brother Farooq. The Kadawala murder case was Rajan’s sixth trial concluded so far after his extradition. The gangster has so far been also convicted in three other cases, including journalist J Dey’s murder case, in which he has been sentenced to life imprisonment. On March 16, a special MCOCA court had convicted Rajan and six members of his gang for firing at bookie-turned-builder Ajay Gosaliya in 2013. The same day, special judge AT Wankhede sentenced Rajan, his financer Kaushik Rajgaur, sharpshooter Satish Kalia, as well as Sunilkumar alias Piyush Tiwari, Vilas Singh, Arvind Shinde and Prakash Nikak – who executed the plan – to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment. The court also imposed fine of ₹5 lakh on each of them. Rajan has so far been convicted in four cases, which includes the murder of journalist J Dey, cases of firing at builders BR Shetty and Ajay Gosalia. In Dey’s murder case, Rajan has been sentenced to life imprisonment. Rajan has been, however, acquitted in fisherman John Pareira’s murder case. It was one of the oldest cases against the gangster, which was decided by the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in June 2018. On February 21, 1983, a murder case was registered with the Santacruz police station after John Pareira, 35, was stabbed at Juhu beach, allegedly over disputes on smuggling business. After Rajan was deported from Bali in November 2015, the Centre, with the consent of the Maharashtra government, issued a notification transferring all cases against him to CBI. Mumbai Police had listed 71 cases against Rajan which were transferred to CBI on November 21, 2015. Of the 71 cases, CBI has already filed closure report in 46 cases before the respective special MCOCA and magistrate courts set up to try the gangster. “We have closed several old cases where it was not possible to trace witnesses and collect further evidence. We had no material. It was not possible to obtain primary evidence like the call data records of the accused involved in the crime and others connected in such old cases,” said advocate Pradeep Gharat, who is appointed as the special public prosecutor to conduct trials in cases against Rajan. Gharat said most of the cases of extortion, which were transferred to magistrate courts, had also been closed for want of evidence. “In most of these cases, complainants have either died or are not traceable. Further, the officers could not get any key evidence to put up before the court,” Gharat added. Rajan’s lawyer Tushar Khandare, however said, “Rajan was never involved in the cases in which the agency has filed closure report. In many of these cases, his name was misused and the crimes were committed without his knowledge. As he was not in India, the agencies could never verify his role. It was only after extradition, facts became evident, and it was found that he was not involved.” The cases which are closed are mostly old cases of gang rivalry and murders of businessmen who refused to give in to Rajan’s demands. In one such case, businessman Sham Sunder Raj was shot on July 3, 1995, in his office. He was seriously injured and died later. In another case, two unidentified shooters fired bullets at Ashok Krishna Shetty, a cousin of Karianna Shetty, the owner of the Ashoka Hotel, on May 27, 1993. In another case, Chembur resident Bala Kotian was shot dead on October 7, 1998, in was primarily a case of gang war. Similarly, a case registered in 1997 for conspiring to kill senior journalist Baljeet Parmar has also been closed. The prosecution claimed that they could not trace witnesses in the case. Among the pending cases, Rajan is facing trial in the murder cases of hotelier Jaya Shetty, union leader Datta Samant and builder Majid Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbi-files-closure-report-in-46-of-71-cases-against-gangster-chhota-rajan-101619725304920.html
30-04-2021||Other||Pantry suspended in 4 trains to check covid spread||Passengers of special trains, including Delhi-bound Amritsar Shatabdi and Rajdhani and two others need to carry their own food, as the railways has suspended pantry in four trains in view of the surge in covid cases. The pantry served eatables, bottled water and beverages. Packed snacks, food and bottled water would be available at some platforms. The trains in which the pantry has been suspended are Amritsar Shatabdi (Amritsar-New Delhi), Vande Bharat (Katra-New Delhi), Shri Shakti Special (Katra-New Delhi) and Jammu Rajdhani (Jammu Tawi-New Delhi). Starting May 1, the railways has also cancelled Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi (train number 02013 and 02014) due to low occupancy.Arvinder Singh, a Ludhiana-based trader, said, “For the sake of children and elderly, the railways should provide cold water and packed snacks in trains. Alighting on platforms could invite infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pantry-suspended-in-4-trains-to-check-covid-spread-101619725304458.html
30-04-2021||Other||IIT-Bombay alumna seek action against professor of Kharagpur campus||A group of alumna members of Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) on Thursday have urged the director of IIT-Kharagpur (IIT-KGP) to take action against a professor who was allegedly seen verbally abusing a preparatory class for students belonging to the scheduled castes (SC) and scheduled tribes (ST) categories and those with physical disabilities in a video.In a letter to IIT-KGP’s director Virendra Kumar Tewari, alumni said the video, that had emerged four days ago, has “horrified” them. They demanded that Tewari take immediate action against the violation of classroom ethics, create a safe space for students to place their grievances and attend to them on an urgent basis with immediate action. Despite repeated attempts, Tewari remained unavailable for a comment. Videos of Seema Singh, an associate professor from IIT-KGP’s humanities and social sciences department emerged on social media on Sunday where she can be heard repeatedly hurling abuses at students reportedly attending online preparatory classes meant for students from SC, ST categories and those with physical disabilities. The recordings, which are under the institute’s review, were posted anonymously on IIT-KGP’s confessions page, an informal group of students on social media.The 25 IIT-B alumna include Anupama Krishnamurthy (class of 1988), researcher at French Institute Pondicherry; Shaibani Azam (class of 1986), professor at Jamia Millia University; Enakshi Bhattacharya (class of 1980), professor at IIT-Madras; Deepti Pradhan (class of 1986); associate director of research at Yale University and Chayanika Shah (class of 1986), retired lecturer, KJ Somaiya College of Science and Commerce.“We were students at a time when the gender ratio in IIT-B was less than 5%. As minority students on campus, we have experienced many sexist comments from teachers and recognise today how their actions and statements made an adverse impact on our learning environment. We, hence, speak from some personal experience of discrimination at IIT-campuses. We were even then aware of the ways in which those who came from marginalised caste backgrounds, were not English speaking, or were from smaller towns were discriminated against,” wrote the group.The women had also participated in a strike in 1980 when four students had raised their voice against IIT-B’s order cancelling their admissions on the grounds that they had a backlog in courses and were not able to cope with the undergraduate programme. The unprecedented strike had forced the institute to a grinding halt for almost 40 days.“Some of us are now a part of the academia, while a few of us have seen how discrimination at institutes works. We are also seeing a surge in the number of cases of discrimination coming out. This reminds us of our experience as a minority on campus. Since 1980, we have been reiterating that it not enough for institutes to just bring in students from diverse backgrounds. There’s a need to make them feel safe and supported,” said Shah.Institutions are not fit to look after diverse students in their present state, Shah added. “While a complete overhaul of the education system is ideal, there are things institutes can do immediately. They must set up anti-discrimination cells, train teachers on how to treat diversity and reduce the emphasis on [academic] performance,” she said. Meanwhile, the videos, which are viral on social media, have sparked an outrage across campuses. While Singh has apologised to students for her behaviour in an email, many student and alumni bodies across campuses have started online petitions demanding action against her and the creation of an SC/ ST cell at IITs. The Science Education Group (SEG), a students’ forum at IIT-KGP, issued a statement on Wednesday: “There have also been previous unverified reports that state her [Seema’s] brazen and abusive behaviour with students. She has an alleged history of doing these things. One thing that can be concluded from all this is that primarily this is systematic power abuse, which often goes under the carpet and secondarily, underlines the casteist behaviour of the system…” Meanwhile on Tuesday, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes issued letters to the institute, Union education ministry, West Bengal’s government and director general of police, informing them that the commission will investigate the matter. “The commission has taken a suo-motu cognisance of the use of unparliamentary language and casteist remarks made by professor Seema Singh while taking a class of SC/ ST students… Her remarks have hurt the sentiments of many Indians, specifically the SC community,” the commission wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iitbombay-alumna-seek-action-against-professor-of-kharagpur-campus-101619725123889.html
30-04-2021||Other||HC asks local bodies dept to probe hijacking of Barnala MC polls||The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed Punjab principal secretary, local government, to conduct an inquiry into allegations of hijacking of the elections of president and vice-president of municipal committee (MC), Barnala, within two weeks. The court acted on the plea of 18 municipal councillors led by Paramjit Singh. The division bench of justice Ajay Tewari has also directed the petitioners to appear before the principal secretary on May 5 for presenting their case.It was alleged in the plea that the election for the post of president and vice-president was conducted by SDM Varjit Singh Walia, by show of hands. Two petitioners, Paramjit Singh and Parkash Kaur, were elected as president and vice-president respectively, with overwhelming majority, while rival candidates, namely Gurjeet Singh and Narinder Kumar were defeated.The SDM, at this stage, got signatures of all councillors, including an ex-officio member (sitting MLA) in a new register, for the purpose of writing down the proceedings of the election. Immediately thereafter, Kewal Singh Dhillon, halqa in-charge of the Congress, arrived and entered into the library hall of MC, and asked the SDM to get elections conducted once again. The SDM acted as per directions of Dhillon, and despite strong protests from petitioners, held the election once again, but the result was same, it was claimed. The petitioners have claimed that the SDM, in conspiracy with Dhillon, Gurjeet Singh and Narinder Kumar declared them as elected for the post of president and vice-president respectively, adding that they protested before the media, which had assembled outside. They complained to a number of authorities, including secretary, local government; director, local government, and the deputy commissioner, seeking an inquiry into the matter. Ignoring all complaints, however, a notification was issued naming Gurjeet Singh as president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-asks-local-bodies-dept-to-probe-hijacking-of-barnala-mc-polls-101619724884366.html
30-04-2021||Other||GRP find 450 Covid-positive passengers on outstation trains to Mumbai in 15 days||The government railway police (GRP), while screening travellers from other states entering the city, have found at least 450 Covid-19 cases among passengers in the past 15 days. These passengers have been transferred to the Covid care centres for treatment. GRP commissioner Quaiser Khalid said passengers alighting from trains coming from Kerala, Rajasthan, Goa, Delhi and the National Capital Region are being screened for their temperature and a Covid-19 test is being conducted at the railway stations. He added that each day, they have found at least 30 Covid-19 patients on outstation trains entering Mumbai. “Once a Covid-19 patient is found, we immediately transfer the passenger to a Covid care centre and call all the passengers who were in the patient’s bogie to get themselves tested,” said Khalid. Meanwhile, with the recent lockdown again creating panic among migrant labourers, resulting in crowding at railway stations across the city to go back to their native states, the railway police force and the state government have taken a host of measures to ensure that Covid-19 protocols are followed without creating a chaos like last year. According to Khalid, unlike last year, they are well-prepared to handle the crowds and making sure that the migrant labourers do not create a ruckus. Khalid said they have taken a few measures to accommodate all at migrants at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, Lokmanya Tilak Terminus, Bandra and Thane stations. Khalid said no one was being allowed inside the railway platforms without a ticket. The RPF and GRP personnel are posted on all the entry and exit points of railway stations to ensure that ticketless travellers do not enter the premises and crowd the platforms, and thereby increase the chance of transmitting the virus. Khalid said valid ticket holders are allowed on platforms only two hours before the train arrival to reduce the crowd in railway premises and to facilitate social distancing. GRP has converted several parking areas outside long-distance train stations into waiting areas for traveling migrants and to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/grp-find-450-covid-positive-passengers-on-outstation-trains-to-mumbai-in-15-days-101619724164218.html
30-04-2021||Other||NIIFT admission: Last date to submit online applications is May 28||Northern India Institute of Fashion Technology (NIIFT) here has invited applications for admission to various undergraduate and postgraduate courses being offered at its centres in Ludhiana, Mohali and Jalandhar.The last date for submission of online applications is May 28.The courses include BSc fashion design knits, BSc fashion design, BSc textile design, MSc in garment manufacturing technology; MSc fashion marketing and management and MDes fashion and textiles.The interested candidates can download the prospectus by visiting the official website www.niiftindia.com and apply online through http://applyadmission.net/NIIFTMOHALI2021.Admission to the UG programmes will be done through online entrance examination and interview, scheduled to be held on June 16 and 17. There is direct admission for BSc fashion design at NIIFT Jalandhar for eligible candidates without entrance test. However, admission to all PG courses at NIIFT Mohali will be on the basis of merit of the requisite qualifying exams.Upon successful completion of the course, students can start their own enterprises, in the textile, fashion and apparel sector, apart from getting placements as design consultants, fashion designers, merchandisers, sourcing and product managers and fashion photographers and stylists etc.NIIFT was established by the Punjab government’s industries and commerce department in 1995 and got affiliated to Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala, in 2013.Ludhiana, apart from being a significant textile cluster, is at its fruition in the production of hosiery, knitwear and readymade garments. NIIFT, in August 2008, achieved another milestone, by opening a new centre at Ludhiana for providing the industry with trained professionals in the fashion business. Ever since, NIIFT Ludhiana has emerged as a premier institute by imparting knowledge on par with international standards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/niift-admission-last-date-to-submit-online-applications-is-may-28-101619723451598.html
30-04-2021||Other||Another Oxygen Express arrives in UP with 75K litres of LMO||One more Oxygen Express train arrived in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday evening with around 75,000 litres of liquid medical oxygen (LMO). This was the fifth such train to reach the state. It transported five oxygen tankers each of 15,000 capacity from Bokaro, Jharkhand.Besides, the railways rushed another oxygen express train to Bokaro to fetch an additional 30,000 litres of oxygen for UP.Railway officials said all the tankers onboard the train that arrived on Thursday were brought to Charbagh Railway Station. Officials engaged in the train operation said the tankers left for the gas stations in Lucknow and the neighbouring districts soon after the tankers de-boarded at the station.The UP government initiated the move to use trains after the state witnessed a sudden rise in the demand for oxygen needed for Covid patients. So far, railways has transported more than 1.65 lakh litres of oxygen from Bokaro to UP in order to meet the demand in the districts here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/another-oxygen-express-arrives-in-up-with-75k-litres-of-lmo-101619722906600.html
30-04-2021||Other||22-year-old woman ends life in Ludhiana, live-in partner booked for abetment||A native of Gonda, Uttar Pradesh, has been booked for abetment to suicide after his 22-year-old live-in partner hanged herself to death at her rented accommodation in Gobindgarh, Focal Point. The accused, Chand Babu, was booked on the complaint of the woman’s mother, who lives in Balrampur, Uttar Pradesh. The complainant said her eldest daughter had moved to Ludhiana five years ago for work. She was employed at a factory and was in a live-in relationship with Chand Babu for the past four years.“A few days ago my daughter called me over the phone to share that Babu had broken off with her. He had left for Uttar Pradesh and was not answering her phone calls. She was upset and said she will kill herself if Babu did not return,” the woman said.On April 26, she came to know that her daughter had ended her life by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her rented house, following which she rushed to Ludhiana.Inspector Davinder Sharma, station house officer (SHO), Focal Point police station, said they had booked Babu under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code and despatched a police team to Gonda to arrest him.The victim is survived by her mother and two younger sisters. Her husband had deserted them after the birth of their third daughter, the victim’s mother said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/22yearold-woman-ends-life-in-ludhiana-live-in-partner-booked-for-abetment-101619722544106.html
30-04-2021||Other||50 people, 20k calls a day: Inside the remdesivir war room in B’luru||Bengaluru:A 50-member team handles around 15,000 to 20,000 calls per day at the war room set up in Bengaluru to streamline the distribution of remdesivir in the state, amid the high demand for the antiviral injections. The war room was set up on April 21 after complaints regarding shortage and black marketing of oxygen and remdesivir began pouring in from across the state. Even though relatives of Covid-19 patients and hospitals continue to highlight shortage of injections, officials at the war room say differently.A senior doctor supervising the war room, on condition of anonymity, said the large volume of calls is coming from the private sector. “There are three ways of getting remdesivir. First, it is given to patients admitted in private hospitals; second, patients admitted in private hospitals taken over by the government; and third through the prescription of private hospital or a doctor,” explained the official.He said the total demand for remdesivir in government hospitals and private hospital beds taken over by the government is around 5,000-6,000 vials a day. “These beds cover at least 85% of the state’s demand, as per our calculations, since most Covid-19 cases come through the government agencies that control 80% of hospital beds. While the demand from the government-run agencies is around 5,000 to 6,000, in the private sector, which is around 15% of the demand, we get up to 20,000 calls per day,” he added.While acknowledging that there is a shortage of the medicine, the doctor in-charge pointed to setting in of fear psychosis. “We need to understand that remdesivir is not a lifesaving drug. It should be administered to those who are in the moderate category. Remdesivir is an antiviral drug and works by interrupting the production of the virus and helps by preventing the virus from multiplying. But because of the increase in the number of cases or perhaps for ‘not taking a chance’, clinics and private hospitals have been prescribing the injection for most patients,” he added.On the lower demand in government hospitals, he said the doctors at the hospitals are prescribing remdesivir only to those who will benefit from the injection. He added that since the injection has been prescribed for cases that do not require it, the demand was high.The war room in-charge also said that a website was in the works to have a transparent distribution of remdesivir. He said that the website will contain details of patients who have been given the injections and details of the medical conditions.Private hospitals, however, allege that despite setting up of the war room, the supply of the injection is not adequate. An administrator of a private hospital in Bengaluru said they were only getting 30-50 doses, even though their requirement is for 100 doses. “More importantly, many calls to the helpline go unanswered,” he added.Dr HM Prasanna, president, PHANA, said that while all Covid-19 patients referred to by BBMP to private hospitals were getting the antiviral drug, supply to private hospitals remained inadequate. “We are not using the injection on all patients. We are clearly demarking them for those with moderate symptoms so that viral load reduces in these patients. But war room doesn’t find important to provide private hospitals with enough doses,” he said.Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar, on Monday, said the state has ordered 70,000 vials of remdesivir injection, of which 20,000 had arrived while the remaining would be supplied in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/50-people-20k-calls-a-day-inside-the-remdesivir-war-room-in-bluru-101619722303533.html
30-04-2021||Other||Used masks in garbage pose threat to waste collectors||Bengaluru: As Covid-19 cases continue to surge at unprecedented rate in Bengaluru, waste collectors live under constant threat of getting infected as residents in the city dispose of used masks and other medical wastes without segregating them from regular household waste. Waste collectors, employed with various dry waste management centres of the civic body, who have to comb through tonnes of dry waste to recycling centres, claim they find at least 1,000-2,000 used masks every day. Besides demanding better protective gear, these frontline workers in Bengaluru also appealed to residents to segregate waste at home and dispose of medical waste separately. On Thursday morning, segregation work was in full swing at the waste segregation centre in Bengaluru’s JP Nagar. “Our job is to go through the waste and find items that can be recycled…While segregating waste, we come across lots of used facemasks,” said Srinivas, a waste segregator at the centre. Geetha, another segregator at the centre, said that even though they wear gloves and masks, but given the spike in Covid-19 cases across the city, they fear for their health. “We hear a lot of things. The virus in the second wave is much more powerful and spread faster. We also hear that wearing just one mask is not enough. So, there is a fear,” she said. Mansoor, the supervisor of the centre, said that compared to the first wave, the number of masks in waste they collect has not increased. “Maybe people are using more reusable masks compared to disposable ones. But people are still not segregating. Ever since the pandemic started, we have been appealing to people to put medical waste in a separate cover,” he said. Mansoor added that with more people getting treatment at home, the medical waste coming from the house pose a bigger threat to those working at the segregation centres. “It (medical waste) should be wrapped in paper. People should now segregate three kinds of waste – wet waste, dry waste, and sanitary waste; and masks should be thrown in sanitary waste,” Mansoor said. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, pourakarmikas (civic workers) in Bengaluru staged a protest, demanding protective gears like masks and gloves. They alleged that for the past nine months, they have not been issued any masks or gloves. In a letter to the commissioner of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), BBMP Civic Workers’ Union demanded gloves, sanitiser and shoes for workers. “We are working in these times without facilities. We also humans, just like you,” said Rathna, a civic worker, in a statement to the media. “We have been working for many years and despite the Covid (pandemic), we continue to work. But we haven’t received any of the facilities that we should have. The last time we got masks and gloves was last year. We have been asking for three weeks but we still haven’t been given masks and gloves,” she added. They also demanded that transportation facilities should be provided to them since a lockdown is in effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/used-masks-in-garbage-pose-threat-to-waste-collectors-101619722243487.html
30-04-2021||Other||K’taka ministers to donate 1-yr salary for Covid relief||BengaluruAs Karnataka and its capital Bengaluru are battling the surging coronavirus cases in the second wave of the pandemic, state’s cabinet ministers have decided to donate a year’s salary each for Covid-19 relief work in the state.R Ashok, Karnataka’s revenue minister, on Thursday said, “All of us ministers in Karnataka have decided to donate one year of our salary for Covid relief work.”It has come at a time when Karnataka is currently under lockdown-like restrictions, which have added to the acute fund-crunch in the state to fight the raging pandemic, which is expected to peak in the first week of May.“Chief Minister advised to donate one year salary of ministers and one month salary of legislators,” according to a statement by the chief minister’s office on Thursday.Bengaluru has over 237,518 active Covid-19 cases as the city reported 19,637 new infections on Thursday, including 143 fatalities, according to government data.Karnataka clocked 35,024 new cases on Thursday with 270 fatalities, taking its active case count to 349,496 and death toll to 15,306.Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday held a meeting with all senior officials of districts, other than Bengaluru, and directed that appropriate measures be taken to contain the surge in their respective regions.“All hospitals should conduct audit of oxygen and remdisivir vials. Chief Minister directed to ensure judicious usage of oxygenated beds, ventilators and remdisivir, which should be given only to the needy,” the CMO said in a statement.Ashok said that around ₹266 crore was released to districts other than Bengaluru to pay salaries and buy any equipment required to tackle the Covid situation.While Bengaluru remains the most impacted region in the state, and one of the worst hit in India, the situation continues to deteriorate in other parts of Karnataka.On Thursday, there were 1,129 new infections in Bengaluru Rural, 1,175 in Dakshina Kannada, 939 in Mandya, 957 in Kalaburagi, 1,219 in Mysuru and 1,195 in Tumakuru, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department. Haveri, about 332 km from Bengaluru, reported the lowest number of cases with 111, data shows.Karnataka has imposed lockdown-like restrictions for 14 days, scheduled to end on May 12 as a last-ditch attempt to bring down the surge and pressure on the already inadequate healthcare infrastructure in the state.“Even after the 14-day curfew, people’s movement has not come down. The corona chain has to be cut and if it does not happen… then we might have to extend it for a few more days,” Ashok said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ktaka-ministers-to-donate-1-yr-salary-for-covid-relief-101619722183451.html
30-04-2021||Other||Kerala logs 38k cases, CM calls for ‘self lockdown’||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala’s Covid -19 graph showed another alarming rise on Thursday as the daily caseload rose to 38,607 with a high test positivity rate of 24.5%, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The worried government has coined another term ‘self-lockdown’ urging people to realise the gravity of the situation and prepare themselves to help contain the surge. This is the third consecutive day that cases are crossing 30,000-mark in the state. Apart from other measures, the government also decided to set up new oxygen plants in hospitals and oxygen parlours in worst-affected areas. District collectors have been asked to monitor oxygen stock regularly, Vijayan said. “The situation is really serious. People will have to get into self-lockdown to contain the surge. We have requested all who visit market places to wear double masks. There is no room for any complacency now,” he said, adding more curbs will be imposed from May 4 to 9. To attract more volunteers the government has also decided to give certificates to those who volunteer at least 10 days in the Covid task force. The average test positivity rate (TPR) which was a little over 16 to 19% last week, has risen to 24 to 26% this week showing the rapid surge in cases. There are at least five districts which reported more than 20% TPR, data released by the health ministry shows. The active caseload has also risen to 2,84,086. Last month it was well below one lakh. During the first wave, only 3% of the diseased ended up in hospitals but this time their numbers are between 8.5 and 10%, medical experts said. The state has also tweaked its strict discharge policy to accommodate more patients and ease pressure on hospitals. Normal and ICU admissions continue to rise exponentially and hospitals have been strictly told to admit only serious patients. “There is no need to panic if symptoms are minor and crowd hospitals. It will put undue pressure on hospitals and the more needy ones will be left out in the process,” the CM said. On Thursday the state reported 48 deaths taking total fatalities to 5,259. Ernakulam district topped the list with maximum cases 5396, Kozhikode 4990 and Thrissur 3954 cases. There are around 1700 critically ill patients who are being cared in ICUs. Last month their numbers were well below 500. As cases soar alarmingly the government medical officers association has asked the government to impose a two-week lockdown on the lines of neighbouring Karnataka. Earlier, the Indian Medical Association had also raised such a demand. But the government was shying away from it saying it would affect the livelihood of many.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-logs-38k-cases-cm-calls-for-self-lockdown-101619721763471.html
30-04-2021||Other||Kin of Sterlite victims protest SC, govt nods to reopen plant||Families of the 13 protestors, who were killed in the police firing during the anti-Sterlite demonstrations in 2018, on Thursday staged a protestoutside Thoothukudi district collector’s office against the Supreme Court and Tamil Nadu government’s decision to reopen the Vedanta-owned Sterlite copper smelting plant for production of medical oxygen production.While black flags sprung up across houses, locals wore black badges to mark their protest as the top court and government allowed the plant, which was shut and sealed in 2018, to resume operations, at a time when there is a shortage of critical supplies amid the second Covid-19 wave in the country.Among the protesters on Thursday was M Jayakumar, who lost his younger brother M Selvakumar on the 100th day of the May 2018 demonstration when police opened fire on the agitators.“The 13 lives lost should be the last in this case. We do not want any more confrontations and deaths,” Jayakumar, who escaped the police firing that day, said.“We are the people who fought for our right to breathe clean air. The company, which made us choke, is using the pandemic(as an excuse) to open their oxygen plant. It seems suspicious to us. Our fear is that they will take this to their advantage to reopen the copper plant.”Vedantahas been accused of various irregularities in following environmental norms, leading to several public health issues due to production of toxins such as arsenic and sulphur oxides.The people in the district have been protesting ever since the company was constructed in 1994 and production was started in 1997. Two oxygen plants were commissioned in 1998 and 2004.On Tuesday, a Supreme court bench led by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud said that the oxygen production unit will function on a stand-alone basis, and that Vedanta will not be allowed to access the copper and power plants in the precinct.Following the top court order, the company said it was working with experts on the logistics to dispatch oxygen to critical Covid areas and would reactivate the oxygen plant with the support of the community and employees.When contacted, Vedanta said they were awaiting necessary approvals based on the court order. “We await the formation of the oversight committee as directed by the Supreme Court and its recommendations and look forward to restoration of power to the plant in order to commence the necessary steps towards critical oxygen production,”the company said in a statement.As the protests grew on Thursday, district collector Senthil Raj tried to explain to the locals why it was important to manufacture more oxygen as the country amid the Covid surge. Raj said the production could also prove to be useful to the people of Thoothukudi in case of a shortage in the district.“Even if we are in need of oxygen due to Covid-19, isn’t it the government’s responsibility to ensure there is ample oxygen supply?” Jayakumar said. “There are so many other industries which can manufacture oxygen. Why depend on an operator which is shut?”As a precautionary measure, security was tightened in the district after protests erupted in areas such as Pandaarampatti and Puthu Theruon Wednesday. Police registered a case against 49 people under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1987, for staging a protest.“The state government is firm in its decision in keeping the copper plant closed,” district collector Raj said. “There is no need for suspicion or fear. The permission granted is only for the oxygen plant to meet unprecedented demand for medical grade oxygen and has nothing to do with the main case. If the demand comes down after three months, the oxygen plant will be stopped and the premises will be sealed again.”Vedanta’s plea to reopen its factory and resume operations is pending in the Supreme Court. While its plea to reopen the plan was rejected by the Madras high court in August 2020, the top court had also rejected its plea to reopen the plan for a trial run in December and January.Last week, Vedanta Limited moved the top court for an urgent hearing, saying that it could produce 1,000 tonnes of oxygen if the plant was allowed to reopen and help by supplying free oxygen across the country.While the Tamil Nadu government opposed it on the grounds that it may become a law and order issue, the top court reminded the state of the growing demand for oxygen in several parts of the country. Following this, the collector conducted a public hearing in which a majority opposed the re-opening of the plant.On April 26, the government convened an all-party meeting which unanimously passed a resolution to allow the plant to temporarily re-open for the sole purpose of oxygen production. The resolution also said that the electricity would be provided by the government.Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M K Stalin assured to shut the plant after the oxygen demands are met if his government came to power on May 2 (election results day).Some activists, who were against the re-opening, had agreed for the state to take over the plant but the Tamil Nadu government order did not make any such mention.Vedanta, however, submitted an affidavit in the apex court, saying that the oxygen plant must be operated by its own team under possible supervision of a central government’s expert body.On the same day, the state told the Madras High Court that the plant has a production capacity of 1,050 MTs but only 35 tonnes can be used for medical purposes. Representing the state, advocate general Vijay Narayan said what is required is liquid oxygen with at least 99.4% purity for medical use while industrial oxygen is only 92% -93% pure. The state submitted that Sterlite also has to install compression and bottling plants to convert gaseous oxygen to liquid oxygen, a process that will take a minimum of six months.The top court also ordered the appointment of a committee to supervise the functioning and decide on the number of personnel allowed to run the unit. The committee would include Thoothukudi district collector, superintendent of police among other government officials, a district environmental engineer and two experts to be nominated by those aggrieved by pollution from Vedanta’s copper smelter.Vedanta informed the court that the production could start in 10 days once other logistical requirements were fulfilled and the capacity could go up to 200 metric tonne (MT) per day.The court said it understands the concerns of the local community, “...but we are looking at the national crisis where people are dying for the want of oxygen...we will have to balance everything.”Though Tamil Nadu wanted to be prioritised for oxygen use, the court directed Vedanta to supply the gas to the Centre’s pool for an equitable distribution across the country. “Nation stands together in this moment. At present, Tamil Nadu’s oxygen demands are met. In case of any future need, they can approach us for changes in the order,” it said, adding that the order is applicable till July 31.At present, Tamil Nadu uses around 350 MTs of oxygen for Covid-19 treatment.“It is likely to touch 400 MTs if active cases shoot up,” said P Umanath, director, Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) which procures drugs, medical equipment and augments oxygen supply for the state.The state has an oxygen production capacity of 400 MT and a storage capacity of 1,167 MT. Senior officials said the empowered group’s allotment of 220 MT for Tamil Nadu is incorrect and that chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging the Centre to immediately cancel oxygen diversion from the state to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana which comparatively had fewer active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kin-of-sterlite-victims-protest-sc-govt-nods-to-reopen-plant-101619721583489.html
30-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana man accused of raping his step-daughter shoots himself||Facing trial for raping his 14-year-old step-daughter, a farmer fatally shot himself in the chest with a countrymade pistol at Samrala’s Ghulal village on Thursday morning. Arrested in March 2020, the deceased was bailed out from jail just five days ago. “He was arrested for raping his teenaged step-daughter on the complaint of his wife. After spending one year in jail, he got bail on April 25,” said inspector Kulwant Singh Dhillon, station house officer, Samrala police station.After his release, he returned to live with his wife and children. On Thursday morning, while they were asleep, he shot himself in the chest using a countrymade pistol. The bullet pierced through his back, killing him on the spot, the SHO said.His wife informed the village sarpanch four hours after the incident, following which the police were alerted. The SHO said they had ruled out the woman’s involvement and were investigating where he procured the weapon.His wife told the police that she had married the farmer six years ago after her divorce. Apart from the teenaged daughter from her first marriage, she had two daughters, aged five and three, with him.Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure following the woman’s statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-man-accused-of-raping-his-step-daughter-shoots-himself-101619721164168.html
