01-03-2021||---||Need to focus on holistic learning for prisoners||Education has been recognised as a human right that should be available to everyone. It is also one of the underpinning principles of the Education 2030 Agenda and Sustainable Development Goal 4 (SDG 4). Do prisoners have the right to education and learning opportunities behind the bars? While courts in India have held that the right to life also includes the right to facilities for reading, writing and expressing oneself, the fact remains that security concerns predominate while designing and managing prisons.The right of prisoners to education is often overlooked or disregarded. Prisoners are also rarely a part of the educational discourse. There is now a convergence about the objectives of rehabilitation and reintegration of prisoners.The Mandela Rules (2015), which are the minimum standards for those imprisoned, specify that the purposes of a sentence of imprisonment are primarily to protect society against crime and reduce recidivism. Those purposes can be achieved only if the period of imprisonment is used to ensure the reintegration of such persons into society upon release so that they can lead a law-abiding and self-supporting life. The rules also state that education, vocational training and work should be available to prisoners.Prisons around the world have a disproportionate number of persons from poor and marginalised sections of society. In the prisons of the UK and Northern Ireland, 54 per cent of the people entering the prison have literacy skills equal to those of an 11-year-old child.India’s prison statistics of 2019 on education of inmates reveal that 41.5 per cent (1,98,872) prisoners were educated below the Class-10 level. As many as 1,32,729 (27 per cent) of the 4,78,600 inmates in the country were ‘illiterate’. Around 43 per cent of the prison population is in the age group of 18-30 years.The implication of providing them with education and training opportunities is huge and challenging. Eventually, prisoners get released and return to society. How they pass their time inside the prison becomes important. Do they acquire any positive new skills or identity?Merely locking up offenders to punish them is a futile exercise. Prisons can be criminogenic. The continued failure to educate prisoners comes with tremendous economic and social costs. Engaging the youth is important for crime prevention and promotion of the rule of law.Educational correctional interventions inside prisons equip the inmates for leading a crime-free life after incarceration. Knowledge is power, but does the system want to empower prisoners? Captive knowledge and imagination let free can be challenging.Educational programmes are being conducted in prisons in the country to transform illiterates into literates. It is heartening to see them learn to sign their names, read newspapers and even do creative writing. Secondary education is being imparted to them by the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) and graduation and post-graduation courses are being provided by the open universities.Many of the incarcerated young offenders end up with a disruption to their studies. I recall meeting two bright students of a reputed law university in a prison. They were unable to get even their graduate degree of three years’ study and felt their life was purposeless.Isolation, uncertainty and lack of positive engagement are detrimental to mental health. The prisoners are prone to joining gangs or turning to addiction. Education and skill training help them chart new life courses. Some prisoners face problems in taking exams and end up losing their key education years. Providing them with a chance to continue with education is critical if society wants positive change.While prisons lack financial resources, the existing human resources need to be tapped. Educated prisoners are a useful resource in prisons. Only six per cent of the prison inmates were found to be graduates. Around 8,000 prisoners had a post-graduate degree.The ‘Padho aur Padhao’ (Learn and Teach) scheme being run for illiterate inmates in collaboration with the Ministry of Education was started in some Delhi prisons. Permanent study centres of the NIOS have been opened in various prisons.Around 47,860 inmates benefited from the elementary education programmes. Indira Gandhi National Open University has initiated a programme for setting up 94 special study centres in prisons across India for the benefit of around 25,000 prisoners.I was most happy to see a life convict earning his doctorate while in prison. He proudly shared his thesis and after his release, started teaching in a college. Giving a second chance to the released prisoners is important for crime prevention.There are various barriers to learning behind bars. No teachers, poor motivation or inadequate basic facilities like books, papers, pens and of course space. Some of the prison libraries in India serve as study centres to facilitate the distance learning of prisoners who are enrolled in different courses. Availability of textbooks and reference books is important, and access can be partnership-based.It is dismaying that prison manuals are scarce in prison libraries. Having legally informed prisoners may also be construed as challenging. Many of the prison reform judgments have originated from the writings of prisoners like Sunil Batra, Prem Shankar Shukla and Rama Murthy.There is tremendous joy in having access to reading material not only for education, but also for self-reflection or simply recreation. Autobiographies are popular among prisoners. Mahatma Gandhi’s The Story of My Experiments with Truth has changed many lives. While conducting a training programme for prison staff on the reintegration of prisoners, I had invited an ex-prisoner, Laxman Gole, who was previously a gang member but is now a great motivational speaker. He shared how his life changed after reading Gandhi’s works.Technology is also changing the dynamics of learning behind bars. The Prison Cloud project in Belgium provides limited Internet access to inmates. Learning opportunities in prison need to be framed with a holistic approach. The responsibility of reintegration of prisoners into society lies on both sides of the prison walls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/need-to-focus-on-holistic-learning-for-prisoners-218864
01-03-2021||---||LoC truce should help open more doors||There are no permanent friends or enemies in international relations. Former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee once reminded us that we may choose our friends, but not neighbours. Or, as former US diplomat George Kennan, most renowned for his policy of containment of the Soviet Union acknowledged, “The whole tendency to see themselves as the centre of political enlightenment was flawed, vainglorious, and undesirable.”Pakistan need no longer worry about the so-called Doval doctrine. Emotional manipulation is the new political currency worldwide.At long last, there seems to be light at the end of a dark tunnel in Indo-Pakistan relations. Not since Prime Minister Modi’s out-of-the-blue visit to Raiwind (Lahore) on Christmas day in 2015, spoiled by the attack on the Pathankot air force base a week later, has there been any sign of forward movement between the two countries.We cannot afford a two-front hostility, leave alone war. And Pakistan, with problems bigger than ours, is the easier of the two major neighbours to befriend. As Dr Farooq Abdullah said when China was needling us in Ladakh, “Why don’t we talk to Pakistan when we are talking to China?” Hence, the news of a ceasefire on the LoC beginning from midnight of February 24-25, agreed to after cordial discussions between the DGMOs, is a positive development which should lead to the opening of more doors.The first sign of thaw came from the Pakistan Chief of Army Staff, General Qamar Bajwa, when he said on February 2 that it was time to extend a hand of peace in all directions. This was followed on February 11 by Pakistan Prime Minister’s Security Adviser Moeed Yusuf saying, “If we want to have peace, we have to move forward. If we want to move forward, everybody has to be rational, not ideological.”Talking never stops, even if it is generally not in the public domain. Every big step forward requires not only imagination but also hard homework. Prime Minister Vajpayee’s bus ride to Lahore in February 1999 was preceded by a lunch meeting between Vajpayee and Nawaz Sharif on the sidelines of the UNGA in September 1998. The 2003 ceasefire was the result of backchannel efforts of the intelligence chiefs, CD Sahay, and Ehsan ul Haq. The then Deputy Prime Minister LK Advani was the architect of the Agra Summit in 2001 which required a lot of doing but unfortunately flopped.Ajit Doval, the National Security Adviser, doesn’t accept failure and is the ideal person to take the process forward. It is well known that Doval had a good rapport with the former Pakistani National Security Adviser, Lt Gen Nasser Janjua. There is no reason why he should not have an equally good, if not better, relationship with General Bajwa and Moeed Yusuf.The current Pakistan team of Imran Khan, Bajwa and Moeed is also said to be functioning at its best. Imran has said more than once that if India were willing to take a step forward, Pakistan would be ready for two. Every message from across indicates that Pakistan is ready for peace. More ready than ever before. Whether or not Imran has the brains, as some of his detractors doubt, he certainly has the heart for peace.If Moeed has been coy about backchannel proceedings, it is understandably due to mutual understanding and management of public opinion. Kashmir, no doubt, will remain the key to resolving outstanding issues.The news from across again is positive that Pakistan is working on a consensus for a settlement on the Line of Control, to which Manmohan Singh and General Pervez Musharraf had come close. Musharraf had always maintained that whatever was acceptable to Kashmir and Kashmiris would be acceptable to Pakistan. It is not surprising, therefore, that Pakistan, which was undoubtedly shocked by the abrogation of Article 370, may now be reconciled to Articles 370 and 35A being internal matters of India.Kashmir craves peace more than anything else. Top Kashmiri leaders Farooq Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti and Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, who have long been pleading for an Indo-Pakistan engagement, welcomed the ceasefire. Mehbooba said a few days ago that peace could not come from the barrel of a gun. Only talks could resolve Kashmir. Mirwaiz described the ceasefire as a step in the right direction for sustainable peace in the region.The year 2021 is crucial for Pakistan. The Prime Minister’s position may be further strengthened if he obtains a majority in the senate this week. Next year, both Imran and Bajwa will have just a year left. Time, as it is said, is a great healer, but it can also lead to complications. It is best that whatever is possible is done now while the going is good. Next year, positions may only harden. What we need is a practical solution, not necessarily, the perfect one.Do I not destroy my enemies when I make them my friends, asked Lincoln. One sometimes feels a guest of one’s time and not a member of its household. Maybe, as Ghalib desperately in search of a progeny, said, “Ek Brahman ne kaha hai, ye saal achha hoga.” Shakespeare tells us, “There’s a tide... which when taken at the flood, leads on to fortune. On such a sea are we now afloat, and must take the tide as it serves us.”In any event, this door must always be kept revolving and never shut.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/loc-truce-should-help-open-more-doors-218858
01-03-2021||---||Peddling conspiracy theory||Abelief that there is an international conspiracy to defame India is gaining ground domestically, mostly among poorly informed, but highly vocal, sections of the population. They can hardly be faulted. When television anchors, especially the younger, inexperienced ones, sit in their studios and blithely tout such a conspiracy without offering a shred of evidence, many of their viewers who know little about global affairs are more than willing to suspend their disbelief, if they had any, in such conspiracy theories.The good ‘India story,’ which steadily gained traction worldwide from the year 2000 with the visit of Bill Clinton, one of the most charismatic US Presidents, was not built overnight. It was the result of many years of hard work, imaginative campaigns invoking soft power and the promise of a new horizon, especially for those from South East Asia to South America, who had grown tired of the hackneyed theme of the rise of China.It was a massive effort, in which every Indian who had something to contribute to that effort chipped in. India’s private sector conglomerates set up India Chairs at prestigious universities and think tanks in many countries. Influential People of Indian Origin abroad used their influence with their elected representatives to paint India in its best colours. The foreign media was assiduously wooed.After several years of such coordinated work, the results were there for all to see. The most illustrative story which I have heard about the change in perception of India overseas is from Kiran Pasricha, who was tasked in 1995 to set up the North American office of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in Washington. Once she arrived in the US, Pasricha began calling up people to brief them about corporate India’s American outreach through its representative organisation. Not one American worth anything returned her calls. Americans had written off India as a lost cause. One day her call was returned by a senior officer of the US State Department. She began telling this official about her organisation and that she hoped to liaise with US diplomats at senior levels. The man at the other end suddenly lost interest. ‘I am sorry. My secretary told me you are Karen from the CIA. That is why I called back.’ The caller disconnected.When Pasricha was leaving Washington in 2011, to head the Ananta Centre, one of the farewells for her was in a US Senate Office building on Capitol Hill. By then, India was the flavour in Washington and there were few Congressmen who were not familiar with the work of the CII. Senators and Congressmen walked in and out of that reception, going to their respective chambers to cast their votes, then returning.The big coup of this period was when Thomas L Friedman, celebrated columnist of The New York Times, was persuaded to devote a sizeable portion of his best-selling book, The World is Flat: A Brief History of the 21st Century, to India. His accounts of the convergence of technology and growth in India, the rise of its affluent middle class and a liberalised India’s integration into a globalised market, especially of its supply chains and services, created such awareness of a new India that its impact knew no boundaries.Around the same time, it became an annual practice for the then PM Manmohan Singh to have a private lunch at the New York Stock Exchange with about 15 chairmen or CEOs of the richest and most dynamic US multinationals during Singh’s visits for the UN General Assembly. Ronen Sen, the then Ambassador to the US, had raised the benchmark so high for attending this much-sought-after lunch that anyone below a chairman or a CEO, no matter how big the conglomerate, did not get invited. One year, several CEOs who were with Singh, told me that they looked at India seriously as a business prospect only after reading Friedman’s highly positive accounts of change.Answering a question from the audience after delivering the Ramnath Goenka Lecture a year and a half ago, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, said, ‘My reputation is not decided by a newspaper in New York.’ The question was about criticism of India in the mainstream US media, which was incipient in 2019, but has since grown. ‘Uninformed comments abroad on our internal affairs are hardly internationalisation,’ he added.Jaishankar knows from his 44 years as a diplomat that actions and reactions about India based on ignorance are not new. There is an anecdote about an editorial in a leading British newspaper about cow slaughter in India. The sub-editor who had a final look at the editorial changed cow slaughter to animal slaughter. His explanation after the editorial caused sniggers all over was that ‘animal slaughter’ read far better than ‘cow slaughter’. Why single out the poor cow when primitive rituals like slaughter of all animals must be widely practiced in India!After India tested nuclear weapons in 1998, opinion in every medium in virtually every country was firmly anti-India. But Indian diplomats, strategic experts, foreign correspondents like this writer, industry leaders and others who supported the Vajpayee government’s historic decision on Pokhran II rallied to change opinion. The result was a mix of successes and failures. Opinion in the US changed considerably after Brajesh Mishra, the then Principal Secretary to the PM, persuaded Henry Kissinger, the repository of America’s diplomatic wisdom, to write and speak in the US media rationalising India’s action.No one in India complained then that there was an organised conspiracy to defame or put down India. Instead, those who criticised India were courted and efforts made to influence their opinion. There is still a huge reservoir of goodwill for India, but those who share such goodwill, also publicly express what they see as some things going wrong in the country. What are friends for if they cannot share honest disagreements!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/peddling-conspiracy-theory-218857
