02-03-2021||---||India, Pak should go beyond ceasefire for peace||In what was definitely a surprising development, India and Pakistan announced a ‘strict observance’ of all agreements, understandings and ceasefire. This was a joint statement between those actually on the ground, which is the armed forces of either side, through the respective Director General of Military Operations (DGMOs). That’s heartening at one level. After all, it’s the army that’s in control in Pakistan, and there’s little point agreeing to anything that it hasn’t put its hand to. To most Pakistan watchers, however, the development will hardly raise hopes of any permanent change in relations between the seemingly perpetually warring states. After all, it’s been going on for nearly 70 years, with some significant interruptions. But that’s the point. There have been periods when the border was completely peaceful, but the political steps to take that forward just didn’t happen. It should have. The sparring at the border costs lives and money, and achieves nothing at all, not even political points or an inch of territory.To clarify, just what are ceasefire violations (CFVs)? The Line of Control (LoC), known earlier as the Ceasefire Line, originates from the 1948 war and was formalised in an agreement in July 1949. Overseen by the UN Commission for India and Pakistan, the line was clearly detailed up to a point called Khor, from where it vaguely said ‘…and thence north to the glaciers’, thereby setting the seeds for another conflict in the Siachen glacier.However, the ‘border’ remained quiet with India and Pakistan even signing a raft of agreements to regulate trade, water and other matters. Military rule and the internal contradictions of undivided Pakistan led to the 1971 war, which then led to the Simla Agreement and the line being called the ‘Line of Control’ (LoC), with a few tactical changes. The reasons for the enormity of foolishness on the part of the Indira Gandhi government in not fully settling the whole issue after Pakistan's total defeat remains a mystery.The LoC again remained largely peaceful till the nuclear tests of Pakistan in 1998. There after began the propagation of terrorism, sending in hundreds of trained mujahideens, some fresh from the Afghan war, into Kashmir. The Valley became a bloody battleground from 1999 onwards with over 4,500 incidents of terror by 2001, and thousands of civilians killed. Pakistan’s grand plan was to push in terrorists through the hills and ravines of the LoC, under the cover of fire by the Pakistan army. This rise in terrorism reached the hinterland, leading to an attack on Parliament in December 2001, just three months after the 9/11 attack on the US. A furious Washington literally asked Pakistan to decide whether it was ‘with us or against us’ with General Musharraf himself noting that Pakistan was threatened with being bombed ‘back to the stone age’. That led to Islamabad shutting down a few terrorist camps, and more importantly, virtually ceasing terrorist infiltration. A terse statement from the Ministry of External Affairs announced a ceasefire in 2003.A peaceful border requires someone to push Pakistan to the wall and keep its head there. As terrorism fell, so did firing at the LoC, but not entirely. Local factors, sometimes as trivial as a new commander arriving at a post or a religious festival, caused bored troops to fire. Both sides were usually guilty in these minor incidents. These are, however, hardly ever reported, and matters remained in the hands of the local commanders. Sometimes, however, this barrage would spread across entire sections of the LoC, escalating on occasions to include artillery barrages. In 2018, for instance, more than 2,000 violations were reported, and another ceasefire reached, welcomed even by China. It didn’t last. When Article 370 was revoked, Pakistan was shell-shocked and accompanied its vituperative diplomatic barrage with one on the ground.Now, it seems that this is to stop. Some backchannel talks have been hinted at, reportedly with NSA Ajit Doval engaging with someone other than his nearest counterpart, Moeed Yusuf, Special Assistant to the Pakistan Prime Minister, and not from within the system. Someone else did the talking, but with the blessings again of the United States under a new President. The White House press secretary ‘welcomed’ the ceasefire just hours later, noting that peace and stability was a ‘shared interest’. These things don’t happen in a day, and the assumption is that the talks took place over a period of several months. Therefore, the talks were initiated during the height of tension along the Ladakh border, as Indian Generals warned against a two-front war. The ceasefire is the end result, happily coinciding with de-escalation with Beijing as well.But any third party, however interested, would not be able or willing to apply the kind of pressure for Pakistan to change its mind on opening a third front if it did plan to. But at no time did Rawalpindi show any sign that it wanted to open a third front. In fact, it vehemently denied Indian news reports of a movement of men and material. Therefore, it seems Pakistan did this in its own interest. With its economy in tatters, faced with the pandemic, and increasing internal political pressure from a combined and noisy Opposition, Islamabad is in no mood to fight China’s battles.There’s a second issue. Delhi has shown that it is willing to cross barriers in prosecuting a fight. A signal may have been given that any attack on India would have been met with unprecedented retaliation, creating a dangerous situation. In fact, a warning of pre-emptive strike in case of a terrorist attack was given at the UN on February 25 by India’s Permanent Representative. It seems, therefore, both have decided to back off, and change the chess pieces around. With Pakistan moving to take over Gilgit-Baltistan as a full-fledged province, the Kashmir issue could be closed for good. All it needs now is the right glossing for Pakistan to end the Kashmir issue, and the right incentives for both. China’s attack may indeed have brought that about for India at least. As they say, it’s an ill wind that blows no good.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-pak-should-go-beyond-ceasefire-for-peace-219245
02-03-2021||---||Reduce learning deficit to boost education||When asked about their feedback on the laboratory class in nuclear physics that I had been conducting online for a semester, a student, let us just call him Vijay, spoke up enthusiastically about how happy he was with the lab. This was surprising since we were only conducting online demonstrations of the experiments from the lab and the students were not getting any hands-on training. When I asked him what he found good about the lab, he said he was most excited about being able to see how a physics lab looked like from the inside.This was surprising since this was a Master’s level course. It turned out that Vijay had done his school and college in a small town in UP and all through, he had never even been inside a laboratory, leave alone conducted any experiment. What is worse, he said that there never were any classes held in his college and he only had to go to take the exams after self-study.According to the latest All India Survey of Higher Education, there are 993 universities, 39,931 colleges and over 10,000 stand-alone institutions in the country where over 3.7 crore students are enrolled. Out of these, almost 80% enrolment is for undergraduate courses and 16.5% of these are in the sciences. That makes about 5 lakh science students. Out of the colleges, about 60% or around 24,000 colleges are in the rural areas. What is even more interesting is that about 6,400 colleges have an enrollment of less than 100 students while only about 1,700 colleges have more than 3,000 students.These numbers might look impressive. After all, the increase in the Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) for higher education has been very creditable — it now stands at over 27%. A combination of expansion of institutions and provisions for reservations for OBCs and EWS has certainly made higher education more accessible as is evident from the figures. NITI Aayog now talks about a target of 50% GER in its documents.However, numbers by themselves are meaningless unless we have some measure of the quality of education also. Vijay’s experience with the private college in a small town in UP is by no means an outlier.Our experience with studentswho join Delhi University from institutions from across the country shows that the quality of undergraduate teaching in the sciences is extremely uneven. There are several reasons for this.The infrastructure available in most institutions is sub-standard. The physical infrastructure of buildings, laboratories and libraries etc., or the non-availability of laboratory equipment are all of course important factors. Far more serious is the paucity of good quality teaching resources. Proper teaching as well as training in laboratory techniques is more of an exception rather than a rule. Another major issue is the language of instruction. In many institutions, the language of instruction is usually the vernacular. The non-availability of good quality textbooks proves a major hindrance in the learning process. The absence of diligent teachers and good quality textbooks proves to be a double whammy for the students.Incidentally, the fact that Vijay, despite being a science student, did not do any laboratory work during his high school is not necessarily only because of lack of resources. Most schools, even the elite ones in metro regions, routinely do not expose their students to any kind of laboratory work. The fact that the board exams do not rigorously test laboratory skills makes it irrelevant for the schools, who consider it a waste of time. Thus, most of the science students who are entering the university have minimal laboratory experience. Given the importance of experiments in science pedagogy, this proves to be disastrous.The mushrooming of degree-giving institutions might be great for increasing enrolment, but without adequate resources, they are certainly not contributing to quality. Even with older, more established institutions, the paucity of funding has taken a toll in terms of expansion of human and physical infrastructure. Our spending on higher education is not only low in absolute terms, but also concentrated on a small number of institutions. The obsession of our educational planners with the university rankings (which have been shown to be flawed and can be gamed) has led to a disproportionate amount of resources being lavished on a few select institutions. Schemes such as Institutes of Eminence only further exacerbate this inequality.This is not to argue that one should not promote high quality. One should, of course, strive for as many institutions becoming world class as is possible. But it is also important to realise that unless we pay attention to the enormous learning deficit among the vast majority of our so-called scientific and technical human resources, the overall standard would still remain abysmal. For this, an enormous increase in the resources allocated is of course a necessary condition. However, it is by no means a sufficient one. One has to think of localised solutions to the problems faced by institutions. This is not going to come about by mandating standards sitting in the MHRD — there has to be empowerment and decentralisation for it to be effective.Vijay, of course, has been lucky to have gained admission to a relatively better endowed institution. A vast majority of his peers are not so lucky. What is worse, they would go on to teach science to the next generation of students who would go on to do the same… and so it goes on. Meanwhile, the front page news is of some IIT rising by five ranks in the QS University ranking.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/reduce-learning-deficit-to-boost-education-219244
02-03-2021||---||Cautious disengagement||How are we to look at the latest disengagement process between India and China in eastern Ladakh? As of now, the process has been applied in two places — Galwan in July 2020, after the horrific June 15 clash that took the lives of 20 Indian soldiers and four PLA personnel, and now on both banks of Pangong Tso. The issue in Gogra and Hot Springs was not so much encroachment as the buildup of forces opposite the Indian positions which will come under the rubric of ‘de-escalation’. As for the Depsang blockade, it’s not clear whether it is on the agenda at all.The ‘Y’ junction in the Depsang area prevents Indian patrols to a large chunk of the LAC. The government has provided no information as to what’s happening there.Officially, the first detailed picture of what had happened in Ladakh was provided by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to the Lok Sabha on September 15. He had said in April that India had noted ‘a buildup of troops and armaments’ on the Chinese side of the border in eastern Ladakh. In early May, the Chinese had begun to hinder the normal patrolling in the Galwan Valley area, leading to a faceoff. Even as this was being addressed, the Chinese ‘made an attempt to transgress’ in Kongka La, Gogra and the north bank of Pangong Tso.On August 29-30, Indian forces pre-empted a Chinese move and occupied the heights on the Kailash Range along the LAC in the south bank of Pangong Tso. This was a significant development as it gave them a view of significant Chinese deployments in the Spanggur Tso area. This played a significant role in persuading China to back off.But the minister’s statement ignored the blockade at the ‘Y’ junction in the Depsang area which prevents Indian patrols to a large chunk of its claimed LAC. The government has provided no information as to what is happening there.After the Galwan clash, renewed efforts towards disengagement were undertaken in early July by NSA Ajit Doval and Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi which led to a pullback and the creation of a buffer zone in the Galwan area.This was followed up by a detailed agreement between the Indian and Chinese foreign ministers at a meeting in Moscow on September 10. This led to nine rounds of meetings between the senior commanders of the two sides, as well as diplomatic talks, leading to an agreement for disengagement in the Pangong Tso area last month. The 10th round took place on February 19.On February 11, Rajnath Singh had announced the disengagement in the Rajya Sabha. He said as per the agreement, the Chinese would keep their presence east of Finger 8 and India would do so near Finger 3. In the area in between there would be a ‘temporary moratorium on military activities’ or a buffer zone. He said a similar process would take place in the south bank, but did not detail the area of withdrawal.This has since been accomplished.The minister said ‘outstanding issues’ would be taken up in further discussions. But there seems to be no agreement on pullbacks in Gogra and Hot Springs. There was no word on the Depsang issue. Indian forces are unable to patrol some 800 sq km of territory within its claimed LAC because of a PLA blockade. In an interview, the Army Commander of the Northern Command, Lt Gen YK Joshi, said, ‘Coming particularly to Depsang, this predates the present situation. This is a legacy issue.’There has been some criticism of the Indian pullback in the south bank heights near Pangong Tso. This was one area where the Indians had established dominating positions that had rattled the Chinese. By giving up these as part of the Pangong deal, India has surrendered the one strong card it had held. However, as retired Lt Gen DS Hooda has noted, ‘When you are bargaining, you give and take.’The issue that still baffles is what exactly the Chinese were seeking and what they achieved, or didn’t. There has been a lot of talk about how they were filling out their November 1959 line. The problem is that no one knows where this line is, since the letter from Zhou Enlai to Nehru referring to it was not accompanied by a map. We do know their approximate 1960 claim line as it was provided to India, along with a map. In the eastern sector, the Chinese reached their claim — the foothills of the Himalayas — and went back after the ceasefire. In the west, they went beyond their 1960 claim and allegedly pulled back 20 km after ceasefire. The problem is only they know till where they had come. Indian posts had been wiped out and many vacated. The one place we stood our ground was Chushul.In 2020, their attempted coercion did not work. Now, if the security of Tibet has been a major factor in the Chinese policy towards India, they have just succeeded in undermining it. Their eastern Ladakh misadventure has at last persuaded the Indian Army that the threat is from the north, not the west. The process of rejigging its forces to meet the Chinese challenge has begun. Where just one mountain division existed, there will be two more in Ladakh. In addition, our Army is working out its offensive strategy by reshaping the Mathura-based 1 Corps into a mountain-oriented formation, along with a sister 17 Corps to deal with the eastern contingencies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/cautious-disengagement-219242
