03-03-2021||---||Counter vaccine hesitancy to rein in Covid||More than a year after the first case of Covid-19 was detected in the Chinese city of Wuhan, the world continues to grapple with the pandemic. With there being primarily only supportive treatment of the disease, the medical community had pinned hopes on an effective vaccine. Both the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines reported more than 90 per cent efficacy. To these were added vaccines developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca, Bharat Biotech, Gamaleya centre (Russia) and a couple of Chinese vaccines. Covishield (Oxford-AstraZeneca) and Covaxin (Bharat Biotech) are available in India.Vaccines have helped mankind prevent many diseases, starting with smallpox. Of the 20 commonly used vaccines today, 13 are against viruses that cause diseases such as polio, Hepatitis B and chicken pox. While a majority of these are given to children, some are used to prevent diseases in adults as well. The basic premise of using a vaccine is to prevent a disease altogether or to mitigate it. The WHO had reported that 21 million deaths were prevented between 2000 and 2017, thanks to the measles vaccine alone. Yet, hesitancy against the use of vaccines is not uncommon.The WHO describes vaccine hesitancy as the refusal of or delayed acceptance of being vaccinated despite the availability of vaccines. It is estimated that vaccine hesitancy is one of the 10 major health threats worldwide. Already, efforts towards the eradication of polio and measles have suffered because of vaccine hesitancy. The same phenomenon is now being seen for Covid-19 vaccines. In January, India launched an ambitious programme to vaccinate three crore healthcare workers and other frontline warriors in the first phase, but vaccine hesitancy is coming in the way.The WHO recognises three key reasons for vaccine hesitancy: lack of confidence (safety and efficacy concerns, lack of trust in health services), complacency and inconvenience of getting the jab. While scientists admit that a vaccine gets introduced once phase 3 trials are over and the surveillance phase (lasting months to years) reports no adverse fallout, Covid vaccines received emergency use certification because the data had proved their safety and the benefits far outweighed adverse events. There have been negligible side effects (0.08 per cent) from the two vaccines used, with occasional hospitalisation. Covishield is already widely used in Europe, and data on Covaxin has shown over 90 per cent protective antibodies.Snags in the Co-Win portal have also accounted for poor acceptability of the vaccine at many centres.In India, complacency is a major factor for vaccine hesitancy. With the lifting of restrictions, most people feel the worst is over. They, however, do not take into account that the Spanish flu had ravaged the world for more than two years in three waves. Covid-19 has waxed and waned in the US, Europe and the Middle East in multiple waves. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has warned that India may face more waves in the coming months. Recent sero-prevalence data shows that close to 80 per cent of India’s population is still vulnerable. A number of variants of the virus have emerged. The B.1.1.7 or the British variant is roughly 50 per cent more infectious. It has been detected in over 70 countries. The B.1.351 lineage, which emerged in South Africa in December, reduces the effectiveness of some vaccines. It accounts for 90 per cent of the cases there. The continuing occurrence of a high number of new cases in Kerala, Karnataka and Maharashtra is being investigated for possible import of variants from other countries.Going by the current rate of vaccination, it will take another two to three years for the whole world to get vaccinated. An exit from the pandemic is possible only if the world develops herd immunity either by natural infection or by vaccination. Leaving behind pockets of infection will remain a threat to the rest of the world. Countries have tried lockdowns and restricted trans-border movement in an attempt to curb transmission of the virus — with limited success so far. If the virus continues to mutate with the emergence of vaccine resistance or more contagious or virulent strains, we may end up in a vicious circle unless we stop the spread of the virus globally.Tedros Ghebreyesus, WHO head, has pointed to the disparity between the rich and poor countries, with the former cornering 75 per cent of the available vaccines. India is in an enviable position with enough vaccines available for the frontline workers and more ordered for the rest. India is exporting vaccines to over 25 countries, with new ones being added every day. One can imagine the plight of those nations which do not yet have access to any vaccine.To break the chain of Covid-19 transmission and eliminate the pandemic, mass vaccination is the only solution. Also, we have to keep following Covid-appropriate behaviour — wearing of masks, social distancing and washing of hands.The ongoing vaccination drive must be strengthened. This can be done at multiple levels. To start with, each vaccinated individual should be given a badge mentioning ‘I am protected’ to highlight his or her status. Frontline warriors getting vaccinated should be given freebies, as was done for months in the US and UK. We could follow the example of Brazilian rap star MC Fioti, who has recorded a song titled ‘Vacina Butantan’, which has swept the country as the vaccine anthem. Corona survivors could be roped in to emphasise the importance of protection. Print, electronic media and social media should be involved to drive home the need for converting vaccine hesitancy into vaccine envy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/counter-vaccine-hesitancy-to-rein-in-covid-219779
03-03-2021||---||Military upgrade beset by fiscal opacity||The Union government’s recent announcement of domestically sourcing a major proportion of its defence equipment requirements to achieve Atmanirbharta or self-reliance appears disingenuous as it’s neither new nor exceptional. It’s merely a continuation of a prevailing trend that has been progressively in play, albeit with a minuscule real increase in financial allocations by the Ministry of Defence (MoD) to help attain this long-awaited goal.Last month, the MoD had declared its intent to expend Rs 70,221 crore, or some 63 per cent of its overall Capital Acquisition Budget (CAB) for Financial Year 2021-22 (FY2021-22), on locally procuring varied defence equipment for all three services to boost the government’s Make in India initiative aimed at reducing imports.At Rs 1,11,714 crore, CAB is a fictional sub-set of the capital outlay of Rs 1,35,061 crore for FY2021-22 — Rs 2,551 crore less than the current year’s revised CAB — which caters exclusively to the purchase of aircraft and aero-engines, heavy and medium vehicles, and other equipment for all three defence services. Varied naval platforms and associated programmes and other assorted Indian Air Force (IAF) special projects too are financed from the CAB.It’s not unusual or exceptional for a substantial proportion of the CAB being spent on domestic procurement. For instance, between FY 2014-15 and FY2018-19 (up to December 2019), the expenditure on this count averaged around 60 per cent of the CAB, merely 3 per cent less than what was announced by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh for this year at a webinar in New Delhi recently.Rajnath Singh also stated that this allocation would have a ‘multiplier impact’ on enhancing India’s Defence Industrial Base, boosting Medium, Small and Micro Enterprises (MSMEs) and ‘start-ups’ and augmenting domestic employment opportunities. As objectives go, Rajnath Singh’s declarations cannot be faulted; but, as always, a yawning gap between intent and reality remains.And the reality is that the bulk allotment of Rs 70,221 crore for domestic purchases will, in all likelihood, service ‘committed liabilities’ or outstanding payments for past platform and equipment buys. According to reliable estimates, these obligated liabilities account for 80-90 per cent of the entire CAB, leaving little or, at best, scarce monies for fresh purchases. Therefore, it is certainly not as if the entire amount of Rs 70,221 crore would be awarded to local military vendors and materiel suppliers for new contracts.The services are more than conscious of this drawback. In March 2018, then Vice Chief of Army Staff Lt Gen Sarath Chand had informed the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence (SCoD) that the marginal increase in the CAB for his service for FY 2018-19 had dashed all expectations to pursue its long-delayed modernisation drive.He declared that the prevailing financial enhancement was barely enough to neutralise inflation and rise in taxes, much less cover the Army’s committed liabilities, ‘Make in India’ projects, bankroll infrastructural development and more importantly, acquire badly needed ammunition and varied ordnance for operational efficiency in a turbulent neighbourhood.Lt Gen Chand also revealed that 68 per cent of the Army’s equipment was in the ‘vintage category’, with just about 24 per cent in the current, and merely 8 per cent in the ‘state of the art’ classification, hinting that with declining CAB allocations, it would be challenging to modernise the force.The extent of committed liabilities for FY2012-22 was not disclosed at the webinar, though the MoD has this information and conveys it to SCoD, whenever asked. This is significant because in a recent report, the SCoD had even cautioned the MoD that inadequate allocations for committed liabilities in successive defence outlays would ‘definitely lead to a default situation’ on this count. Consequently, it will take far more than just the fiction of committing 63 per cent of CAB to the domestic defence industry to promote Atmanirbharta.Indian and foreign defence industry executives, too, are aware of the MoD’s budgetary realities. And if the announcement evoked contrived enthusiasm at the webinar, it was only because these expectant vendors, operating in a depleting global market for military equipment, have to exist in the Indian MoD’s perpetual ‘twilight zone’; for them, it’s similar to being drowned in liquid oxygen, where paradoxically, the liquid will not let them live, and the oxygen will not let them die, as they wait endlessly on tenders being issued and contracts awarded.Apart from the opacity surrounding the amounts available for new contracts, vendors also face the perennial apprehension of tenders either languishing interminably, or worse, being arbitrarily scrapped. Underlying this entire tenuous process is their deadline uncertainty. Understandably, they tend to clutch on to all and any affirmative assurances emanating from the MoD regarding purchases, like at the webinar, and hope against hope that this time round, their fortunes might change for the better.Over the decades, there has been no dearth of well-meaning efforts to improve the system, but they seem to have remained just that — mere endeavours. Many have largely been disjointed and un-holistic, creating fresh complications and adversity and further pushing the MoD’s itinerant bureaucracy — civil and military — into greater nebulousness. Continually moving the goal posts and flawed financial planning and procedures have only added to all-round uncertainty.To try and overcome these problems, the MoD attempted in 2017 to create a semi-autonomous and overarching Defence Acquisition Organisation (DAO) to oversee development and acquisition of military capabilities. Four years later, it has abandoned the idea, opting instead to render the Defence Acquisition Procedure denser. The fundamental need for financial planning, too, has been left largely unaddressed, rendering the entire process of military modernisation unrealistic and overambitious.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/military-upgrade-beset-by-fiscal-opacity-219778
03-03-2021||---||It’s changed for Spain’s farmers||Shaun Diver is a sheep farm manager in Ireland. He has 240 sheep on his farm. Last month, he sold 455 kg of sheep wool for euro 67. Tagging the receipt, he tweeted angrily: ‘It costs euro 560 to shear these 240 sheep. This is wrong, seriously wrong.’This reminds me of a farmer from Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar district, who, in December 2018, sold 2,657 kg of onions for Re 1 per kg. After adjusting the transportation cost, labour charges and market fees incurred, Shreyas Abhale was left with only Rs 6 to take back home. To register his protest at the brutality of the markets that farmers are faced with, he had sent a money order of Rs 6 to the CM.These are not just two exceptional cases. World over, farmers are struggling to make both ends meet. Victims of unfair prices, market manipulation, farmers continue to suffer ruthless exploitation at the hands of food supply chains. Even the US National Farmers Union acknowledges: ‘Over the past several decades, policymakers have weakened price supports for American farmers, resulting in a never-ending cycle of overproduction and low prices that has pushed tens of thousands of small and mid-sized farms out of business.’That’s the reason why 20 big players, according to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, as per media reports, have provided farmers with a direct income support of $475 billion per year between 2015 and 2017 so as to meet the price shortfall farmers suffered. A clear indicator that supply demand criteria of determining the right price for farmers produce had left farmers high and dry.No wonder, for decades farmer protests in most countries had remained focused on the need to provide a guaranteed price. But only recently, coming after months of protests by Spanish farmers, Spain has emerged as the harbinger of a global initiative — moving towards a new normal — by bringing in a law that prohibits sale of food below the cost of production. This is exactly what the farmers everywhere wanted. The historic initiative – to penalise retailers and wholesalers for the sale of food that results in losses for the farmers – will not only reset the food supply chain template, but also strengthen small-scale agriculture.The reverberations will certainly be felt across the continents. Already France and Germany have introduced laws to stem the flaws in the food supply chain practices but these were not strong enough. In France, a 2018 Ordinance to amend an existing law to prohibit reselling below the actual price, allowing a 10 per cent increase in retail food prices, did not see a rise in farmer’s income as expected.To prevent what it calls ‘destruction of value in the food supply chain,’ Spain has taken a lead by legalising what farmers had always been fighting for — guaranteeing a price that covers the cost of production — a definite decision that political leadership across the globe had shied away from. So far the effort has been to protect consumers (and the industry) at the cost of farmers. In other words, it is farmers who have been subsidising the consumers and corporate all these years. This has to change.Bringing in amendments to the existing 2013 food supply chain law, Spain had made suitable amendments (under the new ‘Royal Decree-Law 5/2020’), which became effective from February 27. The objective is to ensure ‘that the price agreed between the primary agricultural, livestock, fishery or forestry producer or a group thereof and its primary purchaser covers the effective cost of production’. On the need to work out the ‘effective cost of production’, Spanish lawmakers can perhaps learn from the Indian experience.Nevertheless, for those violating the provisions, in other words, selling below the cost of production, stringent penalties have been enshrined, ranging from euro 3,000 to 1,00,000 that can increase to euro 1 million in severe cases. France had earlier announced a punitive fine of euro 75,000.To the question that ensuring cost of production to farmers would force the supply chains to pass the additional cost to consumers, Marita Wiggerthale, senior policy adviser with Oxfam Germany, said as the implementation had begun recently, there were no analyses of the impact on consumer prices. Earlier, at the time of introducing the new law, Luis Planas, the minister of agriculture, fisheries and food had told the media, that if everyone ‘takes responsibility for the food chain’ the retail prices will remain normal. His French counterpart, Didier Guillaume, too, had earlier appealed to supermarkets to stop the practice of extracting 30 to 40 per cent margin on food products.Spain’s new law will also have greater implications for India, especially at a time when protesting farmers have been seeking repeal of the Central laws and demanding MSP to be made a legal right for farmers, ensuring that no trading takes below this price. What it effectively means is ensuring a minimum assured price that covers the cost of production, plus profit for all 23 crops (not only for wheat and paddy) for which MSP is announced. And like in Spain, making MSP a legal instrument does not mean the state has to procure the entire produce. It only raises the price band for farmers, making it obligatory for private trade to ensure fair price delivery to farmers.Experience shows unless farm incomes are connected with realistic food prices, it is futile to expect farming turning into a profitable venture. The claim that increased private investments will bring enhanced incomes to farmers hasn’t worked either. Nor has unregulated markets ensured a higher farm price. Like in Spain, to penalise any trading below MSP will go a long way in making farming overcome agrarian distress and become an economically viable proposition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/its-changed-for-spains-farmers-219714
