04-03-2021||---||Engaging with Pakistan||On February 25, the Directors General of Military Operations (DGMOs) of India and Pakistan issued a joint statement that read: ‘The two sides reviewed the situation along the Line of Control and all other sectors, in a free, frank and cordial atmosphere. In the interest of achieving mutually beneficial and sustainable peace along the borders, the two DGMOs agreed to address each other’s core issues and concerns, which have the propensity to disturb peace and lead to violence. Both sides agreed to strict observance of all agreements, understandings and ceasefire along the Line of Control and all other sectors, with effect from midnight 24/25 February, 2021’.Peace and security have been the primary concerns of both nations. A joint declaration was issued on July 6, 2004, during PM Vajpayee’s visit to Islamabad for the SAARC Summit. The declaration, issued after Vajpayee’s meeting with Pakistan’s the then President, Gen Pervez Musharraf, noted: ‘President Musharraf assured PM Vajpayee that he would not permit any territory under Pakistan’s control to be used to support terrorism in any manner. The two leaders agreed to the resumption of the Composite Dialogue, with the expectation that it would lead to a peaceful settlement of all bilateral issues, including Jammu and Kashmir, to the satisfaction of the two sides.’PM Manmohan Singh, thereafter, alluded to India’s views on J&K for settling differences with Pakistan, during a speech in Amritsar on March 24, 2006. He stressed that while ‘borders cannot be redrawn’, they could be made ‘irrelevant’. He added that a situation could be envisaged, where people on both sides of the LoC ‘could freely trade and travel’. Musharraf, in turn, spoke of ‘demilitarisation’ and ‘self-governance’ in J&K. After prolonged ‘back channel’ negotiations, in an environment free of terrorism, the two sides were said to have reached agreement on a framework for addressing and resolving the issue of J&K. The special envoys who held these secret negotiations were Satinder Lambah, a former Indian envoy to Pakistan, and Tariq Aziz, a close aide of Musharraf.There was a pullback by Pakistan from the negotiations when Musharraf came under pressure from his own colleagues, including his successor as army chief, Gen Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, to renounce agreements reached with India. Manmohan Singh was likewise engrossed in getting the Indo-US nuclear deal approved in Parliament. Efforts to move ahead with the ‘back channel’ negotiations were put on hold. It is evident that the Americans were ‘kept in the loop’ about these developments, as the contours of what transpired were published in an article in the New Yorker on March 2, 2009.While External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his low-key but savvy Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla mull over future policies, they will, no doubt, keep track of what transpired in the past. There, is, however, no guarantee that Pakistan will now agree to what had transpired earlier. The Modi government, in turn, will move carefully on these developments, given the complexities involved. But the ‘back channel’ talks could constitute a useful framework for future discussions.It is evident that the Biden administration is aware of these developments. The US realises that India is vital to the development of a stable balance of power in the Indo-Pacific region. New Delhi should remember that China’s policy remains one of ‘low-cost containment’ of India. It is not surprising that the Biden administration is reconsidering President Trump’s policy of a hasty retreat from Afghanistan. Contrary to Pakistani expectations, the Biden administration is acting tougher than one expected in imposing trade and other sanctions, and challenging China geopolitically. China and Pakistan are naturally expecting that they would have preferential access to Afghanistan’s immense natural resources once they install a Taliban-led government in Kabul. The Biden administration has poured cold water on the possibility of an early American withdrawal. A major reason appears to be that western powers would not relish the prospect of handing over the vast mineral resources of Afghanistan to the rapacious Chinese. The resource-rich Russians would also be thinking similarly.Pakistan is struggling to repay Chinese loans extended under the Belt and Road Initiative, amidst indications that Islamabad will soon seek to reschedule repayments of power sector credits. A major portion of the $60 billion pledged for CPEC is being used for power projects. There are reports of a high-level Pakistan delegation visiting Beijing to seek debt rescheduling. Going by past Chinese practices, Pakistan will have to provide facilities for Chinese organisations to take over mineral resources, mines and ports in Pakistan to repay loans. Large parts of the mineral-rich Gilgit-Baltistan region are now controlled by China, apart from the increasing control of the strategic Gwadar Port. China could also get control of two new ports in the Sindh province.It is meaningless to talk of normalising relations without ambassadors in each other’s capital. Before we rush into a dialogue, we need to have proper diplomatic representation in Islamabad. This should be accompanied by normal trade and economic relations. Vajpayee had ordered that bus and rail routes to and from Pakistan should be kept open during the Kargil conflict. There was also an agreement on group tourism, which was signed when Vajpayee visited Pakistan. Should we not be looking at implementing these agreements? PM Imran Khan is largely a figurehead. Pakistan’s military controls relations with countries like the US, Saudi Arabia, India, Turkey, Iran and China. It, therefore, makes sense to have a ‘back channel’ to General Bajwa, rather than wasting too much time arguing on trivialities with Imran Khan. General Bajwa is keeping his domestic channels of communication open, including with the Bhutto family. The young Bilawal Bhutto appears quite nonchalant about fraternising with the organisation that had his grandfather hanged!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/engaging-with-pakistan-220180
04-03-2021||---||BJP eyes electoral gains south of the Vindhyas||The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have invested an inordinate amount of time, energy and ingenuity in crafting their campaigns and barnstorming the southern states of Tamil Nadu and Kerala and the Union Territory of Puducherry in the run-up to the Assembly elections. The grubstakes appear disproportionate to the ground strength and following of the two parties, although given its political bequest, the Congress might be a tad ahead of the BJP.The two states and the UT have a robust flavour of the regional as against the ‘national’ in the other two southern states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Karnataka alone is conformist in the political sense. Bengaluru’s politics veers between the BJP and the Congress, although the provincial Janata Dal (Secular) has its niche.So, what is about Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry that draws the Congress and the BJP?From New Delhi’s perspective, Tamil Nadu is the most significant state because it has the largest number of Lok Sabha (39) and Assembly (234) seats in the south that were zealously guarded by the All-India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK). The AIADMK and the DMK would love to carve out the territory between them but they were forced to yield the turf to sundry entities, birthed by individual charisma, caste and religion. Some of the minor players appended themselves to the AIADMK or the DMK, depending on their perception of who the winner was.The irony of regional dynamics pushed the Congress and the BJP to likewise hang on to the coat-tails of the DMK and the AIADMK.Tamil Nadu is one of the few states that defied national trends even in the parliamentary election, refusing to snap out of a provincial mould. The last Congress government was in 1967, under M Bhakthavatsalam, the grandfather of former Congress leader Jayanthi Natarajan, before the Dravida forces gained primacy.Recent election data from Tamil Nadu reflects the state of the so-called mainstream parties. In the 2016 Assembly polls, the BJP had contested 188 seats, forfeited its deposits in 180, won nothing and was left with a vote share of 2.84 per cent. The Congress had fought on 41 seats (under the DMK-helmed alliance), won only eight and secured a vote share of 6.42 per cent. In contrast, the AIADMK, under the leadership of the late J Jayalalithaa, won 135 seats and racked up a vote share of 40.77 per cent, while the DMK picked up 88 of the 180 seats it fought and got 31.64 per cent of the votes.Under the circumstances, is it audacious of the Congress and the BJP to furiously haggle with the ‘seniors’ for more and more seats?That’s what they are doing. Bitter after the 2016 letdown — the DMK is convinced that but for the Congress’s dismal showing, MK Stalin, its president, would be seated at the CM’s Fort St George headquarters — Stalin is unwilling to concede more than 25 seats to his ally, half the number the Congress demanded.Although there’s a role reversal in next-door Puducherry, where the Congress is in a commanding position vis-a-vis the DMK, Stalin is being pressured by his cadre to go solo.Recently, the Congress lost the only government it had in the south in Puducherry, in part due to the BJP’s machinations and in part to the ineptness of its former CM V Narayanasamy, who failed to keep his legislators together.The BJP, for long striving to get a foothold in Tamil Nadu, has been more realistic in bargaining with its ally, the AIADMK, though it can’t resist the temptation to upset the chessboard here and there.It signalled a willingness to do business with the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, helmed by VK Sasikala, Jayalalithaa’s former confidante who is out of prison, and Sasikala's nephew TTY Dhinakaran, to the AIADMK’s discomfiture. Sasikala and AIADMK’s reigning leaders Edappadi K Palaniswami, and O Panneerselvam are engaged in a zesty duel with Sasikala to reclaim Jayalalithaa’s legacy.The Congress and the BJP have their own compulsions in either wanting to hold on to the south or travelling outside the comfort zone.The Congress has lost huge territories in the north, west and east. In Maharashtra, it’s a straggler after the Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party in the race to the top. For the Congress, the south looks like the most tenable way of staying afloat.On the other hand, the BJP has peaked in the north and west. It has established itself in parts of the east. If it wrests West Bengal from the Trinamool Congress, it would have arrived as a force to Bihar’s east.A peak is almost always followed by a trough and that’s why the BJP should be worried. It has saturated itself across a vast swathe to the north of the Vindhyas and has to travel southward to make fresh conquests, as it were, and not be confined to Karnataka.Who imagined that the picturesque little Puducherry would become the base for a battle of supremacy between the Congress and the BJP? Apart from the Tamil Nadu ally, the AIADMK, the BJP has roped in the NR Congress and three ex-Congressmen, including A Namassivayam, who fancied himself as the future CM and crossed over in the hope of making it to the top post in case the BJP coalition gets a majority.The Congress faces a litmus test in Kerala if not for any other reason than Rahul Gandhi representing the state in the Lok Sabha. Kerala is home to KC Venugopal, Rajya Sabha MP, general secretary and Rahul’s powerful aide.The BJP lost its only ally, the Bharat Dharma Jana Sena, here. Friendless at the moment, Kerala is, perhaps, the toughest region for the BJP after Tamil Nadu, notwithstanding the fact that its parent body, the RSS, is engaged in an ideological battle with the Left for decades.However, its ideology never permeated electoral politics and herein lies the BJP’s challenge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bjp-eyes-electoral-gains-south-of-the-vindhyas-220178
04-03-2021||---||Movements must not be delinked from politics||The decision of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) to intervene in the coming Assembly elections is bound to reignite an old debate: Should the farmers’ movement keep away from politics? The demand for apolitical movements, in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s derision of andolanjivis, reflects a new low in our rapidly shrinking democracy.For the record, the SKM is not going to campaign for any party or candidate. We have decided to appeal to the voters in West Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry to electorally punish the BJP for its anti-farmer laws, for its outrageous attacks on the movement, for its use of State machinery to suppress and criminalise the movement and, above all, for its imperious arrogance. It is for the voters to decide how they wish to mete out a punishment to the BJP. It is not for SKM to suggest who they should vote for.An anti-democratic demand keeps coming up now and then: the farmers’ movement should be apolitical. Funnily, those who are most vociferous in demanding this are politicians, mostly from the ruling party! Or, mediapersons whose political loyalties are no secret. Our democratic politics has sunk so low that politicians can hope to gain political mileage by proclaiming that politics is dirty. We have all given up on the difficult demand that politics should be responsible, transparent, ethical and truthful. Instead, we all prefer the easy path. Politics is selfish, nasty, brutish and shortsighted. So, let us do away with politics. ‘No politics, please’ seems to be our national banner.This demand keeps raising its head within the farmers’ movement as well. The first wave of peasant movements in India was deeply political. Historic protests like the Champaran and Bardoli satyagraha were integral to the political struggle for national freedom. The Tebhaga movement and other struggles launched by the Kisan Sabha were part of anti-colonial, anti-feudal politics of the Left, as was the Naxalbari upsurge after Independence.The demand for ‘apolitical’ farmers’ movements gained ground in the 1980s and 1990s, as all mainstream political parties — the Congress as well as the Opposition — turned their back to the farmers. A failure to shape politics led to a defeated and defensive mindset and a demand for apolitical movements. This did not last long. Iconic farmers’ leaders like Prof MD Nanjundaswamy and Sharad Joshi soon realised that they had no option but to form their own parties and contest elections.Yet the anti-political language persists. We have kisan unions that name themselves ‘Arajnaitik’ (apolitical). When there were inevitable allegations about the organisation taking sides during elections, the breakaway faction called itself ‘Asli Arajnaitik’ (truly apolitical)! Rhetoric about keeping politics out resonates in every meeting of the farmers. This rhetoric has little connect with reality. Most of the big farmers’ organisations are affiliated, formally or informally, to political parties. This is true of at least one dozen organisations within the SKM.There is no scandal here, for this is exactly what one should expect in any functioning democracy. The scandal is that some of the movement leaders who are most vocal in demanding dissociation from politics are also most busy in striking deals with political parties during elections. The demand to keep away from political parties is often a desire to choose the most convenient party or candidate to align with in each election.Now, there is an element of truth to this suspicion of politics. The farmers’ movement, or any movement for that matter, should not be tied to the apron strings of a political party. A sectional movement of farmers, workers or youth must remain true to the needs and aspirations of that section rather than allow itself to be used as an instrument of the ‘party line’.All over the world, keeping the frontal organisations one step removed from the parent party ensures this. While these organisations share the overall ideology of the party, they do not always follow the party's commands or dictates on everything. Sometimes the mood from below forces such organisations to take a stand at variance from the parent political party. If they don’t, they risk losing their supporters.The frontal organisations of the BJP-RSS are a good example. The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, the labour union of the Sangh Parivar, has repeatedly opposed labour policies of the BJP government. Their farmer union, the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS), initially opposed the three farm laws passed by the Modi government. Even today, it is lukewarm in its support. It is no secret that the BKS has consistently warned and alerted the BJP government against going ahead with these laws. It would not survive if it didn’t.We can and must guard against the instrumental use of a movement by a political ideology or party. Movements that remain limited to such shallow political effects are consigned to the dustbin of history. Any attempt to prolong the farmers’ movement for its own sake or merely to foment disaffection with the Modi government must be resisted.Similarly, the farmers’ movement must guard against elements that give it a religious colour or use it for separatist designs. We must also be careful about a few individuals using the movement to pursue their personal political ambitions at the cost of the movement.At the same time, we must recognise that any mass movement cannot but be political in its impact. A protest movement that questions the rulers, as most protest movements do, cannot but dent the image of the ruling dispensation. A ruling party that does not accede to the demands of a popular movement must be prepared for political punishment in the electoral arena. Any mass movement must seek to influence electoral outcomes as a final way of ensuring democratic accountability.In fact, a movement must seek a deeper political impact. Instead of just ensuring the victory or defeat of a party or candidate, a mass movement like the farmers’ movement must seek to shape the agenda of electoral contest. The true ambition of the farmers’ movement must be to ensure that the next parliamentary elections are held on the demands put forward by it. Every movement must aspire to this deep politics.In a democracy it is naïve, if not wicked, to demand that a movement should have nothing to do with politics, political ideology or political party. If this were to happen, if a country were to witness mass movements that are completely delinked from politics, something is totally messed up about that democracy. I hope we have not already reached that point.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/movements-must-not-be-delinked-from-politics-220179
