05-03-2021||Former Ambassador to Egypt and UAE||US walks a tightrope on Khashoggi report||BY releasing a declassified intelligence report on the savage murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi at the Saudi consulate in Istanbul in 2018, the Biden administration has moved to ‘recalibrate’ ties between the United States and Saudi Arabia. The executive summary of the report says, “We assess that Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince Muhammad bin Salman approved an operation in Istanbul, Turkey, to capture or kill Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi.” The release of the report has been accompanied by the decision to impose visa restrictions on 76 Saudi individuals. However, the absence of any sanctions against MBS, as the Crown Prince is called, has led to a predictable outcry from human rights groups, senior members of the US Congress and leading voices of the media establishment that see the murder of Khashoggi as an attack on the freedom of press.The Saudi foreign office has reacted to the report with indignation, rejecting its ‘negative, false and unacceptable assessment’ even as its statement describes the ‘heinous murder’ of Khashoggi as an ‘abhorrent crime’ and draws attention to the stern action taken by the kingdom against the perpetrators within the framework of its own laws. And former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has jumped into the fray by calling the release of the report ‘reckless’ and a ‘political stunt’ suggesting that the Biden administration wants to develop a relationship with Iran and destroy the one with Saudi Arabia.The varying reactions point to the effort of the Biden administration to walk a fine line between a robust interpretation of US interests and a softer definition of US values. Neither is set in stone. US interests in Saudi Arabia have tended to shift over time from seeing the country as a vital source of oil and a strategic counterweight to Iran to a lucrative market for defence hardware and a possible partner for Israel. US values have also been similarly elastic; each new administration states a commitment to human rights as part of its values package, but the balance tilts towards core interests when a choice has to be made.This does not mean that it will be business as usual. The Trump/Kushner combine had developed an especially cosy relationship with Riyadh and with MBS in particular. Trump’s first overseas visit was to Saudi Arabia in May 2017 and Jared Kushner remained a frequent visitor till the final weeks of the Trump administration. Under Biden, the White House has indicated that they will be dealing with King Salman on a ‘counterpart to counterpart’ basis. Biden’s efforts to revive the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) nuclear deal with Iran and his distaste for Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu will only add to the flux. At the same time, the strong bipartisan sentiment in Congress against MBS will keep US-Saudi relations unsettled. For now, both sides might be satisfied if bilateral ties stabilise at the pre-Trump level.However, the strident demands for action against MBS are unlikely to subside anytime soon and these bring up a larger issue. Saudi Arabia and the other Arab countries of the Gulf are absolute monarchies. None of them makes any claim to be a democracy and repression of political dissent is par for the course. And while the sheer brutality of Khashoggi’s murder makes it particularly egregious, violence against political opponents isn’t exactly unusual in the region. From Hafez Assad’s siege and demolition of the old city of Hama in 1982 to Saddam Hussain’s use of mustard gas and the nerve agent sarin in Halabja in 1988; from the 9/11 attacks on the US in 2001 to the Rabaa massacre of some 800 unarmed protesters in Cairo on August 14, 2013 — the litany of egregious use of violence is long and depressing.Religion and authoritarian rule lie at the heart of the fault lines in the region and over the past four decades, Saudi Arabia has been regarded as the fountainhead of some of the worst manifestations of religious extremism. This is often attributed to the resurgence of the Wahhabi clergy and their insistence on a medieval, ultra-conservative interpretation of Islam after the attack on the Great Mosque in Mecca in 1979. The malign influence of the Wahhabi doctrine has been felt in radical and militant groups from Egypt to the Philippines, in Pakistan and even in India, albeit to a more limited extent.MBS, for all his flaws, is trying to change that. He has embarked on an ambitious and perilous mission to ‘normalise’ Saudi Arabia and to roll back the unbridled power that the Wahhabi clergy had acquired. This isn’t just limited to the headline-grabbing reforms about women being allowed to drive or about cinema, music concerts and sport becoming a part of the entertainment scene. The changes run deeper. School textbooks are being cleansed of hateful references to other religions; laws are being reframed to bring them in line with the 21st century; and women are being unshackled and encouraged to participate in economic activity. The Saudi Vision 2030 document being promoted by MBS deserves a careful reading to get a sense of the scale on which change is underway.Much of the reform agenda is being pushed down from the top. In the process, deeply entrenched vested interests are being upended and the opposition from the clergy and from sections of the royal family itself is predictable. The reform process isn’t democratic and there are times when reforms and repression travel side by side. But MBS is only 34 and a man in a hurry to lift his country from the bootstraps. 67% of Saudi Arabia’s population is also below the age of 34 and many of them seem to endorse his vision.With over 2.5 million of our nationals in Saudi Arabia, India has a stake in the success of this experiment. A more normal Saudi Arabia that stops funding radical and conservative groups, that stops exporting its brand of religion through a network of mosques, madrasas and expatriate workers is good for the region. A Saudi foreign policy based on strategic interests and not on a nebulous attachment to the Islamic Umma is to be welcomed. The forthright refusal of Riyadh to be swayed by Pakistan’s self-serving arguments on Jammu and Kashmir is just one example of the possibilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/us-walks-a-tightrope-on-khashoggi-report-220717
05-03-2021||EX-member of UN Secretary General’s Good offices on Myanmar||ASEAN diplomacy on test in Myanmar crisis||AS the anti-coup protests continue to rage in Myanmar and the military intensifies repression, the countries from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), a premier regional intergovernmental organisation comprising 10 countries, have collectively and in their individual capacity stepped up their diplomatic engagement with the Myanmar military leadership and voiced concern over the fast-changing developments.After convening an informal online meeting on March 2, ASEAN foreign ministers released a statement which called on all parties (in Myanmar) to refrain from instigating violence, and for all sides to exercise utmost restraint as well as flexibility. Reports suggest that only four members — Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines and Singapore — called for the release of detainees, including the National League for Democracy (NLD) leader Suu Kyi. A lack of a more condemnatory ASEAN statement on the military coup is not surprising, considering the diversity of political systems in the region and their varied approaches on the issue. Within ASEAN, the engagement of Thailand and Indonesia has a greater relative salience in influencing events in Myanmar and it is this that requires more scrutiny. In that context, newly appointed Myanmar’s Foreign Minister (FM) U Wunna Maung Lwin, who had also served under President Thein Sein (2011-16), had met his Thailand and Indonesia counterparts in Bangkok on February 25.Indonesian Foreign Minister Retno Marsudi pointed out that in the three-way meeting between the FMs of three South East Asian countries, she had stressed that the “well-being of the people of Myanmar was the number one priority.”“We ask for everybody to use restraint and not resort to violence... to avoid casualties and bloodshed.” Marsudi is no stranger to Myanmar. At the peak of August-September 2017 Rohingya crisis, Marsudi had shuttled between Bangladesh and Myanmar to lower tensions between the two countries. Indonesia has always maintained high profile on Myanmar-related issues. And going by Indonesia’s previous approach of avoiding megaphone diplomacy, including by Marsudi’s predecessor Marty Natalegawa, much of the substance of the interlocution that would have possibly embarrassed the military leadership seems to have been omitted in Marsudi’s press conference. Quoting sources, Reuters reported that Indonesia was proposing that the ASEAN members send monitors to ensure the Generals stick to their promise of fair new elections.It is not hard to find out why Thailand and Indonesia are important in the present context. Apart from the 2,416-km-long Thailand-Myanmar border, a large number of low-paid Myanmar diaspora lives in Thailand, the source of remittance for the poverty-stricken country.Many Myanmar dissidents, including those from the majority ethnic group Bamar and other ethnic minorities, had taken shelter after the 1988 uprising, particularly in Chiang Mai area in its north. It had been common for the Myanmar ministers, particularly minister from the President’s Office Aung Min, in Thein Sein government, to visit Chiang Mai to hold talks with the leaders of ethnic armed groups. Ironically, the position taken by the NLD in power was much more intransigent in this respect as it objected to any engagement with Myanmar-related dissident groups based in Thailand. Thailand, with its own recent history of coups, has refrained from taking a position on Myanmar. Present Thailand Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha had himself seized power in a 2014 coup and his present stay in power is attributed to anti-democratic means, including a skewed electoral system under a military-scripted Constitution.In terms of an example to replicate, the Republic of Indonesia is seen as closer to the Republic of Myanmar than the Kingdom of Thailand, which is a constitutional monarchy. Founded in 1945 to fight against the Dutch colonial rule, it retained a pre-eminent role after independence, not too dissimilar to Myanmar military or Tatmadaw’s journey, through the self-serving doctrine known as ‘dual function’ (dwifungsi); protecting territorial integrity and maintaining political-cum-social order. President Suharto, a former army general, ruled the country from 1967 to 1998, even as General Ne Win was Myanmar’s ruler from 1962 to 1988.One-fifth of seats in the Parliament were reserved for the military that ran the political economy in Indonesia. The Indonesian army used to invoke the term ‘guided democracy’ whereas Tatmadaw repeatedly mentions the term ‘disciplined democracy’. After President Suharto’s resignation, a period of reformasi (reformation) followed that witnessed reforms that aimed to limit the military’s role in politics even though the military and their families continue to wield considerable influence over the country’s political landscape.In Myanmar, the military nominates 30 per cent of the Members of Parliament. No amendments can be passed in Myanmar’s Parliament without the approval of 75 per cent of Members of Parliament. With these similarities between Indonesia and Myanmar, there was an expectation that in the context of last one decade of Myanmar’s democratic transition, gradual extrication by the Indonesia army from civilian institutions was a possible roadmap for the Myanmar military.Outside the ASEAN grouping, India’s position is unique in Myanmar’s context as it has a good rapport with both the military leadership and the pro-democratic forces. In contrast, there were protests by pro-democracy forces outside the Chinese embassy in Myanmar recently against China’s support to the military. India also enjoys goodwill with most of the ASEAN countries, particularly Indonesia and Thailand, and India’s support to the regional initiative with calibrated messaging, both public and private, will carry substantial weight.Even with greater ability to sensitise Tatmadaw to the international concern over the situation, the expectation that Thailand and Indonesia could cause an immediate course correction by Tatmadaw’s leadership will be a stretch. In the coming days and months, the much-touted ASEAN style of diplomacy or the ability of countries like Indonesia or Thailand, seen to be close to Myanmar, will be on test and it remains to be seen how far the regional entity or regional actors can influence Tatmadaw to shun its instinctual desire to rule indefinitely.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/asean-diplomacy-on-test-in-myanmar-crisis-220716
05-03-2021||As institutions meant to uphold constitutional morality crumble like ninepins||Upholding the spirit of law||Many citizens have voiced concern over the disappearance of logic in courts of law when dealing with activists and those who voiced dissent against government policies.Judge Dharmender Rana’s order on the bail application of Disha Ravi, the 22-year-old Bengaluru-based climate activist charged with sedition, was awaited by youth with bated breath. There was jubilation when it was announced. The jubilation was muted because of the fear created by the State that made ordinary men and women wonder who would be next. The same fear had gripped Hindu residents of Punjab at the height of terrorism in the ’80s.Why did the judge grant Disha Ravi’s request for bail and refused Safoora Zargar’s plea for similar relief? The most probable (and charitable) answer would be that Disha was charged with IPC offences only whereas Safoora was saddled with the draconian UAPA, which makes it almost impossible to release an accused on bail.Both, Disha and Safoora, were in their twenties and wrongly charged with serious crimes like sedition and creating enmity between different classes of citizens. Safoora, incidentally, was a Muslim, six years older than Disha and pregnant to boot. She was protesting against the CAA/NRC laws that discriminated against Muslims.If it was a fact that the judge secretly was prejudiced against her because of her religious identity, as some seem to doubt, it would have been highly detestable. But that was obviously not so. There are myriad other factors that could have played a part in helping him make up his mind. In Disha’s case the judge had mentioned ‘conscience’ as the principal reason for hesitating to grant the Delhi Police request for further custody. Perhaps, his conscience kept troubling him since the day he rejected Safoora’s plea, made in February 2020.Over the past year, many citizens have voiced their concern over the gradual disappearance of logic and justice in courts of law when dealing with activists, protesters and those who voiced dissent against government’s policies. The not-very-subtle prejudice of Hindutva loyalists against the largest minority has led to the police in UP and Delhi to pick on issues like ‘love jihad’ and anti-CAA/NRC protests to visit sedition and UAPA charges against relatively peaceful members of the minority community. The crescendo of liberal voices may have had its effect on the judge. After all, he is human like those he faces in the courts every day. The important thing is that he has spoken. He chose his words carefully. They stung the conscience of those who listened. And to those who were not moved, I say ‘where is your humanity’, your milk of human kindness, and above all, your sense of proportion? How can any citizen who is not ideologically committed not be moved when their country men or women are pilloried for opposing policies that they feel are wrong?It is gratifying to note that there are many judges in the high courts and even sessions courts who have woken up to their remit to dispense justice and decide fairly. In the Delhi HC, Justice S Muralidhar was shifted overnight to the Punjab and Haryana High Court before he could indict the BJP leaders responsible for triggering the NE Delhi riots in February 2020.In the Aurangabad Bench of the Bombay High Court, Justices TV Nalawade and KK Sonawane quashed the cases against the Indonesian and Malaysian clerics, wrongly accused of spreading Covid by mingling in Muslim localities in different parts of India after contracting it in Delhi. They had attended an annual religious gathering in Delhi of Muslim clerics from Asia. It was bold of these judges to go against the official line of putting the blame for the spread of the disease on the clerics, though it was common knowledge that Covid-19 had proliferated across classes, communities and geographies in India.A Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court’s Lucknow Bench took suo motu notice of the inhuman act of the UP Police in preventing the parents and relatives of a Dalit girl, who had been raped and killed by four upper-caste youths, from performing her last rites. The court was aware that the UP Government was batting for upper caste youth since the local Rajput community had come out in favour of the alleged culprits. Yet, the judges acted as per their conscience.Even in Gujarat, Modiji’s and Amit Shah’s parent state, the Chief Justice and Justice Pardiwala ruled against a demand of assorted Hindutva groups to permit a rath yatra in Ahmedabad in violation of Covid restrictions. Since those aligned with the ruling party were allowed a free run in most matters, this order in Modiji’s own backyard was least expected.We have judges who are firm in insisting on doing their bit to uphold the independence of the judiciary. These recent decisions, particularly in the Disha case, and soon afterwards in Nodeep Kaur’s case by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, have revived hopes among common citizens that justice will prevail. Just as we were losing hope, our spirits have revived.The Modi government has been charging activists with sedition, though the judgment in Kedar Nath v/s State of Bihar is now settled law. This government and the police forces under its command can only be brought to heel if the SC foists contempt notices on the offending police officers whenever the Kedar Nath judgment is breached.It is pertinent that the lower courts have taken up the task of disciplining errant police officers out to please their political masters. Thank goodness for judge Rana and the high court that set free Nodeep Kaur. They are the harbingers of justice. If injustice is allowed to proceed unchecked, our India would not be a land of ‘achhe din’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/upholding-the-spirit-of-law-220718
