06-03-2021||---||Sustainability of economic recovery a challenge||Good news comes in small doses nowadays. The latest data for the third quarter (October to December) of 2020-21 shows gross domestic product (GDP) growth of 0.4 per cent indicating that the economy is finally on the upswing.The full year will still end with a contraction of 8 per cent, higher than the earlier prediction of 7.7 per cent. Even so, it appears the economy is clawing back to normalcy slowly. There is an inherent fragility, however, in the data despite the unexpected spurt in some sectors like construction, financial services, real estate and even some movement in manufacturing.It looks like a V-shaped recovery at first glance, but could conceivably disappoint, if positive indicators do not deepen in the next few quarters. One of the biggest uncertainties is the lack of information about the informal sector which is never adequately captured in the official data. This area has been hardest hit by the pandemic and would have been struggling even in the third quarter which has shown a return to positive growth.The other segment that is continuing to face pain is travel, tourism and hospitality. The data shows a contraction of 7.7 per cent in this sector, a slight improvement from the 15 per cent decline in the previous quarter. There has visibly been some improvement in the restaurant and hotel business from December onwards, but this is only relative to the complete shutdown of the previous months. Many hotels that rely on foreign tourist occupancy are continuing to see vacant capacities, though most are resorting to discounts for the staycations that are so much favoured now by millennials.The sector was a letdown in the Budget as well. The pre-Budget hopes of a special package for travel and tourism failed to materialise at a time when the industry needed support in a big way. This is a hugely labour-intensive sector and the tepid revival so far has meant continuing loss of livelihoods for millions, including migrant workers.The Centre for Monitoring the Indian Economy (CMIE) has accurately captured the impact of such job losses in both the urban and rural economies in its recent studies. These show an unemployment rate of 6.9 per cent for February, rising from 6.53 per cent in the previous month.Hospitality and travel are also among the sectors that are likely to revive quickly in case the current vaccination drive is a success. In fact, the entire process of economic revival is critically dependent on the effectiveness of the vaccination programme and, in turn, the prospect of herd immunity. It may not be a factor affecting the final GDP growth data for 2020-21, which will be available in May this year, but it will have a significant impact on the current fiscal.In a pandemic year, one must go beyond the usual parameters to predict economic growth. The impact of Covid and whether there will be another surge in March and April has to be taken into account. Mass vaccinations are thus bound to play a role in economic recovery.The other key element in the growth process is the fuel prices and resultant inflationary pressures. The government took advantage of the collapse in world crude oil prices last year to raise excise duties. It would be difficult to fault such opportunism at a time when other revenue sources had dried up owing to the lockdown. Besides, there was no change then in consumer prices of petroleum products owing to low base rates.Now things have changed. International oil markets are showing a hardening trend with demand rising and inventories having been drawn down. The Saudi Arabia-led OPEC is continuing production cuts in tandem with other major producers like Russia to ensure that prices continue their upward trend.India, as the world’s third biggest oil importer, now has the twin worries of a mounting oil import bill in 2021-22 and the prospects of higher inflation due to the pass-through effect of enhanced fuel prices. There is also considerable public outrage over the retail prices of petrol crossing Rs 100 per litre.A more holistic, long-term approach to resource mobilisation needs to be taken right now on the oil front. The government must cut excise duties on oil products to reduce the burden on the consumer as also to minimise the cascading effect on the economy. Inflationary pressures will build up rapidly owing to high fuel prices even though price rise has so far been contained at around 4 per cent. Industries are already gearing up to raise prices across the board to deal with the impact of soaring fuel rates.The delicate economic recovery could easily be derailed by a push to inflation at this sensitive juncture. So, it would be wise economics as also politics for the Finance Ministry to cut excise duties to more reasonable levels. States which have similarly been milking oil products by levying high taxes also need to pause and formulate more rational policies.One of the plus points emerging, however, from the third quarter data is the higher growth in the construction as well as real estate sectors. This augurs well not just for the development of infrastructure but also for employment as these economic segments have always been drivers for economic growth. Much will depend, however, on the growth of government expenditure in the fourth quarter as it will have to pick up pace compared to the first half of the year.And finally, the marginal recovery has yet to be reflected in small and medium business enterprises which are still in trouble. The manufacturing sector revival of 1.6 per cent is more the result of large enterprises getting back to full operations. Smaller units are still waiting for a bigger pickup in demand. This is again a labour-intensive area and the slow pace of recovery means continuing job losses.The third-quarter performance has thus shown the economy is out of the trough. But whether it will get back to a rising path in a sustained way is a question dependent on a host of factors, including the progress of Covid-19 and the fate of the vaccination programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/sustainability-of-economic-recovery-a-challenge-221204
06-03-2021||---||A survival battle for Cong amid rising dissent||The optics could not have been worse for the Congress on the eve of a crucial round of Assembly polls. As it battles to reclaim governments in Kerala and Assam, pull its weight as an ally in Tamil Nadu and defend what’s left of its turf in West Bengal and Puducherry, it’s also struggling to extinguish fires in its backyard.It lost its government in Puducherry with a slew of defections to the BJP just before the election dates were announced. A day after the Election Commission sounded the poll bugle, old fault lines resurfaced with fresh salvos from the G-23, as the group of dissidents has come to be known after it shot off a protest letter to Sonia Gandhi last summer. The letter was a stinging indictment of Rahul Gandhi’s leadership, although the writers were careful not to name him.The latest attacks from the dissident group were least expected. A public meeting in Jammu lamenting the weakening of the Congress, tweets from Shimla questioning the alliance with the Muslim cleric-led Indian Secular Front in Bengal and now reports of another G-23 event in Haryana. All this amid moves by Sonia Gandhi to break up the dissenters by co-opting a select few. The Congress cuts a sorry figure at a time when it should be putting its best foot forward to script a comeback of sorts.It should be evident to the Gandhis by now that simmering resentment in the party is reaching the boiling point. The continuing opacity on the leadership question (will Rahul Gandhi take over as president or won’t he), a shrinking national footprint (the Congress heads only two state governments now and is a very junior partner in two others) and growing uncertainty about the Gandhi family’s appeal as vote-catchers are taking their toll. The party’s morale has never been this low.Although few in the Congress will say so openly, time is running out for the Gandhis. The impatience with Rahul Gandhi is palpable. His coterie may try to silence the critics by accusing them of secretly cohabiting with the BJP, but the issues flagged by the G-23 are increasingly finding resonance both inside the party and outside in the public at large.The upcoming elections could well prove to be a watershed. If Mamata Banerjee is fighting for survival against a rampaging BJP in West Bengal, this round has become a do-or-die battle for Rahul Gandhi too. He must deliver a victory in at least one if not both the states in which the Congress is the primary challenger — Kerala and Assam — to secure his future as Congress president. Another failure will only swell the ranks of the G-23.There seems to be a glimmer of realisation that the family’s unquestioned dominance of the party is under threat for the first time since Indira Gandhi lost the 1977 election, leading to a split in the Congress. This is evident from the way the brother and sister duo of Rahul and Priyanka have thrown themselves into the campaign for these elections.With the exception of the 2017 Gujarat Assembly poll, Rahul Gandhi’s style has been to flit in and out of poll-bound states and leave the heavy lifting to local leaders. In last year’s Bihar election, for instance, after squeezing as many as 70 seats from a reluctant RJD, Rahul Gandhi hardly showed his face during the campaign. In fact, he disappeared for a holiday.This time, the Gandhis have surprised the rank and file with an altogether different strategy ensuring high visibility of both brother and sister. Not only has Rahul Gandhi parked himself in the South for the entire duration of electioneering, he has also dispatched Priyanka Vadra to Assam. This is Priyanka Vadra’s first campaign foray outside of UP, a move to signal seriousness of intent.They are also throwing up multiple touchy-feely photo-ops. Like Rahul Gandhi’s Bollywood moment when he jumped into the sea fully clothed, mask and all, to woo Kerala fisher folk. Twitterati was dazzled by his fitness, as evident from his dripping wet T-shirt when he emerged from the water.In Assam, Priyanka Vadra borrowed from grandmother Indira Gandhi’s playbook by plucking tea with tea garden workers in Assam and dancing with them. More importantly, there have been efforts apparently to correct organisational weaknesses in the two important states. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has been roped in to help with booth management and voter outreach in Assam. In Kerala, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has been pressed into service.Interestingly, the Congress has also resurrected former Kerala chief Oommen Chandy to strengthen its ranks. While this has created some discord with the Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, the Congress seems to have decided to follow the BJP’s tactics in West Bengal of calling all hands on deck.The result day, May 2, will tell us whether the Gandhis have managed to steady their ship. Rahul Gandhi desperately needs a victory to silence the naysayers and prove his relevance to his party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-survival-battle-for-cong-amid-rising-dissent-221190
06-03-2021||---||Haryana’s local quota||Senior Economic AnalystHaryana has a new law. If there are four private sector jobs available that pay up to Rs 50,000 a month, three of those will have to go to ‘locals’. Much punditry has been expended on it, mostly against the decision. What interests me is the inherent revolt by the BJP-led government of Haryana against the Modi government at the Centre.Modi was the first Prime Minister in three decades to get an absolute majority. He was the first one to repeat the feat since Indira Gandhi in 1971. All other governments have depended on regional parties to stay in power. This has ensured that India’s inherent federal structure has remained intact. Indeed, in the coalition years between 1996 and 2009, when no party crossed 200 Lok Sabha seats, state governments acquired significant heft in deciding Central policies.Since 2014, a single-party majority, along with BJP governments in most states, allowed PM Modi to increasingly concentrate power at the Centre and weaken federalism. GST was a prime example, where a supposed ‘one nation, one tax’ took away the rights of state governments to decide their own tax policies. The new farm laws are another example of this push towards centralisation of governmental authority. They give the Centre the powers to override any laws passed by state legislatures.The Modi government’s ‘electoral economics’ has also come at the cost of states. A chunk of its additional revenues come in the form of cesses and surcharges which do not need to be shared with state governments. It has played fast and loose with its commitments on GST compensation to states. Its policies of targeting handouts and benefits to the poorest under various schemes — PM Awaas Yojana, PM Kisan, PM Ujjwala Yojana, PM Fasal Bima Yojana, PM Jan Dhan Yojana, PM Matri Vandana Yojana — might have been routed through states, but in the minds of the voter they are identified with Modi.At the same time, various failures on the economic front have landed on the door of state leaders. So, we have seen BJP failing to form governments in various states which had overwhelmingly voted for Modi. Unemployment appears to be one such issue, where voters hold state governments responsible. Opinion polls during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections suggested that the lack of jobs was the biggest electoral issue. Yet, an overwhelming majority of those surveyed believed that the PM was not to blame for job losses.This has caused a series of tensions between the Centre and states, including those ruled by the NDA. States have virtually no autonomy when it comes to economic policy, yet they face the blame for a bad economy. We saw some state governments flexing their muscles during the Covid lockdown months, stopping migrants at their borders, limiting who can enter, even talking about restricting medical help to locals. In effect, they were saying, our job is to look after our own people, not those who come from outside.The ‘outsider’ metaphor has always been an emotive political issue across India, whether it is Maharashtra, Karnataka, Assam or, now, West Bengal. It should be seen as an aspect of the perpetual tension between the Indian nation-state’s tendency to centralise and the various linguistic sub-nationalities to exert their autonomy. Local citizens believe that they should have the first right over jobs and resources in their ‘own’ land, and they get frustrated when the jobs go to migrants from ‘outside’ who are willing to work for less pay. Sub-nationalisms, therefore, often express themselves in the arena of jobs and education, which disappear as issues when the same ‘citizen’ deals with the Central government.So, despite all the talk about ‘one nation, one market’ by the Modi sarkar, governments in BJP-ruled states have to cater to job-seekers in their own states. After all, when it comes to voting for Assembly elections, migrant workers will take leave and go back to vote in their home-states. Unemployed locals, in turn, will vote with their feet.Haryana’s case is especially precarious when it comes to unemployment. Take the data collected by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy during September-December 2019, to avoid any distortions caused by the Covid-induced recession. Unemployment level amongst people in the state, who were willing to work, was 24%. The situation was even more stark when one looks at those between the age of 20-24 who are willing to work. The unemployment rate for such young people in Haryana was an incredible 70%.As India was coming out of the lockdown, Haryana’s unemployment rate, amongst those willing to work, had hit 33%. Similarly, youth unemployment (20-24 year age group) in September-December 2020 was at 85%. That means, only one in six young people who were willing to work, got a job.One way to solve this problem would have been to create more government jobs and fill vacant posts in government and semi-government organisations. However, since state governments have no money and Central disbursements are contingent on how well they control their fiscal deficits, more government jobs are out of the question. In such a situation, the BJP-JJP alliance in the state has no option but to play on regional sentiments. What use are the shining buildings of Gurugram and the offices and factories in the state, if the people of Haryana don’t get jobs?Industry bodies and commentators will criticise this move to reserve jobs for locals. There are many provisions in the new law, which smack of a return to inspector raj. The cost of doing business will go up because of the massive compliance requirements the law introduces. There is a genuine danger that some companies might choose to quit Haryana. Some say this will destroy Haryana’s impressive growth story. But politicians know that when it comes to state elections, you can’t sell growth that provides no livelihood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/haryanas-local-quota-221164
