07-03-2021||Napolean had said||Inspiring instance of soldier’s creed||In 1976, our battalion moved from Jalandhar to the high altitudes in the central sector. Our Commanding Officer could not accompany and being next in line, I moved the battalion. The Brigade Commander scheduled an operational discussion a week after our induction. Ignoring the mandated acclimatisation, I decided to visit all the forward posts before that event.I was on way to Lapthal post. A section of men and a detachment of mules carrying miscellaneous lumber were in accompaniment. The track to the nearly 14,000 feet high post ran alongside a steeply sloped mountain.Sepoy Muleteer Girdhari Lal was in charge of two animals. Walking behind the rear mule, he was holding on to its tail. This gave him support in climbing, but more importantly, gave confidence and a personal touch to the animal. Walking just behind, I noticed Girdhari was constantly talking to the mule. This monologue was as if he was telling the loaded animal a story. I have no idea whether the animal understood, but Girdhari knew.The second mule that was ahead of Girdhari was relatively new and had yet to master the art of mountain walking. At one sharp bend, there was a sudden gust of headwind. The rookie mule lost balance and fell down the slope. Instantly, Girdhari, uncaring of his own safety, jumped down.The mountainside had small pebbles strewn when the rock was blasted to make the track. After two side-rolls, the animal miraculously found footing and stood up. Girdhari, taking a tumble himself, instantly reached the shaken animal, held his reins and patted him soothingly on the neck. Since there was almost a 6-foot-high retaining wall, they could not climb back. The other muleteer immediately brought an older mule to walk along the track in parallel while Girdhari walked the rookie animal on the lower side till they found a suitable gap in the retaining wall where Girdhari could climb up along with the animal.On reaching the post, the entire party was taken into a heated tent and served hot tea and ‘pakoras’. But Girdhari got busy unloading the animals, watering them, giving them feed, and covering them with a warm blanket after a grooming massage. Only thereafter did he think of himself.Girdhari’s act in jumping down was extraordinary. Being on the spot, I had seen an example of extreme bravery and dedication. Those days, the system of awards for gallantry as well as meritorious service was not as liberal as it is today. The spurt came only after we started counter-terrorism operations in the Valley in full view of cameras and the Army’s actions became widely visible.But Girdhari’s act merited recognition. On return to the base location, I held a Sainik Sammelan. Being an eyewitness, I gave a graphic description of Girdhari’s daring action. I then announced a cash award of Rs500 to him from the regimental funds. The men broke into a loud applause. When Girdhari came up to receive his award, the Subedar Major asked him to say a few words. Not being an orator, Girdhari spoke only a few words shyly: ‘Maine jo kiya woh to mera farz tha sahib.’In those brief words, Sepoy Girdhari Lal summed up a soldier’s creed. Soldiers do what they do out of a sense of duty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/inspiring-instance-of-soldiers-creed-221704
07-03-2021||The other day||Despair & care||What I saw disturbed me deeply, for not only was the poor man highly anxious about his wife in hospital, he was unable to visit her because of his own condition. Above all, it was the silence of the house and the isolation that had aged him because of anxiety and depression. He kept telling me to stay on a little longer because my presence gave him the human contact he obviously craved. Naturally, he cannot have a stimulating conversation with his staff and, like most men, is hopeless about talking on the phone. He is also technologically challenged and so cut off from his children because he does not know how to work a smartphone or chat with them via a computer. All day, the TV blares loudly (he is also hard of hearing now) and the noise it generates must be more irritating than entertaining.I have described this scene so vividly because this is the story in most homes where old people live alone. Their children are either abroad or unable to visit them regularly given their own busy lives and the restrictions imposed by Covid protocols. Going out for an occasional visit to a friend or meeting someone in a club are now not possible. His wife and children police him constantly, out of concern for his physical well-being, but they are quite oblivious of the isolation that is eating into his mental health.This brings me to the most serious side-effect of the lockdown and restrictions upon lives — depression and mental health issues. The world over, societies and medical researchers are looking at the effect of depression on the young and old alike. And in countries where winter brings freezing weather conditions, long nights and virtually no sunlight, the effect is even more severe. I read recently of how Japan has recorded an alarming rise in suicides among the young. The lack of sunlight and warmth, natural or human, can be a potential killer. Else why do we see such high rates of suicide in the Scandinavian countries that are counted among the most advanced societies?It pleases me now to see the little children and young adults living in our colony running around in the park and cycling or playing ball games whenever they are free from their online lessons. For months, there was an eerie quiet and while we rejoiced at the birdsong that we could now hear and the welcome silence of no traffic on roads, I must say having them back has signalled a new level of happiness and normalcy. Young mothers had to cope with the tantrums and meltdowns of little children who were cooped up inside small apartments for months. Watching endless cartoons or playing computer games did them no good. Hyper-active, high energy children drove their parents to screaming and shouting at them most of the time. I could hear yowls from angry mothers and the howls of frustrated children all day from the flats around me. Domestic violence is another area of rising concern. Several couples have been driven to near-divorce because living constantly in each other’s presence raises several levels of anger and irritation. The result is a simmering anger that takes just an argument to snowball into physical violence. College-going students forced to live with parents is another flashpoint as generation gaps widen.Many of these problems relate to those classes that are well-off. The poor and struggling are so busy making ends meet that they have no time to think of what to do. Their lives have become even busier as they take on more and more work because that compensates for the jobs many have lost. So the choice is between being rich and lonely and being poor but surrounded by a noisy family and neighbourhood. Choose the life you would rather have.I will end with a lesson our old Man Friday Ram Singh once gave me. He was accompanying me one night as an escort to the railway station where I had gone to see off an uncle. As we were returning, I saw a line of cycle rickshaws parked along the pavement outside our house. It was a steamy summer night and many of the rickshaw-wallas were either sleeping on the pavement or had stretched out on their rickshaws, covered in their lungis to ward off the mosquitoes.‘Look at them,’ I told Ram Singh. ‘The poor things don’t even have a cot to sleep on!’‘Yes,’ he replied, ‘but have you seen how soundly they sleep? Bibiji, those whom God gives AC rooms and comfortable beds have to take pills to sleep and those who have no beds are rewarded by Him with sound sleep.’Wiser words were never said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/despair-care-221705
07-03-2021||I took the Covid-19 vaccine on March 2 at Mumbai’s Cama and Albless government hospital. The vaccine I was given was Covishield||Privileged to take Covid vaccine, but some questions remain||How did I get the vaccine so soon? I must confess some ‘pull’ was used, as happens so commonly in India. Courtesy a school society I am involved with, I got a call on March 1 to say that my vaccination was scheduled for the next day. The registration and ID number were sent on my cell phone. Otherwise, I was told by those who tried to register, the waiting period was at least a month. However, many tried their luck without registering by a walk-in, bringing the necessary documents, such as Aadhaar and PAN cards, with them. Going by reports, some got their vaccinations quickly with little hassle, but for others there was mayhem at the centres. Even after hours of waiting, they were turned away. With private hospitals being roped in, I am told the process has become smoother in some parts of the country.Fortunately, the hospital to which I was assigned was located near the Bombay Gymkhana Club, of which I am a member. Hospitals are notorious for lack of sufficient car parking areas, and as I am still wary of taking a taxi and do not have a driver, I decided to park at the club and walk to my destination. It took me about 20 minutes. As I made my way there, with the magnificent Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, still widely known as VT (Victoria Terminus), looming before me, I realised that I was walking along history, albeit of a particularly ugly kind. This was where the infamous Pakistan-sponsored terror attack had taken place 12 years ago when 10 heavily-armed and expertly-trained terrorists had landed at a small fishing village only a short distance from my residence. They had split into groups of two each. The two that took a taxi to VT included Ajmal Kasab, the only terrorist to survive the attack (he was tried and hanged later).At the railway station, one of the busiest in the world with over 30 lakh passengers a day, they had gone on a murderous shooting spree, spraying bullets from their AK-47s on those milling around, killing 53 of them. From there, they had gone to an overbridge. That led them to the back of Cama hospital and a lane alongside it.Cama hospital is sandwiched between the office of the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, and one of the city’s most famous colleges, St Xavier’s. ‘Covid-19 Vaccination Centre,’ read the banner at the gate. The hospital itself is made from the dark-grey Porbandar stone used in so many other grand buildings of the city. A Parsi philanthropist, Pestonjee Hormusjee Cama, had donated Rs1 lakh for the building of the hospital, which was for women and children. That must have been a considerable sum 134 years ago. At the registration desk, there was the mandatory warning, ‘No mask, no entry’. There, I was asked if I had an appointment. The image on my cell phone satisfied them. After I had shown my identity proof, I was guided to a room where the nurse gave me the Covishield jab painlessly into my shoulder muscle. I did not even feel the prick of the needle. Then, up one floor to a waiting room, half full with about 30 others who had just been vaccinated. You had to stay there for half an hour, in case of a sudden adverse reaction. The nurse announced that the next jab should be of the same vaccine, after 28 days. It could be given in any part of the country.There were two downsides: the pamphlet of instructions and phone numbers handed out was only in Marathi. Why not at least in Hindi as well? The second was the announcement by the nurse that no alcohol should be imbibed for six months. No booze for half a year? I did not have hepatitis, so I questioned her. She was adamant. It lessened the effects of the vaccine, she claimed. I sent a message to my friend Rajdeep Sardesai and he made it a question to the panel of eminent doctors on the TV show he anchors every evening. No alcohol for a couple of days after the vaccination, one of the doctors advised, with a smile. Huge relief!I have had no side-effects, as I write this, only a slightly sore arm, though a couple of friends have had mild fever. The administrative glitches will surely be rectified and most of those in the metropolitan areas will soon be vaccinated. But what about those living in small towns and villages, where 70 per cent of our population resides? There won’t be nearly enough hospitals and clinics to get them vaccinated within, say, three months. Will they have to trudge to the cities? Remember, we are a nation of some 1.4 billion. Other questions come to mind. How long will the immunity given by the vaccine last? Six months, or a year, or longer? Will we then need another vaccine? Even the World Health Organisation has no answers. Let’s face it. We are confronting a challenge worldwide like none before. The vaccine is a major step forward, but there are many more hurdles to overcome.— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/privileged-to-take-covid-vaccine-but-some-questions-remain-221703
07-03-2021||At a time when we||Challenges to internal security||One of the gravest challenges facing us is the weakening of the federal structure. This is not a development which has taken place overnight, but the process has now snowballed and is visible to all. In recent years, the Centre has abrogated to itself many of the financial powers of the states and in other matters also, like agriculture. Ever since the implementation of GST, the states (especially those ruled by Opposition parties) have lost a large part of their financial independence and are dependent on the Centre for even their dues, forget any largesse. According to a written statement in Parliament in February, a massive Rs2 lakh crore in GST dues was owed by the Centre to the states by November 2020. As per media reports, Maharashtra is owed almost Rs30,000 crore, Bengal claims Rs77,000 crore. The economists and accountants amongst us might want to comment on this sovereign default. Furthermore, the states were forced to borrow funds to meet their dues, thereby increasing their debt load and keeping the Centre’s books cleaner. The financial crunch facing the states is such that they cannot carry on normal development activities without the help of the Centre. In emergencies like floods, droughts, earthquakes, etc, they are utterly helpless and dependent upon the Centre. The Centre follows a carrot and stick policy, which leads to further increase in tensions that exist. This is also a part of the weakening of the federal structure, with the states left holding the bag. This will lead to antagonism and alienation.The weakening of the federal structure can further be seen in the enactment of laws regarding agriculture, which is a state subject. This has led to one of the biggest and longest agitations in recent history. Farmers across the length and breadth of the country have come together in a face-off with not only the Government of India, but also the mighty industrial honchos whom they suspect to be behind these laws. We are entering uncharted territory with these new laws, where large sections of the peasantry are being alienated. This has led to tensions between urban and rural India and does not augur well for our security. Added to this is the fact that most of our officers and men in the police, paramilitary forces and armed forces come from rural areas and are sons of farmers. They form the backbone of our security forces. The role played by some sections of the media in heightening this divide is highly biased and suspect. Foreign agencies will not be sleeping on these new self-made fissures and will use people both inside and outside the country to create further problems. Evidently, large funds have already been sent by dubious organisations — this will all add fuel to the existing discontent. Many parts of the country have been embroiled in internal conflicts (Kashmir, Punjab, Assam, Manipur, Nagaland are all a case in point), are we not again amplifying the voices of dissent and alienating sections of our society?The next serious threat is the open proliferation of communalism in most parts of the country. It was always present below the surface and used as vote banks during elections. There were periodic clashes between the two communities and rioting also took place. At some point, the strong criminal underground owing allegiance to both the communities started playing a major part in the clashes. This was witnessed in the Bombay riots, as also in other states. Recent developments have pushed secularism further into the background and differences have begun to surface more openly and a sharp polarisation is taking place. Issues like CAA and NRC have increased the polarisation of society and further heightened the insecurities of the minority communities. The minorities fear that their Indian citizenship itself is in danger and that it may lead to large-scale disenfranchising of a community. These laws are still hanging fire and when acted upon have the potential to aggravate the security situation. Added to these have been other incidences to keep the pot boiling regarding suspect cow slaughter and ‘love jihad’ laws, which again target Muslim youth. Laws have been enacted in BJP-led states and cases are being registered and the accused arrested.This total polarisation of communities is not a good thing for our internal and external security. The minorities are in sizable numbers and if misled, can pose a threat to our internal security. Unlike Pakistan, Myanmar or Afghanistan, who have primarily chosen the path of repression against minorities, we had so far walked the path of secularism and tolerance. This has been our strength not only by creating a vibrant democracy and a growing economy, but also globally it gave us a voice in democratic forums. The foreign media today is increasingly describing India as a state which no longer tolerates dissent and is bracketing us with countries which have throttled freedom.In case of hostilities, we would have to look over our shoulders while facing the enemy. The recent occurrences in Ladakh are a case in point. We have had trouble at the LAC and LoC because China and Pakistan have never really accepted the border lines. Now some kind of temporary détente seems to have been worked out, but can we repose trust in it? Last year, the ceasefire violations were the highest in recent times. China has never accepted the unilateral change in the status of J&K after the abrogation of Article 370, and the resulting tension on the border has a direct correlation. The entire erstwhile state of J&K was under lockdown for a full year, hundreds of additional companies of PMFs have been deployed since then, crores have been lost in revenue. Politicians chest-thumping on Aksai Chin and PoK rarely have any personal stake in the battles which follow. Only a greenhorn would say that the Kashmir issue is dead. It reminds one more of the lull before the storm.Unemployment and economic disparity are ever increasing. The disparity between the rich and poor is reaching mind-boggling levels. These are creating ripples in society across the board and we may soon be faced with a tsunami of protests creating further law and order situations. This inequality of income and unemployment levels are ticking time bombs perhaps posing a greater threat to our internal security than the enemies across the border. The Maoist and Naxalite movements have had large-scale consequences spread through numerous states — Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka and Maharashtra have all suffered extensively. The root of these movements lay in the perceived disparity and exploitation felt by the cadres who joined.It would be in the national interest if we could settle some of these and reduce the tensions. The question is, do we choose the path of repression or reconciliation? We must remember that these are our people and our country. We have to make a choice, our leadership has to make a choice, for we stand at the crossroads of history. All my life, wherever I have gone in the country, the common man has wanted peace and education and health for his children. It is the leadership with its vested interests which advocates divisiveness and is an obstacle to peace. Take the people along on the path of development and secularism to form a united and secure India free from fissiparous digressions.— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/challenges-to-internal-security-221706
