08-03-2021||---||Biden wants US edge in tech tussle with China||On February 24, US President Joe Biden signed an executive order asking for a broad review of the American supply chains in four critical areas, i.e. semiconductors, pharmaceuticals, electric batteries and rare earth elements. The President directed increasing the domestic manufacture and shifting the supply chains of these items among trusted friends and partners of the US.Currently, the US, India and many other countries have been facing critical shortages of microchips required by the auto, consumer electricals, mobile phones and other industries forcing many companies to suspend a part of their production. Immediate reasons for the chip shortage include supply chain disruptions due to Covid-19 in several countries including China, Japan, South Korea and others, winter storms in Texas in the US where several chip manufacturing plants are located, a pre-pandemic trend towards lower inventory and the impact of US sanctions on the Chinese companies for supply of chips.A microchip is a very small piece of silicon embedded in semiconductors, with electrical circuits, that can hold large quantities of information, perform mathematical and other logical operations. The US, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan have the world’s leading semiconductor-manufacturing facilities.Semiconductor manufacturing is highly skilled and capital-intensive. It spends 15% or more of its annual revenues on research and development (R&D); each generation of technology typically has a life span of two to four years; manufacturers work in tandem with foundries and chip designers across the international borders to adopt new techniques.The global technological leadership of the US rested from 1940s to 1960s on its advanced nuclear weapons. In the 1970s, its lead shifted to smart weapons based on new technologies like microchips. These chips are now used in a wide range of military equipment like advanced fighter and stealth aircraft, artificial intelligence-based (AI) weapons like drones, autonomous vehicles, radars, missiles, aircraft carriers, informationised war besides consumer electronics, robots, mobile phones and many others.China has been making huge investments in the last 40 years to develop indigenous capabilities in newly emerging technologies like semiconductors and microchips, 5G, AI, quantum computing, new materials, electric batteries, financial technologies and others. China has decided to provide financial support to 100 leading tech companies and 1,000 firms in upstream and downstream industrial chains. It is setting up 18 fabrication units with support from South Korean and Taiwanese experts to make a wide range of semiconductors and microchips.While China has been successful in developing systems or solution applications of technologies, it only had limited success in mastering core technologies like semiconductors and microchips (it can make chips of 7 nanometre and more but not smaller ones which are more powerful and efficient and needed in strategic applications, like aircraft or space vehicles).Some of the reasons for its failure include lack of protection of intellectual property, inability to build a highly skilled workforce and lack of global R&D networks. In 2020, China spent about $300 billion, more than its defence budget, on imports of semiconductors and microchips from the US-led transatlantic group (purchasing about 80% of its requirement).The US is determined to deny the advanced semiconductor and microchip manufacturing capabilities to China to stay ahead in the global competition. President Biden is considering a dual-track approach. First, the US and its allies would increase their spending on R&D in these technologies and vastly outspend China. The US is presently spending 0.6% (of its GDP) on federal support for R&D against 1.2% under President Reagan (it went down after the end of the Cold War in 1991). China is increasing it to 2.5% of its GDP till 2025.Second, the Biden administration is considering to organise different alliances with its allies and partners in the areas of exports control, technical standards, AI, biotechnology, 5G, and surveillance technologies to establish common strategies and rules for blocking the export of these technologies to China.China has warned that such alliances would violate the principles of fair competition and market economy and that it would punish the countries concerned through curbs on supply of rare earths (minerals indispensable for manufacturing mobile phones, electronics and military equipment) and other measures. China took such steps against Japan in 2010, South Korea in 2013 and Australia and India recently whenever it felt they had taken measures against its strategic interests. Whether the allies and partners of the US would join in enforcing these sanctions remains to be seen.The semiconductor industry has asked the Biden administration to remove the sanctions applied by the Trump administration, except on a few critical technologies and assist their R&D efforts through more federal funds. They fear that their manufacturing may become unviable if they are denied access to the Chinese market.Though many global semiconductor companies have their R&D centres in India, where cutting-edge research work takes place, most semiconductors and chips used in India, are presently imported from China, Taiwan and South Korea. Some attempts were made in the past to set up a wafer (semiconductor) manufacturing facility in Andhra Pradesh, but the project could not take off due to the inability to tie up funding and work out a viable business model including availability of assured demand.India’s Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology had on December 15, 2020, invited expressions of interest from well-established Indian and foreign manufacturers of semiconductors, foundries and consortia for setting up manufacturing facilities or their acquisition from abroad. The Indian Electronics and Semiconductors Association (IESA) is setting up 1,000 start-ups in these technologies.The government has recognised that an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ can’t depend on imports of these vital materials on foreign countries and India has to be self-reliant in this strategic field. It will have to play a lead role in the beginning to help in arranging necessary investments, provision of essential facilities and assurance of demand to this industry like South Korea, China and other countries until it becomes self-sustaining.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/biden-wants-us-edge-in-tech-tussle-with-china-222110
08-03-2021||---||Strategic interests bind Pakistan, Turkey||The growing bilateral relations between Pakistan and Turkey are fairly well documented. These include an increasing frequency of high-level visits, military exchanges and exercises, purchase of defence equipment, political support for each other’s disputes with neighbouring countries and so on. While the uptick in relations dates from at least the time of Pervez Musharraf, under Imran Khan, the relationship seems to have been taken to a new level.For several decades, during bilateral visits and talks, both India and Turkey had agreed that Kashmir was a bilateral issue to be resolved through the Simla Agreement. Lately, however, Recep Tayyip Erdogan has started talking about UN resolutions as also raising the Kashmir issue at the UN General Assembly. For example, in his address to the 74th session of the UNGA in September 2019, Erdogan, apart from talking about UN resolutions, mischievously called Kashmir a neighbour of India. On a visit to Pakistan in February 2020, Erdogan said that the Kashmir issue was as important to Turkey as it was to Pakistan. Recalling the events of the Turkish War of Independence, Erdogan said, “And now, we feel the same about Kashmir today. It was Çanakkale yesterday and Kashmir today; there is no difference between the two.”Apart from Turkey’s support for Pakistan’s position on Kashmir at almost every international fora, two recent reports point to a more ominous dimension of this relationship.The first report is from the Mediterranean-Asian Investigative Journalists titled ‘Turkey-Pakistan: Secret Army of Mercenary Journalists’ that details how Pakistan and Turkey are creating a joint propaganda team. The key driver of this effort is Erdogan’s ambitions to claim the leadership of the Muslim world and the realisation of the grand Ottoman dream. For this, he needs to be projected globally as the champion of the Ummah.For its part, Pakistan has moved away from the Arab world, miffed at the lukewarm attitude of Saudi Arabia and the UAE towards the Kashmir issue. On the rebound, it has found favour with Turkey that, as a quid pro quo for Pakistan’s support in the propaganda effort, is willing to join Pakistan’s tirade against India and especially Kashmir.According to the report, Turkish intelligence agency MIT was working with the ISI and the ISPR to build up a propaganda network centred on the TRT World and Anadolu Agency. These two Turkish media outlets have been hiring several Pakistani and Indian Kashmiri journalists, some of who would be permitted to settle in Turkey. As part of this effort, on March 14, 2019, Anadolu Agency opened its bureau in Pakistan for coordinating the movement of media professionals between both the countries and generating suitable content.An analysis of the content generated shows that TRT World published more than 30 negative stories when India abrogated Articles 370 and 35A related to Jammu and Kashmir. The give-away was when Pakistan’s Foreign Ministry recommended 14 of them.Additionally, in September 2019, Turkey, Pakistan, and Malaysia declared their intention to set up a new TV channel under the leadership of Turkey. The report quoted a source working in the Turkish Foreign Ministry confessing that the plan of creating a new media house by Turkey-Pakistan-Malaysia for tackling ‘Islamophobia’ was actually a propaganda plan to advance the ambitions of Erdogan to edge out Saudi Arabia as the leader of the Islamic world. Quite likely, recruitment of Malaysian journalists would soon begin as soon as the Covid-19 restrictions are lifted.The second report from MEMRI in January 2021 raises concerns that the Turkey-Pakistan partnership could escalate into the nuclear realm with Turkey seeking nuclear weapons technology from Pakistan. Turkey currently has two nuclear reactors-Tr-1 and Tr-2-run by the Turkish Atomic Energy Authority. According to a transcript published by MEMRI TV, Erdogan, in 2019, expressed Turkey’s intention to acquire nuclear weapons, stating: “Some countries have missiles with nuclear warheads, and not just one or two. I, however, am not supposed to have missiles with nuclear warheads. I do not accept this.”In this context, the 2019 annual report of the German State of Baden-Württemberg noted that Pakistan and North Korea were making efforts to procure dual use items for nuclear technology/weapons from Germany that could “be routed to Pakistan and North Korea through their close ally China besides Turkey.”Much like Pakistan, Erdogan has zeroed in on nuclear weapons to enable the rise of Turkey and the revival of the Ottoman Caliphate. The only Islamic country that could provide Turkey with nuclear technology is Pakistan that has an established track record of nuclear smuggling and proliferation.Three other elements of the relationship are important. First, the Turkish supply of drones to Azerbaijan was an important factor in its recent war with Armenia. Pakistan is buying drones from Turkey that could be deployed on the border with India. Second, Pakistan and Turkey are considering providing dual nationality to the citizens of the two countries. Third, in its bid to cosy up to Turkey, Pakistan blatantly violated the UN rules when it illegally passed confidential information to Turkey about Turks who had sought refugee status with the UNHCR in Islamabad. The UNHCR office in Islamabad passed the confidential information to the Pakistani government, which in turn handed the list over to the Turkish embassy.It is clear that Pak-Turkey relations have been taken to the next level under the leadership of Erdogan and Imran Khan. For Turkey, taking potshots at India is well worth Pakistan’s support for the ambitions of Erdogan to emerge as the leader of the Ummah, replacing Saudi Arabia. Getting nuclear technology from Pakistan would be the icing on the cake. It, however, remains to be seen if an impoverished Pakistan and Imran Khan on a shaky domestic wicket will have the heft to stay this dangerous course.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/strategic-interests-bind-pakistan-turkey-222109
08-03-2021||---||The emerging vote bank||Another March 8 is here. This year’s global theme for Women’s Day is ‘Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a Covid-19 world’. It underlines the need for greater women’s representation in leadership roles, so as to face the new challenges that have been thrown up by the pandemic.In India, women who helm political parties or represent people in Parliament and Assemblies are not large in numbers, but some have been making waves. Two women hogged the headlines last week — Mamata Banerjee and Sasikala.The feisty Mamata accepted the BJP’s challenge to contest only from one constituency — Nandigram — where she will face her one-time lieutenant, Suvendu Adhikari, who helped her win the battle of Nandigram which catapulted her to power in 2011. But he has now joined the BJP.Whatever be the outcome of the battle for Bengal — and the BJP is pulling out all stops, with the PM to address 20 meetings, Amit Shah many more — it is ‘Bengal’s daughter’ Mamata who has become the central theme of poll 2021, and the biggest symbol of the fight against the Modi-Shah politics.The challenge for her is not just to retain power, or for Modi-Shah to wrest it from her, it is to put out a blueprint for how they are going to grapple with the unprecedented situation brought on by the pandemic. More women lost their jobs than men. Girls are being pulled out of school, subjected to sexual violence, and married early so that they are not a burden on their families, negating the gains of the last 25 years.The International Women’s Day, celebrated since the start of the UN Women’s Decade in 1975, is an occasion to honour women. But it is also time to take stock, and this year to look again at women’s abysmally low participation in politics.Women in India have breached every ceiling, as lawyers, corporate heads, scientists, pilots, you name it they are there. But in the Lok Sabha, they are just over 14%, and 2019 showed an improvement of 3%, mainly because of the impressive strike rate (over 70%) of the women who fought on the BJP ticket. Their winnability — an argument made against giving women tickets — was more than that of male candidates. But 74 years after Independence, surely that is not good enough?The numbers in state Assemblies are even more pathetic. This, when women are coming out in larger numbers to vote. In several states they outnumber the men. In ‘Bihar 2020’, women voters were 5% more than men.Women are also slowly evolving as a vote bank. There were instances of women voting together on an issue — like Ram Mandir in UP in the ’90s. The joke used to be that women in Mulayam Singh Yadav’s family had voted against his party. Or after Indira Gandhi’s assassination in 1984, when more women (5%) came out to vote than men.Of late, they have begun to vote on the issues that affect them directly, like prohibition, which reduces domestic violence and releases more money for basic necessities. Prohibition — and cycles for girls to go to school — won Nitish Kumar the loyalty of women voters. It is they who bailed him out of a sticky situation last year.Mamata has also been assiduously cultivating the women’s constituency, giving more tickets to women, and encouraging TMC women MPs to speak fearlessly. Mahua Moitra is emerging as the most strident critic of the BJP government in the Lok Sabha.Political awareness is growing by leaps and bounds in women. The large number of protesting women from farming families who camped on Delhi borders sleeping out in the open during winter months would have been unthinkable some years ago. The powerful khaps in the Jat community that have held a conservative view about the role women should play encouraged their participation. Protesting women farmers have made it to the covers of international magazines.It is the grandmothers who led the anti-CAA stir at Shaheen Bagh last year, which became a symbol of protest by Muslim women who used to be confined to their homes. ‘Exposure’ has its own ripple effect. It is a genie you cannot put back into the bottle.Disha Ravi, a climate change activist who supported the farmers’ movement, and labour activist Nodeep Kaur, both arrested for their beliefs, represent an aspirational India from where the new leadership is going to emerge.There is also a pool of women who have been readied for roles in governance. There are two million of them in the panchayats and local bodies. This leadership has been in the making for the last 30 years since the enactment of the 73rd and 74th constitutional amendments, giving greater autonomy to the local bodies and one-third representation to women, with 30% of leadership roles reserved for them.For all their initial hesitation as proxies for their menfolk, studies have found that, by and large, women sarpanches tend to focus more on basic issues of food, education, health and safety. This is a crop of talent which must now play a larger role in state Assemblies and in Parliament.The time has come to revive the debate on how to ensure greater representation to women in Parliament and Assemblies. And to pull out the women’s reservation Bill, introduced in 1996, and is now gathering dust.It was an evocative moment in 1947, when Hansa Mehta, a member of the Constituent Assembly which drafted the Constitution, handed over the National Flag to Dr Rajendra Prasad, with the words, ‘It is in the fitness of things that the first flag flying over this august House should be the gift from the women of India.’On March 12, PM Modi is going to kick off the celebrations to mark 75 years of Independence. There is a new Parliament building in the making. It will have seating for 1,224 members, almost double the present capacity.It will be only in the ‘fitness of things’ if the new Parliament can commence its functioning with a law to give one-third representation in Parliament to the women of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-emerging-vote-bank-222108
