09-03-2021||---||Dissecting toxic masculinity||What a strange world we are living in! Think of the recent observation made by the Supreme Court. A minor was sexually assaulted for years; but then, the accused was asked whether he would marry the woman. ‘If you want to marry, we can help you. If not, you lose your job and go to jail.’ What is the hidden meaning of the ambiguous advice to the accused? Is it that we are led to believe that rape is no rape if the rapist is ‘kind’ enough to marry the victim? It seems we—including the ‘moral guardians’ of our society—have not yet come out of the psychology of oppressive duality patriarchy has created: men as ‘active doers’ vs women as ‘passive receivers’; or men as ‘masters’ having absolute control over ‘docile/subjugated’ women.Well, feminists all over the world have been reminding us of the damage that patriarchy has caused to the construction of gender identities, the dynamics of interpersonal relationships, and modes of engagement with the world. And the kind of reflexivity, critical consciousness and humane sensibilities that feminist thinking arouses is not just about women. Possibly, feminism is also a reminder; it is an important lesson that men ought to learn to see and feel the discontents of a culture that values hyper-masculine aggression, and privileges the principle of domination and control over the rhythm of love, reciprocity and relatedness. In other words, while feminism as a politico-cultural resistance seeks to arouse the creative agency of women, it also reminds men that they need to liberate themselves from the egotistic burden of a terribly pathological notion of being ‘saviors’ of women. It is in this context that the anatomy of the mindset implicit in the court’s pronouncement needs to be explored.To begin with, let us reflect on the discourse of power. Quite often, a hyper-masculine culture equates power with some sort of instrumental reasoning—the power to dominate and control, or the power to objectify and establish one’s superiority over others. In other words, the attributes like aggression, possessiveness and mob are seen as necessary ‘virtues’ to be internalised for existing like ‘real’ men. In a way, be it the Baconian dictum that knowledge is power, or the Cartesian duality of ‘reason’ vs. ‘emotion’, or the celebration of militarism and aggressive hyper-competitive sports carnivals: we see the manifestations of environmental, cultural and psychic violence. In fact, patriarchy is about division and fragmentation; it separates the masculine from the feminine; it robs men of the healing touch of nature; and it deprives men of the ability to care and surrender. No wonder, bravery is equated with aggression—a visible demonstration of ‘manliness’! And patriarchal men become incapable of relating to women as thoughtful and autonomous subjects. Women, they think, have to be possessed, conquered or protected. And men as warriors (or militant nationalists) will decide how to preserve the ‘honour’ of women—our ‘virtuous’ mothers, daughters and sisters. Moreover, women are objects of desire. The violent male gaze consumes ‘femininity’ and sexuality in diverse ways—from what the ‘Me Too’ phenomenon has revealed so clearly to the market-driven spectacle called the ‘beauty contest’.Is it, therefore, surprising that it becomes difficult for men to love—the way poets and mystics see love as the death of ego, or the joy of ultimate surrender, or the ecstasy of the confluence of the material and the spiritual—body and soul? How is love possible if women are seen as weak, submissive and passive? How is love possible if women are led to think that marriage, for them, is nothing but compulsion—a passport to ‘economic security’? And how is love possible if men continue to see women as obedient servants or attractive dolls? A hyper-masculine culture is the negation of love. In fact, what goes on in the name of love is lust or possession or a purely economic contract. Only in a society of this kind can we think of marital rape. And only in a society of this kind can the Chief Justice suggest a rapist to marry the victim.At this juncture, we need to ask a pertinent question: How do we educate and socialise our boys as they grow up? Yes, society around them is terribly sexist and violent. Gandhi’s ahimsa is laughed at; Jesus’s ‘Sermon on the Mount’ has no value; Buddha’s contemplative eyes are hardly seen. Instead, they grow up amid toy guns and violent video games, reckless speed and instinctive thrill, and hyper-competitiveness and selfishness. They find themselves amid a culture industry that tends to normalise the pornographic mindset, and activates the desire to win, consume and possess. Is it possible for the parents and teachers to sensitise them, and tell them a different story?Let them learn that to be humane is to cultivate the ethics of care. Let them learn that the real courage is the courage to be tender and affectionate. Let them learn that to love is not to dominate, but to elevate oneself to a higher stage of consciousness. Let them sharpen the aesthetic sensibility to appreciate an amazing sunset rather than a suspense thriller. And let them realise that the flowering of the ‘self’ is possible only through the union of the masculine and the feminine. And let them see the destructiveness implicit in the dominant notion of masculinity—a toxic mind that is spiritually impoverished, psychologically insecure and neurotically restless. Believe it, it is not the Supreme Court, but you and I, as parents and teachers, have to make it possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/dissecting-toxic-masculinity-222544
09-03-2021||---||Public sector is the lifeline of the marginalised||Of late, the Congress party is realising the folly of departing from the fundamentals of secularism, socialism and democracy. It appears that the party has committed hara-kiri by sidestepping the Nehru-Fabian ideology of giving commanding heights of the economy to the public sector.It started when PV Narasimha Rao, Manmohan Singh and a chosen few from the World Bank carried forward the ideology of the Washington consensus which allowed the private sector to rise. The scams that were considered as a conduit to transfer public and common properties to the government’s cronies became public policies during the UPA and NDA regimes.It was during this period that the late PS Krishnan, a committed civil servant, described how the UPA cared less for the Special Component Plan (SCP) of Dalits and even imposed an embargo on a Bill approved by the National Advisory Council headed by Sonia Gandhi.I have published one of the first papers and, later, books on the impact of the new economic policy on the marginalised groups. It was pointed out that the investments made in the public sector were the legitimate share of the marginalised poor. There is a direct relationship between the unspent amounts of the SCP and the investments made by the government.The existence of the public sector is not an innovative idea but a legacy that we have inherited. India boasts of the presence of the public sector at least from the time of Chanakya who has mentioned about the prevalence of superintendents like the sutradhyksha who supervised state manufacturing textile units in his Arthashastra.The role of the state in economic activities was not seen just in India. It was also a phenomenon in Oriental societies. Marxist dissenter Wittfogel wrote on the hydraulic societies in Asia as those that relied heavily on state-supported irrigation and public works. Adam Smith, father of economics, argued for public works and judiciary to be kept with the state, though he was a libertarian. The Fabian society, democratic socialists and Marxists throughout the world have been arguing for the need for the public sector in modern economies.There is a group of economists who has developed theories to sustain the public sector as a part of the economic development strategy. They believe that it provides the much-needed shock absorber in an economy that might experience turbulences like inflation, depression, unemployment and other temporary disturbances in a market economy. They are of the view that the public sector provides the gear to the state to steer through.We have seen during the Covid pandemic that societies that are heavily relied on the private sector have failed while the few that have public sector healthcare and enterprises have sustained. Studies provide data that the public sector in India, including itsR&D establishments, was responsible for the sustained growth of the economy, contributing as much asRs 1,74,587 crore as profit in 2019.However, a group of paid intellectuals and cronies of corporate interests, with publications on the ‘invisible foot of the public sector’, has come up with theories that the public sector promotes inefficiency and corruption. They have recommended privatisation or abolition of the licence-permit raj with less governmental role and more margins.Interestingly, this trend has promoted contractor raj in the name of PPP (public–private partnership). The so-called libertarians are silent when NPAs worth lakhs of crores of rupees are written off as markers of inefficiency of the private sector. They have all gone into the accounts of the ‘dwijas’. None from the marginalised sections has the opportunity to receive contracts, not even from Gujarat.The constitutional provisions for the public sector and access to this sector given under Articles 15(4) and 16(4), popularly known as caste-based reservations, were made infructuous and useless. The role of the public sector in mitigating economic exploitation in the private sector and in keeping the savings of the people as investments for posterity was considered by Nehru and Ambedkar, like some of their contemporaries in the UK and Europe, who advocated different models of development through planning. They considered the public sector as the panacea to getting access to organised employment for the Dalits and Bahujans, who had been denied opportunities so far. Articles 38 and 39 have fortified these provisions.The present shift to arguing for reservations in the private sector is a supplementary argument when the role of the public sector has dwindled intentionally to reduce access to jobs for the reserved groups. Privatisation has helped generate super-rich corporates who are alleged to have bought/ appropriated public properties at discounted rates. This has further widened the gap between the rich and the poor, leading to just 1 per cent of the Indians holding 58 per cent of the national wealth.The founding fathers of our nation, including Ambedkar, Nehru and Lohia, have provided arguments for the continuation of the public sector in our society that has inherited several inequities and diversities. India cannot ape a settlers’ country like the US or tiny capitalist countries.But the self-seeking cronies have not bothered to read the works of the founding fathers. They misinterpret and abuse the esteem bestowed on intellectuals by writing reports and stories against the profit-making public sector units so as to ultimately to benefit the corporates. It was during 1990-2016 — the golden age of privatisation — that the number of government companies increased from 1,166 to 65,245 and private registered companies from two lakh to 10.23 lakh.Interestingly, the investment of the private sector was Rs 17,193 crore in 1989 and it has increased to Rs 16.74 lakh crore, while public investment was more than double the size in 1989 at Rs 47,051 crore and now is at Rs 32.87 lakh crore, mostly utilising internal resources. But, public employment started dwindling from 190.57 lakh to 176 lakh during the period, indicating the downsizing of opportunities for the reservation groups, including 10 per cent EBC who claim that it is the public sector that provides them the lifeline to sustain in the globalised world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/public-sector-is-the-lifeline-of-the-marginalised-222540
09-03-2021||---||Fears of penetration in a democracy||On March 7, a leading Indian columnist quoted KGB defector Vasili Mitrokhin’s ‘Archives’ (1999-2005) to say that India is the most ‘penetrated’ country since the days of Indira Gandhi. He was making this reference while ridiculing the NDA government’s paranoia over the alleged anti-India ‘conspiracy’ by three young women and Indian farmers.Yet, he said, our government is unable to detect clear signs on what constitutes the real national danger, such as China’s hacking of our power plants. While agreeing with his conclusion, I am doubtful whether we should consider Mitrokhin’s version as true since his chief Leonid Shebarshin, who was handling India-Pakistan during 1964-77, had denied it. In December 2001, he told Vlast, a Russian weekly, that while Indira Gandhi valued the Soviet Union’s friendship, she was “not a friend” as she took her own decisions.Also, ‘defector literature’, especially from the erstwhile Soviet Union, cannot be counted as authentic as they were the best experts in forgery well before the computer was invented. A defector like Mitrokhin had to please his hosts to stay useful for his settlement in a foreign country. Otherwise, he would have met the same fate as RAW defector Rabinder Singh — of being abandoned soon after his ‘ex-filtration’ in 2004 and dying in penury in the country of refuge.Mitrokhin had additional problems as his papers in Russia were retrieved by some, including MI-6 officer Richard Tomlinson who was later jailed for betrayal.The only way defector literature could become authentic history is either by being minutely scrutinised by veteran intelligence historians like Christopher Andrew or subjecting the story to be compared with genuine foreign intelligence archives or foreign agencies on its end result.In India, we have never developed the habit of studying intelligence as part of serious history. As a result, books written even by former intelligence officers cater more for stimulating public weakness for pulp fiction.The possibility of a joint study is rare as even the friendliest countries do not permit that type of intelligence cooperation for fear of penetration. In December 1943, William Donovan, father of modern American intelligence visited Moscow, then a close US ally in World War-II, to propose further intelligence cooperation. The NKGB gleefully agreed, although it already had their spy Duncan Chaplin Lee in Donovan’s personal office since 1941.Also, such joint service-to-service scrutiny, even subsequent, has happened only once when a landmark joint US-Russian project was launched during the Yeltsin bonhomie years (1991-99) to study how both the rivals had performed during the secret ‘Berlin Tunnel’ project. The result was Yale University’s Battle Ground Berlin (1997), jointly written by former CIA and KGB intelligence officers who had actually conducted the operations, moderated by American journalist George Bailey.How do mature democracies deal with such fears of penetration? Do they lock down their countries, banning all foreign contacts, even through internet, and making conditions for climate activists and human rights NGOs difficult, as our government is doing?Here, a story recounted by former CIA director Allen Dulles in 1963 would be relevant: Pawel Monat was the Polish military attaché in Washington DC from 1955. According to Dulles, he was actually working for the KGB and was found to be very ‘successful’. In 1959, he defected to the US. In 1962, he published a sensational book Spy in the US jointly with John Dille, the then military editor of Life magazine.This was at the height of the Cold War when the US was in the grip of deep paranoia about intrusive Soviet intelligence. The federal government was being subjected to “loyalty” tests initiated by President Truman in 1947 and continued by President Eisenhower in 1953. Senator Joseph McCarthy was carrying on his “witch hunt” on the “red scare” until the Senate stopped it in 1954. A book like this rekindled American fears on how easy it was to penetrate a free society like America.On June 13, 1960, the “US Senate Sub-Committee to Investigate the Administration of the Internal Security Act & Other Security Laws”, under the Judiciary Committee, summoned Monat to understand how the Soviet intelligence was operating in the US.Monat frankly told them that “America is a delightful country in which to carry out espionage”. One of their weakest links in the nation’s security was “the yearning friendliness of her people”. He was able to find “one American after another who seemed impelled — after a drink or two — to tell me things he might never have told his own wife.”He also told them that magazines like the Aviation Weekly and the Missiles and Rockets carried so much of classified information that “would have taken months of work and thousands of dollars to agents to ferret out the facts one by one.”The ease with which the Soviet intelligence was able to operate in America alarmed everybody. On March 7, 1963, a ‘highly respected’ Congressman, George Mahon, then Chairman of the House Defence Appropriations Sub-Committee, exhorted all, including the media, for “halting the erosion of our national intelligence effort” by open official statements made by individuals and the media on US defence planning.Still, this did not provoke US lawmakers to invoke draconian laws like our colonial Official Secrets Act or the indiscriminate use of sedition by their agencies, as is happening now in India. Instead, the later decades saw more transparency and accountability even in their secret services.The US still follows what President Harry Truman had said in his ‘State of the Union address’ on January 7, 1948, after successfully terminating World War II. He said that religious freedom, free speech, human rights and freedom of thought were the cherished American values.To a great extent, Canada, Australia and the Great Britain also do not expect their free societies to abandon their chosen forms of government and social traditions. This is because they are confident in the capability of their own security agencies in a free society even when facing ‘penetrations’ here and there by foreign countries or agencies.The moral is that we also should also have more confidence in our security services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/fears-of-penetration-in-a-democracy-222542
