10-03-2021||---||Need to future-proof skills of students, workers||CAN generalising learning push Indian economy towards a healthier growth path? We say that is the only way possible. Otherwise, we shall remain stuck in our morass.As the Indian economy struggles to get back on its feet, it is imperative we notice that this is still the same old bricks-and-mortar economy which is coming back to life. This economy, even when it is fully revived, will have serious limitations on how much it can grow, will extract heavy environmental costs, and remain extremely vulnerable. Moreover, as critic after critic has pointed out, this growth has been confined to a handful of companies, a handful of people. So much so that ruing this growth has become big business for some. The point is not to rue the existence of the handful who have been successful in growing; the point is to create a congenial environment where everyone else can grow. How can one do this?The only way forward possible is by generalising learning. Indians have a tendency to be caring and relatively non-aggressive as compared to the cultures of Europe and North America. Perhaps this trait can be used to create a supportive social environment where the success of one need not be at the cost of another. What India really needs to do is to create force multipliers so that the size of the pie can increase dramatically. Fighting over who should get what piece of it is irrelevant and a waste of energy. We argue that a generalisation of learning is such a force multiplier.So what does a generalisation of learning really mean? It means firstly, giving up an obsession with elite education. While the idea of a society led by the elites seems attractive initially, it actually is a failed idea, inappropriate for modern times. And yet, in its obsession with elites, the Indian state has consistently over-invested in institutions like the IITs and the IIMs at the expense of others. No one doubts the value of these institutions. But surely after more than seventy years of continuous financial support, they should have had enough material achievements to be able to stand on their own feet even while providing support to students from an economically weak background? High-achieving students, who excel in scholastics and also in the material world exist in all societies. However, societies show healthy and equitable economic growth only when average skill levels increase.Come to think of it, even today in India, there are some who did their schooling and college in villages and small towns and who have created much wealth for the nation, without any stamp of elite written on them. Their achievements, unfortunately, are entirely of their own making, without any help from either the state or the society and their numbers are too small to make a difference to society. For example, the wealth of Byju Raveendran, the owner of Byju’s Classes, an educational technology venture, increased by more than 100 per cent during the pandemic from $1 billion to more than $2.5 billion. Raveendran studied in a Malayalam-medium school and graduated from Government Engineering College, Kannur. He refused to join an IIM. He is only one of the many better-known wealth creators who never attended any elite institution.If only India were to work towards a generalisation of learning and upgrade education in general, that would be the real key to a $5-trillion economy. The skill landscape of the world is changing rather fast. Several surveys say that nearly half the people in the job market today will become unemployable if they do not upgrade their abilities. It is by upgrading the generality of education, by investing heavily in newer skills like artificial intelligence and data analytics that we can vastly upgrade the skills of Indians in the sunrise sectors of the future.To achieve this kind of upgrade requires very substantial investments, often beyond the reach of the average student. The course fee is only one of the obstacles in the way of poor students. The far greater obstacle is that at the moment, higher education institutions seem to see much more profit in creating small courses for very few students in sectors like artificial intelligence (AI) and data analytics rather than teaching such meta-skills to all their students. An engineering course with a specialisation in AI, which is what many engineering colleges are doing, can create an elite cadre. Such a plan cannot re-skill all the students even though these skills will be needed by all of them irrespective of the job that they join.Actually, given that AI is merely a tool to look at data, it makes far more sense to offer such a course to students of the basic sciences, social sciences, medicine and engineering rather than to create a stand-alone course.And AI is only one of the emerging tools. Skills in analytical thinking, statistics, cyber security, clinical data management to name only a few, would be critical to any knowledge economy.Yet the National Skill Development Mission focuses only on very basic-level skills rather than such higher-order skills. Skilling India is far more than merely teaching students how to be better menials, fitters, car painters, nurses, doctors, engineers, journalists, teachers or whatever. Skilling India is essentially about improving productivity at the workplace. Learning is a continuous process, it does not end with student-hood. What we need to do is to send out a direct message that the opportunity to improve and excel is always available and we need to make those opportunities available. For inculcating high-order skills and to improve the average skill set across the board, we need to pay more attention to energising our institutions of higher education.There are reports that point out the need to future-proof the skills of Indian students and workers. NSSO data says that only 2 per cent of the Indian workforce has any formal training. For those students who do possess formal training, employability remains low. As of today, the Aspiring Minds Employability Survey for Engineers for 2019 says that only 3 per cent engineers possess new-age skills in areas such as AI, machine learning, data engineering and mobile technologies. Among science and social science students, the figure is close to zero per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/need-to-future-proof-skills-of-students-workers-222986
10-03-2021||---||Strategic option of Quad to boost trade ties||ONE of the consequences of the pandemic and the resultant lockdown was the disruption in supply chains. These are the sinews that powered several market economies and integrated China at the core. The strategic apprehensions of China in the South China Sea and other areas accentuated the challenges. Dependence on a single source for supply chains was no more a realistic attitude. This aspect was enhanced by the US-China trade war, which suggested the importance of strategic options for diversification.However, for most countries, their companies were reluctant to disengage from a lucrative economy like that of China. The strategic option of decoupling from China soon tempered the ambitions of companies which had already invested there. Diversifying from China, with a ‘China plus one’ strategy, was complemented by a search for new markets from where sourcing and market access as an alternative to China could develop.The role of regional free trade arrangements (FTAs) became important. It was perhaps coincidental that both the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) completed their negotiations prior to the pandemic. This gave several countries the institutional framework of preferred access to countries which produce efficiently. They were seen as alternatives to China. Vietnam was perhaps the biggest beneficiary due to its small domestic market, efficient production systems and its courageous steps towards FTAs. Not only did Vietnam stay the RCEP course along with other ASEAN members, but it also joined the TPP and entered into an FTA with the EU. Most other Asian countries did not take such steps towards becoming among the prime movers of the ‘China plus one’ diversification.Japan started a system of government subsidies for securing its supply chains, including by shifting critical industries out of China. Its $2.2 billion programme persuaded Japanese companies to return to producing critical elements within Japan itself. A sum of $200 million was kept as incentive for the ‘China plus one’ strategy, focusing on ASEAN; later India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh were added to the programme. Thus, Japan assumed the leadership in the Indo-Pacific region for new trading arrangements, as its own strategic counter to the Chinese role in the region. Japan retains the edge with larger overall commitment to the development of ASEAN infrastructure, for instance, than China with its Belt and Road Initiative (BRI).Despite India’s late withdrawal from the RCEP, its intent to engage with the region in terms of trade and investment is visible from the effort to review the working of the India-ASEAN FTA and the Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA) with Japan. India is keen not to be left out of the post-Covid economic developments in the region and to use the strategic option of the Quad and the similarity of views on the Indo-Pacific to engage with Japan, Australia and France. The India-Japan-Australia (IJA) trilateral and India-Australia-France (IAF) trilateral arrangements are efforts to find strategic alternatives to the economic imperatives in the region.The IJA trilateral for Supply Chain Resilience Initiative (SCRI) is ahead of the India-Australia-France initiative. Japan has signalled its intent to increase its investment in India, through which the latter could be integrated into wider regional and global value chains and thus become an alternative to China. The focus is on enhancing investment by Japanese companies already in India who are encouraged to enhance their export profiles. When Shinzo Abe was the PM, further Japanese investment was envisaged, but with the change of guard and the current introversion of Japanese business, this process is moving slowly. NTT has announced a $2-billion FDI in data centres over the next four years. Suzuki will invest Rs 3,800 crore in a new car plant and with Toshiba and Denso, Rs 1,150 crore in a lithium battery plant as well. Japan is the major motivator for India to be a fulsome partner in the region and despite India’s absence from RCEP and TPP, it remains committed to engaging India robustly with a strategic intent.The Quad-based SCRI strategy needs to find effective complementarities among the three partners. Japan seeks diversification; Australia seeks trusted relationships to develop partnerships and India looks to find ways to stay in tune with the new economic developments.The Japan-Australia relationship has Australia providing food, energy and mineral resources and engaging in financial services. Japan is Australia’s largest trading partner since the 1970s. Their trade is worth about $86 billion, with trade in services around $7 billion. Japanese FDI into Australia is $225 billion, while Australia has invested $125 billion in Japan. FDI now goes beyond natural resources to cover financial services, infrastructure, information and communication technology (ICT), property, and agri-business. This generates employment in Australia too.India’s Australia trade is to the tune of $30 billion — the two-way FDI is another $30 billion. The lack of a bilateral FTA manifests itself in the unresolved problems between the two nations on economic issues. These are now sought to be overcome by means of better strategic understanding through the Quad and the SCRI. With Japan, India has a trade of less than $20 billion. Japanese FDI into India is about $30 billion.While Japan has been a steadfast partner, Australia needs to establish its credentials of trust by providing market access, FDI and fair approaches rather than continue to pry open the Indian market with little in return. The complementarities need to be aggressively identified. Much greater B2B relationships will make the SCRI workable and it’s time to move it to the business level from policy discussions.Japan is keen to involve ASEAN, with whom it has regional value chains (RVCs), in the SCRI. The harmonisation with ASEAN standards and the review of the India-ASEAN FTA on goods can contribute to bringing ASEAN into this venture. But for now, India needs to be wary that the benefits of such RVCs don’t just pass on to ASEAN. Here, India must be the main beneficiary of new investment and supported competitiveness. This will add heft to the post-pandemic policies announced by the government.India seeks FDI focusing on manufacturing and its involvement in Japanese global value chains (GVCs). Japan prefers digital economy as an opportunity for the Japanese industry, with its financial prowess and access to global markets, to match India’s IT core. If India will be part of Japanese-led value chains, Japanese companies will enhance the quality of their FDI and raise technology levels for competitiveness beyond the Indian market. If Australia joins this, a win-win possibility emerges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/strategic-option-of-quad-to-boost-trade-ties-222983
10-03-2021||---||Echo chamber of governance||FOR any modern government, strategic communication is the key to ensuring that it is able to convey to citizens its policies, the rationale behind them, create public awareness about the issues and mobilise public opinion behind the intended policies. Strategic communication is not a one-way street. The government machinery must have the capacity to receive feedback on public reaction to its policies, monitor implementation and make changes as may be required. Strategic communication is a continuous information loop in which the government and the citizens it serves are in constant and active conversation with one another. This is particularly important in a democracy where governments are accountable to the people and serve their interests. In some ways the Modi government, and in particular the PM himself, have been effective communicators, able to establish a direct and even emotional connect with a large number of ordinary citizens. In launching campaigns such as Swachh Bharat or Ujjwal Bharat, effective messaging has contributed to their relative success. But this messaging is mostly one way. Less attention is given to feedback from citizens, particularly if it is negative. For improved governance, there must be receptivity to positive and negative feedback. Highlighting only the positive and suppressing the negative will, over time, create an echo chamber within which an alternative reality begins to rule.If the role of professionals is only to validate the preference of the political leadership, we shall run into a dead end.In a democracy like India, independent civil society, media and academia and an openness to dissent and debate ensures that there is credible and timely feedback on government policies and their implementation. The government may claim that it has its own feedback mechanisms. Even the political party machinery at different levels may perform this role. However, those within the government are unlikely to acknowledge their own shortcomings or convey negative news to the political leadership for fear of being put in the dock. When things go wrong, bureaucrats become the favourite whipping boys and we saw that happen recently. Party functionaries, including senior ministers, may not wish to convey messages they believe may alienate the leadership, particularly if the top leader is seen as a powerful figure who could make or break political careers. It is for these reasons that democracies have other influential constituencies which can contribute to a more comprehensive and balanced critique of governmental actions.An independent media has a critical role to play, as is political opposition and a well informed and equally independent academia. The advantage with such democratic institutions, which are empowered and safeguarded constitutionally, is that the whole range of citizens’ feedback is constantly available to the government which can then make timely revisions. Keeping such channels of feedback not only open, but also receptive to the opinions and insights that they feed back to the government can improve governance. This must not be viewed as a constraint on the government nor should there be an overly sensitive reaction to any criticism. Public opinion, as expressed through a free media and expert opinions from credible professionals in their respective fields, can only help the government in delivering benefits to the populace. If the role of professionals is only to validate what the political leadership’s preference is, then sooner or later, we shall run into a dead end. These sources of feedback also serve as an early warning system alerting the government to public resentment against its policies which are best addressed before they become crises. We have a good example of consequences of the failure to do this in the ongoing farmers’ agitation.Governments have tremendous patronage to hand out and there is always the temptation to leverage that into positive coverage for preferred policies or to camouflage their shortcomings or failures. This is self-defeating. Governance is a matter of trust between citizens and their governments and trust can only be based on the truth. This is also important in foreign relations. The most valuable asset a diplomat has is the credibility he enjoys with his interlocutors and such credibility reflects that of the country he represents. Having successfully deceived someone or gained advantage by being economical with the truth may work sometimes, but eventually undermines national interests.It is in this context that one views with concern some recent trends in our country. A significant section of Indian media, which has a justifiable reputation of being professional, fiercely independent and investigative, has yielded to the fruits of governmental patronage or the fears of being targeted. Others remain immune and we must be thankful for the role that they are playing. Recent reports that the government may consider branding journalists as white, green and black, signifying pro, neutral or anti-government, and more ominously, seek to ‘neutralise’ the black category, are disturbing; as are some of the elements in the proposed regulation of OTT platforms and digital media. These provide the government with a wide scope of discretionary power to prevent the carrying of content that the government considers inconvenient. This is short-sighted because the shoe may be on the other foot if there is a political turnaround in future, as there well might be.There are several new compliance requirements being imposed on independent think tanks and research institutions. They are discouraged from working together with international counterparts. This can only lead to intellectual impoverishment of a country we want to be seen as a ‘vishwaguru’.The great strength of India is its capacity to manage immense diversity. The very plurality of its society brings opportunities for intense debate, argumentation and the airing of an incredible spectrum of views and perspectives. This is the source of creativity, innovative spirit and adaptability of our people. Putting a monochromatic frame over this plurality has not succeeded in the past, and is unlikely to in the future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/echo-chamber-of-governance-222979
