11-03-2021||---||MSP is aspirational price for most crops||Ballari is famous, or infamous, for many things — Ballari brothers, mining scams, Sonia Gandhi vs Sushma Swaraj election — but its agricultural produce market is not one of them. Located on prime land in the district headquarters, this mandi is no different from the mandis all over Karnataka. Its size, infrastructure, system of auction and record-keeping is better than most other states of India, except for Punjab, Haryana and some parts of Maharashtra. Like most states in the South, Karnataka enjoys better governance than most states in the north or the east. Besides, Karnataka was the first state to have its own Agricultural Price Commission.Also read: SKM calls for Bharat bandh on March 26So, this is not a bad place to test PM Modi’s grand promise: “MSP tha, hai aur rahega” (past, present or future — MSP is for real). I visited this mandi on March 6 to kick off the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s “MSP Dilao” (Get me MSP) campaign. There was a good reason to begin with Karnataka. Harvesting and crop arrivals start two to three weeks earlier in the state than the rest of the country. Besides, there is little room for a Centre-state blame game, since the same party rules at both levels.Mandi officials were prompt to hand us a printout of the price at which various agricultural commodities were sold (‘tendered’ in the mandi parlance) by the farmers that day. Eight of the 11 commodities traded on March 6 were from the list of 23 crops that enjoy MSP. Of those eight, only one — urad or black gram — was sold at or above the MSP. Make it two out of nine, since we were told sunflower seed was also sold above the MSP, but somehow it was missing from the official list. The remaining seven crops were sold below what the Government of India officially assures the farmers to be the minimum price they must get and what the government will help them get. This included all the five major crops of that area: tur, makka, jowar, chana and bajra.If you think Ballari might be an exception, it is not. More or less the same prices were found all over Karnataka markets for most crops. The average February price for bajra and maize was actually lower in the rest of the state than in Ballari. Only tur fetched better price elsewhere. If you think this year is an exception, it is not. An average of the last three years (2017-18 to 2019-20) by the Karnataka Agricultural Price Commission (KAPC) shows that as much as 72 per cent of the agricultural produce in the state sells below the MSP. Dr TN Prakash Kammardi, former chairperson of the KAPC, estimates that the farmers of Karnataka lost Rs 3,119 crore last year due to distress sale below the MSP.Also read: SC refuses to entertain Punjab firm’s plea against farm law protestersWhat about the rest of the country? For an answer, I turned to my friend Sunil Tambe who has tracked agri markets for well over a decade. He mined Agmarknet, the official website that reports prices for each mandi on a daily basis and reached conclusions even more depressing than the picture gathered from Karnataka.None of the major kharif (summer) crops except paddy fetched anything close to the assured minimum. If paddy did better, it was solely due to the government procurement in many states. Fine varieties of long-grain paddy, which are not covered by MSP, suffered badly and were sold at less than the MSP for the ordinary PR variety. No state other than Haryana, not even Gujarat, procured bajra at the MSP. As a result, bajra sold for around Rs 1,300 against the official MSP of Rs 2,150. During the peak arrivals in the month of November, moong was sold for an average price of Rs 5,556, about Rs 1,600 below the official MSP. We noted that in Ballari, urad was the only exception that fetched a price above the MSP. But that was not so in the rest of the country at the time of peak arrivals in November. In that month, it sold for an average price of Rs 4,789 against the MSP of Rs 6,000. Similarly, tur or arhar sold for around Rs 4,500 to Rs 5,000 against the MSP of Rs 6,000. The average price for maize was Rs 1,354 against the MSP of Rs 1,850.The marketing season for rabi crops has just begun, but the signs don’t look good. Wheat, the biggest crop of the season, is yet to be harvested. As in the case of paddy, it may get a decent price wherever the state procurement takes place. In other mandis, farmers could suffer anything from a loss of Rs 300 to Rs 500 below the official MSP of Rs 1,975. Mustard could be another exception, for the initial trends suggest that its market rate is hovering around Rs 200-300 above the MSP of Rs 4,625. For all other crops, MSP is the ‘maximum aspirational price’. The ragi season is nearly over and it has sold around a thousand rupees lower than the MSP of Rs 3,295. Maize grown in winter is already in and is again selling between Rs 1,300 to Rs 1,400, much below the MSP of Rs 1,850. Barley is trickling in and the initial trend from Rajasthan shows it is selling around Rs 1,300 against the MSP of Rs 1,600. Jowar has also started coming to the market and the hybrid variety is getting about Rs 1,000 lower than the MSP of Rs 2,620. Chana or Bengal gram, the other big crop of the current season, is currently selling between Rs 4,400 and Rs 4,800. That translates into a loss of Rs 300 to Rs 700 per quintal, since the MSP is Rs 5,100.My apologies for making you go through these painful details. But there is no other way of demonstrating that MSP is a fraud imposed on the farmers, that what is called ‘minimum’ price is for all practical purposes, a dream price, and that the ‘support’ promised in the support price never arrives. There is no other way to explain why farmers do not believe paper assurances, and why they want nothing short of a legal guarantee for MSP.To be sure, the situation was no better under previous governments. For the last five decades, MSP has always been a piece of paper for most farmers. The only difference is that we now have a Prime Minister who has the gumption to say: MSP tha, hai, or rahega! You must be joking, Mr Prime Minister!Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/msp-is-aspirational-price-for-most-crops-223427
11-03-2021||---||Biden-Blinken peace plan stumps Kabul||The Biden review of the Trump Administration’s Afghanistan peace process has set the cat among the pigeons. It is a bold and courageous new blueprint for kickstarting the stalled reconciliation process. The different elements of the revised peace plan are not new but have been refined to make a fresh start. The four draft peace agreements are contained in letters addressed by the US Secretary of State Antony Blinken to President Ashraf Ghani and the Taliban — first to establish an interim government with the Taliban on board; second, working out a new Constitution and state structure to hold elections. Three, two parallel processes: one in which to involve regional players under the UN and the other for Turkey to mediate the difficult but vital 90-day period of reduced violence to dovetail the ingredients of the peace agreement. Forty-five days are left for the final troop withdrawal by May 1. What is striking about the Biden-Blinken plan is the complete lack of consultation with Kabul, where the government has been stunned.What was expected from Biden was not a reframed peace process, but a request from the US for an extension of the May 1 deadline for six months, realigning conditions for withdrawal with quantifiable measurements to gauge reduction in violence in order to accelerate the ceasefire. The fundamental ingredient of the old plan was the interdependence of US troop withdrawal with the Taliban simply talking to Kabul. 2,500 US troops were brought back by January 15 which was related to Trump’s re-election. It is not clear what will happen to the previously agreed elements of what is now called the Doha process. Already too much is said to have been given away to the Taliban for too little in return. Bringing them now into a transitional government is providing the Taliban with a head-start.Blinken’s letters handed over by US Special Envoy and interlocutor, Zalmay Khalilzad, are not being officially owned by the US State Department and, therefore, could be a tester for all sides. The letter has warned Kabul that if a peace agreement was not in place soon, the Taliban may be in a position to make rapid territorial gains. This is obviously pressure on Kabul to accept the plan as in the past, US military inspectors in Afghanistan have rated high to very high the capability of Afghan security forces to independently deal with the Taliban.Giving Turkey a key role in hammering out the peace agreement by creating conditions for a 90-day reduction in violence appears to be the most eye-catching. Lately, the US had kept Turkey, once a central player in Afghanistan, on the margins and its return signifies the revival of the Istanbul process over the ongoing Doha process. It takes the spotlight away from Pakistan though no two countries are more allied and strategic than Turkey and Pakistan. It also minimises the centrality of Zalmay Khalilzad, a US Pashtun who has been accused of being soft on the Taliban, though his ideological dislike of the Taliban was never a secret. Blinken has asked Ghani or his nominee, probably Abdullah Abdullah, head of the High Level Peace Council, to attend the new Istanbul peace process.Asking the UN to form a new regional forum on Afghanistan consisting of India, Russia, China, Iran, Pakistan and the US is pretty innovative. First, it brings the UN directly into the peace process, gives the plan a regional face and visualises a ‘unified approach’ towards Afghanistan. Interestingly, all the countries in the regional forum, except the US, are members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and could create a mechanism under the SCO to monitor developments in Afghanistan. The other striking feature of the forum is India’s inclusion as New Delhi has never been (except once, as observer) in regional talks which have been usually organised under Russian, Chinese or US leadership. This will certainly not please Islamabad, but acknowledges New Delhi’s steadfast role in the reconstruction of Afghanistan. Meanwhile, Russia has called for a meeting between the two sides on Afghanistan at Moscow on March 18.As the convener and member of Track II regional initiative on Afghanistan’s ‘Region 2014 and Beyond: Perspectives and strategies for constructive conflict resolution for the neighbourhood’, our regional group travelled to Turkey, Central Asia, reaching the White House National Security Council and the United Nations in New York with recommendations on regional peace and stability in 2015-16. This is the first time that the UN will be exploring Afghanistan’s neighbourhood for peace and stability and may be consider even a regional peacekeeping force if and when the time comes, as was envisioned by our group.Kabul, not unfamiliar with incendiary explosions, appears shell-shocked with Blinken’s missive. Barely adjusted to the Trump plan, the Biden-Blinken plan will take time to sink in. The outspoken Vice President, Amrullah Saleh, the former intelligence czar of Afghanistan, has warned that there could be no compromise on the Constitution and electoral rights of the people to choose a new government. This ultimate act on the part of the US makes a mockery of any reference to the Afghanistan peace process as Afghan-owned, Afghan-led and Afghan-driven.India has supported Afghanistan through thick and thin. To its credit or otherwise, it has never wholeheartedly subscribed to the idea of reconciliation with the Taliban or having any truck with them. Although it was on board the Trump peace plan, it has neither recognised the Taliban nor opened lines with it. The Blinken request for India’s Foreign MinisterS Jaishankar to join the regional forum on Afghanistan is a recognition of its sterling contribution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/biden-blinken-peace-plan-stumps-kabul-223415
11-03-2021||---||China’s undisputed leader||The annual plenary sessions of China’s top political advisory body, the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) and its version of a parliament, the National People’s Congress (NPC), opened in Beijing’s Great Hall of the People on March 3 and 4, respectively. The carefully choreographed sessions sent out the clear message that China’s communist leadership is determined to achieve its expansive ambitions. The emphasis on international connectivity projects, national defence and domestic security reinforce this.State-owned CCTV telecast images of an assured and self-confident Chinese President Xi Jinping walking into the Great Hall of the People on the opening day. The other six members of the Politburo Standing Committee (PBSC) walked more than the usual two to three respectful steps behind him.CPPCC vice-chairman Zhang Qingli announced the opening of the session. The CPPCC oversees formulation and implementation of policies for non-Chinese Communist Party (CCP) entities, ethnic and religious minorities. Him making the announcement conveyed that there would be no change in China’s tough policies towards ethnic and religious minorities. Zhang Qingli, former Tibet Party Secretary, came to international notice in March 2008 when he said: ‘The Dalai is a wolf in monk’s robes, a devil with a human face but the heart of a beast!’On the sidelines of the NPC on March 5, Xi Jinping instructed NPC delegates from the restive Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region to popularise the use of Mandarin in schools and resolve ethnic tensions. Xinhua quoted him as telling delegates that ‘Cultural identity is the deepest form of identity. It is also the root and soul of ethnic unity and harmony.’ He told them to use ‘solid and meticulous efforts’ to achieve ethnic unity and ensure that standard Chinese and state-compiled textbooks are unwaveringly adopted. He said all young people in Inner Mongolia should understand the CCP’s policies and revolutionary heritage.As many as 2,953 deputies to the NPC and more than 2,106 members of the CPPCC listened to the government work report presented by Premier Li Keqiang. Like last year, this report contained 13 references to Xi Jinping and bore his imprimatur. It gave unequivocal credit for last year’s achievements despite unprecedented difficulties ‘to the strong leadership of the Party Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core, to the sound guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, and to the concerted efforts of the Party, the armed forces….’ The draft was earlier approved at a politburo meeting chaired by Xi Jinping on February 26.Reflecting stress on the economy, Li Keqiang set this year’s GDP growth rate target at 6 per cent, lower than expected by many Chinese economists who anticipated he might either forgo the numerical target or set an ambitious 8 per cent growth rate. Stating that the central government will tighten its belt, he said the government would cut the fiscal deficit target to 3.2 per cent of China’s projected GDP this year. He announced plans to create 11 million new jobs, up from the 2020 target of 9 million and said by 2025, China would cut carbon dioxide emissions per unit of GDP by 18 per cent from 2020 levels. He noted the ‘solid progress’ in the Belt and Road Initiative, stressed maintenance of social harmony and stability and said science and technology would be strengthened to provide strategic support for development.The ministry of finance’s report revealed either cuts, or no increases, in the budgets of most ministries. In 2020, there was a 50 per cent across-the-board cut in the budgets of ministries except those of national defence and public security. This year, too, national defence received 1.35 trillion yuan($209 billion), a hike of 6.8 per cent. A large portion is intended for defence R&D and training of the PLA. Public security was allocated 185.092 billion yuan from the central budget, or a 0.7 per cent increase identical to that for last year. Expenditure on public security has increased each year for the past over five years. The push for major projects promoting coordinated regional development and other major projects such as the development of new infrastructure and urbanisation initiatives was encouraged with the earmarking of 610 billion yuan, or 10 billion yuan more than that for last year.Reiterating the central government’s decision to tighten its belt to channel more funds to provincial governments, the finance ministry listed the breakdown of spending as follows: 147.025 billion yuan on general public services, down 14.1 per cent; 50.414 billion yuan on foreign affairs, a drop of 1.9 per cent; 166.344 billion yuan on education, the same as the year before — but including local outlays national spending will increase by 5.2 per cent; 322.71 billion yuan on science and technology, roughly equivalent to the previous year; 122.473 billion yuan on stockpiling grain, edible oils, and other materials, basically the same as in 2020; and 599.824 billion yuan on debt interest payments, up 8.3 per cent.Especially significant for India is China’s focus on developing strategically important international connectivity in the region. While the CPEC, BCIM and Trans-Himalayan Corridor were mentioned in the National Transportation Network for 2035 issued last month, coinciding with the NPC session the chairman of Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) Qi Zhala on March 4, inaugurated construction of the 1,800-km railway directly connecting Lhasa to Chengdu. Costing $49.4 billion and scheduled for completion by 2030, the project was described by Xi Jinping as of ‘great significance to maintaining national unity, promoting ethnic unity and consolidating stability in border areas.’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/chinas-undisputed-leader-223431
