12-03-2021||Senior Economic Analyst||Jury’s out on production-linked incentive scheme||The Central government has launched a major programme to prop up the sector that has lagged behind — manufacturing — with the slogan and exhortation of Make in India. For this, it has adopted the older model of upping domestic manufacturing by giving “production-linked incentives” (PLI) to raise capacity, sales and exports, while curbing imports.Globally, since the nineties, countries have moved away from the wartime structure of trade barriers and conservation of hard currency resources under the banner of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) set up in 1995 and embarked on a process of trade liberalisation to promote growth. India has been a part of this process. Without seeing to pick winners, it has nevertheless grown globally in competitive sectors like the manufacture of generic drugs and the creation of IT software without offering financial incentives.The former was enabled by Indira Gandhi changing India’s intellectual property laws so that India could manufacture drugs by devising alternative processes. The latter was substantially enabled by Manmohan Singh in his second Budget, taking operations in software technology parks out of the purview of income tax.But all countries have not moved forward at the same pace in achieving higher incomes and lowering poverty levels, with China forging ahead and emerging as a new economic superpower, unafraid of challenging even the United States. India’s emerging tensions with China and excessive dependence on imports from it have prompted the government to come up with PLI.The scheme, launched last year for electronics manufacturing, has been extended to cover over a dozen sectors like automobiles, auto components, pharmaceuticals (active ingredients till now heavily imported from China), special steels, white goods, food products, textiles and telecom.The scheme is for a five-year period beginning 2019-20 and aims to boost manufacturing output, investment to enable it, and exports. Additionally, it seeks to integrate India more into global supply chains. The scheme offers cash incentives totalling Rs 1.97 lakh crore on incremental sales from the base year of 2020. Focus is on sectors where India already has an advantage (generic formulations in pharmaceuticals), a potential (food) or is seriously dependent on China (for virtually every kind of component as also active pharmaceutical ingredients).Whether PLI will work or not time will tell, but economists have highlighted a list of dos and don’ts which have to be kept in mind so as to ensure that the scheme moves along the right lines. Foremost is the need to speed up a range of reforms which improve the ease of doing business so as to create an enabling environment for PLI. For this, the Central government needs to be in active and continuous dialogue with state governments.Rajiv Bajaj, chief of Bajaj Auto, the world’s fourth largest two and three- wheeler manufacturer, has given an indication of what needs doing in this regard as a result of the findings gleaned from a study his firm has undertaken. It is seeking to chalk out a strategy to enter three or four ASEAN markets like Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines and Thailand. Its studies have discovered that on issues like land, labour, electricity, logistics and legal systems, the ASEAN countries fare better than India. So, PLI is unlikely to succeed unless these issues are also addressed.A global MNC, seeking to de-risk its business by shifting a part of its capacity out of China to India, will be successful if its entry into India is facilitated by there being the necessary ease of doing business. A key aim of PLI is to attract such investment to both serve the domestic market (thereby reducing imports) and raise exports out of India.A key issue to keep in mind is that PLI, as also the import restrictions imposed to facilitate it, should have a sunset. There is the danger that industry will get used to the subventions which will become a crutch and lobby for their continuance under one pretext or another. So the idea that there will be a sunset has to be communicated loud and clear to the various beneficiary sectors.Another issue which has not been built into the scheme but should be an integral part of it is that the overall rapid economic growth which a pickup in manufacturing will facilitate should be sustainable. For example, it needs asking whether India, which is seriously water-deficient, should at all have on its agenda the goal of promoting food exports, which particularly in the case of an item like sugar, really amounts to exporting water. So PLI should be harmonised with India’s own set goals in seeking to rein in global warming and raising the output of renewable energy.Finally, there is a degree of scepticism among players in the targeted sectors over the various declared goals and aims. For example, a global PC maker which has been examining the prospects of setting up capacity in India for exports is coming round to not participating in PLI as it considers the scheme to be actually aimed at raising domestic production to reduce imports and not promote exports. It is an import substitution programme by another name (the export targets will be beyond reach), being a successor to the Merchandise Export from India scheme which was wound up last year as it was breaking WTO rules.On the other hand, a global player in mobile phones like Apple is betting big on the scheme. Around 10 per cent of its global production capacity can shift to India through its manufacturing partners like Foxconn. So, the response is mixed and the jury is still out on the scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/jurys-out-on-production-linked-incentive-scheme-223998
12-03-2021||Would the income tax raids on Anurag Kashyap and Taapsee Pannu amount to misuse of power? In one interpretation ‘yes’||The truth has a price||The Freedom House, which had downgraded India’s status from a ‘free country’ to a ‘partly free’ country during the Emergency years, has done it again.Picking on critics and opponents is a common pastime of those in power. The best course for intended victims to adopt is to always keep a clean slate. This may be difficult in an industry that employs a generous dose of unaccounted cash in its business. If it is not able to function otherwise then there is no alternative to keeping their mouths shut even in the face of gross injustices that sensitive folk are not able to digest.Prakash Javadekar, I&B Minister, has denied that the BJP had any hand in the raids. Income tax officials on the ground supported the minister’s contention by affirming that they came across entries in the books that aroused their suspicions. Individual citizens must have hit upon the truth according to their political preferences. The chatterati will be vertically divided on this issue, as they are on most other issues in public space. But using power to tame opponents of its policies is an old game that is difficult to play unless you yourself are a politician thirsting for power.After the Emergency, Indira Gandhi lost the elections. She was the object of a witch hunt which landed her in jail briefly. But soon thereafter, she capitalised on the inability of her rivals to present a united front, and returned to power. Despite the farmers’ protests and the injustices heaped on Disha Ravi and Safoora Zargar, Modiji is safe on his perch. The BJP has succeeded in splitting the country on communal lines. It is advisable for opponents and the disenchanted among the populace to ‘bear the slings and arrows of outraged fortune than taking arms against a sea of troubles’ because there is no chance of ending them till Mr Modi is around.But all is not lost. Conscientious judges of some courts have decided that ‘enough is enough’. They have decided to fulfil their constitutional duty of dispensing justice according to the truth and the law of the land. We salute them. And to make the day even more pleasant, we read in the newspapers that even the Supreme Court has stepped up its act. Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta dismissed a petition seeking the prosecution of a former Chief Minister of J&K for disapproving of the Centre’s decision to scrap the special status granted to J&K under Article 370 of the Constitution. The court held, and rightly so, that dissent is not sedition and citizens cannot be tried for anti-government views. The court fined the petitioner for the frivolous demand of disqualifying the ex-CM, Farooq Abdullah, who is an elected MP from the Valley.The penchant of the Modi government to ram laws through Parliament without adequate discussions or following parliamentary procedures, the targeting of activists and journalists for disagreeing with government policies and misuse of draconian laws like sedition and the UAPA to silence critics of the regime has attracted adverse attention at home and abroad. The Economist of London and the Washington Post have criticised the Modi government for its indifferent record on the civil liberties of its citizens.The Freedom House, a US-based research organisation, which had downgraded India’s status from a ‘free country’ to a ‘partly free’ country during the Emergency years of Indira Gandhi, has done it again in its ‘Freedom in the World 2020’ report! It gave India 34/40 for political rights but only 33/60 for civil liberties.Another guardian of democracy, the Internet Freedom Foundation recorded that of the 109 times the Internet was shut down the world over, the largest number of occasions this happened was in India!Our government has refuted the Freedom House report by criticising Freedom House itself. That is not going to help. That same organisation had criticised Indira Gandhi’s administration for the Emergency decision in its 1975 and 1976 reports. The BJP must surely have concurred with those reports. It cannot reject this year’s report with any sense of justice and fair play. In fact, it has opened the doors to the charge that an undeclared Emergency is now in motion.When he first assumed power in 2014, Modiji made a splash on the world scene, accumulating many brownie points in the world’s capitals. Indians were treated with unaccustomed respect abroad. Alas, this will now change. When international travel revives, the humiliation of Indian passport holders abroad will resume. It had been different in the initial years of the Modi era.Having surrendered ground to its fringe elements, having chosen the consolidation of power over the oft-repeated but unimplemented credo of ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’, the Modi regime is leading our beloved country towards a goal that will find its citizens divided vertically, and I am afraid, fatally. Is this the India Mr Modi dreams of when he snatches a few hours of sleep from his punishing regimen of work, work and more work?If he truly believes in ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’, and the recently added ‘Sabka Vishwas’, he should remove Section 124(A), the sedition clause, from the IPC. It is a misused provision in the law, originally introduced by the British to facilitate its rule over ‘the jewel in its monarch’s crown’. It is now being misused by police forces in BJP-ruled states to silence critics and assorted ‘enemies of the regime’, including Muslims, leftists, students, farmers, climate activists, and Dalits asking for a place in the sun!The police forces of which I was once a proud member have capitulated totally. Its leadership in the sad words of an old, upright colleague ‘has transformed into unscrupulous careerists’. Such an about-turn in concepts of leadership is bound to weaken the security management in the country. Has this occurred to Mr Modi? I am not sure it has. Those near him are afraid to speak the truth to him. And therein lie the seeds of a possible tragedy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-truth-has-a-price-224003
12-03-2021||Science Commentator||Scientific research needs focused funding||The pandemic has demonstrated the critical role long-term investments in research and development (R&D) play in meeting new challenges. Public research and academic institutions under different scientific departments and research councils worked in tandem to quickly develop and deliver tools and products needed for pandemic management. For Covid-19 vaccine development and clinical trials, public institutions provided the necessary research inputs and funding to vaccine manufacturers. Given all this, one would have expected R&D in key areas to get a boost. Instead, we are seeing a fragmented approach to research funding and hearing discordant voices from different quarters.Unlike most developing countries and some developed ones, India has an elaborate scientific establishment consisting of over a dozen scientific ministries, departments, research councils, boards, commissions and advisory bodies at the Central level. Secretary-level scientist-technocrats and IAS officers head these organisations. The idea behind creating a distinct set of scientific departments for space, atomic energy, industrial research and so on was to insulate scientific research from the bureaucratic functioning of the government. This approach helped in laying a solid foundation in strategic areas and expanding the network of national laboratories. Over the years, the number of scientific departments has ballooned and they have got subsumed in the dominant bureaucratic culture. These departments have become highly centralised, resulting in delays in the release of research funds, grants, fellowships etc.A major criticism the scientific establishment faced is that it promoted research in government labs at the cost of universities which were leading centres of research and knowledge creation before 1947. In later decades, efforts were made to correct this anomaly to some extent. In last year’s budget, the government announced its intention to establish a National Research Foundation (NRF) to ‘fund, coordinate and promote research’. The objective of this new body is to boost the research eco-system in identified thrust areas ‘without duplication of effort and expenditure’. The idea was included in the New Education Policy-2020 which said NRF will provide a ‘reliable base of merit-based but equitable peer-reviewed research funding’ to state universities and other public institutions whose research capability was limited. As a follow-up, the 2021-22 budget proposed an outlay of Rs 50,000 crore over five years, for NRF.The announcement was welcomed since such a national funding agency for scientific research was much needed. The research community presumed that Rs 10,000 crore every year over the next five years would bring additional funds for research. Comparisons were made with America’s National Science Foundation (NSF) which serves as the gold standard for research funding. The euphoria, however, proved to be short-lived. It has now emerged from the proceedings of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology that NRF will be funded from the budgets of existing funding bodies like the Department of Science and Technology (DST) and the Department of Biotechnology (DBT). Moreover, NRF will be managed by the Ministry of Education and will cover social science research as well. The promised Rs 50,000 crore thus is neither additional nor meant solely for scientific research.If this is so, NRF will serve little purpose other than creating a parallel structure for research funding under a ministry whose core mandate is not scientific research. In 2008, the Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB) was established with similar objectives. The idea at that time too was to develop an NSF-like organisation, but DST did not want to loosen its position and control as a premier funding agency. The bargain ended up with SERB functioning under the DST with its secretary heading the Board’s governing body. The Board is a statutory body created through an Act of Parliament, but in effect, it has been reduced to the status of the subordinate office of DST. The overall funding kitty did not expand substantially. The same story is all set to replay with NRF, which will have the Education Ministry as the controlling body. DST and DBT have voiced their concern and want the government to keep NRF out of the areas of research they control currently.If the promotion of research in universities is the objective, it could be achieved through existing funding mechanisms and schemes. For instance, SERB, which already supports projects in academic institutions, could be given additional funds to create an exclusive new vertical for supporting research in universities. DST operates a scheme called Promotion of University Research and Scientific Excellence (PURSE), which too could be strengthened further. For social science research, mechanisms like the Indian Council for Social Science Research (ICSSR) could be renewed and adequately funded to support research in social science instead of handing this task over to NRF.There is certainly a need for an overarching Central research funding agency that subsumes SERB and other funding mechanisms, but it should be an autonomous entity and not attached to any administrative ministry. This is necessary to keep research free from both bureaucratic interference and political influence. With NRF, the government is only seeking to redistribute the available R&D kitty and not expand it substantially. This is worrisome at a time when gross R&D expenditure as a percentage of GDP has been stagnating at less than one per cent though the absolute figure has gone up.The government has been undermining the independent functioning of scientific departments, by nurturing another mechanism called the office of the Principal Scientific Advisor (PSA). This body is supposed to be an advisory one, but the lines between advice and implementation are often getting blurred. During the pandemic, the PSA was allocated Rs 100 crore for vaccine development from PM-CARES Fund (which is a private entity), while vaccine development is under the purview of DBT.The now withdrawn circular about seeking the government’s permission for scientific webinars having foreign participants smacked of stifling academic freedom. A major policy initiative like the NRF was announced while the DST was busy developing a new Science, Technology and Innovation (STI) policy. The policy draft invokes great principles of a decentralised, evidence-informed, bottom-up, experts-driven, and inclusive approach to STI. The government actions in STI appear to undermine these very principles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/scientific-research-needs-focused-funding-223999
