13-03-2021||Ex-Secretary||Address slide in India’s freedom perception||FReedom House, the US-based NGO which claims its mission is to conduct “research and advocacy on democracy, political freedom, and human rights” issued its annual Freedom in the World report on March 3. In these reports, Freedom House puts all countries in three categories: free, partially free and not free.This year’s report caused a flutter in India for it downgraded the country from free to the partially free category. Not only this, in its press release on the occasion of putting out the report, Freedom House called India’s “status change” as “one of the year’s most significant developments.” It also noted that “Indians’ political rights and civil liberties have been eroding since Narendra Modi became Prime Minister in 2014.”Not surprisingly, the Ministry of External Affairs strongly rejected the report, with the official spokesperson stating, “The political judgement of Freedom House is as inaccurate and distorted as their maps.” The spokesperson rightly stressed that “India has robust institutions and well-established democratic practices. We do not need sermons, especially from those who cannot get their basics right.”The reference to the map is to Freedom House putting the territories of the now union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh in a category separate from India. This is obnoxious and India has correctly rejected it. Freedom House also excludes PoK and Gilgit-Baltistan (GB) from the rest of Pakistan. Of course, all the territories of both the UTs are Indian, including PoK and GB.The rationale for using separate categories for the UTs and PoK and GB lies in Freedom House’s methodology. While it claims that it takes “no position on separatist or territorial disputes as such, focusing instead on the level of political rights and civil liberties in a given geographical area”, the fact remains that in respect of the UTs, it directly impinges on India’s sovereignty and this can obviously never be acceptable to any Indian. Freedom House puts both UTs and PoK and Gilgit-Baltistan in the ‘not free’ category; thus, giving Pakistan no satisfaction. Hence, its silence on the report. Pakistan has also ignored the report because its own score — and for that matter of all South Asian countries — is much lower than that of India.Significantly, while Freedom House depends on more than 90 per cent of its funding on US federal government grants, it has also dropped US’s freedom score by 11 points over a decade and has been critical of the erosion of the country’s institutions and has been particularly critical of former President Donald Trump. Nevertheless, the US still remains in the ‘free’ category, though it is considered along with India as a ‘troubled’ democracy.Worldwide, Freedom House assesses that “the deterioration of democracy began in 2006” and has continued since then. Clearly, Freedom House is dominated by sections of the US liberal opinion and, as such, can be considered as part of the international liberal network.While India has correctly rejected the report, the fact remains that Freedom House’s perception of India’s current political process and civil liberties is shared by sections of international liberal opinion. This should lead to introspection to ascertain the causes of such perceptions. It would be counterproductive to straightaway dismiss them as motivated and mischievous and not examine why they are arising in these times. Such an examination is also important in the context of India’s soft power.Soon after assuming power, Prime Minister Narendra Modi indicated that he considered the projection of India’s soft power as an important part of the country’s diplomacy. To this end, he focused on the promotion of yoga. Addressing the United Nations General Assembly in September 2014, Modi said, “Yoga is an invaluable gift of India’s ancient tradition… It is not about exercise but to discover the sense of oneness with yourself, the world and nature. Let us work towards adopting an International Yoga Day.”India sponsored a UNGA resolution for International Yoga Day which was adopted with overwhelming support. From 2015, June 21 is celebrated the world over as International Yoga Day. Modi is keen also to bring other aspects of India’s ancient heritage to global attention. Some of this is of contemporary relevance, especially the emphasis on the need for harmony between man and nature. So also the stress on tolerance and of acceptance of the validity of all spiritual quests.There can be no quarrel with the attempt to bring ancient treasures to the world’s notice and to seek to use them as instruments of soft power. However, soft power cannot rely on times past alone and ignore the present realities or the recent past. It is here that the Indian democracy’s role in the soft power mix comes in. Its success and the country’s institutional structure that has striven to protect citizens’ rights and freedoms have been admired widely over the decades. This has been so both in the developing and developed worlds. These are, therefore, valuable assets and essential components of India’s soft power.Among the country’s institutions, the judiciary evoked great admiration for its independence and commitment to upholding constitutional freedoms and liberties. There is a crucial need to preserve these elements for, a perception of their gathering rust would diminish the country’s soft power.India has always sought to position itself as a good global citizen which contributes to global good even as it protects its own interests. It has earned respect and goodwill for its technical assistance programmes and its willingness to share its limited resources in times of global crises such as the current pandemic. Its supplies of vaccines even while they are needed domestically are a part of this tradition.While this meaningfully contributes to India’s soft power, it cannot lead to the attitude that their success means that India need not engage international liberal opinion. While seeking to gain new elements of soft power, the existing ones should not be ignored.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/address-slide-in-indias-freedom-perception-224389
13-03-2021||What was touted as a trigger for Kerala’s second renaissance||Marriage of convenience||If the BJP has shed its ideological pretensions of organisational integrity in West Bengal, the Congress and the Left seem to have forgotten their primary enemy.The only objective reality in Indian public life is the inherent and all-pervading hypocrisy of the political players of the Left, Centre and the Right persuasions. If the power-hungry feel that pillorying the Hindu upper castes would fetch them minority votes, they would turn a sacred temple into a battlefield for activists and atheists — and when they realise that they could lose their core Hindu OBC votes too in the bargain, they would shamelessly take a U-turn. While the Left took about three years for the U-turn, the BJP, which had initially welcomed the Supreme Court verdict on Sabarimala, did it within weeks, when it saw its core constituency taking to the streets.While the BJP brazenly sheds all its ideological pretensions and offers Assembly tickets to Trinamool Congress turncoats in West Bengal, the Congress and the Left have given an altogether new definition to secularism. First of all, the bitter enemies of Kerala are in bed together in Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Assam — all this in the name of annihilating communalism and celebrating secularism. So, let us analyse state by state to understand how the Left and the Congress propose to achieve this grand objective.The all-out attempt by the CPI(M)-led government of Kerala to push activists into the Sabarimala temple was seen by many observers as an attempt to radicalise the Congress voters among the upper caste Hindus and to push them into the waiting laps of the Sangh Parivar. Kerala's elections are always decided by just about a 2 per cent vote swing, and if the Congress loses its upper caste votes to the BJP, it could result in a Left victory. Theoretically, yes. But unfortunately, people do not make their choices according to vote bank theories. The NDA's vote share increased from 10.85 to 15.25 per cent in 2019, as expected, but the Congress-led alliance won a landslide victory with a jump in vote share from 42.08 to 47.25 per cent, forcing the Left, which lost about 5 per cent votes, to drop its Sabarimala renaissance project.The Indian Union Muslim League — the legatee of Jinnah’s Muslim League that sought a separate nation claiming that Hindus and Muslims cannot live together — upholding religious identity as its primary political platform is a big partner in the Congress-led United Democratic Front in Kerala. To counter the Muslim League, the Left, apart from accommodating the splinter group of the Indian National League, had even flirted with terror accused Abdul Nasser Madani’s People’s Democratic Party. In Tamil Nadu, the Congress, the Left and the Muslim League are partners in the DMK-led alliance fighting against communalism.When they reach West Bengal, interestingly, the Congress and the Left seem to forget their primary enemy. The BJP is on the verge of capturing West Bengal; its vote share had surged to an all-time high of 40 per cent in 2019 from just 17 per cent in 2014. And unlike in other states, the BJP has unabashedly poached Mamata Banerjee’s close aides and cabinet colleagues in what is seen as a final push to saffronise Bengal. And a saffron Bengal with a provocative communal agenda could wreak havoc in the border state with about 30 per cent Muslims. All these grave concerns do not seem to have touched the great champions of secularism. Instead, the Congress and the Left seem to have devised a plan to defeat Mamata Banerjee and thereby ensure the victory of the BJP — for the Left with just 7.5 per cent and Congress with 5.5 per cent vote share cannot hope to replace TMC, which has 43 per cent votes, according to the last Lok Sabha poll results. The argument of the Congress-Left combine trying to capture anti-incumbency votes, which would have otherwise accrued to the BJP, is facetious because in that case it would not have attempted to split Mamata's Muslim votes by roping in the influential cleric of Furfura Sharif of Hooghly district, Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui. Every Muslim vote that the Congress-Left alliance's Siddiqui wins is a vote lost for Mamata and a fillip for the BJP.Another intriguing aspect of this naked communal politics of the minority variety is its claim to the secularism label. The Congress and the Left seem to be bereft of secular or democratic politics without the props of clerics or Muslim vote contractors; if it is Siddiqui in Bengal, it is Maulana Badruddin Ajmal’s All India United Democratic Front in Assam. Ajmal, before floating his party and chipping Muslim votes away from the Congress, was the president of Jamiat Ulema in Assam.Thus, from Kerala to Assam, secularism during polls seems to be a coded message inviting priests, religious leaders and peddlers of identity politics.Minority communal politics might help the Congress and the Left accrue some short-term electoral gains, but eventually it would only help consolidate and legitimise the BJP’s majority communal politics. This politics of labelling the one-way street for minority votes as secular will only de-legitimise secularism as a grand idea, enshrined in the Constitution. For, every Muslim cleric wooed in turn makes a Yogi Adityanath acceptable. Identity politics is a double-edged sword that cuts the wielder down to his communal identity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/marriage-of-convenience-224391
13-03-2021||Former Chief of the Army Staff||Chinese threat looms despite Ladakh pullback||The hope that withdrawal by the Chinese and Indian forces from the north and south of Pangong Tso lake, respectively, to status quo as existing in April-end 2020 would lead to a similar resolution at Gogra, Hot Springs and Depsang Plains appears to be gradually fading. This belief is further strengthened not only by a lack of progress during subsequent talks, but also by the statement of Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on March 7.At his annual press conference, while blaming India for the standoff, Wang stated that the border issue was not the ‘whole story’ of the bilateral relationship and seemed to suggest that the Ladakh issue should be left on the backburner while moving on to ‘business as usual’ in other fields. Thus, the ‘salami slicing’ strategy was sought to be shifted out of focus and glossed over in quest of ‘normalisation’ of mutual relationship.Some aspects of the Ladakh imbroglio stand out. The policy of two steps forward, one step back has been followed by China all along the 3,488-km Line of Actual Control (LAC) while gradually creeping forward over the last 50 years. This is unlikely to stop, considering the aggressive and expansionist approach adopted by China as its power grows. Its actions in the South China Sea (SCS), East China Sea (ECS) and towards Taiwan are clear examples.Secondly, while healthy competition between the two regional powers is welcome, the reality of such competition harbouring inherent seeds of conflict cannot be wished away.Sources of raw material and markets for finished products intensify this economic competition, invariably leading to discord. Efforts to retard India’s economic growth by forcing it to divert its limited resources towards defence are a good reason, besides others, to prolong the Ladakh standoff.It is interesting to note that India has spent a whopping Rs 20,776 crore on emergency purchases to meet the Ladakh challenge. The possibility of further such purchases to guard the entire LAC remains strong with no end to the standoff in sight.Thirdly, Covid-19 has been a major factor in checking India’s growth trajectory. On the other hand, China has come out relatively unscathed from the pandemic, thus resulting in its economy rapidly bouncing back. Obviously, it felt this was the opportune time to strike a weakened India and achieve a resounding victory, perhaps without even firing a shot.That subsequent events proved this appreciation wrong is indeed a tribute to India’s defence forces and their ability to defend the nation at all costs. However, loss of face is hard to digest by a Chinese mind, thus increasing the chances of the faceoff continuing.Lastly, India, having occupied important features on the Kailash Range south of Pangong Tso, had bargaining chips on the negotiating table to ensure the Chinese withdrawal from features north of Pangong Tso as part of quid pro quo.Disengagement having happened on both sides of Pangong Tso, India now has no such bargaining leverage to make the Chinese withdraw from other friction points in east Ladakh. This aspect heightens the likelihood of the Chinese not moving back from these friction points, thus prolonging the faceoff.In such a scenario, India has to orchestrate its actions both at the international and domestic levels. At the international level, a consensual approach with like-minded nations is essential to thwart Chinese expansionist designs. Thus, the impetus being given to Quad and its deliberations are a step in the right direction. The Quad’s consensus on observing the rule of law in the Indo-Pacific region and resisting any unilateral actions to change quo would be keenly watched.Likewise, a number of ASEAN countries are affected by arbitrary Chinese expansionist designs in the SCS. They need to come together and collectively resist any subversion of the UN Convention on Law of the Seas (UNCLOS) by China. That China has refused to implement the International Court of Justice (ICJ) decision on Scarborough Shoal is indicative of a clear breach of the rule of law.Collective pressure through forums like the SCO, BRICS, EU and UNSC would also help in keeping the Chinese aggressive approach in check.At the domestic level, experience has shown that a firm stance against China has always paid dividends. Wang Dung, Chumar, Demchok and Doklam are examples. The need to resist every attempt at grabbing territory cannot be overemphasised.Areas where the Indian military holds a tactical advantage need to be identified and occupied, if required, as a bargaining chip on the negotiating table as was done with respect to Pangong Tso. Conversely, we should be prepared to thwart similar designs by the Chinese where we are at a disadvantage.An improvement of infrastructure in forward areas along the LAC, matching those existing in Tibet on the Chinese side, is crucial to enabling troops on the forward line to defend the territorial integrity of the nation successfully.Finally, Pakistan taking advantage of an Indian confrontation with China cannot be ruled out. Its past defeats have left it thirsting for revenge. This raises the possibility of a two-front threat to India. It is, therefore, important to prepare for such an eventuality by raising the defence budget to at least three per cent of the GDP. Important committees in the past have made this recommendation to the government. The sooner it is implemented, the better.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/chinese-threat-looms-despite-ladakh-pullback-224377
