14-03-2021||ON March 8||How Covid, BCCI bit off a year for women||MacKinnon concluded that women are not human, for their rights of life, safety, education, medical care, choices, etc, are denied by society — patriarchy, basically. MacKinnon cast her eye on the state of the women’s world — she speaks of dowry deaths, for instance, and also trafficking of women; but her lived experiences were western. Think, then, what the perspective on women’s humanness would be in the context of India, where a very large number of women is still, well into the 21st century, without the freedom of choice in the matter of education, career, clothing, marriage, or going out to play — well, not even walking down a street unmolested. Patriarchy and tradition combine to deny women rights guaranteed by the Constitution — the Pakistani women on ‘Aurat March’, for instance, were lectured and quoted the scripture by reporters, mostly men, who seemed to spot a personal challenge against them in women demanding their rights.It’s not much different in India, though emancipated parents in all regions of the country have been encouraging their daughters to go out and educate themselves and play, too.Back to India’s women cricketers — reaching the final of the World Cup, having also reached the final of the 50-over World Cup in 2017, was a great achievement. Yet, after that, for one full year, they sat home, twiddling their thumbs. Covid turned 2020 into a year of nothingness, but the Indian cricket board (BCCI), at the earliest opportunity, did organise the IPL for the men — 60 matches in 53 days. The men then went to Australia for a thrilling tour of 12 matches, including two preparatory games. Now we’re in the midst of the series against England, and four Tests and one T20I have been played. Including the IPL and the matches against Australia and England, India’s men have potentially had 106 days of cricket, though some Tests ended early, and all players didn’t play all matches.And the women? They had four Women’s Challenge T20 matches during the IPL. No international cricket. Their first international match after the World Cup final was held one full year later, on March 7, the first One-day International against South Africa in Lucknow. They went into the series against South Africa after only three training sessions, no camp — is this international sport or a joke?The 50-over World Cup is scheduled for March-April next year. Surprisingly, or unsurprisingly, no urgency was shown to get the women, especially the younger players, as much experience as possible for the World Cup. Even as international cricket resumed in July, getting women back on the field was not really a priority.The reason? Money. Women’s cricket is not commercially attractive — the TV ratings are lower, the attendance at the grounds is smaller, sponsorship revenues are minuscule as compared to men’s cricket.India’s women are on a roll in Test cricket, having won three matches in a row — in 15 years! That’s right, after BCCI took control of women’s cricket in the country, with great reluctance, in late 2006, it has organised only two Tests for the women, both in 2014. The great Mithali Raj, who has become only the second woman to reach the milestone of 10,000 international runs, has played only 10 Test matches in 19 years. She’s played 212 ODIs — 81 of them in seven years in the pre-BCCI era, 131 in a little over 14 years since the BCCI took over. She’s also played 89 T20Is, all except one after BCCI took over.From Mithali’s career figures, it seems that while the women have gained from BCCI’s infrastructure, sponsorship, coaching and finances (22 players were given central contracts in January 2020, and women now get match fees and allowances), the number of matches they play has not increased significantly.The gap year of Covid showcased one glaring fault in sport across the world — in the UN’s analysis of the impact of the pandemic on sport, it was noted that due to “slashed revenues”, women’s sport was not a priority, mainly because of its lower “profitability”.That’s the attitude of the BCCI as well, and the gains made by the women in the last five years could be lost. That would be a tragedy — for women cricketers are human, too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-covid-bcci-bit-off-a-year-for-women-224825
14-03-2021||Once in a while I look at my horoscope and follow directions. My forecast said||Sedition and other traditions||I also commend the Home Ministry’s plan to send 50 companies from Central police forces to Bengal for election duties. Small question, have they sent this kind of force for similar duties in BJP-ruled states?And I lambast the naysayers who scream, why have these Central agencies not targeted a single BJP man? Because BJP is a swacch party, clean, newly washed in the Ganga. Gujarat is its stronghold. Apart from Nirav Modi and a Choksi or two, Gujarat has a very clean record, a land of vegetarians. It also makes life easier for the agencies. With two-thirds of politicos in BJP, they have only a few people to watch — meaning pursue their hawala contacts, diwala papers, fake bankruptcies, accounts in Panama or Jersey islands, that kind of stuff.Keeping Peter Vidal in view, one has to offer behind-the-scene support to the raids on the premises of film-maker Anurag Kashyap and Taapsee Pannu, never mind if the film industry provides the only entertainment during this dour, humourless, sedition-bandaged regime. By which I mean the polity is bound by our saviours, 153A, 120B and all such laws promulgated to straighten the crooked; 168 tax officials were searching 28 premises, from Mahim to Sion and the Thane creek. The numbers are mind-boggling.In the same vein, am all for the Haryana initiative in reserving 75 per cent of jobs in private establishments for locals. Thank God I am not looking for a job in Haryana. What would happen to a pianist and a violinist from the Delhi School of Music, aspiring to a living in Haryana? Their dreams of playing a requiem in Rohtak or a sonata in Sonepat would not be realised. May reservationists thrive as long as they do not go over 100 per cent. People think this will be struck down, but the judiciary is short of time. The courts have not looked at the Malegaon bomb case for years since Pragya Thakur became an MP.Talking of courts, I was taken aback when a Bench presided over by the Chief Justice of our Supreme Court asked a rapist if he would marry the victim, a minor. It will give ideas of an escape hatch — first rape, then marry. A High Court Judge of the Nagpur Bench, Justice Pushpa Ganediwala, acquitted a rape accused, saying “highly impossible (sic) for a single man to gag the victim and remove her and his clothes at the same time without a scuffle”. Paralysis through fear did not occur to her. She also talked about skin-to-skin contact when it came to a man groping a 12-year-old girl.Law and order is a state subject, and crime and its investigation is a part of it. In a disturbing move, the MHA has handed over the Ambani terror scare case to the NIA without even consulting the Maharashtra government, which has described the move as “fishy”. With its allies, NIA, CBI and Narcotics Bureau, an aggressive Home Ministry thinks it can take over and do what it likes. The move will have a fallout on federalism.Seeing the Home Minister folding his hands in front of the portrait of Bal Gangadhar Tilak on his 100th death anniversary, a stray thought struck me. It was the very same Tilak, great leader in the struggle for freedom, who was first charged under the sedition law (124B of the IPC) in 1897. Did this innocuous coincidence occur to Amit Shah that the police under him has gone into an overdrive on sedition? Jamia Millia and JNU bear the bruises, with the Delhi Police under the direct control of the MHA implementing this ghastly law, which has been dumped in UK. Is there an answer to this? Several, but one will suffice. Indian rulers are reluctant to do away with coercive laws once they come to power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/sedition-and-other-traditions-224823
14-03-2021||“ALBA beckons” were the cryptic words that Superintendent Roy Sheard||Edinburgh magic||So, 10 days later, we were on board a train to Edinburgh. Darting through the unspoiled Yorkshire Moors, past the resplendent Northumberland National Park and briefly along the North Sea coastline, over a distance of about 200 miles, we were delivered at our destination within four hours. Late though it was, we were received by a portly caretaker at the well-appointed halls of residence of the Heriot Watt University, outside Edinburgh town. Nearly 150 years after its establishment, this premier science and engineering research institution had been shifted from within town to this large and verdant campus around a lake in the 1970s.The territorial police were generous in using the first six hours of each working day for acquainting us with their preventive, detective and regulatory approaches, leaving us the rest of the day to explore this capital city of Scotland. One evening, they treated us to a spectacle that remains etched in our memories: the Military Tattoo. Staged in the esplanade of the 11th century Edinburgh Castle, sitting atop Castle Rock that dominates the city’s skyline, the Tattoo had over 40 years become a memorable part of the sequence of Edinburgh festivals. Massed pipes and drums preceded impressive band and drill displays by all three British defence services. Despite restricted performance space, manouevres by armoured cars, imaginative use of lighting and reports of gunfire and cannon fire served to enhance the experience. Notorious draughts that worked their way through seats, set cheek by jowl on sloping grandstands completely surrounding the esplanade, froze the spectators, and were an uncomfortable distraction. The Master of Ceremonies reminded us that only 15 minutes walk away lay Fountainbridge, where the famous Sean Connery was born.Access to the Castle lies along The Royal Mile, a series of streets forming the main thoroughfare of the city almost a mile in length; characterised as royal since it links the Edinburgh Castle, abode of the British royalty for three centuries in the Middle Ages, to The Holyrood Palace, official residence of the monarch in Scotland off and on since the 16th century and more consistently since the 20th. Expectedly, given its centrality to the city, this stretch is lined by an eclectic mix of pubs, visitor attractions and shops, including those selling single malt whiskeys most of which are not heard of in our neck of the woods. We chose the proximate Waverley Centre to make modest purchases of spiritus frumenti after imbibing a variety of drams. Tour of the quadrangular palace took an hour; none of us came across the ghost of a woman who was tortured there for witchcraft hundreds of years back. The adjoining extinct volcano made for an easy climb; its top provided panoramic views of the city and beyond up to the Heriot Watt University 7 miles away. I did not find an explanation for its name “Arthur’s Seat”.On another evening, our host, the Police Superintendent of ‘F’ Division, invited us to his office before the weekend began. Generous to a fault, he served a range of whiskeys, the finest from each of the five regions producing this golden liquid, and talked of the casks in which each had been matured. Later, we retired to the Police Club where we met his junior colleagues. It had been arranged that several of them would be in traditional Scottish gear — kilts, plaids, sporrans, and sgian-dubhs tucked into the kilt hoses.The last day in Edinburgh having been declared a holiday, most of us were guided to Princes Street, the city’s major thoroughfare in the shadow of the castle hosting the premier shopping district considered ideal for the likes of us hunting for memorabilia. The architecture had been carefully preserved, and many stores had not changed their frontage for more than 150 years. Our search for kilts and plaids quickly ended — their prices were well beyond our reach. A few of us made bold and opted for moderately expensive tartan ties. With no preference, Lochcarron Ties became the choice and the Maple Leaf tartan tie that I acquired occupies a prominent spot in my wardrobe.As we departed from the university, the warden expectedly broke into “Auld Lang Syne”, written by Scotland’s national bard Robert Burns 300 years earlier. Overall, this brief cultural exposure was sufficient to kindle the desire to return to see more of this land. And a few months later, I did with my wife.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/edinburgh-magic-224824
14-03-2021||One of the hardest things I have done in my life so far is waking up my children a few mornings ago to tell them that Rahat had died. Rahat was an adventure-seeking tomcat; he was also the most vulnerable in our family. In that moment of breaking the news||For our dearest Rahat, the one who lived to give solace||We used to spend a lot of our time with Rahat, searching for him in the grass and plots around our house to bring him back home. Once we found him trapped high on a thorny tree. Our daughters and I managed to extricate him with the help of a step ladder. For days afterwards, I admired the cuts and scratches on my hands with pride.Rahat’s name served a dual purpose in those moments of looking for him. “Rahat, Rahat...” we would call out in various tones, almost as if it were a chant. Rahat means solace, and it always reminded us to stay calm. He was okay. He would return. He was obedient that way. He loved us.Rahat’s short life was the location of many miracles. He had a pronounced limp from a spinal injury he had recovered from at six months of age. He was rescued as a palm-sized, abandoned kitten by a schoolgirl. He was fostered by a multi-talented artist who took him to work with her as she nursed him to health and instilled cat confidence in him. He was put up for adoption by a close-knit group of animal champions who expend time, energy and love trying to make sure that as many street animals get safe, protective homes as they can manage.Rahat came to us when he was three months old and our youngest daughter had just turned 11. She reminded us that we had said we would adopt pets when she was ready to care for them.We brought our cat home in a blue-green cat carrier, talking to him on the long car drive home. We watched as he explored the house and found safe corners. We celebrated when he chose to sleep next to my head in my bed. We felt accepted. We were jubilant.Two weeks later, we brought Scarlet, a rescued puppy, to add to our family. Both of them were the same age. My phone is full of videos of Scarlet and Rahat chasing each other, Rahat swatting Scarlet from a safe height, the two of them sleeping cosily on the same mat when winter came and other moments of our cat and dog bonding with each other.Rahat used to call out incessantly from behind the wire-mesh door when we went out for a walk with Scarlet. Friends warned us not to let him out. But Rahat wanted to be out in the world. He was not smart about it. Or timid. I wish I could describe the joy he emanated as he ran out with his peculiar gait and turned in the loose mud to feel the earth on his back.“Rahat!” I would call out to him from the first floor balcony. He would respond in cat-speak from the spinach patch below.By the time we finally lost Rahat, I had managed to convince myself to trust him and the universe to keep him safe. Despite our fretting and fears, he would come back to us each time he went out.Rahat was at home with us. He is now in another home without us. Our grief is doing the thing it does — it comes in waves. It transforms into guilt and shame. It makes it hard to sleep, it makes getting up difficult.Rahat’s presence gave us joy every day. Now Rahat’s memory is what we have. What would Rahat want us to do?Rahat was generous. When a pair of new cats began visiting our home during the weeks of lockdown, he would let them eat from his bowl. When one of them moved in and gave birth to two kittens, Rahat made space for them too. This is what we must do too. The human heart has infinite space. We must extend ourselves. Be generous.It is still too early for me to be able to speak to anyone about the death of Rahat. Temporarily, the silence feels protective. I go about my everyday life looking okay on the outside. Yet when I began to write, there was nothing else I could write about.I hope reading about Rahat evokes memories of your own deep loves and losses. I hope you are reminded of the unexpected grace we discover as we unwrap the folds of grief, one petal at a time.— The writer is an author & filmmaker natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/for-our-dearest-rahat-the-one-who-lived-to-give-solace-224826
