15-03-2021||---||Afghan peace plan an opportunity for India||Afghanistan has been suffering for the past 40 years. Today, it is one of the poorest countries and has the highest daily death toll from militant violence and security forces’ killings. With a few weeks to go before May 1, the day agreed upon for the final withdrawal of American forces, the US has come out with its new proposal for peace in Afghanistan. Perhaps, no analyst would disagree that in the present circumstances there may be no solution to the problem without power-sharing with the Taliban.The situation has been further precipitated by Donald Trump’s election agenda of withdrawing troops from Afghanistan. Unfortunately, he continued with the withdrawal even after he had lost the elections. If we go back to the time before the US elections were due in 2016, Barack Obama had planned to withdraw completely out of Afghanistan. But when he realised that doing so was against American interests, he changed the plan and left 10,000 troops in Afghanistan to keep the options open for the new President to be elected.But Trump is made of a different clay. He has, unfortunately, tried to close down the options for Biden. As a result, much as Biden may desire to promote the western style of democracy, his options to put pressure on the Taliban stand constrained. A lot has been written about the details of the new plan of Biden as well as the bad optics of the language of the letter by Antony Blinken to Afghanistan’s elected President Ghani.Biden’s plan needs to be viewed in the larger context of the limited options open to him. The plan, in essence, is an interim power-sharing set-up between the Afghan government and the Taliban, an essential revision of Afghanistan’s Constitution as well as the judicial system by commissions with members from the Afghan government as well as the Taliban. This exercise is to be followed by fresh elections in Afghanistan. A ceasefire has also been proposed in Afghanistan during this period.Neither the Afghan government nor the Taliban are happy with the plan, though it is difficult to say if Biden can be faulted for his effort. There is a fair amount of public opinion in the US to get its troops out of Afghanistan and let the Afghans decide their own fate, irrespective of the course it may take.Ghani secured his presidency last year for a further period of five years. He is obviously unhappy with the plan because if put into effect, he as well as his government stand to lose a lot. The harsh tone of Blinken’s letter to Ghani suggests that if he were not to accept the proposal, the US may have no option but to watch him thrown to the wolves, if the US is to complete its withdrawal as planned.To be fair to Biden, the Taliban have been as much, if not more, pressured to agree to a ceasefire and also face a popular mandate. The Taliban’s only strength in this tug-of-war is the use of violence and, therefore, this proposal is anathema to them. The plan has built-in safeguards for women, human rights and a popular mandate of the people.Given the animosity and distrust between the Afghan government and the Taliban, both can draw comfort from the fact that the US has proposed this plan to unfold under the supervision of the United Nations. This implies the deployment of a peacekeeping or, more aptly, a peace-enforcement contingent from different nations. The plan does seem to rely on a fair amount of wishful thinking, but Biden does not have a choice. It is difficult to think of any other better option under these circumstances for peace in Afghanistan.India should draw comfort from the fact that it has been offered a seat on the decision-making table along with China, Russia, Iran, Pakistan and the US. This is a big opportunity, given the fact that India has been losing leverage in Afghanistan ever since the Taliban came back to battle in 2004, getting stronger and stronger.So, the issue for India is whether it should stick to its stance of loyalty to the Afghan government or be flexible in its approach. The people in Afghanistan have suffered a lot. To help improve their sad plight, it may be more apt to take a humane approach.No doubt, the Afghan government is an elected body, but one may also not overlook that the Taliban have come to enjoy a considerable following among the rural masses and cannot be wished away. It represents the Pashtuns, which is the biggest and most dominant ethnic tribe and has ruled Kabul in the past. The Taliban have also recently been taking recruits from all ethnicities, including the Hazaras, who are Shia Muslims.So, if the Taliban agree to a ceasefire and also to take part in the elections, it may not be a bad option to work with them in the larger interest of peace.Since a man of Biden’s sensibilities for democracy and human rights has come around to the above viewpoint, as is reflected in the proposed plan, India may also need to look at it with an open mind. It is logical to conclude that if we cannot wish the Taliban away, it is better to get them to agree to join the democratic process and moderate their policies.One can also read between the lines: that if the Taliban do not agree, Biden, by floating this proposal, has created sufficient grounds for the US military to stay back in Afghanistan and continue with its military option against the Taliban. So, the plan has not only made Ghani’s position somewhat vulnerable, it has also put the Taliban in a tighter corner. It looks unlikely that the Taliban would agree to the proposal, unless the US shows its teeth by declaring its intention to stay put beyond May 1. Even with that option, finding a solution to the Afghan problem is a tall order.In the past, India had good reasons for not getting involved militarily in Afghanistan, but as a part of the UN contingent, it is a good opportunity to send troops to Afghanistan. This is likely to give India more leverage in Afghanistan against Pakistan than what it has today. Its soft power in Afghanistan will multiply manifold if it is able to put boots on the ground under the UN mandate. Its presence will help take care of its immediate interests as well as build a lasting relationship with Afghanistan, irrespective of the composition of the future governments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/afghan-peace-plan-an-opportunity-for-india-225340
15-03-2021||---||Quad no grand solution to China challenge||The first formal and virtual summit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, United States President Joe Biden, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, marking the beginning of the Quadrilateral — Quad, for short — on March 12 has its share of historical irony for India and the US. Fifty years ago, in 1971, the US was reaching out to China through Pakistan. In August of the same year, India signed a friendship treaty with the Soviet Union to counter the US presence in the Indian Ocean and the brewing trouble in the then East Pakistan. The Seventh Fleet of the US was then deployed and the treaty with the Soviet Union survived the test. But by 1981, the Indo-Soviet bonhomie fell by the wayside with India quietly ticking off the Soviet presence in Afghanistan.Fifty years later, India and the US find themselves huddled together, ranged against none other than China. Doublespeak is indeed the essence of diplomatic-speak. So, an explicit reference to China got elided, and replaced by Indo-Pacific, a configuration created by the Trump administration in its national strategy document to expand the traditional American sphere of Asia-Pacific.The question remains whether India’s strategic interests stop with South East Asia and does not extend to the Far East. It will be argued that India is now a middle-rung global power and its sphere of influence will stretch far beyond its traditional bounds.It is quite clear that India, the US, Japan and Australia are contesting China’s claim over South China Sea and speaking up for open sea-lanes and conformity to norms of international law. Indirectly, the US wants to create a cordon sanitaire for China, so that it does not threaten the territorial claims of the Philippines, of Vietnam, and that Beijing does not act rashly against Taiwan. China, on its part, recognises the constraints imposed by the US presence in South China Sea.This is indeed a classic power tussle between a rising China and an America that is in a pile position no doubt, but it is not the superpower that it was in the 1950-80 Cold War period. American strategists have been looking for a justifiable cloak to challenge China. That is why, the Quad is projected as the coming together of democratic powers challenging communist China, and inventing a new Cold War.The inaccuracy in configuring the new confrontation in terms of the ideology of democracy fighting an anti-democratic and communist China is quite evident. China is communist only in name. It is an Asian nationalist power, and resembles Japan after the 1905 Russo-Japanese war, and possibly India occupying a similar position in the next quarter of a century. China should be learning from Japan’s experience, and India should be looking at the consequences of nationalist hegemony.It is true that in war and diplomacy, you should not be looking too far into the future and you should not be weighing in too many factors. Strategy, even a grand strategy, should be a short-term one. It makes sense for India then to make common cause with the US, Japan and Australia to contain — something which is to be assumed and not articulated — China.But India has to factor in whether as a member of the Quad, it can hope to check China’s depredations across the unsettled border and the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between the two countries, and whether the other members of the Quad would feel compelled to stand with India.Indian strategists react in alarm when these issues are raised. They feel that it would be premature to let the cat out of the bag that the Quad is an anti-China military alliance. The assumption is that the Quad should be a pressure group, and that it should not include the military option. Militarism is seen as a crude weapon which should never be flaunted.But the Quad cannot function as a goodwill club of democracies in the Indo-Pacific. And it cannot be confined to the four members because all the four are peripheral to the affected region. The Quad would have to expand sometime to include the ASEAN countries as well as South Korea. And it should also include the Asia-Pacific Economic Community (APEC).If the old groupings are to be reworked to meet the China challenge, there would be need for wider consultations. Meanwhile, China has been spreading its wings in western and Central Asia, Africa and the European Union. It is not confined to the South China Sea. It is quite possible that China might be spreading itself too, both in security and economic terms. And it will have to come to terms with the other global players.The grand strategy behind the formation of the Quad looks quite inchoate. While the Quad members should improve their mutual relations, each country will have to deal with China all on its own.China is not a military superpower as the Soviet Union was in the old Cold War scenario. It is wielding its economic clout. Can the Quad clip China’s economic wings? The economies of the US, Japan and Australia do not seem too promising to meet Beijing’s economic challenge. It is felt that India will have to do the ‘heavy lifting’ in this economic tussle.Prime Minister Modi and his advisers believe that this is something India can do with the help of the other three. It is as good a gamble as any, and it is unexceptional as well. Shorn of its rhetoric, the Quad looks like a slightly desperate business plan. There must be other ways of dealing with China’s economic domination. The Quad, however, is not an effective response to China’s military assertion unless the navies of the members patrol the sea-lanes in South China Sea, keeping in mind China’s claims over Taiwan and its assertion over Hong Kong. The Quad is a necessary ploy, but it should not be seen as a grand solution to the changing contours of a multi-polar world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/quad-no-grand-solution-to-china-challenge-225337
15-03-2021||---||What’s worrying Bangladeshis||When the news of West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee’s injury was reported last week, it created reverberations in Bangladesh as if it was a local election campaign mishap. Tens of thousands of Bangladeshis who have relatives, friends and acquaintances on the Indian side of the border made phone calls or sent text messages to ascertain what had happened and to enquire about her condition.They know that if BJP wins, there is a probability of getting Teesta waters. But the opportunity cost of not getting water, as seen from Dhaka, is that Muslims feel safe in Bengal.Some countries have a special relationship with India. Like Bangladesh, another such country is Mauritius. What echoed in Bangladesh with Mamata’s injury was similar to what happened in Mauritius when Atal Bihari Vajpayee had a providential escape as PM. I was in Port Louis then and the switchboard of the Indian High Commission was jammed with phone calls from anxious Mauritians who were concerned about Vajpayee’s welfare after an explosion in his proximity.Navin Ramgoolam, the PM of Mauritius, was the first to telephone Indian High Commissioner Mani Lal Tripathi, who was soon inundated by calls from every Cabinet colleague of Ramgoolam’s. Mauritians have always had a special regard for Vajpayee. Once he stole their hearts with a scintillating and humour-laden speech in Hindi, understood by Bhojpuri-speaking local people, at the inauguration of the new premises of the Indira Gandhi Centre for Indian Culture there.Bangladesh’s association with Bengal is of a similar, but deeper genre, fortified by a common language, history and culture. Bangladeshis adore Mamata, notwithstanding her consistent opposition to giving Teesta waters to Bengal’s eastern neighbour. It is a paradox that Bangladeshis also like Narendra Modi. They want Modi to rule in Delhi and have Mamata in power in Kolkata. Not that people across the border have any say in deciding either of these outcomes.In Bengal and Bangladesh, poll campaigns have always had a festive air about them. It is not unusual to see womenfolk in rural Bengal go to their polling booths on voting day, dressed in their finery as if they are attending a wedding. However, in Bangladesh, the decimation and virtual disintegration of the opposition Bangladesh Nationalist Party of Khaleda Zia a decade ago has robbed the populace of competitive democracy and those aspects of it that are akin to a funfair.Bangladeshis are, therefore, watching the forthcoming poll festival in Bengal as entertainment in their backyard: entertainment that they have been deprived of by the absence of any challenge to their incumbent government in three previous elections. Of all South Asian countries, it is Bangladesh that continuously runs on rumours and narratives that are often pure fiction.These contribute to concerns about the common heritage and legacy of the two flanks of Bengal even as the desire for entertainment is strong in the midst of Bengal’s coming eight-phase election. For most Bangladeshis who visit India, Kolkata is home, the rest of India is a tourist destination. That is why, 147 years after Kolkata’s New Market opened as an exclusive preserve of the city’s British residents, approximately 40 per cent of its big-ticket customers are visitors from Bangladesh.Kolkata’s hospitality industry today thrives on those who come from Bangladesh. Alcohol is available in Dhaka, but drinking is often a cloak-and-dagger business there. But in Kolkata, pouring out a libation is for Bangladeshis an exercise in freedom. In the Assembly polls, where the BJP has a chance of coming to power for the first time, the worry for Bangladeshis is whether such an outcome will change their Kolkata experience.More worrying for them is a word-of-mouth-propelled narrative which has gained currency throughout Bangladesh that Bengal will increasingly trend towards speaking Hindi if the BJP is victorious on May 2. It did not help that the BJP released its first list of candidates only in English and in Hindi, not in Bengali, and the party’s press conference on that occasion was in Hindi. The candidates’ list of the Left parties was only in Bengali and Mamata’s own similar press conference was in Bengali.Language is a highly emotive subject in Bangladesh. Dhaka’s Shaheed Minar in memory of East Bengalis who became martyrs in the fight for their language from 1952 till the creation of Bangladesh is standing proof of how Bangladeshis will view a BJP victory in Bengal in linguistic terms.Bangladeshis are looking at the outcome of the elections in terms of checks and balances. They know that if a BJP CM succeeds Mamata seven weeks from now, they will probably get the Teesta waters denied to them. But the opportunity cost of not getting water, as seen from Dhaka, is that Muslims feel safe in West Bengal.In recent years, parents in J&K have been sending their children to Bengal for education because they believe Mamata is a leader who will protect their children. Many of these Kashmiri students have now enrolled in universities in Bangladesh anticipating a BJP government.Intelligence analysis in Dhaka points to a domestic threat to Bangladesh in case of a change in government in Bengal. In a series of assessments presented to national security officials in Dhaka, agencies tasked with tracking such issues have predicted that any rise in Hindu militancy in Bengal will have an equal reaction within Bangladesh of a rise in domestic Islamic radicalism.Bangladeshis arriving in Kolkata with a homecoming feeling nurse a sense of hurt over the tougher questioning of their intent at immigration counters in recent years. That it is happening when infiltration and migration to India is falling because of better economic prospects in Bangladesh points to a disconnect in policy-making in New Delhi. At many Chinese airports there are special immigration counters for arriving Taiwanese with boards saying ‘Welcome to our Taiwanese brothers’. Something similar at entry points in Bengal — and similar psychological palliatives — will go a long way in dousing fears across the border if there is a change in government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/whats-worrying-bangladeshis-225334
