16-03-2021||---||BJP’s insider-outsider equation in state polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is perceived as a distinct ideological formation helmed by a strong leader and backed by the largest cadre organisation in the world. The upcoming Assembly elections in four states, however, reveal another important facet of the BJP’s strategy in its attempt to expand its footprint in the states. The party is open to poaching members of other political parties in regions where it does not have a structural set-up. Should the party perform well in those regions, the newcomers will certainly have clout, but the jury is still out on whether the new entrants ultimately change the BJP or the party transforms them.The argument is often made that like the Congress of the past, the BJP could be all things to all people. In British India, the Congress accommodated within itself, views from the Left to the Right, from Jawaharlal Nehru’s secular and socialist ideals to the identity thrust of four-time Congress president Madan Mohan Malaviya, who along with Lala Lajpat Rai, founded the Hindu Mahasabha in 1915. (The Mahasabha played a significant role in Hindu nationalist thinking and would later under VD Savarkar give the clearest possible blueprint of what Hindutva and Hindu Rashtra could mean).The BJP, however, is unlikely to be a melting pot of opinions. It is for one, not an ideological formation in the making as the Congress was during the British rule and the early decades of independent India. Second, the BJP now operates as a strong ruling party at the Centre and relationships with new entrants in the states are transactional and based on electoral rewards and gains. These are both pre-poll and post-poll arrangements as the BJP has in recent times managed to form governments in states where it did not win elections, such as Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Goa.Indeed, in the ongoing fierce electoral battle in West Bengal, where several members of the ruling TMC have joined the BJP, CM Mamata Banerjee would know the perils of falling short of a majority by even a few seats. For the BJP has mastered the technique of forming government by a whisker: in Karnataka and MP, for instance, defectors give up their seats as they are compelled to under the Anti-Defection Law of 1985, also referred to as the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution, brought in to address the problem of democratically elected legislators shifting allegiance from the parties they supported in the elections. The modus operandi now is that MLAs ditch their original party, resign and after the BJP has formed the government, stand again for byelections on the BJP’s symbol.In the event of the BJP managing to win in Bengal, the party would be negotiating between its traditional ideological fraternity and many new defectors who would expect to be rewarded. Contrary to the impression that the top leadership roles in the BJP are only reserved for individuals who cut their teeth in the RSS, the party has absorbed outsiders in some states. In Assam, for instance, the current Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal cut his teeth in the All Assam Students Union (AASU) and till 2011, was a member of the AGP. He joined the BJP a decade ago and five of those years he has been CM. The other significant BJP leader in the state, Hemanta Biswa Sarma, was an inductee from the Congress, where he was the right hand of three-term Congress CM, Tarun Gogoi. Hemanta Biswa Sarma joined the BJP in 2015 and his Machiavellian understanding of north-east statecraft and politics is believed to have been invaluable in the BJP’s spread in the region.In this election, he has been allowed to contest for the Assembly and that has given rise to some speculation that he could be a potential CM as the BJP has not announced one. However, in the event of victory in an election that is getting tougher than earlier anticipated, Sarbananda Sonowal is still considered a nose ahead. The saga of Hemanta Sarma is, however, interesting for other reasons: he is the classic example of a newcomer to the party taking the most hardline ideological positions on identity, the NRC, and the so called ‘Miyans’, the term for Bengali-speaking Muslims in Assam. As a strategic thinker for the BJP, when he saw that the Bengali-Assamese divide could not be entirely transformed into a Hindu-Muslim division as many Hindu Bengalis were left out of the NRC (National Register of Citizens), Hemanta Sarma was the first to back-pedal on making NRC/CAA the template for this election.In Bengal, meanwhile, the BJP has also acquired some big names from the TMC, most notably, Suvendu Adhikari, who is now contesting against his former boss, Mamata Banerjee, from the Nandigram seat. He, too, has like a duck to water quickly taken to making statements that work on the Hindu-Muslim faultline. For instance, he stated that “Bengal will become like Kashmir if the TMC comes back to power”, implying that Muslims would call the shots in the reign of the party that he just quit months ago. He’s also comfortable with the ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogan that some Bengali commentators argue is an import from the Hindi heartland.Besides the many new inductees to the party, the BJP’s list of candidates for Bengal is interesting as the party is unusually asking MPs and a Union minister to contest the Assembly polls. The party is, therefore, putting all hands on deck.Since 2019, the BJP has not been able to replicate national results in the states. But it has an incremental approach and never gives up. As a strategist says, the first election is fought to lose, the second to undercut another party and the third to win yourself. At a time when the Centre is grappling with the ongoing farmers’ stir and has been critiqued in the West for receding freedoms, the party and its national leadership are in need of an image makeover that follows a grand electoral success.The party is aware that the upcoming polls are important psychologically for the entire Opposition. The Left is there in its last bastion, apparently poised to perform well in Kerala, regional parties are the principal players in Tamil Nadu and Bengal, while Assam is a contest between the BJP and a complex front put together by the Congress. It’s a microcosm of the entire national Opposition that is ranged against the BJP in these rounds of state polls. If the BJP does well, the Opposition’s morale will drop further; if it fares poorly, the resurrection of a national Opposition could begin.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bjps-insider-outsider-equation-in-state-polls-225739
16-03-2021||---||Women-centric budgets a job half-done||Gender-responsive budgeting was adopted in India in 2005, and since then, there have been steady budgetary allocations for various programmes specific to women. These women-related programmes are now an essential part of every budget document. This year has also not been an exception.Both at the Centre and in the states, ‘women’s empowerment’ is the key focus area. Last week, the Delhi government, while presenting its budget, claimed that the ‘role of women is the key to the progress’ of Delhi, and hence, providing them with accessible healthcare and education is a must in order to empower them and give them a larger role in the economy. For this, they promised 500 anganwadi centres and 100 mahila mohalla clinics in various parts of the city. Similar claims have been made by the Centre in the Union Budget 2021-22, which allocated funds to its various schemes covering the Integrated Child Development Services, anganwadi services, Poshan Abhiyan, Scheme for Adolescent Girls and the National Creche Scheme.This type of gender budgeting, which applies a gender lens to expenditure and prioritises gender-specific outcomes, has emerged as a popular way for governments across the world to empower women and improve gender equality. What is behind the loud proclamations of ‘women’s empowerment’ being made in our country not only by the Delhi and the Union government, but almost all state governments?An analysis of the political situation shows that one of the major reasons for this close attention being given to women is due to their rising importance as voters. There has been a steady and sharp decline in the gender bias in voting over time. In particular, the sex ratio of voters (the number of women voters to every 1,000 men voters) increased significantly from 715 in the 1960s to 883 in the 2000s. This phenomenon of declining gender bias in voting is across all the states, including the traditionally backward ‘BIMARU’ states of Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. This decline is solely driven by the dramatic increase in women’s participation in the elections since the 1990s, whereas participation of men has remained unchanged. Also, it is now openly acknowledged that women voters vote differently from men and have a remarkable effect on election outcomes. During my extensive field work in Haryana, I found women voting differently from what they had been instructed to do by their menfolk.It is not without significance that during election campaigns, leaders of various political parties are especially vociferous about women’s empowerment. Yet, the Women’s Reservation Bill — envisaging 33% quota for women in the Lok Sabha and in all Legislative Assemblies — is still stuck despite being introduced in Parliament 13 years ago. It underlines the reluctance of political parties to accommodate women in politics. Both the BJP and the Congress have a poor record when it came to giving election tickets to women. In 2019, the BJP had given tickets to 429 candidates, of which 53 were women (12.3%); the Congress named 387 candidates, of which 47 were women (12.1%). This abysmal figure is revealing as all political parties, at one stage or the other, have extended support to the Women’s Reservation Bill.At present, India is at the 149th spot on a list of 193 countries ranked according to percentage of women legislators elected to the national Parliament. India’s neighbouring countries fare relatively better, with Bangladesh at the 97th spot and Pakistan at No. 101.The ruling BJP has taken several steps towards what in its view constitutes women’s empowerment. This has involved unveiling several pro-women schemes towards fulfilling their basic needs. As these steps do not include their political empowerment, women are compelled to remain consumers and not initiators or decision-makers.If women were included in the political policy-making process, their recommendations towards their own empowerment through the budgetary allocations may well have been different, given the extraordinary times that we are living in. The pandemic has witnessed an unequal impact on women not only in terms of securing food and nutrition, employment and livelihood opportunities, increased burden of unpaid work but also increased incidence of violence. It is in this backdrop that we look at some of the provisions made for women in this Budget, which remain skewed and ineffective.Under the Nirbhaya Fund (scheme for safety of women), there is an allocation of Rs 10 crore for the current fiscal year. This ‘safety’, however, does not include interventions to address domestic abuse such as shelter homes and legal aid. In the face of increased violence, the direly needed women’s helpline and ‘one-stop centre’ are missing from the current Budget. Budget documents also reveal a cut in the funds allocated for the Ministry of Women and Child Development (WCD). Moreover, under Swachh Bharat, (Clean India, Healthy India), the focus is mainly on proper waste management and clean air in urban centres, excluding aspects like public toilets that are important for women venturing out of their homes. These are just a few examples of what could have been rectified and achieved if women had more representatives of their own in Parliament.Women’s empowerment can be defined as promoting their sense of self-worth, their ability to determine their own choices, and their right to influence social change for themselves and others. Without political representation being assured for them, it’s no wonder that women-centric schemes championing their empowerment appear to be a vote-catching strategy more than anything else.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/women-centric-budgets-a-job-half-done-225696
16-03-2021||---||The rules-based order||The Quad joint statement has committed its members to promoting ‘a free, open rules-based order (RBO), rooted in international law’. This sounds authoritative and impressive. The problem is that no one is clear as to what the RBO means. Even though people are agreed that we all should follow a rules-based system in international affairs, there is no agreement on which rules, whose rules, and, indeed, the term itself.India is in a bind. It is following America’s lead in implementing the RBO in the Indo-Pacific, but is complaining about western organisations questioning its adherence to a rules-based democracy.One reason for this is that international law has been kept deliberately weak so as to allow countries to exercise their sovereign functions which clash with provisions of the international law. Another is that these days, when it comes to international law, the position of a country is often dictated by its current geopolitical inclinations.Our apex international law institution, the UN has draconian provisions outlawing war. Chapter VI of the UN Charter enjoins all countries that have disputes that may lead to war to seek a solution through peaceful means. If this doesn’t work, they are to refer it to the UN Security Council (UNSC) which could recommend solutions.Some issues may come under the draconian Chapter VII which empowers the UNSC to use non-military measures, like embargoes and sanctions to resolve the situation. If this fails, under Article 42, the UN can order military operations. This would be handled by a special ‘military staff committee’ under Article 47. Even the right to self-defence is proscribed in the UN RBO. Article 51 accepts that all states have the ‘inherent right of individual and collective self-defence’ in the face of an attack, but thereafter the member must report to the UNSC, which alone can authorise military actions to restore peace.Yet, despite these impressive legal powers, the UN law has been more violated than obeyed. The UN Charter was drafted in the wake of World War II by the victors of that war, who fell out soon thereafter. Since the key body empowered to keep peace is the UNSC, geopolitics, rather than idealism, has been in command. Even the country that claims to personify the RBO — the United States — has, more often than not, simply ignored the UN law in the many destructive wars that it has made since 1945.India was perhaps the first victim of this situation. In a fit of idealism, Jawaharlal Nehru took the issue of the tribal invasion of Kashmir to the UN. But then geopolitics kicked in. British officers who commanded the Indian and Pakistani armies knew just how the invasion had been organised and Pakistan government’s role in it. But having partitioned the country, the British felt that their national interest lay in backing Pakistan. So, at the instance of the UK, the complaint of a tribal invasion was changed into the ‘India-Pakistan Question’ in the UNSC. A chagrined India very soon got the drift. Pakistan acknowledged its forces had been operating in Kashmir six months after the fact, and only when a UN Commission was scheduled to visit the region. Yet, the UNSC did not even give them the proverbial slap on the wrist. Fortunately for India, it had taken up the issue under Chapter VI, where the UNSC could only recommend actions, not mandate them. And so, for the past 73 years, there exist in the books of the UN resolutions which need the consent of both India and Pakistan to be implemented.The more relevant example here is of the UN Convention on the Laws of the Seas (UNCLOS). We all know that China lost an arbitration on the status of the South China Sea islands in 2016. This official arbitration body said that the ‘islands’ were merely rocky outcrops on the sea and did not offer any of the several countries who claimed them territorial rights to the waters around them. China ignored the ruling and there is nothing anyone can do short of war to make it dismantle its constructions.But if China ignores one aspect of the UNCLOS, the US is unique in that it has simply not ratified UNCLOS, though it claims to adhere to it. But this adherence is selective. The US insists that through UNCLOS, it can conduct military exercises in the 200 nautical miles Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) of the various countries around the world. That is why when it conducts military activity in China’s EEZ, there are periodic run-ins with the People’s Liberation Army Navy.The Indian position here is not very different. While China prohibits foreign military activity in its EEZ, India demands that foreign navies notify New Delhi before carrying out exercises; however, the US insists that it will accept neither position. To enforce its ‘rights’, it uses its powerful Navy to carry out periodic ‘Freedom of Navigation Operations’ (FONOPS) in various parts of the world, including the Indian seas.India is in a peculiar bind here. On the one hand, it is following the US lead in implementing the RBO in relation to the Indo-Pacific, and on the other, we have External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar complaining about western organisations questioning India’s adherence to a rules-based democracy.In an article last year, former Singapore diplomat Bilahari Kausikan called the RBO a ‘Rashomon term’ — its meaning depending on the perspective of the user. He concluded that it was actually a diplomatic tool ‘rather than a term with an exact or stable meaning’. And its value to diplomacy lay in its ambiguity. As is well known, ambiguity has always been a useful tool.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-rules-based-order-225690
