17-03-2021||---||Hope and despair over variants and vaccines||COVID-19 is spreading again and becoming more genetically diverse. With every new infection, the coronavirus gets the chance to mutate, which then means more cases and deaths. The vaccines have entered the fray at a crucial time, within one year of the advent of the deadly virus. The fastest any vaccine had previously been developed, from viral sampling to approval, was four years, for mumps in the 1960s. It is tempting to hope that in the future, vaccines for variants might be made in a shorter time.While scientists all over the world deserve to be applauded for bringing a vaccine so quickly and claiming it to be safe and effective, the birth of new mutants in different parts of the world is alarming. Should we produce a new vaccine with each new variant and get a jab afresh? Will it lead to a vicious cycle?The second wave has seen a surge of new cases in the US, Europe and other countries. The recent increase in daily infections in India is also a worrying development. In such countries, as more people become infected, more replication cycles occur, with an increasing chance that an ‘escape variant’ resistant to vaccination and antiviral therapies will develop.If there’s a confirmed jump in re-infections or if large numbers of vaccinated people start developing the disease, that’s when we will know whether escape variants have become a genuine new threat.As of now, India’s vaccination programme is in full swing and over 3 crore people have been given the jab so far.We have heard a lot about B.1.1.7 (UK), B.1.351 (South Africa), and P.1 (Brazil), but other variants have also emerged, including the one in New York. Named B.1.526, the variant contains the same E484K mutation that has caused concern over B.1.351. This mutation is presumed to allow the virus to partly escape the body’s immune response.Vaccines developed against the original virus have also been found to be less effective against B.1.351. As per the March 2021 issue of the British Medical Journal, the variant was “surging, alarmingly, over the past few weeks” and that patients with this variant “were on average older and more frequently hospitalised’. Further analysis showed that the B.1.526 variant was “scattered in the northeast of the US, and its unique set of spike mutations may pose an antigenic challenge.”Pfizer and Oxford-AstraZeneca are reported to be in discussions regarding updating their vaccines to target the new variants. Meanwhile, Moderna has said it is awaiting approval from regulators to start trial with a modified version of its vaccine that will target the B.1.351 variant.The lack of data on B.1.351 cases means there is no information on vaccine effectiveness against this variant. Germany is facing hesitancy after a German newspaper reported that the vaccine was ineffective in people above 65 years. The Johnson & Johnson vaccine reported efficacy of 66.1 per cent for preventing moderate-to-severe or critical Covid-19, 28 days after vaccination of a single dose.The two vaccines approved in India are claimed to be effective against the UK variant but there is no data on their efficacy against the mutants first found in South Africa and Brazil. It is difficult to say how effective the two will be against the new variants, until scientists study them properly and sound data is available.Covaxin can produce antibodies against many regions of the complete virus, while Covishield produces antibodies against only a specific region of the virus. So, even if there is a mutation in one region, there are antibodies being produced against other regions of the virus which will be effective in case of Covaxin. It is an ‘inactivated’ vaccine developed by chemically treating coronavirus to make it incapable of reproduction. Scientists are in the process of developing booster jabs to tackle Covid-19 variants.Should you take the vaccines despite reports of adverse events? The answer is yes. The US FDA’s Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee voted 22-0 that benefits of the vaccine “outweigh its risks for use in individuals 18 years of age or older’, so the vaccine should qualify for FDA emergency use authorisation (EUA). Most members focused on the importance of getting out another vaccine against the virus, given the rising number of variants threatening to curtail progress against the pandemic.The FDA staff noted that efficacy was lower among adults aged 60 years or older with co-morbidities versus healthier seniors. But the vaccine offered advantages like saving hospitalisations or deaths. N antibodies tend to fade after three-four months, but the S antibodies last longer, and those are the antibodies that the vaccines will coax the body into producing, so the results are directly comparable. In addition, you have a Covid-19-specific T-cell response after going through the infection. Even if the efficacy is low, vaccine use is recommended.Should the very old and sick people also take a jab? Individuals with immune-compromised conditions may be eligible to receive the mRNA Covid-19 vaccine, but the safety data for such individuals is not available. Although HIV-positive patients were a part of the clinical trials, the vaccine’s safety and efficacy data in these individuals is not yet available. The vaccine may lead to a reduced immune response in immune-compromised individuals compared to the others.People with autoimmune conditions are also eligible for an mRNA vaccine, but the safety and efficacy data in this specific group is also not available.It is a big question whether the vaccines can trigger micro clot formation in those suffering from heart disease or diabetes and result in complications.It is essential to inform the patients about these facts. A few patients who received an mRNA vaccine were reported to develop Bell’s palsy.The following instructions should be mandatorily followed after vaccination — wear a mask; maintain six-foot distance from others; avoid get-togethers and crowds; wash hands with soap and water; sanitise hands using 60 per cent alcohol; and follow travel, quarantine, and workplace guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/hope-and-despair-over-variants-and-vaccines-226179
17-03-2021||---||Keeping options open on strategic autonomy||AMONG all evolving strategic partnerships, Quad seems to be a top priority for the two-month-old Biden administration. The foreign ministers’ meeting of the four Quad nations — the US, Japan, Australia and India — was followed by the first ever summit-level talks, which took place virtually on March 12 between the US President and the Prime Ministers of the other three countries.The major concern of the three members of Quad, other than India, is primarily to counter and check Chinese influence in the Asia-Pacific and specifically in the South China Sea (SCS) in order to safeguard their geopolitical and maritime interests in this region.India’s concerns with regard to China go much beyond this. Interestingly, during the recently held fourth session of the 13th National People’s Congress of the Chinese Communist Party, State Councillor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi stated that “China and India are each other’s friends and partners and not threats or rivals. The two sides need to help each other succeed instead of undercutting.”This wooing of India not only highlights its geopolitical and strategic importance but also the weight it carries, politically, militarily and diplomatically. India has never been in an alliance with any other nation or nations. Post World War II, the Cold War came to be waged by forming alliances like Seato, Cento, Nato and the Warsaw Pact, to name a few. Smaller member countries have gone to the extent of even compromising on some aspects of sovereignty in exchange for the benefits of such alliances.India, on the other hand, has been steadfast in staying on an alliance-free course. Being a founding member of the Non-Aligned Movement, it clearly spelt out its political line in international affairs. NAM has since lost relevance but multi-polar engagements without any treaty or alliance overtones have been the defining foreign policy architecture for India. It has always stood for strategic partnerships and not any bilateral or multi-lateral unions, be it with Russia or the US.What price does an alliance extract? During 2003, the US was deeply embroiled in Afghanistan and Iraq, leading to the alliance of the willing. While the military muscle and finances were majorly provided by it, the US was very keen to have other nations show their flags alongside, howsoever nominally, as the operations were outside the UN umbrella.There was tremendous pressure on India to dispatch troops to Afghanistan and at one stage, it seemed like a done deal. However, India refused military participation outside the UN ambit. Compared to this, countries like Japan and South Korea, despite domestic, public and political opinion being very strongly against any involvement in Iraq or Afghanistan, were compelled to dispatch military contingents (for logistic support in case of Japan).While the events on the LAC in eastern Ladakh over the past 10-odd months have accentuated the adversarial relations with China, in the past both countries have been largely on the same page on subjects like environment, climate change and trade issues vis-à-vis the US. During the Cold War era, India depended heavily on the USSR for military hardware and diplomatic support in the UN.However, this bonhomie between the world’s largest democracy and the strongest communist bloc country was bereft of any political concessions and India’s geopolitical autonomy was never in doubt. Whatever be the hues and colours of the government of the day, strategic autonomy is something which has never been diluted or compromised in any way. In 1965, Pakistan initiated operations against India, greatly bolstered by state-of-the-art military equipment and professional military training provided by the US.India, on the other hand, had to purchase armaments in hard currency from the Soviets, without any alliance or partnership overtures. In 1971, despite the genocide unleashed in the east, the US backed the Pakistan military government till its final ignominious defeat and even sent a carrier task force towards the Bay of Bengal. India had signed a Treaty of Mutual Friendship with the USSR, but pursued its objectives quite independently, realising these through an outstanding military victory. In 1999, too, the Pakistani Prime Minister had to rush to Washington seeking US help to end its ill-fated Kargil misadventure.All these were periods of trial and stress for India. However, it did not let its autonomy be eroded by adversity and prosecuted its national aims as it saw fit. It did get help from both the US and the USSR at different junctures, but this was never allowed to grow into a patron-client relationship. This strategic autonomy makes India a valued partner in any grouping of nations, Quad being the latest.The Trump era saw an unprecedented haranguing of European Nato members for their propensity to take a free ride. However, these countries, which include an economic powerhouse like Germany, a nation with widespread interests and assets like France, as well as a “has been’ power like the UK, that still view themselves as world leaders, behaved like chastened schoolboys, realising that Nato was essential for their relevance in international affairs.Another interesting case is that of the ASEAN nations, which stick together despite major political differences, due to compelling economic realities.A major takeaway from the Quad leaders’ summit meeting is the focus on Covid-19 vaccine production in India to meet a target of one billion doses, with financial support from the US and Japan. This is a clear recognition of India’s capacity and capability in this vital area with the nations of the Indo-Pacific region looking to benefit from it. Other than the expected flagging of security issues in this region, there was a mention of synergised efforts on the subject of climate change and, interestingly, the setting up of a group of experts for joint development of emerging technologies.While India is in the pole position right now with its very tangible vaccine diplomacy, it needs to extract reciprocal benefits from the other Quad members, especially the US. India’s security concerns are away from the murky waters of the SCS and centred on the Himalayan heights and this needs to be emphatically emphasised. Also, the US has stayed away from sharing vital niche technology with us and this too needs to be given a concrete positive direction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/keeping-options-open-on-strategic-autonomy-226178
17-03-2021||---||BJP’s re-nationalisation card||RE-NATIONALISATION’ was a term coined and used by political researchers and analysts Milan Vaishnav and Danielle Smogard of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace to expatiate on the BJP’s 2014 victory in a paper, ‘A New Era in Indian Politics?’ The coinage, since enshrined in the political wordbook, signified the arrival of the BJP as the ‘dominant’ party that replaced the Congress and ushered in some stability after a long spell of disparate coalitions. However, those using the re-nationalisation coinage add a counterpoint. That is the BJP’s ‘vulnerability’, despite the ‘dominance’, unlike the Congress, which in its halcyon era was largely unsusceptible to pulls and pressures. It’s a date-drawn inference which fostered a perception that the BJP owes its political capital to the North and the West of India and has not tapped the East and the South to bolster its pan-Indian credentials. Between 2014 and 2019, that notion was challenged because the BJP won office in Assam, formed governments in Tripura, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh and has been a part of the power structure in Nagaland and Meghalaya. The BJP’s success in West Bengal in the last Lok Sabha polls belied the impression that its endeavour at re-nationalisation was a half-baked approach.Since 2014, every election fought by the BJP — state, civic or rural — has segued into a national referendum.Since 2014, every election fought by the BJP — state, civic or rural — has segued into a national referendum, more to the point of a mandate for PM Modi. The outcome was not always on a par with the leadership’s expectations. It always fell short of a majority in Maharashtra, lost Bihar in 2015 after an on-target showing in 2014, won and lost Jharkhand in a five-year span as also heartland states such as Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. A common theme ran through the BJP’s electioneering narrative and discourse. It swivelled around Modi’s persona and his government’s ‘achievements’ that were periodically counterpoised by a state leader’s charisma as in Jharkhand (Hemant Soren) and Bihar (Tejashwi Yadav). There came a point when it was hard to segregate the national from the regional. The elections in West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala are not qualitatively different. Barring Assam, which has an incumbent BJP CM, the others have pitted Modi against powerful regional chieftains.For a party that was wedded to the tenet of ‘cooperative federalism’ when the Gujarat Government, headed by Modi, was storm-tossed by the UPA and entangled in legal cases aplenty, the Centre hasn’t been kind towards Opposition-ruled states. That’s saying it mildly. Whether it was the implementation of demonetisation and the GST regime or enforcing the contentious CAA or imposing NEET exams or implanting hand-picked bureaucrats and policemen or facilitating cross-state investigations without keeping the relevant government in the loop or pursuing old cases of malfeasance, the federal structure that underpins the constitutional order has been impugned.The BJP looks at the issue from another perspective. Obsessed with the ‘one nation’ catchphrase, to the party the states are essentially adjuncts of the Centre, subordinated to Delhi. By this logic, a state or a local election would be a vote for the Centre, unless of course things went wrong. When the BJP lost Jharkhand, despite a spirited campaign by Modi and his senior ministers, Raghubar Das, the incumbent CM, was expediently blamed for the rout.Assam typifies the BJP’s tendency to elevate a state election to the national level. The CAA and the prospect the changes opened up of mining a Hindu vote bank by legitimising citizenship rights for undocumented non-Muslim migrants from Bangladesh was too tempting to not theme it as a major issue. However, when the BJP’s caste Hindu supporters, Ahom and tribal rank-and-file reacted adversely to the perceived threat of another influx of ‘infiltrators’ encroaching on their land, properties and jobs, it was forced to set aside the issue. It deftly foregrounded ‘development’ as the principal plank, highlighting Central schemes such as Ujjwala and direct cash transfers, which, its campaigners claimed, eliminated the abhorred middlemen. Of course, Modi was the cherry on the cake. Ground reports from Assam suggest that the apprehensions over the CAA receded into the background, and the ‘largesse’ the state received from the Centre illustrated the gains to be had from a ‘double-engine growth’. The double-engine claim didn’t work in Jharkhand because the BJP’s CM was extremely unpopular. In Assam, realising that the incumbent, Sarbananda Sonowal, is not a favourite, the BJP signalled that the CM’s choice, post-poll, was wide open. The elections are about Modi and the Centre.In West Bengal too, a carefully crafted campaign — that subsumed the state’s pre-supposed subaltern inclination into a larger canvas of hyper-nationalism which delved into pre-Independence history symbolised by the conception of ‘Bharat Mata’ by novelist Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay in 1880 and Tagore in a 1905 painting — worked. It allowed the BJP to graft contemporary Hindutva totems, notably the Ram temple, on West Bengal’s past and shape a faith-centred discourse that ended up making the Trinamool Congress defensive and reactive. Like in Assam, Modi, and not a state leader, is the BJP’s mascot.The limits to the BJP’s recent propensity to make the regional national are visible in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. In Tamil Nadu, its effort to traduce writers and orators such as Perumal Murugan and Nellai Kannan as ‘anti-Hindu’ (despite them being Hindus) didn’t set the state afire. The ‘Modi charisma’ that works in pockets in a parliamentary election is markedly absent in the TN Assembly polls, because unlike West Bengal, the voters have figured out that they must elect a dispensation they can relate to. The regional over the national.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bjps-re-nationalisation-card-226177
