19-03-2021||---||Free trade agreements can give exports a boost||India is facing an export slump. At a time when many other segments of the economy are recording healthy upswings, the exports have declined by 12.2 per cent during the April-February period of 2020-21. February has recorded a meagre rise of 0.67 per cent after 6.2 per cent and 0.1 per cent growth in the preceding months, showing that the economic recovery is far more fragile than envisaged earlier. Even more worrying is the fact that the two biggest areas, petroleum products and gems and jewellery, have fallen by 20 per cent and 11 per cent, respectively. There may be some reason to cheer as exports of pharma products have risen by 16 per cent, but this is not enough to stem the decline in other sectors.Even before the pandemic, exports were lagging. There have been enough excuses in the past to explain the slow growth, including global recessionary trends. Right now, one can blame the pandemic. There is also tendency for a hosanna-like approach whenever a few products like the PPE kits or ventilators enter the world markets. The old cliché that one swallow does not make a summer applies well to this kind of approach. Export growth needs to rise consistently, rather than sporadically. Otherwise, India has little hope of becoming an international economic power. Trade has been the key for the rise of economic superpowers like China as well as the tiger economies of Southeast Asia. India, on the other hand, has not paid enough attention to exports. As a result, the sector has faced roadblocks like red-tape and a failure to outline a long-term approach, especially in agro and commodity exports.Solutions to the export imbroglio are numerous. First, import of inputs for export-oriented industries needs to be made easier. Recently, for instance, it was found that anti-dumping duties were being levied on inputs for manufactured goods, which in turn, led to higher costs for domestic producers. It also affected export industries. India is currently the world’s biggest user of anti-dumping duties, on the grounds that cheap imports, especially from China, are hurting local industries. This issue now seems to have been flagged by the Niti Aayog which could lead to a slowdown in the rapid imposition of anti-dumping levies.Another major problem has been the withdrawal of concessions giving relief on input taxes. Many concessions are no longer compatible with the World Trade Organisation’s regulations. A new export subsidy to replace these was launched nearly three months ago, but in true bureaucratic style, is yet to be implemented. The Remission of Duties and Taxes on Export Products (RoDTEP) gives tax relief on production inputs like electricity, diesel, panchayat and stamp duties. The new subsidy was introduced on January 1 this year, but rates have yet to be notified. The result is that exporters cannot factor it into prices and thus goods continue to be uncompetitive in overseas markets.A second area which needs a fresh look is the continuing rise of import tariffs in recent years. On the grounds of trying to make the country Aatmanirbhar (self-sufficient), import duties on raw materials and finished products available within the country are being hiked. This goes counter to the entire process of dismantling import controls and reducing tariffs that had begun with the 1991 economic reforms. Domestic industry needs to sharpen its competitive edge to face competition from imported goods. Otherwise, it can never succeed in world markets. Sheltering industry from global competition should only be a temporary feature in case some sectors need protection for a brief period. This lack of global competition has an impact on development of export industries as well.Besides, creating protectionist barriers invites similar reactions from trade partners. In the case of the US, the Trump administration may have complained unjustly about high tariffs in some areas like motorcycles, but customs duties here are undoubtedly higher. The unequal nature of the relationship is inevitable to some extent given that India remains a developing economy. At the same time, there has to be some quid pro quo in trade ties. For instance, the restoration of the long-standing concessional Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) on Indian exports to the US withdrawn by the earlier regime, is likely to hinge on greater access for American goods to this country’s markets.In this context, one must underscore the urgency of concluding free trade pacts with major trading partners like the US, the UK and the European Union. India currently is not part of any major regional grouping. It decided to keep out of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) on grounds of its own self-interest. But having taken this bold decision, it needs to rapidly enter into other FTAs that will give it the benefit of concessional tariffs in major markets. Negotiations with the European Union on an FTA have been taking an inordinately long time. These were launched in 2007 and then stalled since 2013 though a fresh dialogue finally began last month. The EU is India’s largest trading partner accounting for 11.1 per cent of total trade. While there is a feeling that the current anti-China sentiment may benefit India, the fact is that these trends only tend to be transitory. The negotiations need to be revived and finalised quickly in order to ensure the country is integrated into global and regional supply chains.As of now, India’s share of world trade is a meagre 1.7 per cent. This needs to be raised significantly in the years to come. The pandemic may be one reason for slowing exports, but these had fallen by 1.36 per cent even in 2019-20. A turnaround is definitely possible as exporters’ associations claim higher orders have already come in for processed food, pharmaceuticals, chemicals and electronics. But there has to be recognition within the government that exports are essential for reviving the economy. This has to be in tandem with a long-term vision for exports involving effective bilateral and regional trade pacts and cutting the red tape around export incentives. Otherwise, India will have to be content with playing a minor role on the world trade scene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/free-trade-agreements-can-give-exports-a-boost-227290
19-03-2021||---||Markets have failed to prop up farm incomes||It’s difficult to imagine. At a time when free markets are generally believed to provide farmers with a higher price, thereby enhancing farm incomes, the farm gate price for wheat in Canada happens to be much lower in 2017 than what it was 150 years back in 1867. This is not only true for Canada. Even in the US, as per media reports, farmers say the price they receive for wheat is much lower than what was prevalent at the time the four-year American Civil War ended in 1865.So what happened to markets? After all, wheat is a staple food and its demand, considering the population boom the world has witnessed in the past 150 years, has grown exponentially over the centuries. According to the UN Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO), wheat production forecast is pegged at 780 million tonnes in 2020-21, an increase of 7.5 million tonnes this year. Given the food insecurity the world is faced with, FAO considers the cereal production estimates (including that for wheat) to be positive.Now, before you wonder how this could be possible, given the fact that economic curriculum in colleges and universities teaches us that markets provide the rightful price, take a look at an analysis by the US National Farmer Unions (NFU) which explains how the continuously declining peanut prices since 1965 had pushed three out of four peanut farmers out of business in America, and that too, at a time when peanut consumption was on the rise. Defying the supply demand logic, the peanut prices slumped from $1 per pound in 1965 to less than $0.25 per pound in 2020, a drop of more than 75 per cent. And if you are still thinking it probably happened because of surplus production, a Washington Post report tells us how just three companies, controlling the entire peanut market, had actually fixed the purchase price. After a lawsuit filed by 12,000 peanut growers, these companies finally agreed to pay $103 million in compensation for deliberately keeping the prices low.Peanut is no exception. This kind of match-fixing has been going on for decades. Whether in America, Europe or India, what the farmers need to understand is that the match is already fixed. It is not without any reason that market prices, when adjusted for inflation, have remained frozen or have been on a decline over the years.Coming back to the issue of wheat prices, a Canadian author and critic, Darrin Qualman, has in an insightful series of blog posts, explained how the prices have been on a steep decline since 1867. Adjusted for inflation, the price of wheat per bushel (27 kg) was close to $30 in 1867. Like on a ski slope, the average price had continuously been on the downward slide ever since. With global emphasis shifting to agricultural exports in the mid-1980s, the prices began to slump further. In 2017, the wheat price collapsed to a little over $5 per bushel. The price a Canadian wheat farmer sold his wheat for in 2017 was less by $25 per bushel than what his great-grandfather sold it for150 years back.No wonder, while small farmers abandoned agriculture in large numbers, the average size of a Canadian farm has grown to 3,000 acres with the big farms several times larger. While the number of farmers declined drastically, the economic argument in support of market reforms claiming that farm incomes go up when the number of farmers recedes too has turned out to be untrue. America has lost more than 5 million farms in less than 100 years, and Australia has lost 25 per cent of its farms between 1980 and 2002. Economists will say this is a healthy development, and will make farming profitable. But surprisingly, the speed at which farmers across the globe have got out of agriculture hasn’t increased farm incomes, but on the contrary, it has only worsened the agrarian crisis.This is the same flawed argument that Niti Aayog too is promoting, saying that farm incomes will double when the number of people on the farm comes down. If this be true, I don’t understand why in Canada, for instance, the farm debt should be exceeding $102 billion, more than double than what it was in 2000. In the US, where hardly 1.5 per cent of the population remains in agriculture, farm debt has multiplied to a staggering $425 billion in 2020. In France, with only 7 per cent workforce employed in agriculture, more than 44 per cent farmers carry a debt burden of 400,000 euros and 25 per cent farmers earn less than 350 euros per month, below the poverty line.While farmers have been denied the rightful price, the consumer prices have been on the rise. In another blog post, Qualman explains that while the price of a bushel of wheat in Canada and US has remained static since 1975, the retail price of 60 loaves of bread produced from each bushel in the US had increased by $50 on an average, from $25 in 1975 to a little over $75 in 2015. The same holds true for other food products as well. How can efficiency be only measured in terms of reducing farm gate prices whereas the food processing and retail giants continue to increase prices, walking away with a larger share of the end consumer price? If the markets were efficient, why the food processing and retail giants continue to thrive in inefficiency?There is nothing sacrosanct about markets. To believe that markets provide farmers with a higher price is an outdated economic thinking (and education). Markets have historically failed to prop up farm incomes anywhere in the world, a fact that economists failed to acknowledge. Demanding no trading to be allowed below the MSP, protesting farmers are actually seeking a historiccorrection in economic policy and thinking. This holds the future for a reverberating agriculture, and a new economic design that provides for Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/markets-have-failed-to-prop-up-farm-incomes-227289
19-03-2021||My younger daughter visits her aged parents almost every day in the evening. The other day she brought a young woman||Reaching out to the have-nots||How did my daughters connect with these girls? On inquiring, I learnt that Nina, now nearing 60, met a lady on a flight from Delhi to Mumbai. The lady mentioned her involvement in a project where more affluent women from established Delhi families volunteer to mentor daughters of domestic helps to help them rise above their present status in life. By interacting with the more sophisticated, the young girls acquire confidence to compete for employment in sectors where their parents could not think of entering. The fathers of the girls were either driving the cars of the rich or were doing odd jobs to make a living. Their mothers were cooks or maids.Ana, my elder daughter, mentors a young Muslim girl studying in Junior College. Nina’s charge is a Maharashtrian from the Konkan region staying in the Mumbai suburb of Santa Cruz. She is to appear for the high school certificate this April. The organisation that placed these two ‘mentees’ with my daughters is better known in Delhi, where it has been operating for nearly three decades. It is known as Udayan Care. In 2016, it expanded its activities to Mumbai.One of the girls it nursed in Delhi was sent to the UK by the foundation and emerged as a qualified Doctor of Philosophy in Science. She landed a job in England, but chose to return home to participate in the foundation’s work, including teaching science to those who, like her, were disadvantaged.I have seen the same commitment in the girls living in a slum colony in Santa Cruz, close to a pharmaceutical factory belonging to the USV Company, founded by a former MP, Dr Vithal Balkrishna Gandhi, an alumnus of Wilson College in Mumbai. In memory of Dr Gandhi’s wife, Dr Sushila Gandhi, the first woman doctor in their Maharashtrian community, the couple’s granddaughter, Lena Gandhi Tewari, who now chairs the pharmaceutical company, has adopted the girls from the adjoining slum and transformed them into young women of promise. I met Lena at my IPS batchmate Soman’s house. Her work interested me. People working for other humans always appeal.Lena began her mission of uplifting the overwhelmingly Marathi-speaking children of the slum dwellers living around her factory premises much before the CSR rules chipped in. Dance, and later drama classes, attracted the interest of the children. Once attendance was assured she added spoken English and maths to the subjects taught. She herself helped in the English classes and her husband, Prashant, the MD of the company, taught maths. Lena knows all the girls, past, and present, by name! One of the first girls in her class who graduated and then acquired a MBA, landed a good job in the Taj Group of Hotels in the HR department. For a decade now, we have attended every annual day event organised by Lena and her team to mark the progress of her wards.I know of another lady, a Muslim, who spends a tidy fortune and considerable amounts of energy to improve the lot of young Muslim girls orphaned or in distress. Mumtaz ‘Mimi’ Batliwala hails from the well-to-do Botawala family, which owned prime land in front of the Mahim creek in Mumbai. Mimi and her sister, Shaneem, have turned their family property into an orphanage where 50 or more girls are housed, fed, sent to municipal schools every day in its own bus.Mimi herself was a disciple of the great yogi, BKS Iyengar, who used to visit the orphanage whenever Mimi invited him for her yearly event. Yoga still is an essential ingredient of the evening programme.The personal attention Shameen and Mimi have paid to the smooth and disciplined running of the institution prompts their numerous friends to render help whenever they are troubled by neighbours, petty government and municipal officials or Wakf Board members.In Mumbai, it is not too difficult to find women and men who care for others, especially the dispossessed. But I was happy to know that in Delhi also, where the culture is different, a woman pursued her quest to ameliorate the lot of the daughters of domestic helps. Kiran Modi started Udayan Care to help women in distress 27 years ago in Delhi. It has spread its wings and its message to 20-odd centres across India. In 2016, it extended its activities to Mumbai. Today, it has 130 volunteers in the city and in the adjoining city of Thane. ‘Udayan Shalini’ is the Udayan Care’s activity that has made a difference to the lives of young girls whose parents do odd jobs. Pooja Mehra shifted to Mumbai from Delhi in 2003 and is in charge of the project here. This programme has already touched the lives of 9,600 girls since 2003. Panchkula and Kurukshetra are two centres where the NGO has been active.As more and more of the haves come forward to lift the have-nots from their positions at the bottom of the social ladder, the ladies who live in the high-rises of smart and not-so-smart Indian cities will be compelled to do their own scrubbing of pots and pans, sweeping and swabbing the floors, cooking their own food and putting the washing out to dry! They do this in the West. We will find ways to adjust, like the Americans and the Europeans have. A start was made during the Covid lockdown when domestic helps were prohibited from entering gated communities.The lockdown regulations are now relaxed. Yet, some intrepid ladies I know continue to huff and puff!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/reaching-out-to-the-have-nots-227288
