20-03-2021||---||Lack of hands-on approach hurting Congress||The Congress is contesting the Assembly polls in four states and a UT with a ‘piecemeal’ and ad hoc survival strategy, taking the grand old party from one crisis to the next.On May 2, 2021, if the Congress fails to dislodge Sarbananda Sonowal in Assam or Pinarayi Vijayan in Kerala, Rahul Gandhi’s prospects of leading a united Congress or returning as the 87th president of the AICC will take a nosedive.A group of Congress dissenters, known as G-23, is waiting for a poll debacle. Veteran Sharad Pawar has already started floating the trial balloon of a ‘third front’. Pawar’s NCP is a part of the ruling alliance in Maharashtra with the Shiv Sena and the Congress, but the NCP is backing the Left in Kerala and Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress in West Bengal. Pawar claims to be in talks with different regional political parties over the formation of a ‘third front’ whose objective is to isolate the Congress and take on the Narendra Modi-led BJP-NDA. Pawar has been a daydreamer whose ambition to become the prime minister or leader of the Congress has been in the spirit of Frank Herbert’s observation that often ambitions tend to remain undisturbed by realities.Rahul Gandhi has spent far too many hours in Kerala, where most opinion poll surveys have given the ruling LDF an edge over the Congress-led UDF.A worried party leadership is now eyeing Assam as a ‘face-saver’. The Congress is relying heavily on perfume baron Badruddin Ajmal’s All-India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), which has a considerable influence on the Bengali-speaking Muslims of Assam.However, the Congress’ campaign in Assam is suffering as it does not have a chief ministerial candidate. In fact, in all poll-bound states, the Congress is going without a ‘chehra’ (face), though in Kerala, it is widely assumed that in the event of an electoral success, Oommen Chandy would return as the chief minister. However, K Muraleedharan’s nomination from the prestigious Nemom Assembly seat has generated a lot of interest. Muraleedharan is the son of former Congress Chief MinisterKannoth Karunakaran and the sitting MP from Vadakara.The Congress’ Puducherry story is bizarre. Puducherry may be a tiny UT of 30 Assembly seats, but it was considered ‘safe’ until a month ago when Chief Minister V Narayanasamy lost majority on the floor of the House. As if the February 22 setback was not enough, the Congress denied the former chief minister a ticket to contest the Assembly polls. In fact, the seat went to ally DMK’s quota.Sitting 2,370 km away, the political developments in Puducherry have caused huge resentment at New Delhi’s 24, Akbar Road, the AICC headquarters. Leaders, who do not wish to be named, wonder why Narayanasamy was allowed to continue in office if he was not going to be fielded or lead the party from the front.Narayanasamy’s in-house bete noire A Namassivayam had left the Congress in February, setting in motion a spate of resignations that led to the fall of the Narayanasamy government in Puducherry.Apparently, Puducherry had not been a priority for the Gandhis — Rahul and Sonia — who, until November 2020, had relied heavily on Ahmed Patel to look into the political management of UTs like Puducherry. In Patel’s death, Narayanasamy lost his mentor and influential contact in the party’s Delhi durbar.There are reports that Rahul Gandhi not only got deeply upset with Narayanasamy’s inability to keep his flock together but also his failure to translate a fisherwoman’s complaint accurately. When Rahul was interacting with the fishermen’s community at Nellithope, a woman reportedly had complained to Rahul how the Chief Minister had not come to them during the cyclone. When Rahul turned to the chief minister to know what the middle-aged woman had spoken in Tamil, Narayanasamy is said to have played with words to absolve himself of any laxity, turning the complaint into praise.The Gandhis’ lack of a hands-on approach is hurting the Congress. Party leaders point out that Capt Amarinder Singh, Bhupesh Baghel and Ashok Gehlot seem to be doing a good job in the party-ruled states (Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan, respectively), where they have been projected as credible regional satraps.After the current round of Assembly polls, the Congress will face elections in six more states: Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat. Except for Punjab, the party lacks a face or a cogent political strategy in these states.Eyebrows have also been raised over Rahul’s penchant to shoot long video interviews with academics which bring little or nothing for the poll campaign. Congress leaders say Rahul’s election campaign period should have been carefully utilised in the form of interviews with popular TV news channels and leading newspapers of the eastern and southern states. The complaint against Rahul’s philosophical vagaries is that he has not been making significant political points which can provide a last-minute fillip to the Congress’ prospects in Kerala, Assam and Puducherry.On May 2, the alliance’s potential success in Tamil Nadu would not suffice as it would be more of a DMK victory than that of the Congress. Ditto in West Bengal, unless a surprise — a hung House — makes the Congress-Left alliance relevant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lack-of-hands-on-approach-hurting-congress-227764
20-03-2021||---||Pakistan’s changing idea of national security||These are stirring times in Islamabad, where the rich and the powerful gathered for the first-ever Islamabad Security Dialogue (ISD) on March 17-18. In Pakistan, the rich and the powerful are either politicians, businessmen or those in khaki, or even all three. And since it is they who run the country, what they say usually matters. The Dialogue was inaugurated by Prime Minister Imran Khan, while the keynote address was delivered by army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa. Of the two, it’s obvious who one would listen to. And it was quite something.The ISD was organised by the National Security Division, a body originally set up under Nawaz Sharif to serve as the secretariat of the Cabinet Committee on National Security which replaced the Defence Committee of the Cabinet. Later called the National Security Committee, it was notified as the ‘principal decision-making body on national security’ in a move quite unlike the advisory role such bodies have in most countries. That it included the service chiefs hardly needs to be said.At present, the division is headed by a secretary-level officer. An added post in national security bureaucracy is in the form of a special adviser to the PM, Moeed Yusuf, an academic from the US, who has been in the news for possible backchannel talks with India.It is this division which seems to have initiated the ISD, together with five leading think-tanks of the country, the Centre for Aerospace and Security Studies, Islamabad Policy Research Institute, Institute of Strategic Studies, Institute of Regional Studies and National Defence University's Institute of Strategic Studies, Research and Analysis.The idea is aimed at bringing think-tanks and policy-makers together, in a praiseworthy effort to benefit both. Bureaucracies the world over are not very different from each other, particularly in South Asia, where there is usually a solid brick wall between the two. The first move to break that wall is the first ever advisory portal, an integrated platform to exchange ideas with universities, think-tanks and the bureaucracies. The second was obviously to get the army chief to lay down the proposals.For decades, Pakistan’s idea of national security was simply India, and anything at all to do with what Delhi did anywhere. This permeated from top to bottom in the bureaucracy, leading to a somewhat lazy and hazy thinking about what Pakistan’s actual security constituted, even while outside experts pointed to a seriously water-stressed country, disease, lack of access to health, apart from the obviously unstable politics of extremism and intolerance.This now seems to be changing, just a little. It started at the beginning of this year. In February, there was talk of Pakistan prioritising geo-economics over other issues. That was echoed by Foreign Minister Qureshi soon after Khan’s visit to Colombo where he rather surprisingly talked about Sri Lanka being part of CPEC. Now at the ISD, PM Khan is talking of comprehensive security astonishingly, saying that security is not just about defence. Unsurprisingly, he praised China’s model, as he does at every forum available. Equally unsurprisingly, Kashmir and self-determination went together, which doesn’t say very much of his understanding of his country’s national security priorities.But the speech that has been uploaded in full is that of the army chief. And General Bajwa has much to say. First, he says national security is not the preserve of the armed forces alone. Then he places national security within ‘South Asia’, as the least integrated of regions. Someone in the audience could ask, whose fault that is, and the chief would have been hard put to answer. On Kashmir, he simply says, “It is time to bury the past and move forward. But for the resumption of the peace process or meaningful dialogue, our neighbour will have to create a conducive environment, particularly in Indian-Occupied Kashmir.” Nothing on UN resolutions, self-determination or the standard phrases!If that’s not astonishing enough, there is the offer of regional connectivity. That’s not just about China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), though that is offered up as an ‘inclusive, transparent’ project for global and regional participation, particularly Afghanistan. What follows is best quoted in full. The General says, “Let me also emphasise that while CPEC remains central to our vision, only seeing Pakistan through the CPEC prism is also misleading. Our immensely vital geostrategic location and a transformed vision make us a country of immense and diverse potential which can very positively contribute to regional development and prosperity.”In simple words, he’s offering up Pakistan as a node for regional connectivity. That’s something for a country that has stonewalled the SAARC regional connectivity proposals for years, refusing even the Motor Vehicles Pact that would have allowed passenger and cargo movement across the region. This means that Pakistan is ready for roads, railways and shipping to cross its territory into the rest of the world, including India. That’s turning South Asian politics on its head.New Delhi’s hardened security experts will pooh-pooh a proposal from an army chief who is on extension, and will probably retire finally in November 2023, three years after he actually ended his tenure. Others will say with more truth that Pakistan is in a jam, given its crumbling economy, CPEC delays and a political milieu that is challenging to say the least. But the army chief is still the ‘go-to’ person for all foreign officials, distinguished or otherwise. What he says matters since he sits on top of the political food chain. It is as simple as that. Delhi had better consider this connectivity push and its pros and cons rather than dither about Bajwa’s hostile antecedents. Here is an opportunity. Take it up. It might mean money, and a lot of it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/pakistans-changing-idea-of-national-security-227726
20-03-2021||---||Economy and second wave||Just when it looked like India had won its battle with Covid, it is back. If you look at our graph, new daily cases peaked in the middle of September, then there was a small bump during the festival season, after which there was a steady decline. Fresh daily cases dropped to around 10,000 in mid-February, but since then it has been rising every day. And now, even states like Delhi, which had announced that the pandemic is all but over, are faced with an explosion in positive cases.We should vaccinate people who are most likely to go out to work — the 24-60 age group — first. This will ensure that normal economic activities can resume quickly.What does this mean for India’s economy? Can we afford another series of lockdowns and disruptions? Clearly not. India’s economic performance has been the worst amongst larger economies. This was mostly because of the extended lockdowns we faced. However, we were already doing badly before Covid hit us. This made it even more difficult for India to cope with the pandemic-induced global recession.The only country whose economy has grown in 2020 is China, ground zero of the pandemic. In fact, China’s ‘official’ Covid numbers have been more or less static since April 2020. And since then, it has recorded only six additional deaths from the disease. Experts attribute this to China’s authoritarian and highly centralised welfarism. If a decision is taken at the top of the Chinese central government, it reaches a citizen’s home within a very short time.How did China react to a small increase in cases that were reported from Hebei province in January this year? It built 1,300 prefabricated quarantine centres in record time to house new cases and isolate them from the general population. People were moved to quarantine centres within 12 hours of a positive test, and everyone they had contact with were also put under strict isolation. The crucial point here is that the action was taken preemptively and it moved at breakneck speed. For instance, as the New York Times reported, the day the decision was taken to build isolation centres at Hebei, the contract, plans and the materials were all put in place within a matter of hours.A mega-machine like the Chinese state can probably only work within an authoritarian framework, but surely democracies can learn from the Chinese experience and adapt systems that can work for us? There are several things that India can do without affecting our rights-based freedoms. The first is to create state-wise databases of the 11 million people who got Covid but have recovered since then. They should be tested to see whether they have antibodies currently. Even though they are at a risk of reinfection, the likelihood is lower. Once the database is ready – and it has to be done on an emergency footing – the next stage is to see what kind of work they can do. It could range from hard physical labour to low-intensity desk jobs. These people could form India’s ‘Covid-warrior workforce’.The objective should be to reorient most of economic activity to creating a welfare infrastructure for India. For starters, it should be aimed at building hospitals and clinics in small towns and villages. The government needs to fund this, even if it is partly executed by the private sector. Medical startups, especially those that work in AI-based diagnoses and treatment, need to be brought together and given contracts to create networks of semi-trained medical professionals. These people, who are currently the first line of defence for the majority of Indians living in small towns and villages, need to be given 24-hour online training and support to be able to diagnose and treat people in their neighbourhood.The second important focus point should be schools. The government needs to spend big money on building schools that can support both physical and online education. This will also mean increased spending on creating a free broadband infrastructure for the poor. Money needs to be spent on buying devices in bulk and distributing it to economically weaker families so that their children can attend online schools without having to pay for them.Large-scale investments have to be made in public transport. All auto manufacturing companies need to be brought on a single platform to produce for a centralised public transport plan. Capacities need to be installed overnight, like China has done, to produce vehicles that suit the new requirements. This means coordination between auto companies, components manufacturers, equipment suppliers, capital goods companies, banks and other financial institutions and the various relevant ministries at the Centre and in states.Industries which can successfully implement social distancing should continue to operate. However, norms for symptom monitoring and contact tracing have to be made more stringent and have to be implemented strictly. Since this will mean higher operating costs for companies, they need to be given employment and production-linked financial support. Most importantly, the government needs to provide free periodic testing for everyone who works in close proximity with others.Since localised lockdowns are inevitable, restaurants, caterers, cloud-kitchens and food apps need to be brought together under a single, but decentralised scheme to provide cheap and nutritious meals to people in their homes. This will again require large-scale government spending, where the government gives contracts to private players and monitors them to ensure corruption and leakages are minimised.Of course, the most important of all is vaccination. We need to vaccinate people at a much faster rate than we are doing right now. In fact, some argue that our vaccination priorities are not suited for a country like India. We should vaccinate people who are most likely to go out to work, which means vaccinating people within the 24-60 age group first. This will ensure that normal economic activities can resume quickly.The government has to bite the bullet and raise taxes on the super-rich and increase public borrowing. It is all very well to worry about leaving large debt for future generations. If we don’t do it, there might be no future generation to speak about.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/economy-and-second-wave-227714
