21-03-2021||IT’s been a long time since I gave up being a university teacher but my interest in and respect for academia remains. These days I feel concerned at what is happening on campuses across India and wonder where state interference and a cynical dismantling of academic autonomy will lead us. We all seem to have forgotten that university campuses have always buzzed with student activity and radical thinking||Of moral illiteracy||In those days, university authorities took a more benign view of student activities. At worst, the university was closed sine die until tempers subsided or matters were resolved between student leaders and the authorities, without calling in the police and marching us off to jail. It was accepted that young men and women would react emotionally to issues close to their hearts so the administration would allow us our space. Over time, all this changed radically. In the ’60s itself, Delhi University and Calcutta’s Presidency College were in the forefront of the Naxal movement, spearheaded by the Left parties. Several brilliant students went underground only to realise soon enough that the high-minded support for the peasants of the Naxalbari area degenerated into something else. In a certain sense, Bengal never recovered from that dark time when factories were shut down, rich landlords and industrialists were targeted and often brutally killed. Predictably, the state swung into action and hundreds of students lost their lives or disappeared from the streets, never to be seen again. The famous Presidency College was depleted of its best and brightest students as anxious parents sent their wards to colleges elsewhere to protect them. A flourishing economy was reduced to a state it has never been able to recover from.Few students now remember that time and the harm it did to West Bengal. The flight of a generation of bright young men and women, the lumpenisation of politics and the imposition of Bengali as the medium of instruction in state schools had long-term consequences that are emerging now as the election there draws nearer. It is ironic that while most well-known universities abroad have outstanding Indian academics (many of them Bengalis), our own country is rapidly being depleted of the few noble teachers who have opted to teach here. The witch-hunting of those who write critical articles or teach radical theories is like a déjà vu of what was done by misguided state apparatchiks in times past. In any case, we have somehow mastered the art of reducing schools and universities to teaching shops but now, even teachers are being targeted.Ashoka University had emerged as a beacon of excellence in the last few years, largely due to the open, liberal atmosphere it promoted. Its faculty members were the best to be found anywhere in India. Added to that was the welcome return of the liberal arts into the mainstream of academic life. No longer were bright students going to cram shops to clear the IIT entrance or competitive exams for medical colleges. Opening up their minds and eyes to the great need for a social awakening among youth was encouraging philanthropists to set up great new universities that encouraged them to read political science, philosophy and sociology. This is why the abrupt departure of two highly regarded faculty members from Ashoka in a couple of days has shaken all those who looked forward to a new chapter in India’s higher education.After the downgrading of iconic institutions such as Jamia and JNU, it was being hoped that these brave new campuses — free of government grants and bullying — would birth a new generation of students who went to universities to learn to become better citizens. After this new development, one is almost afraid of what lies in store for similar campuses across the country.There are stirrings of protest both among the student bodies and progressive circles in India. However, this determined hounding of those who think differently and try to teach an alternative truth is now so feared that it may not become the pressure point on the government that it promises. I hope I am proved wrong.As a one-time teacher, I pray that better sense prevails and that we do not descend into the abyss of moral illiteracy, unable to distinguish between what is right and what is dangerous for our fragile democracy. Vocational education has its own place but the greatest civilisations were nurtured by an education that provided them the right values and ethical perspectives. Those who destroy education are mankind’s worst enemies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/of-moral-illiteracy-228159
21-03-2021||Reservation is a bad idea. It goes against the cardinal democratic principle of equality. There are||Why Haryana’s move on reservation is fraught with danger||The second major exception lies here in our country. It relates to the section of the population once referred to as ‘Untouchables’. Mahatma Gandhi called them ‘Harijans’ (children of God), an appellation which was later discarded as being too patronising. ‘Dalit’ was preferred, though in the Constitution, they are designated as Scheduled Castes. They were given reservation in government jobs, admission to educational institutions, etc. The principle of equality was shelved temporarily, the argument being that time was needed for them to catch up. However, what was intended to be temporary has become firmly entrenched, unlike in the US. The pernicious vote-bank politics has exerted a heavy price.Worse, our short-sighted politicians have extended the reservation policy to Other Backward Classes. We now have a situation where in some states close to half the population is considered ‘backward’ for electoral purposes, a perversion of the initial policy of reservation. The Haryana government has just gone one dangerous step further. In November, it passed the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020. On March 2, the Governor dutifully gave his assent. Basically, it requires all private firms to reserve 75 per cent of new jobs, with a gross monthly salary of up to Rs 50,000, for candidates who have either lived in the state for 15 years or who were born there. The only entities excluded are the Central and state governments.The brazenness of the Haryana government is breathtaking. The legislation flouts the Constitution. Article 16 guarantees equal opportunity, while Article 19 allows citizens to move freely within the country, settle in any part, and take up any lawful profession. Article 15 prohibits discrimination on grounds of caste, sex or place of birth. The only exception is the disadvantaged sections like Dalits. However, that has nothing to do with where a person lives.What will be the consequences of the Haryana Act on the ground? Let us take just one instance: Gurugram, which attracts ambitious and talented youngsters from all over India and abroad. The ‘millennium city’ boasts of the presence of IT giants, which are now bound to have second thoughts about staying in Gurugram and could consider moving out to an economically healthier and more welcoming place. Fresh investment will also dry up.But Haryana is not alone in following such a myopic, ruinous policy. The late Shiv Sena founder and father of the present Maharashtra Chief Minister, Bal Thackeray, who publicly declared his admiration for Adolf Hitler, set the ‘locals only’ policy rolling a long time ago, except that he did it not by legislation but by fear and unbridled violence. MK Stalin, who heads the DMK, in alliance with the Congress, has stated in his party’s manifesto that if his party was voted to power, 75 per cent of jobs in the state’s industrial units would go to locals. The Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka Chief Ministers have said much the same thing.Before more states take up the cue, the courts need to step in fast. What is at stake is nothing less than the economic future of the country, as well as its unity. The reservation of jobs for locals will scare away foreign investment and Balkanise us. Is that what the likes of the Haryana Chief Minister really want? Indeed, is that what the BJP and the Congress, who are complicit, also want? There is so much talk about the “tukde tukde gang”. The real leaders of this gang are those who put narrow political gains before the larger interests of the nation.— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-haryanas-move-on-reservation-is-fraught-with-danger-228130
21-03-2021||The years 2001-02 saw the infiltration of militants from across the Line of Control into Jammu and Kashmir at its peak. On receipt of Intelligence inputs about a recently infiltrated group||‘Jai Hind Sahib’ still resonates loud & clear||Both the soldiers had lost a lot of blood and it was imperative that they be evacuated at the earliest. Due to bad weather and visibility conditions that normally prevail in the higher altitudes, flying by helicopters is normally not permitted after mid-day. It was already past 4 pm. Despite the weather beginning to pack up, the aviation boys had taken off and were on the way. Come rain, snow or bad weather, these pilots have always shown tremendous grit, taken risk, at times bent rules and found a way to save lives and evacuate casualties in the most difficult of terrain and circumstances.On arrival of the helicopter, another crisis seemed to be brewing as I noticed some discussions taking place between the doctor and the pilot. The Cheetah helicopter that had come could take only one patient lying down, or two in a sitting position. Both these injured boys were ‘lying down’ patients and both were refusing to leave each other behind. Asking for another chopper at that juncture was not possible due to the fading light and weather conditions. Time was critical, so I spoke to the boys, the doctor and the pilot. It was then decided that the boy with the stomach injury be taken lying down while the other with the neck injury could sit with the feet of the lying patient in his lap. The doctor, accordingly, strapped his neck further to give it additional support to keep it stable during the flight.Once loaded, I went up to these boys, shook their hands and complimented them for a job well done. I also assured them that they were in good hands, the doctors at the Military Hospital at Rajouri were waiting for them and they would be fine. I also promised to come down to the MH to look them up after a couple of days. As I moved away from the helicopter for the pilots to close the door, I heard a feeble “Jai Hind Sahib” from both these boys, as they saluted even in their painful condition. Let’s salute their fortitude, camaraderie and love for the nation, which undoubtedly has no match in this world.It was indeed a privilege and honour to command such troops for over 34 years of service in the Indian Army. The next day, both the boys had to be further evacuated to the Command Hospital due to the criticality of their injuries. They did recover after a couple of months and were sent on sick leave, as we kept a tab on their progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/jai-hind-sahib-still-resonates-loud-clear-228123
21-03-2021||LE CORBUSIER described architecture as frozen music. Extending the musical metaphor — if his own work was Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony||Pierre Jeanneret, the other maker of Chandigarh||Their individual personalities, too, reflected contrasts. Le Corbusier, tall, imposing and gaunt, was always seen with a formal bow tie and his hallmark thick, round black glasses; while Jeanneret, a gentle father figure to the young Indian team, was mostly attired in casual baggy bush shirts.However, in Chandigarh’s creation, the two worked in unison. While Le Corbusier evolved the city’s layout plan and designed its piece de resistance, the Capitol Complex, the bulk of everyday civic and public functions was left to Jeanneret to flesh out.Corbusier’s ensemble of sculptural, powerful compositions in raw concrete edifices of the Assembly, Secretariat and High Court, interspersed with enigmatic ‘monuments’, is just 2 km away from the low-cost housing designed by Jeanneret in Sector 22. The visual axis of Jan Marg ‘Boulevard Ceremonial’ connecting the two, defines the architectural spectrum of Chandigarh, created by the two masters.In fact, when the duo of PN Thapar and PL Varma of the Punjab Government toured Europe during the early 1950s in search of a suitable architect for the ambitious and somewhat audacious Chandigarh Project, they were unable to convince Corbusier to agree. He would not agree unless they took on Jeanneret, his trusted and competent cousin, as his team member.While Corbusier was taken in as the overall plenipotentiary architectural adviser, Jeanneret was the in-residence senior architect to head the team of Maxwell Fry, Jane Drew and the Indian associates. He was permanently stationed in Chandigarh, while Corbusier was mandated to spend two months in a year in summer and winter spells. The large volume of the new capital city’s residences and public works like schools, colleges, and institutional buildings were done by Pierre Jeanneret and the team.Arnold-André-Pierre Jeanneret-Gris was born on March 22, 1896, at Geneva, not far from his older cousin Le Corbusier’s birthplace in the Jura mountains of Switzerland. As a young student, Pierre was a brilliant painter, artist and architect, greatly influenced by his cousin Charles-Édouard Jeanneret (Le Corbusier). From 1922 until 1940, Corbusier and Jeanneret worked together in partnership in their studio in Paris. But World War II took them away on their own individual paths, only to come together again at Chandigarh.As a prolific designer, Jeanneret evolved a unique architectural vocabulary — now called the Chandigarh style — for government housing and some private residences. However, it was not an easy task considering the limitations of budget, floor space, technology and skilled manpower.The predominant use of exposed brick, small windows and absence of features of a typical Indian house like verandahs and central courtyards were not due to his lack of understanding of the local conditions, but were a financial necessity. Despite these constraints, Jeanneret created all kinds of houses — from the Chief Minister’s to the smallest house of a peon — that would offer a dignified and aesthetic dwelling. The unique aesthetics of Jeanneret’s residential architecture is based on a play of exposed brickwork, plastered surfaces and sometimes stone panels. Brick jaalis served as ornamental and functional elements that afforded privacy to terraces and verandahs while allowing ventilation.His creative repertoire was not only limited to these dwellings. Panjab University is his tour de force. He designed landmark buildings like Gandhi Bhawan, Fine Arts Museum, University Library and the Student Centre. The diverse buildings are tied together by the use of red sandstone. The highly sculptural yet elegant Gandhi Bhawan symbolises the purity and simplicity of a lotus placed in an organic-shaped reflecting pool.In the architects’ office for the project that had moved from Simla to the capital’s site (conserved as Le Corbusier Centre), Jeanneret skilfully combined features of low-cost architecture and climate-responsive design to create a comfortable work environment. He whole-heartedly embraced India, its culture and its people. He made extensive trips to surrounding villages to understand the local context, climate, materials and most importantly, the people.Along with the celebration of the humble earthy brick, this ‘god of small things’ gave us numerous decorative details, paddle boats, manhole covers and murals — besides his hallmark Chandigarh furniture! The astoundingly huge prices that the heritage furniture currently commands in the international markets is perhaps a belated realisation of the genius embedded in these simple but elegant wood and cane artefacts, created by the thousands then for everyday use.Jeanneret had a deep attachment with Chandigarh. When he died on December 4, 1967, it was his wish that his ashes be immersed in the Sukhna.The city, too, hasn’t forgotten his legacy, as the Chandigarh Administration has dedicated a museum to his contributions, on display at house number 57 of Sector 5. He had designed the house himself and lived there for almost 11 years. It displays details of his work such as the fireplace finished in exposed brick, elaborately designed ledges and niches, unique light fixtures, innovative handrail of the sculptural spiral staircase. Inaugurated on March 22, 2017, it showcases Jeanneret’s works though sepia-tinted photographs, besides rare personal pictures and communications. It also displays a replica of the iconic paddle boat designed by Jeanneret used in the early days of Sukhna’s boat club.— Wattas is former principal of Chandigarh College of Architecture & Gandhi is Director, Le Corbusier Centre, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/pierre-jeanneret-the-other-maker-of-chandigarh-228121
