22-03-2021||---||Let’s ensure central role for women in the police||In India, most people view the police as a male preserve. On the occasion of the golden jubilee of the statehood of Himachal Pradesh, we decided to revisit the contribution of our female personnel in the state police. It is also a happenstance that the induction of women in the state police in 1973 is nearing 50 years, when we made a modest beginning by recruiting three lady constables on compassionate grounds.In 1975, the first regular batch of 28 lady constable recruits was inducted and since then, our women personnel have gone on to become an integral part of our police force with a strength of 15 IPS officers, eight HPS officers and 2,352 non-gazetted officers.Though the absolute number of women in the police has increased, there are challenges galore in the form of lack of women in leadership and cutting-edge positions, their marginal role in overall law enforcement, gender-specific issues, lack of infrastructure and dealing with stereotyping by their male colleagues.Since women constitute nearly 50 per cent of humanity, it is natural that they should be fairly represented in an organisation responsible for public security. Today, women account for 13 per cent of our total state police force. Himachal Pradesh is one of the seven states — the others being Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu and Uttarakhand — where the percentage of women cops is higher than 10. In 2009, the Union Home Ministry set a target of 33 per cent for women in the police force and Himachal Pradesh hopes to get there fast enough, if not be the first. The state already has 20 per cent reservation for women at the constable level.In his recent budget speech, the CM announced that direct recruitment of women would be increased to 25 per cent at the level of constables and sub-inspectors. Our intent goes beyond increasing their mere numbers to have women represented in leadership levels as well.A gender-diverse force is necessary to create a safe and secure environment for women and to achieve the larger national development goals. Women are more sensitive to the sufferings of others and have greater concern for the well-being of others. They often approach and solve problems from a different perspective than their male counterparts. It is widely recognised that women cops play a crucial role in responding to and preventing gender violence and crime against women and children. However, the challenge still remains to provide meaningful roles and equal opportunities to women police in the investigation of crime, law and order, traffic and patrolling duties.The role of women in the police has been steadily increasing, though at a slow pace. We acknowledge the hitherto unrecognised but steady contribution of our women police personnel, who apart from performing their professional obligations, have also been championing the cause of women’s empowerment, thereby gradually sowing the seeds of modernity and positive change in society. The induction of women and their increased representation in the force have not only helped women at large feel empowered, but also helped reduce crime against them, especially the ones committed on women who had come to accept them as their fate.They are required by law to be used for search and seizure from the person of women; they are expected to be used in law and order situations involving women. The IPC and the POCSO Act require women police officers to deal with victims of sexual assault, and even juvenile delinquents are expected to be better handled by women officers. The Covid crisis has witnessed the emergence of women cops as frontline warriors. In the face of Covid-induced uncertainties, confusion and chaos, our women have been a pillar of resolute strength.The increasing representation and contribution of women in the HP police have debunked the myth of their lack of physical or organisational capabilities.Secondly, it has also sent out a powerful message which has had a great impact on women’s empowerment. Thirdly, it is also a reminder of the fact that women are unduly pre-judged and stereotyped and that nothing could be further from the truth. Today, we are encouraging women to take up a central, rather than a marginal role in the police.Although women cops give their jobs total commitment, several of their gender-specific issues remain overlooked and neglected. Infrastructure development for women has not kept pace with the growth in their numbers in the police. They still do not have adequate toilet facilities for want of which some have been known to avoid drinking water before duty. Thus, it is not uncommon to find women cops on traffic duty spend their work hours without ever drinking water.An increasing number of women cops are moving ahead with their lives by getting married and having kids. However, there are no creches for them to leave their young children in when they go to work and as a result, some of them just lock their young kids in their homes when they report for duty. Then they require regular medical examinations on account of their special hygiene and menstruation needs. These challenges need to be addressed without loss of time to enable women to make an effective contribution.More often than not, women have to deal with bigotry, as most male colleagues tend to have a disparaging attitude towards them. Their abilities are doubted and they have to often put up with rude or supercilious behaviour or remarks. All of this needs to be addressed by better training and an attitudinal change. Training modules also follow the old male dominated versions and the need to develop gender-sensitive training cannot be overemphasised.The role of women in the police is set to increase and one is reminded of a saying by Victor Hugo, the famous French author, “No force on earth can stop an idea whose time has come.” The idea of women in the police has come and it is for the present police leadership to make this happen. To this end, we need to move away from tokenism and ensure women a central rather than a peripheral role in the police; a role that affords them the equality of opportunity, free from stereotypical gender bias. Otherwise, their numbers may increase but their role and impact will not.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lets-ensure-central-role-for-women-in-the-police-228681
22-03-2021||---||Himalayan blunders are ravaging ecology||The Himalaya and the Tibetan Plateau are under siege across Asia as never before, from governments and humans, from one end of the great mountain range to the other. Time and again, the mountain system thunders out its response, but governments either are hard of hearing or determined not to heed or understand its message.There are many examples of these lessons, from the Garhwal Himalaya, and moving eastward, in an arc, across Nepal, Bhutan and even in Tibet. From the west to the east, the stories are similar and have everything to do with the extractive nature of humans, involving bureaucratic, political and business lobbies. And there is a deep-rooted resistance to learn — even at the cost of massive loss of human life and damage to environment as well as to existing and proposed infrastructure.On February 7, a disastrous glacier event in the Himalaya sent a roaring, massive wall of rock, water and mud hurtling down the narrow valleys of Rishiganga district of Uttarakhand. The tectonic power of that water surge tore apart two hydropower projects, as if they were little more than flimsy cardboard boxes. The final death toll has not yet been announced, though 72 were reported killed and over 100 missing. And, unsurprisingly, at a time of high-decibel elections, this news has vanished from TV studios and the news media.The Ganga is often referred to as Ganga Maiya (Mother Ganges); the Ministry of Water Resources coined the slogan Aviral se nirmal Ganga (continuous Ganga is clean Ganga). Yet the Ganga is being devastated by these projects.It has been seen, whether in Sikkim or Uttarakhand, how road construction and dam projects hurl debris into rivers, choking their free flow and disrupting their nourishing capacity. Last September, during a visit beyond Rishikesh, where dust hangs in the air, the boom of dynamite and the shudder of falling rock were common. One saw debris pushed by excavators and bulldozers down slopes into the Ganga. They were clearing roads which had been damaged by rubble falling from fragile hillsides and caused by this very construction activity.There is a strategic aspect to the ambitious Char Dham project; the criticality of good roads to enable security forces to move to and fro from the border with China, especially in the light of the recent confrontation. Yet, moving in haste can create more problems as the recent Chamoli tragedy has underlined.The Himalaya and the Tibetan Plateau are regarded as the Third Pole. After the better-known poles, these are the custodians of the greatest volumes of frozen freshwater on earth. These are at risk due to massive construction, infrastructure boom and climate change.The Himalaya is a vast, delicate and interconnected web of environmental, geographic and social systems. The mountains are still growing as the Asian and Indian land masses grind against each other. The Tibetan Plateau and the Himalaya, though different, are umbilically connected to each other.It is no one’s argument that development is not needed. It is. But it needs to be understood that at a time of growing climate change, it can’t be business as usual. That the latest disaster comes eight years after the cataclysmic flood in 2013 which killed some 6,000 people shows that lessons have still not been learned.In 2014, a Central government committee report recommended that the Centre scrap at least 23 hydropower projects in Uttarakhand, especially in the highly vulnerable zones. It concluded that hydropower projects played a significant role in the 2013 floods and that there was an urgent need to improve the environmental governance of these projects.For this to happen, there needs to be a strong element of public consultation which has eroded over time. Before 2020, the Central government needed to conduct what was called an Environmental (and Social) Impact Assessment (ESIA). There was an added social dimension of dialogue with various stakeholder groups.Yet, this critical element of public inclusion is no longer there and undercuts the role of local communities who are custodians of knowledge and hold enormous experience, including a nuanced understanding of climate change. Their views matter for they are the real caretakers of the region. And they demonstrated this nearly 50 years ago with the famous Chipko movement led by women who stopped the cutting of their forests. It is about sustainability and carrying capacity by, as the environmentalist Sunita Narain says, “Keeping the river first and our needs next. Otherwise, the river will continue to teach us bitter lessons; it will be the revenge and rage of nature.”That is why it is important to ensure a minimum environmental flow (e-flow) that will enable the river to replenish itself and be self-sustaining. E-flow is the minimum volume of water that a river needs to ensure that aquatic species such as fish and dolphins can be sustained as well as the farms and communities which depend on it for irrigation, agriculture and fishing.In October 2018, the Centre enacted a law on e-flow which mandated the release of 20-30 per cent water from all major hydropower projects into the Ganga between Devprayag and Hardwar at different times. Experts say these levels are inadequate and an official review of different projects showed that most projects were not even meeting this minimum requirement.This underlines the well-accepted need to strike a balance between ‘growth’ and ecological sustainability. Over 300 dams are being built across the Himalaya, including in China. They pose a challenge to the future of these mountains which, according to Hindu belief, is the abode of Shiva.Hydroprojects mean that rivers are cleaned of their nutrients, critical for fish, dolphins and farmlands, and which are carried largely in soil and sediment in the water; otherwise, soil and stones would damage the power-generating turbines.On the Chinese side, the government there has announced a mega project on the Tsangpo-Brahmaputra, the lifeline of Assam and Bangladesh. This is to be located in the deep, daunting and mystical Namcha Barwa Gorge, a huge area of biodiversity.The Chinese dismissal of environmental and downstream concerns should bring India and Bangladesh on a common platform. For, China’s hand will control the quality (not just the quantity) of water that will flow downstream. Indeed, as security analyst Brahma Chellaney has predicted, water, access to it and its control represent the next frontier of potential confrontation.In all this across the Himalaya, the greatest casualty is the river — and rivers have no voice, except when they strike back.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/himalayan-blunders-are-ravaging-ecology-228679
22-03-2021||---||Anti-China clamour growing||The growing body of evidence about the horrendous treatment that China has meted out to its Muslim minorities, especially Uighurs, is now getting translated into a growing crescendo of labelling such activities as genocide.On January 19, the US State Department declared the wide-scale Chinese repression of Uighurs as genocide and crime against humanity. This could lead the US to impose more sanctions against China under the Biden administration. In late February, Canada became the second country in the world to describe China’s treatment of its Uighur minority as genocide. On February 25, the Dutch parliament passed a non-binding motion saying the treatment of the Uighur Muslim minority in China amounts to genocide, the first such move by a European country. Australian law-makers are also considering a motion to recognise China’s treatment of the Uighur Muslim minority as genocide.On March 10, the US Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) organised a Congressional hearing titled: ‘A Religious Minority Enslaved: Addressing the Complicity of US Companies in Uyghur Forced Labour’. During the hearing, the written remarks made by Senator Marco Rubio called for the world’s attention to the ongoing crimes against humanity and genocide against the Uighurs and other Muslim minorities in Xinjiang by the Chinese Communist Party. Another speaker believed that mass detention of Uighurs represented the largest-scale detention of an ethno-religious minority group since World War II. Another called the treatment of Uighurs the ‘stain of the century’.A report published on March 9 by Washington-based think tank Newlines Institute for Strategy and Policy provided an independent legal analysis of the applicability of the Genocide Convention to Chinese actions against the Uighurs. The group of experts in international law, war crimes and the Xinjiang region held that the Chinese authorities’ treatment of Uighurs met every criterion of genocide under the UN Genocide Convention. The totality of the Chinese actions amounted to an intent to destroy the Uighurs as a group, in whole or in part.The 2019 Report on International Religious Freedom of the USCIRF drew attention to the US government estimates that since April 2017, the Chinese government had arbitrarily detained more than one million Uighurs, ethnic Kazakhs, Hui, and members of other Muslim groups, as well as Uighur Christians. They were detained in internment camps in Xinjiang and subjected to forced disappearance, political indoctrination, torture, physical and psychological abuse, including forced sterilisation and sexual abuse, forced labour, and prolonged detention without trial because of their religion and ethnicity. There were credible reports of individuals dying as a result of injuries sustained during interrogations.What these reports document is how China has been aggressively suppressing Chinese Muslims, especially Uighurs, with a view to eradicate Muslim identity in China. Such measures included destruction of historic mosques and levelling of domes and minarets on mosques. According to the Australian Strategic Policy Institute, since 2017, 65 per cent of China’s mosques and 58 per cent of its important Islamic sites have been destroyed. According to Chinese Government statistics, there were over 35,000 mosques in the country.Other measures include criminalising Islamic praying in public; posting of officials to Muslim homes to keep a watch and rule out even private prayers; restricted access to mosques and barring the youth from participating in religious activities, including fasting during Ramadan; extensive and invasive security and surveillance, including forcing Uighurs to install spyware on their mobile phones, to gain information regarding their religious adherence and practices; preventing public calls to prayers and banning sales of the Quran; and prohibiting news broadcasts from showing images of pedestrians wearing skull-caps or veils. The international media has reported that the government continued to instruct officials to look out for 75 ‘signs’ that signified religious extremism. These included growing a beard, praying in public outside of mosques, wearing veils and headscarves, and abstaining from smoking or drinking alcohol.Interestingly, though China denies any atrocities, its own Sichuan University recently released a document titled ‘Public Opinion Crisis’, that confirms the demolition of about 10,000 iconic Islamic sites and structures in various parts of China.Taking a cue from the government’s systematic discrimination, anti-Muslim feelings have seeped into the majority Han population. Resultantly, anti-Muslim posts on social media have become widespread. One user on WeChat likened Muslims to ‘cancer cells’; new phrases like ‘green religion’ and ‘green threat’ theory had been invented to target Muslims. A report of the Sichuan University underlined that the use of the online social network to incite hatred against Islam and to alienate, ostracise and hate Muslim population had aroused enormous resentment and psychological trauma among Muslim masses in China and damaged China’s relations with Muslim countries around the world.Despite the mounting credible evidence of Chinese actions, the silence from Pakistan in general and Imran Khan in particular has been deafening. Imran Khan, who never misses an opportunity to rant about Islamophobia, has been studiously quiet on the Uighurs. Surely after his earlier surprising assertion that he knew nothing about the issue, he could have brought himself up to speed by now. Likewise, Special Adviser Moeed Yusuf, in his interview to an Indian platform last year, had asserted that Pakistan had ‘zero concerns, absolutely zero concerns’ about the Uighurs. It would be interesting to know what Imran Khan and Moeed Yusuf have to say about the evidence, including the report of Sichuan University.Interestingly, the USCIRF quotes a report from The Economist of 2018 that the authorities in Xinjiang used various criteria to rank citizens as ‘trustworthy’. One of these was not visiting any of the 26 ‘sensitive countries’. Lo and behold, Pakistan is among these ‘sensitive countries’, visiting which makes an Uighur ‘untrustworthy’. So much for the ‘all-weather’ friendship between Pakistan and China.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/anti-china-clamour-growing-228635
