23-03-2021||---||Rekindling the revolutionary spirit||90th death anniversary of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru & SukhdevTHIS incident dates back to 1898. The farmers in Vidarbha region were severely hit by a drought. When Sardar Kishan Singh came to know about this, he, along with Lala Bishambhar Sahay, Lala Shivram Vakil and other colleagues, reached Vidarbha. They had brought along foodgrains. Imagine the distance between Jalandhar in Punjab and Vidarbha region in Maharashtra, and that too nearly 125 years ago! However, Sardar Kishan Singh’s patriotism and his compassion for fellow farmers did not let him sit quiet. He did not merely distribute the relief material and return; he, in fact, took around 50 orphaned children from Vidarbha with him. These children were of the farmers who, unable to deal with their desperate situation, had committed suicide. Kishan Singh started an orphanage at Ferozepur for these children. At that time, Kishan Singh was just 20 years old. If you wonder who Sardar Kishan Singh was, well, he was the father of India’s great son Shaheed Bhagat Singh!Bhagat Singh was born in such a patriotic family. He grew up seeing the life of farmers and the common people. No wonder, bringing about a change in the life of ordinary farmers was his idea of revolutionary work. Today is the 90th anniversary of the martyrdom of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev. Unfortunately, the issues facing the farmers are just the same even today. One is pained to say that the dreams of the revolutionaries who made the supreme sacrifice for creating a new India are still unfulfilled.The current issue of the farmers is not limited to Punjab, Haryana and the Jat farmers of western Uttar Pradesh; farmers across India face similar issues. Today, the farmers have taken to the streets raising the slogan ‘Pagdi Sambhal Jatta’, but the slogan echoes the feelings of farmers over a century ago. In 1907, the British had passed three Acts regarding agriculture. Bhagat Singh’s paternal uncle Ajit Singh had raised his voice against them by mobilising the farmers of Punjab. He addressed public meetings all over Punjab and had even invited Lala Lajpat Rai, a veteran Congress leader, to these meetings. Lala Banke Dayal had quit his job to join the agitation. He read out the poem ‘Pagdi Sambhal Jatta’during this agitation. The poem had a description of the farmers’ issues and the injustice being meted out to them. The poem became the signature slogan of the agitation. It became so popular that the agitation itself came to be known by that name. The agitation grew so strong that the British government had to withdraw the Acts. Today, it is our own government. Yet, the agitation has been going on for the past almost four months. History is being repeated.During my meetings and discussions with Shaheed Bhagat Singh’s colleagues, Durga Bhabhi and Virendra ji, and his brother Kultar Singh, the topic as to why Bhagat Singh who had received the Arya Samaj doctrine and who belonged to a religious family, became an atheist, came up often. In this context, I was told about an incident when some of Bhagat Singh’s fellow revolutionaries talked about the help his family, Sardar Ajit Singh and Sardar Kishan Singh, extended to the countrymen affected by droughts, floods, earthquakes and other natural calamities. They especially praised the act of adopting orphaned farmer children from Vidarbha. Bhagat Singh had said then, “It was our duty but we need to bring about a change in the system so that no farmer or labourer is forced to commit suicide ever!” It is clear from his words that his journey towards atheism had begun with the farmers’ agitation in Punjab.Bhagat Singh asked himself some questions after witnessing the plight of farmers and the ordinary people. These questions led him to atheism. He asked himself, ‘If this world is created by the Almighty, why is it filled with destitution and sorrow?’ Next, he asked, ‘Why doesn’t He free the entire humanity and the workers from the slavery of capitalism?’ Bhagat Singh had unequivocally said that the real age of freedom would truly begin only when countless men and women came forward thinking about the farmers and ordinary people and when they would be thinking only about serving the mankind and nothing else.“The farmers and labourers are the most important elements of society; however, they are exploited the most by society. They are even deprived of their basic rights. The farmers who produce food for everyone are forced to die in hunger. Artisans who weave cloth for others cannot buy enough clothes for their own children. Those who build huge mansions do not have even a simple house to live in. On the other hand, the capitalists who exploit them live a comfortable life,” he said. These thoughts of Bhagat Singh clearly show that he was moved by the plight of farmers and the ordinary people.A couple of months before he was hanged, Bhagat Singh had written a letter, in which he had highlighted issues such as ‘End of landlord system’, ‘Loan waiver for the farmers’, ‘Nationalisation of lands in order to boost community farming’, ‘Home for everyone’, ‘Complete exemption to farmers from taxation’, ‘Nationalisation of industries’, ‘Education for everyone’, ‘Reduction in the working hours of the labourers’, etc. As a nation, we are still grappling with precisely the same issues.In this backdrop, the irony of the current farmers’ agitation in Delhi is worth noting. The agitators and the government both are using Bhagat Singh’s photos! Rekindling faith in the minds of hardworking farmers so that they can lead a life of dignity would be a true tribute to martyrs Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/rekindling-the-revolutionary-spirit-229078
23-03-2021||---||The supreme martyrs||90th death anniversary of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru & SukhdevBHAGAT Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev are regarded as supreme martyrs of the Indian freedom struggle. On the 90th anniversary of the trio’s martyrdom, Bhagat Singh continues to be in the spotlight, even as Rajguru and Sukhdev find less mention.Sukhdev was born on May 15, 1907, as per family records and on February 18, 1907, as per his school certificate mentioned date, in Naughara family house in a now crowded area of Ludhiana, although the family was living in Lyallpur where Bhagat Singh’s family also lived. Since Sukhdev’s father died early, he was brought up by his uncle Achint Ram Thapar, a nationalist in his own right of Lyallpur. Two biographies of Sukhdev are authentic, written by his brothers Jaidev Thapar and Mathura Das Thapar. Jaidev’s work is not available, while Mathura Das’ Mere Bhai Sukhdev has got many reprints and continues to be in circulation.Mathura Das Thapar’s biography of his brother is well documented and carries a few writings of Sukhdev as well. A copy of the proceedings of the Lahore conspiracy trial with Sukhdev’s notes on the sidelines is part of the National Archives of India, gifted by Sukhdev’s family. Sukhdev, along with Bejoy Kumar Sinha and Bhagwati Charan Vohra, was an ideological comrade of Bhagat Singh. Mathura Das Thapar, in his memoirs of Sukhdev, had mentioned the titles of books which both Bhagat Singh and Sukhdev had read and discussed for hours, sometimes the whole night.In their political organisation— Hindustan Socialist Republican Association Army (HSRA), while Bhagat Singh was the coordinator for all states, Sukhdev was the convenor of Punjab state. Both Bhagat Singh and Sukhdev were college mates at National College, Lahore. Sukhdev’s name figures nowhere in the Saunders assassination case, known as the second Lahore conspiracy case, the first one being the Ghadar Party case in which Kartar Singh Sarabha and six others were executed.Sukhdev, being trapped in the usual police lies-based investigation of always saying that the other accused have already told the whole story, had made a statement, but still was being careful by not mentioning the party shelters. He was neither part of the assassination, in which Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Jai Gopal had taken part and Chandrashekhar Azad had overseen the whole operation. Yet, he owned every part of the assassination plan and preferred to die with his comrades rather than save his own life. The farcical part of the trial and ‘colonial justice’ was the death sentence for Sukhdev, which could not have been given in any judicial system, as AG Noorani underlined in his classic book The Trial of Bhagat Singh.There are two letters written by Bhagat Singh to Sukhdev. Both have been published, but Sukhdev’s letters to Bhagat Singh have not been found. Both letters deal with the philosophical themes of love and suicide. While Sukhdev’s ideas or perception of love was somewhat traditional and conservative, Bhagat Singh was more liberal and realist in his perception about love. He tells Sukhdev in his letter that love is a feeling which can give great strength to the revolutionaries, by giving an example of Italian revolutionary Giuseppe Mazzini: “In the context of discussing someone’s character, one thing that is worth thinking about is if love has ever proved to be helpful to any person. Let me answer this today — yes, it did — for Mazzini. You must surely have read that he was not able to endure the first unsuccessful rebellion, the grief of a heart-wrenching failure, and the memory of martyred comrades. He could have either gone mad or committed suicide, but with a letter from his beloved, he became not only as strong as the others, but stronger than everybody else” (Letter to Sukhdev, April 5, 1929).Both friends had changed their opinion in jail. Sukhdev, who despised the idea of suicide outside, not tolerating the sufferings of jail, became a votary of suicide in prison, while Bhagat Singh outside jail was more sympathetic to a man who committed suicide due to sufferings in life. In a September 1930 letter, a few days before the death sentence to all three was announced, Bhagat Singh rebuked Sukhdev inside the jail itself on thinking about suicide: “Those of us who are certain to get the death sentence should wait patiently for the day when this sentence would be pronounced, after which they will be hanged. Even that death will be beautiful, but to commit suicide, to put an end to one’s life, to escape some suffering — that is cowardice. I wish to tell you that it is hardship that makes a person complete.”Rajguru, born on August 24, 1908, at Khed village, now renamed as Rajguru Nagar near Pune, was a jolly fellow and wanted to be ahead of Bhagat Singh in everything. He was angry at not being sent to Central Assembly for throwing the bomb. He walked from his village to Benares where he got admission in a Sanskrit school and joined the HRA. Bhagat Singh was supposed to shoot Scott in front of SSP office in Lahore, while Jai Gopal was to give a signal of the SSP coming out of the office. While Jai Gopal gave the signal mistaking Saunders for Scott, who was the Deputy SP, Rajguru impulsively shot Saunders, while Bhagat Singh could recognise that it was not Scott, and shouted to Chandrashekhar Azad that the person was not Scott. But before he could even complete the sentence, Rajguru had shot Saunders, which compelled Bhagat Singh to shoot too. At the gallows also, it was Rajguru who first got the rope put around his neck to be hanged.With such tales of bravery, the three martyrs are a source of inspiration for one generation after another. Bhagat Singh had said: “Individuals can be crushed, but not the ideas, which have a longer life than individuals.” Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev were crushed as individuals by the British rulers, but their ideas continue to spread fragrance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-supreme-martyrs-229076
23-03-2021||---||In need of some learning||WHY is it that our public universities are allowed to decay, and the political establishment often encourages the organised attack on the ethos of creative learning, and meaningful teaching and research? Think of what is happening at Visva-Bharati—the university Tagore sought to nurture with his spirited freedom, poetic sensibilities and rooted cosmopolitanism. It is the same story that unfolded itself in other leading public universities like JNU and Jamia Millia Islamia. A non-dialogic Vice-Chancellor (VC), confinement and suspension of teachers, the threat of social boycott, FIRs/court cases and complete breakdown of communication—in a way, the turbulent Visva-Bharati campus is revealing once again that as a nation, we have lost the spirit of nurturing and retaining a great tradition, or a community of learners characterised by heightened reflexivity, critical pedagogy, philosophic wonder and intellectual freedom. At a time when the instrumental logic of the market has already commoditised education, and made it difficult to distinguish some of our fancy private universities from education shops, this sort of continual attack on our leading public universities indicates that the ruling regime is not really interested in what socially meaningful and academically enriched quality education is supposed to accomplish—nurturing scientists and philosophers, artists and engineers, or socially committed activists and public intellectuals for sowing the seeds of an egalitarian and inclusive space.Even Pratap Bhanu Mehta had to ‘resign’ from the ‘liberal’ Ashoka University, possibly because of his writings which are not in tune with the ideology of the ruling regime.As an academic, when I look at this decay, a question confronts me: Who will educate our VCs? There was a time when some of our VCs were great educationists, pedagogues, philosophers and spirited visionaries, and they sought to nurture our leading public universities. Yet, in the age of collective decadence, I am compelled to ask this question with pain. Yes, quite often, these politically appointed VCs (with ‘right’ connections) are not great educationists with politico-spiritual courage, moral conviction and visionary insight. Far from living with the light of intellectual and creative illumination, they live with terrible psychic insecurity, and confuse the power of an academic with that of an authoritarian techno-manager. As they are supposed to show their ‘loyalty’ to the ruling establishment, they become invariably fearful of critical thinking and intellectual autonomy. This fear or psychic insecurity manifests itself in their practices—reducing teachers and students into objects of surveillance, favouring a clique of conformists and thereby disrupting the spirit of collegial relationships, transforming the university into a war zone, and filling the entire space with the psychology of fear and suspicion. The result is that these days, many of our VCs seldom communicate with teachers, researchers and students as co-travellers, or talk about hermeneutic and emancipatory knowledge traditions; instead, their inaccessible castles are surrounded by security guards and CCTV cameras; they want the faculty and the students to behave like ‘disciplined’ and ‘obedient’ soldiers of the nation, as constructed by militant nationalists; and they issue chargesheets and show-cause notices to those who have not yet lost their conscience.The only way to resist this decay is to spread the bond of solidarity with all those teachers and students who are suffering because of their intellectual honesty, critical thinking and moral conviction. Today, it is Visva-Bharati, JNU or Jamia Millia Islamia. Tomorrow, it can be any other university. And believe it; nobody is safe anymore. Even Pratap Bhanu Mehta—the celebrity professor and political philosopher—had to ‘resign’ from the much-hyped ‘liberal’ Ashoka University, possibly because of his writings which are not in tune with the ideology of the ruling regime. However, not everyone can get the kind of attention or media coverage that Professor Mehta gets. But the fact is that, as the Visva-Bharati episode has shown, dedicated scientists and teachers have been humiliated and harassed by the administration for their commitment to the spirit of what Tagore sought to communicate through his poetic revelation: ‘Where the mind is without fear and the head is held high…’.And this struggle to restore the spirit of vibrant public universities with the intellectual autonomy of teachers and researchers, culture of debate and dialogue, a non-violent environment of trust and communion, and the living presence of an enabling VC who walks with the entire community of learners as a friend, philosopher and guide is the need of the hour. This struggle is not about ‘left’ and ‘right’; this is essentially about the very idea of a university: the university that encourages epistemological pluralism, intellectual honesty and fearlessness, and above all, the commitment to the dream of an egalitarian, ecologically sensitive society that unites patriotism and cosmopolitanism, or the local and the global. For a struggle of this kind, as teachers and students, we ought to undergo a rigorous process of self-enquiry. We have to ask ourselves: Do we really hear the call of our vocation? Are we honest in our academic pursuits? Can we resist the temptation of being sold as ‘products’ with fancy ‘CVs’ and the management of ‘networking’? As teachers, are we committed to our students? Or, are we mere careerists neurotically obsessed with self-indulgence? Is it possible for a ‘left-Ambedkarite’ teacher/activist to listen to a not so political colleague with love and tenderness? If we do not fall into the same trap of exclusionary thinking, we can succeed in creating a counter-culture: neither left nor right, neither nationalist nor anti-nationalist, but truly humane, dialogic and cosmopolitan.This sort of satyagraha alone can educate our VCs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/in-need-of-some-learning-229075
