24-03-2021||---||Better vaccination rate can rein in coronavirus||Now that the country is clearly in the throes of a second wave of Covid-19 infection, it is critical to have a quick and correct focus for the public policy needed to fight back. It is important not to repeat unthinkingly what was done last year when India went in for the quickest, longest and most severe lockdown in the world. Right then, there was no knowledge on a successful response to the pandemic and the Indian lockdown was a kind of shot in the dark.A clear sign that our leaders have learnt from the past is provided by the prescription Maharashtra’s former BJP chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has indicated. He has come out against a complete lockdown as an impractical option. Why? It will adversely affect the livelihood of the people, especially the poor. Instead, harsh restrictions need to be imposed and areas with surges monitored.It is critical to remember that the lockdown of last March was in many ways counter-productive. It confined India’s urban poor to their homes where anything up to 10 people shared a room and had little access to water so as to ensure frequent handwashing. That was the easiest way for many of them to get infected. Then, after the migrant labour among them lost their jobs and their urban shack homes, they took to the highways to trudge back to their villages, sometimes halfway across the country, taking their infection along with them to their homes from whence they had come.This migrant labour’s trudge back home has been described as the biggest migration since partition which was tragically counter-productive. Hence, the learning — don’t go for complete lockdowns, be selective in the preventive steps you take, but ensure that they are rigorously followed.As the world has learnt a lot since early 2020, it is imperative to examine the policies and practices which have worked or failed across the world. The latest World Happiness Report (for 2021), which has the theme of the impact of Covid-19 on global happiness, looks at the successes in East Asia, Australia and New Zealand and notes that policies can be effective when citizens are compliant (East Asia) and more freedom-oriented (Australia and New Zealand). These policies centred around test, trace and isolate to contain community spread and travel bans to stop trans-border spread. People’s morale improved when governments acted and with better morale, compliance improved.The success in Asia-Pacific in controlling infection did not come at the cost of economic growth (on the other hand, the Indian economy contracted hugely last year). The successful formula lay in decisive intervention (test, trace and quarantine) as well as personal hygiene (masks, handwashing).The Asia-Pacific success in controlling infection is in sharp contrast to the failure in the North Atlantic. The success resulted from policies imposed top down by governments which were matched by bottom-up compliance of the people. The North Atlantic, on the other hand, is imbued with a more individualistic culture in which assertions of personal liberty and concern for privacy of personal information were paramount.What can India learn from this and implement, given its existing political system? The Centre has to lay down policies and the states have to do most of the implementing. A lot swings on the administrative ability of individual states and the kind of political culture that prevails in it. It goes without saying that the administrative practices of Kerala have to be followed, instead of those of say Bihar.Kerala took an early lead in controlling the infection, but thereafter suffered successive waves possibly because of rules of personal behaviour being excessively relaxed and thereby neglected. It has also had to continually grapple with trans-border infection carried by its armies of migrant workers returning home.It is also necessary to examine why Maharashtra, blessed with strong administrative capabilities, is now in the grip of an intense second wave. Of all the reasons offered, the most convincing is that the state, with a professional work culture, went full tilt in getting back to work. Mumbai suburban trains became crowded and social distancing was at a discount. In contrast, lifting of restrictions on occupancy in suburban trains serving Kolkata experienced only around 50 per cent of earlier regular traffic.Perhaps, most importantly, there is a need to re-examine the practice of leaving in the hands of the police the task of imposing mask wearing and social distancing rules in public places. The police have for the most part tried to achieve results by levying nominal fines. It is necessary for the state leaderships to take back this initiative and give the job to political workers. They have to implement the rules as a social movement, using a mixture of persuasion and firmness. Streets in urban centres should be full of young people wearing distinctive badges designed for the purpose, and if necessary, hectoring people to follow the rules. If this can be made into an all-party initiative, then nothing like it.What we are looking at is an agenda for the next three months in order to curb the second wave. In that time frame, vaccination cannot be of much help. Only around 5 crore of India’s 130 crore people have been given one shot each so far. It takes around two months or a bit more after the first shot is taken for immunity to kick in and herd immunity cannot be expected unless at least 60 per cent of the population is vaccinated.Extensive vaccination is hugely needed as a long-term goal so that from the second half of the year, the country can look forward to getting near to decisively beating the virus. But for that, the vaccination rate has to improve quickly. Here, the state governments have their work cut out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/better-vaccination-rate-can-rein-in-coronavirus-229609
24-03-2021||---||Like the private armies of the politicians||Why are state police forces now like the private armies of politicians in power in India? Why is this unholy nexus there between the police and the politicians? We have come to such a pass that the richest businessman of India is being threatened by this unholy nexus in Mumbai due to which the case has drawn so much media attention. Of course, assistant police inspector Sachin Waze is a foot soldier who was backed by the powers that be. However, this nexus is not confined to Mumbai alone. It’s almost everywhere in India. Kolkata, where the police work at the behest of those in power, going to the extent of confronting the CBI sometime back, Rajasthan where illegal phone tapping is done or UP where cases under sedition are registered without solid grounds in many instances, are also such examples. And this has been happening over the years in the regimes of all political parties in our country. The police are politicised and criminalised with the result that the common man is not getting justice which is his right. People at large are disgusted with this nexus and want answers and solutions.For this, history will have to be gone through first. The British gave us colonial police which used brute force to keep itself in power. The Police Act, 1861, says that the police have to report to the state. Our new rulers at the time of independence made no effort to change the force, from the ruler’s police into the police service for the common man. Even today, 74 years after independence, we are governed basically by the same 160-year-old Police Act.Former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee explained it well at a gathering in which I was present— that initially, in the first two decades or so after Independence, politics was generally pure. In the next generation of politicians, some of them started taking the help of criminals who had money and muscle power to make them win and remain in power. In the third phase, the following generation of criminals became smarter. They thought that why help others to come to power, why not themselves be in power? They succeeded and today we have around 40% MLAs and MPs with a criminal record, a figure which has grown steadily in each election, and they have a bright future also.In this endeavour, they needed the help of the police badly. Fortunately for them, the structure of the police in the country helped them. They realised that the police were under their control as it was answerable to the politicians in power and they grabbed this opportunity with both hands. They ensured that the colonial police system remains reporting to the political bosses. They went not one, but many steps further also. They took control of the recruitment, postings and transfers, punishments and rewards, dictating against whom to take action or not etc. By formal orders of various state governments, these powers were taken over by the state governments systemically.Today, MLAs bring their own team of government officials, especially policemen of different ranks, to their jurisdiction, by right. Insulting policemen in public or hounding them are commonplace. They also regularly use, misuse, discard and abuse policemen of various ranks depending on their need in blatant disregard of rules and regulations, propriety and conscience. The beauty is that they leave no evidence behind as they get all the dirty paperwork done by the officials and policemen, who are caught finally, if at all. Same will happen most likely in the present controversial Mumbai case.What has been the response of the police? Where it is asked to bend, it crawls, not infrequently, because their life in all respects is in control of the political masters. So, instead of showing the rule and the law book to their political masters, they have joined hands with them so that they are not only safe, but flourish themselves also in the process becoming criminals in uniform. Extortions, fake encounters and illegalities have become their norm. On the other hand, we have also seen images in public of policemen in uniform touching the feet of the politicians. The example of standing up to the politicians as a rule by the policemen has to be set by the police leadership. There has been quite a bit of failure on this account, though there still are outstanding examples of officers standing up to the masters. The legitimate question is why then is the leadership failing? Well, the recruitment, training and postings of the officers are the areas to be looked into which can be put in two words, ‘police reforms’. Now this is where the problem lies. The politicians, irrespective of whichever party they belong to, are one unit as far as retaining control over the police is concerned, as it serves their purpose. So, they will never let a law pass or a procedure implemented, changing the present system. They haven’t even bothered about the orders of the Supreme Court on police reforms passed in 2006, circumventing those smartly.What else is the instrument left with the public to bring police reforms and solve its problems and have police to serve them? A public agitation like the one we had for the freedom of India is the need of the hour now because the cry of the police fraternity supported by many well-meaning people is not having any effect.The police have to become accountable to the law, the Constitution and to Parliament, and not to the political masters. It is necessary if India has to fast become a five trillion dollar economy for which a safe and secure environment is required for all citizens and investors. Besides, it is essential to give to every Indian, especially the poor, the backward, the underprivileged, the weak and the women, justice, safety and security. But will such an agitation happen on a large scale? We can only pray.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/like-the-private-armies-of-the-politicians-229583
24-03-2021||---||Political drama at Anchorage||The US and China held their first high-level meeting, after the Biden administration took office, at Anchorage on March 18 and 19. The US was represented by Secretary of State Antony Blinken and NSA Jake Sullivan. China fielded Chinese Communist Party Politburo member Yang Jiechi and State Councillor Wang Yi. The meeting was expected to set the tone for US-China relations in a changing geopolitical landscape. Three observations are in order:One, the meeting took place against the backdrop of a further worsening of the balance of power against the US. Not only in China, but also across the world there is a perception of China as the ascendant and still expanding power while the US is perceived as a declining power, though still deploying formidable economic, military and technological assets. The US felt necessary to come to the meeting after orchestrating a display of its alliances and partnerships, including the first-ever Quad summit. It also announced sanctions against several Chinese officials associated with the new restrictions on civil liberties in Hong Kong on the eve of the meeting. An American warship sailed through the Taiwan Straits around the same time. In contrast, China appeared confident enough in its own power to dispense with additional props to influence the outcome of the meeting. Yang Jiechi pointedly ridiculed Blinken's assertion that the US would approach the bilateral relations from a ‘position of strength’: ‘... the United States does not have the qualification to say it wants to speak to China from a position of strength. The US was not even qualified to say such things even 20 or 30 years back because this is not the way to deal with the Chinese people.’Two, the Chinese interlocutors made a clear distinction between what the US and the West and India, too, call the ‘rules-based international order’, which they rejected, and instead upheld the international order based on the UN Charter. Clearly, China will play the geopolitical game by its own rules or, at the very least, will insist on negotiating new terms of engagement where its interests must be deferred to.Three, while some analysts have welcomed plain speaking by US officials in front of the international press, this indulgence in full-blown rhetoric invited an even more aggressive riposte from the Chinese side. This should have been expected. If the objective was to put China on the defensive, the opposite was achieved. The polemical statements by the US officials were a departure from the normal protocol on such occasions when there is a polite exchange of pleasantries before the press before substantive talks take place behind closed doors. If the audience for these remarks was the American domestic constituency, it should have been expected that China would go one better for covering its own flank back home. One does not know what was the outcome of the substantive discussions but it is clear that the kind of competitive coexistence that the US may be envisaging going forward is unlikely. Putting convergent interests such as climate change in separate insulated boxes while sharpening confrontation on other issues of divergence is difficult to sustain in practice.From the Chinese perspective, the US effort to shore up its alliances and partnerships in confronting China is seen as lacking in credibility. The chief argument put by China is that the US and its allies have deep economic and commercial interests in China which contradict the politics of confrontation. The US will have to find a persuasive argument to counter this. While decoupling in the high-tech sectors, such as semi-conductors, is a reality, this does not extend to the very broad spectrum of trade between China and its key developed country partners.What is the outlook for US-China relations under the Biden administration? There have been occasions in the past when the US has been written off as a declining and spent power but it has displayed remarkable resilience and capacity for renewal. The opening of American relations with China in 1970 was seen by China, and even several US allies, as a means of counter-balancing an increasingly powerful Soviet Union. The end of the Vietnam War in defeat, and the delinking of the US dollar from the gold standard later in the 1970s, reinforced perceptions of relative decline. A decade later, a similar situation arose with the rise of Japan and the conclusion of the Plaza Accords which devalued the dollar vis-a-vis the Japanese yen and key currencies. When I was serving in Japan from 1986-89, one witnessed a sense of triumphalism, and even arrogance, not very different from what we see today in China. And yet this proved to be merely a prelude to the American unipolar moment that lasted from the end of the Cold War right up to the global financial and economic crisis of 2007-8. The trajectory of US-China relations will be determined in the main by the success of the Biden administration in what is called the ‘building back better’ economic strategy. US excellence in technology is still unmatched and no other power has the global reach that the US military has. Therefore, the key ingredients of renewal are certainly there. Biden has also understood the importance of countering the prevailing pessimism about democracy, including among democracies themselves. The authoritarian model exemplified by China has proved to be more potent than may have been expected. Whether democracies can regain their faith in democracy’s tenets remains an open question. This also implies that India must retain multiple options to deal with its most pressing challenges, including enhancing its developmental prospects, dealing with adversaries both on its northern and western borders and managing a fractious neighbourhood. Quad can only serve as one option and its credibility as a countervailing coalition in the Indo-Pacific remains to be established.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/political-drama-at-anchorage-229526
