26-03-2021||Of all the questions I was forced to answer after Sharad Pawar proposed my name as the person to investigate the truth of the allegations made by the disgraced Police Commissioner of Mumbai||Choosing wrong men to lead||According to Param Bir, the minister summoned the Inspector of the Social Service Branch of the Crime Division and also called Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze, head of the Crime Intelligence Branch, to his residence and told them that he required Rs 100 crore a month, obviously to run the NCP, headed by its founder, Sharad Pawar.I put myself in Param Bir’s shoes. When I am told by Patil, the Social Service Branch Chief, and Vaze, my blue-eyed special assistant, that the minister had made such a preposterous demand, my first thought would be to drive to the minister’s bungalow and confront him! I had to protect my subordinate staff, and, more than that, protect the good name and integrity of the Mumbai City Police. If it came to a denouement, I would offer to step down if the minister was bent on his Croesus mission.Param Bir waited to tattle till he was shifted out from a perch he had his sights on for many years. In 2015, he was appointed Commissioner of Police of Thane, considered to rival Pune and Nagpur in importance due to its proximity to Mumbai. Param Bir was relatively junior for Thane, but the then CM, Devendra Fadnavis, appointed him in preference to senior and more respected officers, known for their integrity and competence! In Thane, too, Param Bir utilised the services of an ‘encounter specialist’, Pradip Sharma, who was dismissed in 2008 by the discerning DGP, Anami Roy. In 2017, Sharma was reinstated and allotted to the Thane Commissionerate, Param Bir’s charge!After his stint in Thane, Param Bir’s eyes turned to the big prize of Mumbai. His Herculean efforts might have succeeded had someone senior in the Central government not stepped in and ensured that tested, top-class men like Datta Padsalgikar, followed by Subodh Jaiswal, were repatriated to the state to ensure smooth administration of the police machinery. Fadnavis gave him the charge of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, where he absolved Ajit Pawar of guilt in the irrigation scam, clearing the way for Ajit to join Fadnavis in his six-hour-long government sworn in by the Governor at the crack of dawn.Much, in fact all, depends on leadership of the force, like it does in other spheres of endeavour. An honest, responsible leader who is a real ‘servant’ of the people, who takes the ‘service’ component of the ‘IPS’ seriously, and who is determined to ensure justice in all his dealings with his own men and with the people he serves, can truly succeed in the job. If, on the other extreme, his focus is on flamboyance, he would be exposed sooner or later.It is the bounden duty of the political leadership to make the right choice. In my state of Maharashtra, there is no dearth of officers who are both, honest and capable, available for selection. Their identity is known to the police rank and file. The political leadership needs to keep the public in mind when making choices. The tragedy is that it only looks to its own needs and not to the people’s need for safety and security.It now appears to a perceptive observer that the MVA government’s need for funding the activities of one of its constituent parties and the interest of another of the constituents to reinstate a suspended API coincided to instal the wrong people in office, leading to the present debacle.The Mumbai City Police will need a tremendous shove to regain its lost confidence and élan. Sharad Pawar is a smooth and shrewd operator. He knows when to bring in the right person and he knows who the right person is. At present, the force needs an honest and straightforward officer of proven worth. We have had a succession of Commissioners of that calibre in the past and many more are in line, from KK Venkatesham, Vivek Phansalkar to Sadanand Date. Those junior to Sadanand will also bloom as long as they concentrate on ‘service’ and dispensing justice.Political parties require to be funded. They have to pay salaries to their regular staff, field workers and casual cheerleaders. They require funding for myriad other political activities. The BJP has no such problem because NRIs and the corporate world have attended to its needs, mainly through the clever introduction of electoral bonds. Those parties not in power find it more difficult, but if municipal bodies are under their control, contracts are a big source of income. The newly disclosed plan of targeting the police and dance bars and other social offenders will only lead to more criminality than what now exists. This is extremely dangerous. It must be opposed by the police leadership, if necessary with the help of public opinion.If those in charge of the Home Department insist on milking crime and criminals in order to sustain political activities, the end result will be runaway corruption and out of control criminality of the worst type. NN Vohra, the former Union Home Secretary, can validate my conclusions. His report, compiled nearly three decades ago, makes compelling reading.Let me make it clear that the Mumbai police had never before been asked to collect funds for political parties. Illicit requests by politicians are made very, very often, most usually for transfers of subordinates. Corrupt officers have been known to pay for postings even at senior levels. Corrupt juniors have entertained politicians in five-star hotels. But I have not heard of demands for crores, which can only mean funding for political parties to function! That is something new!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/choosing-wrong-men-to-lead-230517
26-03-2021||---||Xi trying to blend race, party and nation||Wary of efforts by the US and the West to bring about the collapse of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), especially following the rapid deterioration in Sino-US ties, China’s President Xi Jinping has increasingly focussed on promoting nationalism and fortifying the CCP to ensure its monopoly on power. Disconcerting memories of the disintegration of the erstwhile Soviet Union and collapse of its communist party still remain sharply etched in the CCP’s collective memory.Aware of the potential of hostile powers to fan discontent among the ethnic minorities residing in China’s border provinces — a pointer is the attention that Beijing pays to Nepal —Xi is trying to blend race, the party and the nation. A new “Red Gene” campaign has been launched in the army among cadres and students. Nationalism now goes hand in hand with the emphasis on the Chinese communist ideology.Ignoring international criticism about the violations of human rights of China’s ethnic minorities, Xi told delegates from Inner Mongolia at the plenary sessions of the National People’s Congress (NPC) and Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), which ended on March 11, that “cultural identity is the deepest form of identity. It is also the root and soul of ethnic unity and harmony.”He directed them to use “solid and meticulous efforts” to achieve ethnic unity and ensure that standard Chinese and State-compiled textbooks are adopted in schools and colleges. All young people in Inner Mongolia should, he said, understand the CCP’s policies and revolutionary heritage.Within days, Politburo Standing Committee member and CPPCC chairman Wang Yang travelled to the restive Xinjiang-Uyghur Autonomous Region. Visiting six major cities in six days, he exhorted cadres to implement the party’s policies on ‘governing Xinjiang for the new era’, ensure that Islam in Xinjiang adapts to the socialist society, and cement the sense of community for the Chinese nation. He urged greater efforts to research Xinjiang’s history and promote Mandarin.Recognising language as the key to a people retaining their culture, traditions and history, the CCP’s United Front Work Department (UFWD), which formulates and implements rules concerning non-CCP entities and China’s ethnic minorities, has been focussing on replacing ethnic languages in schools in ethnic minority areas with Mandarin.Efforts at assimilating ethnic minorities into the Han mainstream include sending young students to the Chinese mainland for education. Thousands of Tibetans and Uyghurs have been sent since 2015. Many stay for decades at these educational institutions with the more recent arrivals imbibing “Xi Jinping’s thoughts on socialism with Chinese characteristics in the new era!”While the effort has been pushed in varying degrees in the Tibet and Xinjiang Autonomous Regions, the study of Mandarin is being enforced since last year in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region too.In August 2020, the Inner Mongolian government mandated that primary and secondary schools must use Mandarin, not Mongolian, as the language of instruction. Hou Yuan, then Director of the Education Department, claimed the “textbooks reflect the will of the Communist Party and the State.”The policy triggered widespread resistance with more than 300,000 students staging protests in the Inner Mongolian capital of Hohhot. Policemen and government employees also joined. People were worried that the Mongolian language and culture will be extinguished as a consequence of these policies. On January 20 this year, Director of the NPC Legal Affairs Committee Shen Chungyao announced that schools in “minority areas” were no longer allowed to teach their own languages and that such education is “unconstitutional”.The UFWD has simultaneously steadily sought to undermine the religious beliefs of ethnic minorities and superimpose the Chinese Han culture. Indicating that tough policies for accelerating their assimilation would be implemented, 66-year-old Han cadre Chen Xiaojiang was appointed to head the National Ethnic Affairs Commission in December 2020.His appointment broke a tradition followed since 1954 of appointing a member of an ethnic minority group to head the body. The change comes in the wake of the National Ethnic Affairs Commission being transferred from under government to direct party control in 2018. It is now under the UFWD.In January 2021, the UFWD published new rules asserting that the Han and ethnic minorities are a part of a “common community with a common destiny.”At a national meeting of UFWD directors in Beijing on January 18, CPPCC Chairman Wang Yang focussed on ethnic minorities and religious affairs and the need to hasten the process of assimilation. He emphasised: “We need to mobilise all active factors that we can mobilise.”The Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region’s Education Department pushed ahead to suppress Mongol culture and announced a ban on textbooks like ‘Inner Mongolia History and Culture’ and ‘Mongolian History’ from spring this year.The effects of China’s effort to amend history and deny the Mongolian people their culture have also been felt abroad. The Musée d'histoire de Nantes was compelled to postpone its exhibition on the history of Genghis Khan and the Mongolian empire titled ‘Son of the sky and steppes: Genghis Khan and the birth of an empire’, which was scheduled to open in October 2020, because of the Chinese government’s objections to terms like “Genghis Khan”, “empire” and “Mongolian”.While the CCP persists with efforts to persuade Tibetans, Buddhists and the Dalai Lama to recognise its role in selecting the Dalai Lama’s reincarnation, there has been a visible intensification in efforts at ‘sinicisation’of religion and ‘education’ of religious personages in Tibet and Xinjiang. It is apparent that the CCP’s efforts to assimilate ethnic minorities into the Han national mainstream have accelerated from this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/xi-trying-to-blend-race-party-and-nation-230519
26-03-2021||---||Undermining mathematics in the land of zero||India’s regulatory body for engineering and technical education, the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), has decided to open the doors of engineering education to students with no knowledge of high school-grade mathematics, physics and chemistry. Students can now select any three from the expanded list of 14 subjects for entry into the BE and B Tech courses. For instance, one can opt for agriculture, business studies, entrepreneurship or graphics, and still qualify for an engineering seat.Till now, mathematics and physics were compulsory for pursuing degrees in most branches of engineering. Over the years, additional qualifying subjects like biotechnology and computer science have been added, but this is the first time mathematics, physics and chemistry will be optional and not essential subjects for aspiring engineers.The decision has serious implications and is being pushed in a hurry. It comes close to another recent move in higher education — permitting the training of ayurvedic graduates in surgery and allowing them to perform a set of surgical procedures.Both come in the backdrop of the New Education Policy 2020 (NEP) which seeks to propagate the so-called flexible, inter-disciplinary approach to education. Citing NEP, the AICTE says that the decision will help ‘students who have an aptitude as well as background knowledge in certain branches of engineering and technology’but are constrained to pursue higher studies due to ‘stringent compulsions of subjects’.The council is also working on another NEP suggestion — offering engineering courses in Indian languages — by getting textbooks translated into Indian languages. On medical education, the NEP talks of ‘pluralistic choices in healthcare’and suggests that ‘all students of allopathic medical education must have a basic understanding of Ayush and vice versa.’The Ayush proposal on surgeries, however, has come under the judicial scanner in the Supreme Court.The broad idea of encouraging a multi-disciplinary approach to engineering is welcome, but it can’t be done by underplaying the importance of core subjects like mathematics which promote logic and the approach necessary for engineering disciplines. Manjul Bhargava, US-based mathematician and Fields Medal winner, was part of the panel that drafted the NEP. He has been engaging with the Indian policymakers and political leadership and is known to champion multi-disciplinary education. Making mathematics and physics optional for an engineering degree runs counter to the spirit of the multi-disciplinary approach and reduces the talk of India’s past achievements like the discovery of zero to empty rhetoric.The claim of the AICTE that its decision is based on feedback from students, industry and other stakeholders sounds hollow. If the public statements of Niti Aayog member (Science) and the principal scientific adviser to the government are any indication, it appears there was no consultation within the government itself. Two top policymakers choosing to call the AICTE decision as retrograde and ‘a step in the wrong direction’raises serious doubts about the process of decision-making.The move comes at a time when the country is in the midst of developing a new science technology and innovation policy aimed at achieving ‘technological self-reliance’and positioning India ‘among the top three scientific superpowers in the decade to come’. The first step towards this should be to ensure greater cohesion among policymakers as well as public consultation on critical issues — both of which are found wanting in the present case.India’s strength in STEM — science, technology, engineering and mathematics — is a result of the policy thrust and necessary investments made after independence. The setting up of institutions for engineering, medicine and management education in the post-1947 period paved the way for producing the manpower needed in key sectors. At the same time, research in national laboratories and programmes in strategic areas of atomic energy, defence research and space technology paid rich dividends over the decades.PC Mahalanobis established the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) in Kolkata, while Homi Jehangir Bhabha set up the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research in Mumbai. Both the centres were accorded the status of national institutes after independence. The ISI directly contributed to the process of national planning, while TIFR spawned national programmes in atomic energy, space and electronics. Later, it spearheaded India’s participation in big science projects like Large Hadron Collider (LHC), International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER) and more recently, LIGO or Laser Interferometer Gravitational Wave Observatory.For all their criticism and the tag of being elitist, the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) have not only produced tech and management leaders for India but are also counted among the best in the world. Some of the world’s best contemporary expertise in higher education went into their making. The software services and outsourcing industries — which fetch hundreds of billions of dollars in revenue and employ millions of Indians — are byproducts of the engineering education nurtured over the decades. The experience of developing a robust STEM ecosystem helped immensely in the second wave of institution-building in the post-2000 era that witnessed new IITs, IIMs, National Institutes of Technology, International Institutes of Information Technology and the Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research (IISERs).All this does not mean that everything is fine with the engineering education in India. Very few Indian institutions figure in the rankings of top engineering schools globally. Several surveys have found that the quality of engineering graduate colleges’produce is poor, and a bulk of them is unemployable in industry. The software services and outsourcing industry has to retrain engineering graduates for industry skills, and some of them offer on-job engineering degrees in collaboration with academic institutions.The language and communication skills of average engineering graduates are very poor. Even in topnotch institutes, hundreds of faculty positions are lying vacant. The uptake in engineering and management research is less than desired. The geographical spread of private engineering colleges is skewed, and many of them are just money-making machines.All these issues need the urgent attention of policymakers and regulators. The AICTE should address them upfront, instead of pushing ideas that can further dilute the quality of education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/undermining-mathematics-in-the-land-of-zero-230521
