27-03-2021||Ex-Director||A low in police-politician collusive corruption||The Mumbai police finds itself in the eye of a storm. The Commissioner of Police, Param Bir Singh, has been unceremoniously shunted out by the state government following the Mukesh Ambani bomb scare case and posted in an innocuous assignment as DGP in charge of Home Guards. He, in turn, has dropped a bombshell by writing a letter to the Chief Minister, making a string of allegations against the state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh.These murky developments follow the arrest of Sachin Vaze, an assistant inspector of police, by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Vaze is the prima donna in the case where a Scorpio with 20 gelatin sticks was found parked outside the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani. To cap it, the investigation of the case was entrusted to Vaze and his team.Vaze is a well-known but notorious officer of the Mumbai police with a chequered background. He was lauded by his seniors as a tough, no-nonsense officer and an encounter specialist, who reportedly has over 60 kills under his belt.He and his mentor inspector Pradeep Sharma, another encounter specialist, were aligned with the Shiv Sena. Vaze was suspended for his questionable role in a case of custodial death. He resigned from service and joined the Shiv Sena. With its support, he set up investigative agencies to help banks and corporate houses 0recover their dues and loans.However, because of political influence, he was reinstated. This was an egregious blunder. The former Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Devendra Fadnavis, claims that quite a few influential people, including the present CM Uddhav Thackeray, interceded for Vaze’s reinstatement.Under the present dispensation, Vaze became the blue-eyed boy of the Mumbai police. Though quite junior in rank, he was exercising untrammelled authority and virtually lording over the Mumbai police. He held the ear of the Commissioner of Police, Param Bir Singh, who was in awe of him. Many other officers, senior to Vaze, were envious of his authority and position and were sulking. He had become an extortionist, allegedly collecting money for himself and his political masters. The letter bomb of Param Bir Singh narrates how the Home Minister was using Vaze as a collection agent.Due to the public outcry and clamour in the press, the NIA took up the investigation of the bomb scare case and the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was reportedly in close touch with Vaze. Gradually, the plot began to unravel. Vaze was arrested for his suspicious role in the case and Param Bir Singh unceremoniously transferred because of his alleged nexus with Sachin. His letter to the CM levelling serious allegations against the Home Minister further muddied the water. The image of the Mumbai police was seriously dented. This is unfortunate.Admittedly, the Mumbai police is a well-run and well-officered force, enjoying public acclaim and confidence for its professional competence. It has been led by stalwarts like VG Kanetkar, Julio Ribeiro and Arvind Inamdar, who were positive, bold and upright.However, constant political interference in police work, misuse of the police for partisan political ends and willingness of some commissioners to play ball in the last two decades have taken a toll. Now, even senior police officers are close to different political groups and an “entente cordiale” has grown between them and the political masters. No doubt, there are some upright and conscientious officers, but they are sidelined.However, corruption in the police is prevalent in all states and has become well entrenched and well spread. When I joined the police service in the early sixties and was posted in Orissa, the number of IAS and IPS officers of questionable integrity could be counted on the fingers, but the situation now is just the opposite. This is ominous because police corruption has a systemic character to it. Once it starts, it rapidly spreads throughout the organisation. It also has a preemptive quality. It curtails senior officers’ capacity to effectively control the subordinates and deal with problems bedevilling the organisation.Evidently, during the last two decades, the situation has undergone a sinister transformation and political interference has become more pronounced. Nowadays, the head of the police force has very little say in the transfers and postings of officers in sensitive posts. They are decided by the political bosses. According to one estimate, in 80 per cent of the 12,000 police stations in the country, the superintendents of police have very little say in this regard. Blatant use of unscrupulous police officers for collection of money by the political bosses marks the lowest watermark of the police-politician collusive corruption.Currently, the NIA has taken up investigation of the Ambani case and the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, wherein the involvement of Vaze is suspected. Hope it will make a thorough investigation of the case and expose the motivations and ramifications and unmask the malefactors.The honour of the Mumbai police will be somewhat redeemed if the guilty are unmasked and punished and speedy steps are taken to set things right. But for this, suspension and prosecution of Vaze and transfer of the Commissioner of Police alone are not enough, more positive and systemic measures have to be taken to stem the rot.The crying need of the hour is to depoliticise the police and insulate it from extraneous pulls and pressures, which were recommended by the National Police Commission and re-emphasised in the directives of the Supreme Court in Prakash Singh’s case. One of the court’s directives to the state governments was to set up state security commissions to ensure that governments function as per the rules, laws and procedures. Unfortunately, the governments have not carried out the directives and, instead, adopted various steps to scuttle them. The apex court also has not forced the issue.The police continue to function as the ruling party’s police. The late Indrajit Gupta, as Home Minister, wrote to all CMs highlighting the need for police reforms for qualitative improvements in crime control and law and order situation in the country. Predictably, there was no reply from any CM.The Ambani bomb scare case also underscores the danger that encounter experts like Vaze pose for the police organisation and the society. Because of the malfunctioning of the criminal justice system, their shortcut methods to get rid of dreaded criminals and terrorists get public approval. They are lauded by the public and lionised by politicians.Display of cowardice by senior officers in dealing firmly with errant subordinates like Sachin Vaze is a matter of disgrace. These “encounter specialists”, who have amassed disproportionate assets, are nothing short of criminals in uniform. They should be weeded out and senior police officers must draw a lesson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-low-in-police-politician-collusive-corruption-231081
27-03-2021||Former Ambassador||US, China differences to be the new normal||At the Alaska meetings with US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken and National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan from March 18-19, 2021, China’s Politburo member and top diplomat, Yang Jiechi and Foreign Minister Wang Yi had tough and contentious discussions on America’s growing criticism of China’s human rights record in Xinjiang, Tibet, suppression of democratic rights in Hong Kong, cyber attacks against the US and aggressive behaviour towards the allies and partners of the US.Responding to Blinken’s two minutes of opening remarks with his 16 minutes of diatribe, Yang accused the US of condescension and hypocrisy. He said the US values did not represent the international public opinion and it was not qualified to give any lectures to China on these issues. China would not countenance any interference on its sovereignty issues, such as Hong Kong, Tibet, Xinjiang or Taiwan. Yang insisted that the US must give China equality of treatment.Though the meeting helped the two sides in gaining a sense of their differing perceptions and the future trajectory of their relationship, it made clear that the differences and disagreements between them would be the new normal. Any hope of altering China’s behaviour, domestically or towards the US and its allies, would be a long process with little chance of success.On the Chinese side, any expectation that the Biden administration would resume normal ties or remove tariffs on China’s exports, sanctions for denial of sensitive technologies, visa and other restrictions on the Communist party members, Chinese students, journalists and companies, was quickly dispelled.The increasing acrimony between the US and China reflects the growing differences in their mutual perceptions due to the belief in the superiority of their political systems, increasing weight in the shifting balance of global power and domestic pressures.President Biden believes that with the $1.9-trillion stimulus, the US economy is gathering strength and with the superiority of the US political system, its technological and military strength and growing support of its numerous allies and partners, the US would ultimately prevail in its competition over China. Given the growing anti-China sentiment in the US and strong pressure from the Republicans and many Democrats, the Biden administration can’t appear to be weak in its resolve. Biden said that he was proud of the stand taken by his Secretary of State.China’s President Xi Jinping has played up on the superiority of the Chinese political system to deliver on controlling the pandemic and revival of its economy. He believes that the East is rising and the West is declining and that time is on China’s side. The more powerful that China becomes, the less unbridled the US would be.Where do they go from here? Blinken said the US would consult with its allies and partners in the NATO, EU and Asia and factor in the Chinese perceptions in the US new strategy to win the long-term competition against her. On March 22, the US, EU, UK and Canada concurrently announced additional sanctions on a number of Chinese officials for human rights violations in Xinjiang. China responded by imposing its own sanctions on a range of European individuals and organisations, thus tail-spinning their relationship further and raising question marks over the approval of the Comprehensive Agreement on Investment (CAI) by the European Parliament.After Biden called Russian President Putin a “killer”, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov decided to visit China on March 22. The two countries accused the US of creating a Cold War-like alliance and hit out against the Western sanctions tied to human rights. They decided to deepen cooperation in economic, political and military fields to counter the US pressure. China is also consulting with other countries estranged with the US, such as Turkey and Iran, to form a group to show that it is not isolated.Against these perceptions, the US-China rivalry is bound to gather fresh steam. Aware that China has deployed more military assets in the East China Sea than the US (China’s 1,250 fighter jets to America’s 250, six times more submarines and nine times as many warships than the US), the US is likely to station more military assets in the region to honour its security commitments to Japan, Taiwan and other countries. There will be more joint military drills in the East China Sea to deter Beijing’s aggressive posture.The allies and partners of the US who want to maintain their security relationship with the US and economic linkages with Beijing would have the difficult task of constantly adjusting their ties to the evolving situation. Quad countries are already beefing up their military preparedness. The US has asked Japan to increase its military spending from the current 1 per cent of its GDP to about 2 per cent. The US has discussed various measures to augment India’s security during the recent visit of its Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin.Notwithstanding its public posture, the Chinese leadership, including Xi, is not happy at the outcome of the Alaska summit, as it has dampened the prospects of Xi’s early meeting with Biden, which Xi had arranged successfully with Biden’s predecessors Obama and Trump.The deterioration of China’s relationship with the US will not go down well with senior Chinese leaders as the country celebrates the 100th anniversary of the Communist Party on July 1, 2021 and Xi seeks a third term in 2022. China is now adopting a low profile and has cancelled the military parade in the celebrations for the party’s 100th anniversary.The Chinese leadership is awakening to the reality that its relationship with the US has become much more difficult now than under President Trump. The simultaneous sanctions imposed by the US allies and prospects of cancellation of the CAI will be seen as yet another negative result under Xi’s leadership, clouding his record of ‘achievements’. The latter will be hard pressed to make new concessions now to revive the strategic dialogue with the US.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/us-china-differences-to-be-the-new-normal-231085
27-03-2021||Like all anniversaries||A year of apathy||Political rallies and campaigns have been going on as if these are normal times. If so, the government has no moral right to curb activities that affect livelihoods, which happens with lockdowns and curfews.All those who were forced to walk hundreds or in some cases thousands of kilometres back home did it because their employers forced them to do it. This was a great moment of reckoning about the nature of Indian employers, once again proving that India’s best employer still is the government. After the demonetisation experience, the micro and small enterprises sector did not even bother to attempt to absorb the lockdown shock and it readily let off its employees. Then all those who work on the streets — the rickshaw-pullers, street vendors, istriwallahs, cobblers, daily-wage earning manual labourers — were left with nothing but fear, uncertainty and a desperate urge to do something. So, they walked.Neither the government — Central, state or local — assured them of a safety net till the return of normalcy, nor the society, which takes care of itself in terms of pizzerias and foot massage parlours at protest sites, bothered to calm the frayed nerves of labourers, including farm labourers. Suddenly, employers in cities, towns and villages made the workers feel orphaned and unwanted. The most sought after person earning low wages in a residential colony is its istriwallah, who became invisible overnight. Individuals were no different. They were in a hurry to draw the laskshman rekha of antipathy outside their front door, keeping the needy out.The difference was stark: all those who could afford to stay indoors with their assured salaries and savings became insensitive towards the ones stranded outside. The first world within the gated housing colonies and high-rises refused to acknowledge the third world outside. Worse, even the old trusted domestic helps were shooed away at the colony gates. There could only be “contact-less transactions” between the third world producers and the first world consumers, be it for grocery, vegetables, milk or cooked food. One of the worst affected sectors was the newspaper industry — a terrible victim of false propaganda videos and other fake news during the early days of the lockdown.Sociologists should in time explain why such a great disruption did not cause a mass upsurge; why even those walking thousands of kilometres did not commit an offence to feed their hungry children. While they were walking they never expected to return — if at all they harboured such hopes, they did not know when. Yet, not a single shop anywhere was reported looted. Maybe it is this utter helplessness and total surrender to one’s fate that prompted these very friendless souls to return to the heartless cities and towns soon after the lockdown ended.Still we all survived, not because Covid did not take its toll, but because the government finally understood the futility of the lockdown. The virus is out there; nobody can shut himself up permanently and the moment someone crosses the line of fear outside the doorstep, the threat of infection awaits. This threat is real, as became clear subsequently during the first peak in September. Now we are experiencing the second peak. Neither the lockdown nor the opening up has helped because we refused to accept the basic requirements of social distancing then and we continue to flout them now.Worse, when the vaccines arrived, we were in a hurry to show off to the world instead of getting people in the working age-group of 25 to 60 vaccinated. Our priorities still seem to be skewed. The most anxious among all are the young working mothers and nobody seems to have thought about them. How many months should they wait to make themselves and thereby their children secure? Till then, the most productive age-group is completely exposed to the raging virus as it spreads faster than it ever did.All this while political rallies and election campaigns have been going on as if these are normal times; if they are so, if the government genuinely believes that massive political mobilisation will not turn into super-spreader events, then it has no moral right to curb activities that affect livelihoods, which happens with localised lockdowns and night curfews. With humongous political rallies organised in one part of the country, how can the government with a straight face impose social distancing in other parts? Let the priority strictly be livelihoods because no job-generating venture can any longer afford even a partial closure.Unfortunately, India seems to be looking at an economic recovery by selling off public sector assets instead of instilling consumer and investor confidence. US president Joe Biden has a three-pronged strategy for revival: The latest $1.9 trillion stimulus injection takes the total Covid package to about $6 trillion; the Federal Reserve has taken a tolerant attitude towards fiscal discipline and inflation; thirdly, and most interestingly, the savings of the consumers can lead to a spending spree, creating a huge demand in the global economy. The Economist says this experiment has no parallel since World War II and that today’s US policymakers have a guaranteed place in economic history. Do we have a similar stimulus offer? Do our consumers have the confidence to spend? Merely saying that the second wave will not affect the economy is not going to allay fears. We need adult vaccination and guarantees of prosperity for the middle classes to spend instead of hoarding their savings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-year-of-apathy-231090
