28-03-2021||Our 11-week Police Command Course in the UK drew to a close in late October 1988 just as autumn was fading away and wintry conditions were anigh. Each of us had plans to make the best use of the 14-day leave granted by the Government of India. For me||Scotland highs||And so, early next morning, we headed out in a hired Ford Fiesta. In about 90 minutes, we came upon the eastern end of Hadrian’s Wall in ‘Geordie country’, a defensive fortification built by Roman emperor Hadrian around 120 AD to protect Britannia from the ‘barbarians’ of Caledonia. After a short drive, we got to Berwick-upon-Tweed, the last town in England before crossing over into Scotland, with which is associated the apocryphal story that its Mayor had concluded a peace treaty with a Soviet official in the 1960s. Proponents of this version contend that, alongside Great Britain and Ireland, this town of 8,000-odd was named as a distinct territory by Queen Victoria when she declared the Crimean War against Russia in mid-19th century. Skirting Edinburgh’s cobbled streets, I crossed the Firth of Forth (the guttural Scottish pronunciation of which is quite incomprehensible) in the hope of making a pilgrimage to The Royal and Ancient Golf Club at St Andrews, the Mecca of golf, having by then played the game for three decades and more. But that was not to be. Having exhibited forbearance in allowing me to explore several sights on the way, my wife ordained that we go instead to Caithness Glass, which, she had gathered, was a ‘must visit’ for its artistic glassware. High prices of none too striking artefacts put paid to her plans to acquire a souvenir.Availing of a diversion in central Scotland, we headed towards Pitlochry, a small Victorian town which became a favoured tourist resort after the British royalty acquired Balmoral Castle in the nearby highlands 150 years ago. Edradour Distillery, the smallest licensed one in Scotland with just a couple of employees and thus limited production, and the 300-metre-long salmon ladder, allowing fish to skirt a hydro-electric project, were the key points of interest. The adjacent village, Blair Atholl, situated on flat ground amidst the Grampian Highlands, is the traditional home of the Dukes of Atholl, the chieftains of the Murray clan. Though detached for the most part from their impressive castle, the Dukes have continued to patronise the Atholl Highlanders, the only private army permitted in the UK. First raised as a regular British army regiment, it was disbanded within 15 years in the late 18th century following a mutiny. Fifty years later, the then Duke of Atholl raised it as a bodyguard element, which was presented colours by the Queen for protecting her during a visit to Blair Castle. At the time of our visit, this cadre had 80-odd troops.Traversing an ascending course through lush environs capped occasionally by trees laden with wilting golden autumn leaves, we got to the then 90-year-old Dalwhinnie Distillery, the second highest in Scotland. Drawing upon a clear spring for water and peat from the nearby bog, the distillery, located in this windswept coldest village of the UK, produces single malt whisky which sits easy on the palate. Over the next 10 miles, the highway bisected expansive fields of heather, with purple stems bearing small but numerous pink flowers, dominated in parts by the taller, thorny gorse-bearing yellow buds; quite a sight it was with alpenglow produced by the setting sun. A stop was mandated for collection of heather, known widely as a good luck charm ranking only next to clover. Only a few sprigs are now traceable amidst the treasured possessions in our household.Soon came the decision point – whether to fire on for another 50-odd miles to Inverness on Scotland’s Northern Coast or to submit to my wife’s call for a quick halt to the journey; we had already covered 350 miles in a long day in an under-powered car. There was actually little choice, but I inveigled her into another 40-mile drive suggesting we could find a B&B in the shadow of Ben Nevis, the highest mountain in the British Isles at 4,400 feet. My plea that this way we cut short our return journey met with grudging acceptance. We got to Spean Bridge, a village of 250-odd people, and found a delightful B&B run by an aged McCluskey couple. Warm and welcoming, having never seen any Indian and a woman in salwar-kameez to boot, they suppressed their curiosity and offered us a choice between two well-appointed bedrooms with exquisite wallpaper and interminable views of Ben Nevis. Having ascertained our choices for breakfast and our early departure plans, Mrs McCluskey trundled off to gather the requisite victuals and her husband showed us to the drawing room and how to operate the TV and made himself scarce, leaving the entire house to us. We saw them early next morning emerge from their outhouse and while the lady took care of breakfast, the gentleman proceeded to clean our frozen windscreen with a kettle of hot water. After a hearty breakfast, we left these digs with a well-founded impression about the generous hospitality of Highlanders in Scotland.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/scotland-highs-231404
28-03-2021||I’M going to cheat a little this week and borrow some words from my 17-year-old daughter to start this column. I found this paragraph in an essay she has written as a requirement for a course she is applying for.||Slowing down to heal after the year of the pandemic||“I wrote about my grandmother, shortly after she had died, and I was not yet a teenager. Those words have kept her alive for me, storing small memories that I would not have been able to hold on to otherwise. It made me realise how powerful writing can be. How it holds precious things safely. When you can write something with vulnerability and truth, people resonate with it, and feel validated by it.”Every now and then, as we struggle to disentangle from complicated situations, something simple crosses our path and offers us a glimmer of hope. At a time when nothing seems to console, my daughter’s words reminded me how much it is the small details that will finally save us, not the big, bold solutions we seek and never seem to be able to redeem.One year ago, as the Covid-19 pandemic spread throughout the world and our governments reacted in panic, often being irrational and cruel in their response, our world changed too suddenly and drastically. As people, we are still reeling from the shock.Our home and family spaces have been reorganised, unsettling us with new, confusing roles. Our workplaces have mutated into minefields where we struggle to maintain the fine balance between security and autonomy. Social and administrative structures designed to protect us seem to have turned against us. The uncertainty is manifold. Our livelihood, education, health and the safety of those who we care for — all of it has been at risk for a year. Our delusions that the pandemic will pass have been shattered by our own collective mismanagement. The world as we knew it may never be the same again.Most of us have done everything we were required to keep functioning, but how many of us were able to make a place for grief? We are being called upon to meet the needs of others when our own have been neglected for too long, making us feel exhausted. Did we realise when we were at the end of our tether that we needed to slow down to heal? Many of us have never even considered giving ourselves this agency.As we enter the second year after the beginning of the harsh lockdown, we need to pause and pat ourselves on our back for surviving. Resilience needs to be rewarded, not taken for granted. It wears out unless it is nurtured. We have kept our dependents safe, both physically and emotionally. Our efforts are admirable, but the process is tiresome. We need rest before we can be strong again.At home we need to address the fault lines that are weighing us down. We may be afraid of speaking up because we are afraid of rocking the boat but allowing microaggressions to go unchecked means we are heading for a breakdown anyway. There is no point trying to keep up the façade of normalcy when our realities are frayed. We owe it to our own mental health.Just as I was concluding this column, our youngest daughter sent me a text message from her older sister’s phone along with a photo.“Hello Mamma this is Naseem and I wanted to tell you that I put flowers on Rahat’s grave today.”Rahat is the name of our pet cat who died a month ago. When the grief first hit us, I wondered how our children would recover from the pain. Nothing I said seemed to console them. Every day without Rahat exhausted us.We did not hurry ourselves towards recovery. We spoke of our love for him. We allowed each other to break down. Many of us have suffered unimaginable, intangible loss in the year that has gone by. We need to name it before we can let it go. Self-awareness will rescue us.The nurturance that my daughter found in a school essay on her grandmother can be found by each one of us in our own personalised way. For her sister, it is tending to a beloved cat’s grave. We all have the fire of creativity within us that will eventually make us cross every threshold of loss. We need to agree to acknowledge and honour it first.Natasha Badhwar is a film-maker and author.natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/slowing-down-to-heal-after-the-year-of-the-pandemic-231403
28-03-2021||One wonders — how much joy did sport ever bring to||Covid miseries and escape through sport||In ‘My Broken Love’, an account of German writer Gunter Grass’ experiences in India and Bangladesh in the 1970s and 1980s, he is disturbed by the cheerfulness of India’s most miserable people, such as slum-dwellers, who seem to have little more than their malnourished bodies; he’s bewildered by celebrations of festivals even as natural calamities destroy lives and property not far off.It’s a series of calamities for the country’s most miserable — the collective conscience has become calloused.Across the world, a few sportspersons have died of Covid; the list in India includes former cricketer and politician Chetan Chauhan. But the pageant of sport must continue, due to its utility if not for entertainment. Sport’s greatest utility lies not in jingoistic nationalism, but in making people healthier and fitter.On March 25, one year after the government imposed the first lockdown, the Indian football team, with an average age of less than 24, drew with Oman in a ‘friendly’ match. Oman, placed 23 spots higher than India’s 104 in the world rankings, had won their previous match, in 2019. This time around, India did not allow Oman to score — an Indian player scored both goals in the 1-1 draw. Chinglensana Singh, one of the 10 debutants fielded by coach Igor Stimac, let in an own-goal after a defensive lapse by the goalkeeper, Amrinder Singh. Manvir Singh, a 25-year-old from Punjab, a product of the Minerva Academy, scored the equaliser after an accurate pass from Bipin Singh. Of the four Singhs named here, two are from Punjab, two from Manipur, two states as far apart as possible in geography and culture — a lovely conceit of sport. Holding Oman without the team’s best player, Sunil Chhetri, who is recovering from Covid, was a fine achievement.The shooting World Cup in New Delhi, the first multi-national sports event in the country after the lockdown, too, brought cheer to fans of sport. India are on top of the medals table, though the level of competition was not very high due to limited participation. However, there were some very good performances, by the young shooters especially. Among those who won their first World Cup medals were two Chandigarh youngsters — 18-year-old Vijayveer Sidhu won silver in men's 25m Rapid Fire; and 20-year-old Ganemat Sekhon won three medals in skeet, including an individual bronze. Sidhu was shooting in his first World Cup final; Ganemat, who remembers falling two feet backward when she first fired the big double-barrelled gun as a 14-year-old, became the first Indian woman to win a World Cup medal in skeet. She’s a trailblazer who should inspire young girls to take to big-gun shooting in greater numbers.Despite a few Covid cases at the World Cup — which were dealt with efficiently — and a few lapses and protocol infringements by shooters, the event has provided the blueprint for international sport to return to the country. Covid isn’t going anywhere in a hurry — and sport can’t be shut down indefinitely. That’s the lesson of the last 12 months.Sport is an effective anti-depressant for many; others may turn to God, godmen or psychologists in an effort to purify or purge memory, to forget Covid and other accumulated miseries.Cricket’s god, meanwhile, has reported he’s Covid-positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/covid-miseries-and-escape-through-sport-231402
28-03-2021||We are a good||Who are we kidding here?||So far so good. But antipathy to such reports, and the brimming over of ‘patriotism’ should not make us myopic. As far back as October last year, the Swedish V-Dem Institute, based in Gothenburg university, had stated that India’s democratic processes were on a path of steep decline. India was almost put in the same league with Brazil, Poland, US (oh those halcyon Donald Trump days!) and Hungary. Brazil under Bolsonaro and USA under Trump were Indian favourites last year, remember. The report talked of ‘shrinking space’ for media, civil society and the Opposition. “India has continued on a path of steep decline, to the extent it has almost lost its status as a democracy,” the report said. Nothing could be more damning. Freedom House, now a bête noir among our right-wing “intellectuals”, also downgraded us as a ‘partially free democracy’ and one under siege. Have we come to this? And if we have, we can at least listen to them without fulminating.The Geneva-based UN Human Rights Council’s Working Group, in a report, criticised the incarceration of the pregnant Jamia Millia activist Safoora Zargar and stressed on her ‘deprivation of rights’. She is an MPhil student. It called for political prisoners to be ‘released unconditionally’.Let the world come and see our elections. They are free and fair. But what of the aftermath? MLAs are won over or purchased. How do we explain this phenomena to the world? In Puducherry, a BJP Lt Governor, who had lost woefully in elections against Kejriwal, was given a free hand to stymie the working of an elected government, till the Chief Minister and the Lt Governor were both thrown out. In Delhi, the Lt Governor and CM tussle, which started in 2014, was settled by a five-member Bench of the Supreme Court in 2018, which ruled in favour of the elected government. Now tables are being forcefully overturned through astonishing legislation, which says in effect that ‘Delhi government means Lt Governor’. After two humiliating rebuffs (BJP won just eight seats in a House of 70), power has been snatched, going against the SC ruling. What does the Delhi government do now? Wrap files in red tape with notings, “LG may kindly approve”. And what if he doesn’t? If the BJP were ruling, would such a Bill have been thought of?Amartya Sen was nudged out of the Nalanda University and Bhanu Pratap Mehta from Ashoka University. What message are we sending to the world? We don’t need the very best, especially if what they say is contrary to the non-intellectual elite that rules us today. How long can the establishment just showcase Swapan Dasgupta? As ex-Bolsonaro supporters, we have not much right to claim we are doing enough for climatology. No wonder our police arrested Disha Ravi, a climate activist, on February 13 on sedition charges! Ten days later, she was released on bail.I was in Bengaluru the day an upright judge sentenced Jayalalithaa to four years’ imprisonment and a fine of Rs100 crore in a disproportionate assets case. The corruption reeked to high heavens. The High Court acquitted her later on the plea that the trial judge’s calculations were wrong! Today political parties are swearing by her in the coming elections. This too is a part of our democracy.Reports said that 70,000 men from the Central armed police forces were being sent to West Bengal for election duty. I rushed to my atlas. Were we declaring war? It couldn’t be on our friend Bangladesh. Then a bright idea struck me — happens once a year or so. The Home Minister must have suddenly caught the human rights bug, and so we were moving into Myanmar on behalf of Aung San Suu Kyi. I pondered over the thought, and another bright idea struck me — that meant two in a row! War in erstwhile Burma was unthinkable. The force, 70,000 if you please, was being despatched to fight Mamata Banerjee! The Election Commissioners did not turn a hair. They could be bald, always a possibility. Looks a bit of an unequal contest, 70,000 in camouflage fatigues, Election Commission, formidable Home Minister, NRIs with money, and the army of TMC turncoats against one lady on a wheel chair. Hallelujah!But much more sensational is the eight-page letter of the former Mumbai Police Commissioner, Param Bir Singh. He alleges that Maharashtra’s Home Minister, Anil Deshmukh, from Pawar’s NCP, asked assistant inspectors, etc, to muster up a hundred crores a month from dance bars and the like. Hain? Weren’t we better off during the days of Sultana Daku? Wasn’t Chicago better off in the days of Al Capone and Sherwood Forest more peaceful, sylvan almost, in the days of Robin Hood and Friar Tuck? So many days have passed, but Anil Deshmukh hasn’t resigned.Despite these aberrations, the fact is we are the premier democracy in South Asia and I am not being sarcastic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/who-are-we-kidding-here-231401
