29-03-2021||---||Redesign Indo-Pak CBMs to inject vitality||There are indications that India and Pakistan may revive the old peace process which in the past got derailed due to domestic political impediments in either countries or got jolted due to the 2008 Mumbai attack or the 2019 Pulwama attack. At the core of the previous peace process were the J&K-related confidence building measures (CBMs) agreed by India and Pakistan, namely, the 2005-initiated cross-LoC movement of civilians and cross-LoC trade which started in 2008.From a broader lens, these ideas are anchored in the discipline of conflict resolution that seeks to create an enabling environment for peace between the two nuclear armed rivals. Each conflict has its own context and the failure of context-specific design defeats the application of a general normative approach. Not too different had been the fate of these two CBMs as they had reached their potential and had become inadequate to influencing the larger India-Pakistan relations. In this connection, the inadequacy of both CBMs needs to be unpacked and suitably amended.First of all, expectations from cross-LoC trade to influencing the India-Pakistan relations should be scaled back. Between 2008 and 2019, $103-million worth of trade was reportedly recorded along the two LoC points earmarked for trade. The rationale for cross-LoC trade is to build economic stakes for peace on both sides.At first go, it was not hard to find out the reasons for limited potential of this CBM. Pakistan-controlled Jammu and Kashmir, which is nearly one-third in population as compared to J&K, lacks an agricultural base on account of the hilly topography and has a nascent industrial base. The region is primarily a remittance economy as over 70 per cent of British Pakistanis have a direct or indirect connection with the Pothwari-speaking Pakistan-controlled Jammu and Kashmir, particularly Mirpur, or the adjoining linguistically akin areas like Rawalpindi, Jhelum or the Gujarat areas of Pakistani Punjab.From J&K, which too lacks an industrial base, the goods traded are the traditional Kashmiri ones such as carpet rugs, handicrafts, papier-mache etc and basmati rice from the plains of RS Pura that borders Sialkot district of Pakistan.Many of the 21 items listed for the cross-LoC trade, including bananas, tamarind, red chili, cumin and pistachio, are not grown or grown limitedly on either side of the LoC. Ironically, these goods were coming from the rest of India or Pakistan and traded along the LoC. Traders exploited the advantage of zero duty in contrast to restrictive and high tariff trade between India and Pakistan along Wagah.A 2017 World Bank report — Glass Half Full — had noted that the trade between India and Pakistan annually was worth $2117 million. The report argued that there is a potential of India-Pakistan trade becoming of $36,915 million. Much of the India-Pakistan trade takes place via third countries like Singapore and the UAE. A greater concerted effort should be made for the larger India-Pakistan trade reality rather than trying to focus on cross-LoC trade as its potential to create huge economic stakes for peace is limited.Coming to the CBM of cross-LoC movement of civilians, which is restricted to divided families, there is again a need for introspection. The third and fourth generation descendants of Hindus and Sikhs, who had come from Pakistan-controlled Jammu Kashmir and are now living in Jammu and other parts of India, don’t fulfill the criterion of cross-LoC movement. Nearly cent per cent migration of this group took place in 1947.In the Kashmir Valley, the divided families are few as culturally and ethnically, the Valley had remained intact with India in 1947. That is why the number of passengers along the Uri-Muzaffarabad route has remained a trickle in the 14 years of its operation. Actually, in J&K, the bulk of divided families live in sparsely populated hilly Rajouri-Poonch belt situated along the LoC. Even in this category, the potentiality of CBM had reached a saturation point. The ties between families on either side of the LoC are progressively vanishing as the family members with direct connection expired and families expanded.Actually, most of the Muslim migration in J&K took place from its southern part and that too to Pakistan’s Punjab and not to Pakistan-controlled J&K. According to the 1948 West Punjab Refugees Census, the number of Muslims who migrated from Jammu and Kashmir — most of them from Jammu — was 2,02,600, the highest outside east Punjab. Muslims from the Jammu plains mostly settled in Sialkot and Lahore, though a number of families settled in other Punjabi cities such as Gujranwala and Faisalabad as well. The number of persons in Pakistan’s Punjab, including the succeeding generations of the 1947 migrants who have a linkage with Jammu and Kashmir, is estimated to be around 1.5 million. Like the Hindus and Sikhs who migrated from Pakistan-controlled Jammu Kashmir, these families’interest is limited to a desire to visit ancestral places.Faced with this reality, the broadening of the conceptual framework of the CBM with regard to the movement of civilians is required. All those with a familial connection with J&K in India or Pakistan should be allowed to travel to visit their ancestral places. In this connection, it is important to open the logistically easier old Suchetgarh (Jammu)-Sialkot (Pakistan’s Punjab) route that will benefit the bulk of families who left J&K in 1947 for Pakistani Punjab.The current Suchetgarh-Sialkot border post has already become a popular tourist destination on either side. The potentiality of a plain Suchetgarh-Sialkot route is huge as it targets the heartland of Pakistan’s Punjab by reducing some of the monolithic conceptions of Punjabi Muslims about J&K, which had been the key driver of violence and extremism in the region. It will also showcase J&K’s huge diversity, ethnic, regional as well as religious.In case, security is a consideration, initially, only those above the age of 60 years should be allowed. In the same vein, Hindus and Sikhs could visit their ancestral areas in Pakistan-controlled J&K.As the two countries may possibly start afresh, they should inject vitality to the previous CBMs by redesigning them through being more creative, bold and responsive to the facts on the ground. This alone could potentially translate the theory of conflict resolution by some measure into reality.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/redesign-indo-pak-cbms-to-inject-vitality-231872
29-03-2021||---||Using govt agencies to wage political battles||Apparently, former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Phadnavis is committing the same mistake as his Central leadership by using government agencies for political battles. Otherwise, he would not have openly cited a top secret document originated by the former Additional DGP (Intelligence), Maharashtra, which was a product of unauthorised, nay illegal, snooping.As a former chief minister, he should have known that the possession and misuse of a restricted document is an offence under the Official Secrets Act.Instead, he claimed that he had a pen drive of this report which was found freely circulating even before he mentioned it to the Union Home Secretary.This was meant to fortify the allegations made by the former Commissioner of Police against the state Home Minister of alleged corruption and extortion which is being heard by the Bombay High Court.The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) ruling Maharashtra is alleging that this is a political conspiracy by the BJP to topple their government with the help of a few police officers. Fortunately, they have not yet registered an offence of “sedition” which some BJP-ruled states always do.The Chief Secretary of Maharashtra, who was then the Additional Chief Secretary (Home), has revealed that the lady officer had “misled” the government while seeking permission for phone tapping. He had said that she had sought approval last year under the Indian Telegraph Act on national security and law and order reasons. Instead, she had “misused the permission granted, for obvious political reasons.”He also revealed that she had later called on him, the Home Minister and the Chief Minister to apologise for her wrongdoing.The Commissioner of Police, who has filed a PIL in the Bombay High Court after his efforts to move the Supreme Court had failed, has cited this report to fortify his claims that a police transfer “racket” was being run by the state Home Minister through certain police officers. He had claimed that the Home Minister had asked Sachin Vaze of the Crime Branch to collect Rs 100 crore a month. Vaze was arrested by the NIA for the alleged murder of Mansukh Hiran who had reportedly placed gelatin sticks in an SUV in front of the Ambani tower.The Commissioner seems to have taken cognisance of this alleged illegal activity only after he was shifted out of his job on March 16 instant although he was holding that charge since February 2020. Also, his trusted aide Sachin Vaze, who was under suspension for a custodial death case, was reinstated by a committee chaired by him and posted to the elite Crime Branch instead of joining what is called the “side branches” to prevent malfeasance by them.All these reveal severe management problems in the working of the Mumbai Police which needs a drastic revamping.In particular, the freedom with which the police are snooping on private communications on the ground of national security is a big danger to our privacy, freedom and human rights. This particular point applies not only to Maharashtra but also other states and especially to Central agencies which are totally opaque on their electronic surveillance activities.It would appear that even the inbuilt supervisory system, like home secretaries granting the permission for monitoring has failed, as is evident from the current example. Earlier, the powers to grant permission were with the police chiefs in big cities. The lacuna in the present system is the absence of any audit on how such permissions are utilised by the agencies concerned, like the police, Enforcement Directorate, National Investigation Agency, Customs and others.This problem is very old. An RTI application in January 2012 had revealed that our Union Home Ministry issued 7,000-9,500 interception orders a month. It must have gone up by leaps and bounds as Central agencies like the ED, Customs or NIA are much more active now, especially as elections approach. The above figure does not include thousands of interceptions done by the State police and Central intelligence agencies.The problem is not only with government agencies. Even non-state agencies like private security groups were doing what is called “off the air monitoring systems” to tap cell phones without government authorisation or with the knowledge of service providers. During the last two decades, especially after 26/11, the private sector has also entered this area of “off-air” interception of their rivals’ communications, taking advantage of the multitude of foreign “security specialists” who were exploiting our poor security situation and inadequate regulatory mechanisms.This danger was flagged by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on December 15, 2010 while addressing the corporate leaders. He wanted the Cabinet Secretary to “look for solutions through technology to prevent access of telephone conversations to systems outside the institutional framework of government.” This was while he was assuring the corporate sector in the wake of the “Nira Radia revelations” which had suggested phone-tapping of corporate personalities.The Naresh Chandra Task Force on National Security set up by the UPA government had interviewed me in November 2011, wherein, among others, I had recommended the creation of an office of cyber security under the cabinet secretary or NSA to coordinate all technical intelligence efforts, including cyber security programmes to avoid duplication of efforts by different Central agencies.Also, to ensure that such efforts are legitimate without being commercially or politically misused, I had verbally suggested to Naresh Chandra that we should set up something like an ombudsman to assure the public, media, politicians and corporate leaders that our interceptions would be strictly on national security, prevention of crime and maintenance of law and order.Such a system exists in the UK in the form of “Interception of Communications Commissioner” (ICC) created under the “Regulation of Investigative Powers Act-RIPA 2000)”. The ICC has powers to even check interceptions done by their national intelligence services like MI-5 (SS), Mi-6 (SIS) and GCHQ to ensure that they do not breach the guidelines. The ICC’s annual reports to the PM for placing before the parliament are available on the ICC website.We need to think on these lines for guarding our privacy, liberty and human rights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/using-govt-agencies-to-wage-political-battles-231849
29-03-2021||---||Rooting for a handful of sky||International travel, as we have hitherto known it, is dead. Ever so often — weekly, sometimes more frequently — foreign embassies and high commissions in New Delhi are announcing changes to restrictions on the entry of Indians into their countries.On March 28, new rules on the entry of airline passengers into Germany went into effect. The German government specifically said the new restrictions applied to what the order described as ‘Covid-19 risk countries, such as India’. The French government updated its February 4 order on March 1, warning that ‘all international travel – from a foreign country to France and vice versa – is totally and strictly discouraged until further orders’.The consular section of the Embassy of Mexico in India is only entertaining visa applicants already holding a valid permit issued by the Department of National Migration in Mexico City. For many high commissions such as Canada, repatriation of their citizens from India became all-consuming work. Everything else became secondary as Canadian MPs intervened to speed up the repatriation. At one time, they had 38,000 Canadian citizens in India, desperate to go back home.External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar told Parliament two weeks ago that authorities facilitated the return from India of more than 1.1 lakh foreign passport holders. They came from 120 countries. None of this was fun travel. It has changed into an experience of unimaginable stress during the pandemic.Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri said a week ago that India had brought back 6.77 million of its citizens since its global repatriation mission known as ‘Vande Bharat’ began on May 7. While such flights may not be the coming home experience that they used to be, Puri says it has become the ‘world's largest mission of hope and happiness’. It has certainly grown into the ‘largest repatriation exercise in the history of the world’ through aviation.It is disconcerting that the numbers of returning Indians continue to grow. If it were not for a slow but steady revival in the migration of Indians who had to abandon their jobs abroad or lost work in the last one year, this would be a serious problem in terms of remittances to India and its foreign exchange reserves. Such return of Indians to their jobs is mostly true of the Gulf, where recovery is faster than in other parts of the world.If oil prices continue to rise in the international market, more Indians will go back to the Gulf. But for them, too, travel is no longer a matter of joy. ‘To that end, our government has concluded air transport bubbles that are temporary reciprocal arrangements for commercial passenger services until the resumption of regular international flights. Such arrangements have been concluded with 27 nations so far,’ Jaishankar said.As a result of all this, negotiations on civil aviation have turned into a major preoccupation for foreign diplomats. Ambassadors have had to brush up their knowledge of International Civil Aviation Organisation regulations and pore through the history of civil aviation agreements concluded by their countries and India. Along the way, these envoys have realised that only political interventions in New Delhi can get their national carriers anything like a fair deal in these negotiations.It would not be far-fetched to predict that for the rest of this year, the big challenge facing foreign governments in their interactions with Indian counterparts will be in civil aviation. The pie is big, and getting bigger by the day. Every country with a global airline of its own wants a share of it. So far, Puri and his team have been tough in bargaining for the best deal for India in these negotiations to the point of causing frictions in several bilateral relations. It is a sea change from the previous government when the Civil Aviation Ministry was headed, for the most part, by a member of the Nationalist Congress Party. It still rankles in Rajiv Gandhi Bhavan, headquarters of this ministry, that seats were given away to foreign airlines without protecting the interests of Indian carriers or Indian ancillary businesses.Ten years ago, order books of Boeing, Airbus and Embraer were full of orders from Indian carriers, both state-run airlines and private companies, which brought fresh air into Indian aviation. At that time, only 1 per cent of Indians used to fly. Boeing and Airbus executives in Seattle and Toulouse were salivating over the prospect that even if 10 per cent Indians took to the skies with increasing prosperity, aircraft manufacturers would have it good for another decade or two.The pandemic has been the death knell for many airlines the world over, but in India, recovery from Covid-19 is surprisingly robust and ongoing. But patterns of doing business will drastically change. Puri and his team are creatively adapting to this change. For instance, the Civil Aviation Minister is working on building an aircraft leasing business in India, which would finance new aircraft deliveries through leases instead of purchases. This is based on the premise that the share of aircraft on lease globally increased from 40 per cent before the onset of the pandemic to 50 per cent now.Puri predicts that at the present post-Covid rate of recovery, India will need 100 aircraft deliveries each year for the next 20 years. If the bulk of these deliveries are to come through long-term leases, the business will be worth a whopping $290 billion. Instead of filling order books of aircraft manufacturers, the plan now is to route the aircraft leasing business in India through the International Financial Services Centre Authority, specifically the Gujarat International Finance Tec-City, better known as GIFT City. If these plans materialise, one of the main thrusts of India’s economic diplomacy in the coming years will be through civil aviation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/rooting-for-a-handful-of-sky-231848
