31-03-2021||---||Justice Surinder Singh Nijjar: An outstanding legal mind imbued with a vision||Justice Surinder Singh Nijjar (June 7, 1949 – March 26, 2021)Last week marked a sad moment for India, as one of the most eminent jurists of our nation, Justice Surinder Singh Nijjar, former judge of the Supreme Court of India, passed away. He was an outstanding judge, a man of brilliant intellect, unimpeachable integrity and utmost rectitude. He will always beremembered for the quiet and ethical leadership and commitment to the cause of justice that he brought to the bench, both in the High Courts of India, and indeed in the highest court of the country.Justice Nijjar was uniquely impressive because of his self-effacing nature with his humility and polite ways of dealing with complex issues of law and justice.Socrates most appropriately described the essential qualities of a good judge: “Four things belong to a judge: To hear courteously; to answer wisely; to consider soberly; and to decide impartially.” Lawyers and judges who have interacted with Justice Nijjar would unequivocally agree that he epitomised these qualities of a judge that Socrates had outlined more than 2,400 years ago.There are several aspects of Justice Nijjar’s life and legacy that are worth celebrating. But the ones that stand out the most, in my view, are the following five aspects: Outstanding academic qualifications; an analytical mind with strong legal acumen; personality and demeanour epitomising a high judicial office; deep sense ofhumility and self-effacing nature; unimpeachable integrity and professional rectitude.Born in 1949, Justice Nijjar lived a life that represents a combination of excellence in his academic pursuits and landmark judgments, which contributed to the development of jurisprudence in important areas of law and dispute resolution. He graduated in law from the University of London, followed by the completion of Bar-at-Law at Middle Temple Inn, London, where later in his illustrious career, he also went on to be elected as a Master of the Bench (Bencher) at the Hon’ble Society of the Middle Temple.After briefly working in England, he brought his jurisprudential leadership to India. At a time when he could have decided to stay longer and work in the UK when he had the option to, Justice Nijjar chose to return. His contribution to the development of India’s jurisprudence marks the promotion of excellence in adjudication in commercial law, constitutional law and arbitration law. This is reflected in his journey that began as an advocate in the Punjab and Haryana High Court in the late seventies. He also went on to contribute at the district courts in Chandigarh, departmental authorities and the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT).After his brief stint as an Additional Advocate General of the Government of Punjab, he went on to serve in the Bench at the Punjab and Haryana High Court. This was also followed by his appointment as a judge in the Bombay High Court. After his contributions during his brief stint as the Acting Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana High Court, Chandigarh in 2006, Justice Nijjar was elevated by 2007 to Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court, and by the end of the first decade of 2000, he became a judge of the Supreme Court of India.His illustrious career is marked by numerous landmark judgments that have provoked a need to rethink the way we imagined law back then, and now. An advocate of utilising alternative dispute resolution system for resolving commercial disputes, his approach has enabled the effective delivery of justice in India. Bharat Aluminium versus Kaiser Aluminium judgment (BALCO) was one such scenario where the laws related to the cases of Bhatia International and Venture Global were overruled by the Supreme Court of India. Reliance Industries Ltd and Ors versus Union of India, Enercon India versus Enercon Gmbh, Swiss Timing Limited versus Commonwealth Games and State of Maharashtra versus Indian Hotel and Restaurants Association are amongst the numerous other cases that are recognised globally today. These cases have not only helped reimagine the laws of India, but have also enabled the Indian judiciary to create new jurisprudence in important areas of law.Justice Nijjar not only created a substantive impact for the development of rule of law in India, but was also renowned for his visionary judgments. His unmatchable legal acumen was also extended to various other roles including that of the Chairman, Mediation and Conciliation Project Committee, Supreme Court of India, Non-Executive Director, Indiabulls Housing Finance Limited, Independent Director of Indiabulls Real Estate Limited, Executive Chairman, Punjab State Legal Services Authority, and Chairman, Advisory/NSA Board of Punjab. He also served as the standing counsel for universities, government corporations and nationalised banks.His long journey in the Indian judiciary represents a diversity of roles and cases to which he brought his leadership. His judgments and contributions have made him one of the most outstanding legal minds of India, and globally. Today, we must celebrate the innovation and vision of Justice Nijjar, and how it has transformed the way we look at many aspects of justice, especially alternative dispute resolution in India today.Beyond his contributions to the world of justice, Justice Nijjar brought the highest sense of civility, decency, decorum and sophistication to the judicial discourse. Justice Nijjar will always be remembered as an outstanding jurist and an amazing gentleman, beautifully envisaged in the words of Justice Bronson, “A judge ought to be wise enough to know that he is fallible and therefore, ever ready to learn; great and honest enough to discard all mere pride of opinion, and follow truth wherever it may lead, and courageous enough to acknowledge his errors.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/justice-surinder-singh-nijjar-an-outstanding-legal-mind-imbued-with-a-vision-232275
31-03-2021||---||Maharashtra churn reflects parties’ turf war||At the point where politics intersects crime — organised and random — lies a subterranean habitat which survives on edginess, unfulfilled ambitions, overdrive, hunting for cat’s paws and foils and scapegoating the suckers. The habitation can exist undisturbed until a disaster strikes. This is what happened on February 26, when a parked SUV packed with gelatine sticks was found outside the home of industrialist Mukesh Ambani in south Mumbai. The discovery set off a chain of events that sucked into a vortex the Maharashtra government, its principal protagonists, and the cops and an ecosystem they had created to protect and nurture their interests and that of their political masters. The under surface dynamics that safeguarded the politicians and their minions spilt over and bubbled on the outside, revealing an aspect of Maharashtra that was not glimpsed since the years when the “underworld” ruled the roost.While the implications were not as menacing for the larger population as when the “gangs” were on the rampage, the unfolding saga cannot but disconcert and unsettle the political system, which in Mumbai hinges on a disparate coalition of the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress.To recapitulate, after the Scorpio was “discovered”, its owner Mansukh Hiren, a Thane businessman, was traced. Three days after the revelation, Hiren was murdered. A low tide washed up his body into a marshy Mumbra creek, flowing off the Mithi river. The anti-terrorist squad nabbed Sachin Vaze, a former assistant police inspector, who joined the Sena officially in 2009, and was reinstated after 16 years. Vaze was believed to be close to the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) dispensation. However, following indications that he might have turned an approver to help the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and other Central agencies probing the developments, the Sena distanced itself from the prime accused in Hiren’s killing. Vaze had used Hiren’s vehicle for the past four months.Parambir Singh, the Mumbai police commissioner, who was reportedly an appointee of Sharad Pawar, the NCP president, was replaced by Hemant Nagrale, cherry-picked by Uddhav Thackeray, the chief minister. The buck stopped with Anil Deshmukh, the Home Minister from the NCP, who put Pawar in a tight spot. Thackeray took advantage of Pawar’s perceptible vulnerability at that point and posted other Marathi-speaking officers, Vishwas Nagare Patil and Milind Bharambe, in important positions in the police. The underlying political message was he would preside over an order that “favoured” the Marathi-speaking population. Inescapably but deliberately, Thackeray deepened the political-police nexus, more so at a time when the credibility of both seemed compromised. Confirming the point was Sandeep Pandey, the senior most cop who was passed over for Nagrale. Pandey protested in a missive to the CM which made no difference. Politics and partisanship were wedded to one another.If Thackeray was blasé about the appointments, Pawar lurched into another crisis after Parambir Singh accused his Home Minister Deshmukh of directing his subordinates to extort Rs 100 crore every month from the business establishments. By then, it was apparent that Singh, once close to the MVA government, made “peace” with the Central agencies and resolved to squeal on and embarrass his former bosses. The Centre, for long wanting to put the MVA on the mat, carried off a minor coup by neutralising Singh. Was it enough to rock the boat?Sanjay Raut, the editor of the weekly Samna, the Sena mouthpiece and a Rajya Sabha MP, penned a scathing edit in which he alleged Deshmukh should step down because he was a “suspect”. Raut added that Deshmukh was brought in under duress because Pawar’s first choice was Jayant R Patil or Dilip Walse Patil, neither of who wanted to sit on the hot seat. In Maharashtra, the Home Ministry was always a painful assignment because it entailed taking orders from multiple and conflicting command structures, in politics and outside. Disobeying one invited the peril of jeopardising one’s position or facing worse consequences.Deshmukh’s predicament, coincidentally or otherwise, led to another event whose veracity is disputed. That was a “meeting” between Pawar, his NCP colleague, Praful Patel and Amit Shah, the BJP leader and Home Minister on March 26 at an industrialist’s home in Ahmedabad. The NCP denied the meeting but when Shah was asked about it at a press conference, his answer was open-ended, giving the development a piquant twist. If true, it says something of Shah’s indefatigability and his single-minded focus on realpolitik. In the midst of campaigning feverishly in West Bengal, Assam and elsewhere, he splashed his feet in Maharashtra’s muddied waters and agitated the currents. Enough for politicians to speculate over the choppy fate of the MVA! Indeed, on Monday, Chandrakant Patil, the Maharashtra BJP president, added his take to the story, saying the party would “respect” whatever call the high command took over striking an alliance.At the heart of the Maharashtra churn are three protagonists: Pawar, Thackeray and Devendra Fadnavis, the BJP’s former CM and now the Opposition leader. Those who claim to know Pawar will affirm he will not go with the BJP, not because of ideological concerns but out of wanting to safeguard the political turf that he carved out and consolidated after hard work. His cheerleaders recalled that in November 2019, when the BJP nearly split the NCP and spirited away Ajit Pawar, his nephew, with the promise of making him the deputy CM in a coalition, Pawar’s reflexes kicked in, fast and furious. He aborted the BJP’s manoeuvre and didn’t reflect deep over installing a new coalition, knowing it might not be too stable.For Thackeray, it’s about preserving the Sena’s legacy and proving to himself, his rank-and-file and the people of Maharashtra that he is no accidental CM. To Fadnavis, who looks like he has not come to terms with the loss of office, the compulsion is to stop the ground from beneath his feet from slipping. He has lost swaths of the BJP’s base to the Sena and the Congress, even in his own Nagpur fief. The BJP cannot let go of Maharashtra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/maharashtra-churn-reflects-parties-turf-war-232272
31-03-2021||---||China’s retail nationalism||The long-running self-destructive streak in the People’s Republic of China seems to be manifesting itself again these days. This time in the conduct of its foreign policy. The latest is the attack on the Swedish retail giant H&M’s China business over the issue of a 2020 statement made by the company that its products do not use cotton grown in Xinjiang, because of forced labour allegations there.The action, in response to the European Union sanctions on Chinese individuals on account of rights violations in Xinjiang last week, could upend the promise of better China-EU ties that seemed to accompany the Comprehensive Agreement on Investment (CAI) in December 2020.The goings-on will also have a chilling effect on efforts of US firms to have the Biden administration lift curbs placed by Trump on exports to China.Alarmingly for China, this was a coordinated action where the US, the UK and Canada also imposed sanctions. But where they had targeted some lower-level Xinjiang officials, the Chinese upped the ante and imposed its own counter-sanctions on 10 EU individuals, including four Members of the European Parliament (MEPs), four entities, including the European Council’s Political and Security Committee, and the well-known think tank MERICS. Not only were the officials placed under sanctions, but also their family members.As for the US and Canada, the Chinese targeted the bipartisan US Commission for International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) Chair Gayle Manchin and Vice-Chair Tony Perkins, Canadian MP Michael Choong and the rights subcommittee of the Canadian Parliament’s Foreign Affairs Committee. Manchin is the wife of a US Senator and the PRC officials appear to be waving a red rag at the US Congress where religious freedom is a big issue.This is not the first time China has used its market power to punish a foreign company. Some years ago, it attacked Lotte, a major South Korean company, because the Korean government decided to give a golf course it owned for the setting up of a US-built THAAD anti-missile defence system. The crippling sanctions were lifted after two years, and since then, South Korea has taken care not to get on the wrong side of Beijing.More recently, China has targeted Australian goods, including coal, wine and barley, for trade reprisals because of the call by PM Scott Morrison’s government for independent investigations into the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic.H&M has an old relationship with China, where it sources its products for the global market. It is also a big market for H&M which has 400 retail stores in the country. In the line of target are other majors like Nike, Adidas, Uniqlo, Gap, and Burberry, who have made similar statements, though for the present, H&M seems to be the main target.Chinese celebrities have renounced their promotion contracts with H&M and the company has been erased from mapping, ride hailing and e-commerce apps in China. Reports say that the campaign against Nike and Adidas is being kept on hold perhaps because of the advertising these companies are likely to provide for the Winter Olympics scheduled to be held in China next year. The alarming message coming out of Beijing for western companies who have long enjoyed a profitable run in China is that if you are on the wrong side of issues like Xinjiang, you can forget doing business in China.What would be of interest is the way forward for the EU to ratify the CAI that it had signed with China over American objections. European governments may find it difficult to proceed with the process as long as four of their members are under Chinese sanctions. But the Chinese are hanging tough on this, with foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying declaring that the CAI ‘is not a gift bestowed upon one side by the other side, but is mutually beneficial and reciprocal’. The goings-on in China will also have a chilling effect on efforts of American firms to have the Biden administration lift the restrictions placed by the Trump administration on exports to China.Biden’s arrival has changed the tone of the US-EU relations. Last week, the US President participated virtually as an honorary EU leader in a summit meeting of the European Council. Around the same time, Secretary of State Anthony Blinken was interacting with EU leaders in Brussels, and the two sides have decided to relaunch the EU-US dialogue on China to enhance coordination of their policies. This can only increase Beijing’s headaches.It is not as though there is total congruence between the EU and the US. One issue looming large is that of the Nordstream 2 pipeline bringing gas from Russia to Germany. The US has threatened to impose sanctions if the work on the pipeline is completed. The Americans worry that the pipeline will increase the dependence of the EU on Russian gas.But the strongly Atlanticist approach of the Biden administration has overcome the distrust engendered by the Trump administration’s ‘America first’ policy. Increasingly, Europeans are making common cause with the US. One manifestation of this is the increasing interest of countries like the UK, France, the Netherlands and Germany to join the US in establishing a naval presence in the South China Sea. A few ships will not make a difference from the military point of view, but the fact that these important European countries are willing to show the flag in what is for them a remote part of the world, will be a message to China of the growing coalition willing to take a stand against its policies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/chinas-retail-nationalism-232252
