01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Khattar, Capt Amarinder, Badal condole loss of lives in Vaishno Devi stampede||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, his former Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh and several other leaders on Saturday condoled the loss of lives in a stampede at the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir.At least 12 people died and over a dozen were injured in the stampede that took place around 2.30 am on Saturday near Gate 3 outside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine atop the Trikuta hills, about 50 km from Jammu."Deeply saddened to hear about the accident that took place at Mata Vaishno Devi at Jammu. May God grant peace to the departed souls and I pray for speedy recovery of the injured. My condolences to the bereaved families. We are ready to help in any way possible," Khattar said in a tweet.Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said, "My profound condolences to the bereaved families who lost their dear ones in a stampede at #matavaishnodevi shrine. I pray for a speedy and complete recovery of those injured."       Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal expressed shock over the incident."Shocked at the large scale deaths in the stampede at Mata Vaishnodevi Devi shrine in Katra. My condolences to the families of the dozen deceased. May the almighty grant them eternal peace. I also wish a speedy recovery to those injured in the tragic incident," the SAD chief said in a tweet."Deeply pained by the tragic news of several lives lost due to a stampede at Mata #Vaishnodevi Temple. My sympathies with the bereaved families in this toughest hour of grief. May Guru Sahib grant peace to the departed souls and speedy recovery to the injured," said Harsimrat Kaur.Congress leader Manish Tewari said he was deeply saddened to learn about the tragic loss of lives. "Heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. Prayers for a speedy recovery of those injured," he said in a tweet. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/khattar-amarinder-badal-condole-loss-of-lives-in-vaishno-devi-stampede-356899
01-01-2022||Even with the shadow of Omicron looming||While Chandigarh witnessed a happening party scene on New Year Eve, other major cities in Punjab toned down the celebratory mood due to Omicron threat||Peddlers had the band Yuga and live DJ playing for the partygoers. “Only in Chandigarh the party scene is happening, considering how Delhi and Mumbai have imposed restrictions. We are booked almost to full,” said Vipul Dua from Peddlers.Covid protocols in place, decor in red, and countdown on big screen, fireworks and DJ, Piccadilia too geared up for the night. “We have close to full reservations, some walk-ins and we are good to go” said Arpit Singh, owner, Piccadilia. “We maintained Covid protocol,” he added. Satinder Sartaaj’s performance was sold out at Hyatt, Chandigarh and the scene was similar at most hotels and clubs which hosted events to ring in 2022.Hills remained a favourite jaunt for city folks as well. “I am on a work-cum-celebrations trip to Shimla,” said choreographer Jas K Shan.A look around JalandharWith most people preferring to usher in 2022 with their families, most hoteliers in Jalandhar kept the New Year night celebrations a simple affair. Owners of most hotels in the city laid out lavish buffet spread and held live singing for its guests. One of the main attractions was an open light, sound and fire show at the PPR Market near Model Town. Popular podcaster from the city Simerjeet Singh too said, “For the past two years, we have been going out to gurdwara, offering prayers and listening to the hymns. We then organise bonfire and the family sits together. This time too, we did the same.”Missing fervour in AmritsarAmritsaris brought in 2022 minus the usual fervour. With most clubs in city calling off live shows party revellers celebrated New Year in a restricted manner.The clubs in the city, including Amritsar Club, Service Club and Heritage Club, called off New Year parties and settled for private dinners with limited gathering. “We are offering dinner service only for our club members. Usually, celebrities used to perform on the New Year’s Eve and we used to host multiple activities for guests, but in the given scenario, it’s not possible,” said Lalit Mohan Chandok, secretary, Amritsar Club.With caution in LudhianaLudhiana, on the contrary, celebrated New Year Eve with great zeal. According to Amarvir Singh, president of Hotel and Restaurant Association, New Year parties were organised at 35-40 hotels. "The persons who have got both doses of vaccination were allowed to attend the events. Party venues were allowed to operate at 50 per cent capacity for maintaining social distancing."—Mona, Deepkamal Kaur, Neha Saini, Harshraj Singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/entertainment/while-chandigarh-witnessed-a-happening-party-scene-on-new-year-eve-other-major-cities-in-punjab-toned-down-the-celebratory-mood-due-to-omicron-threat-356861
01-01-2022||---||Gunshots fired at late Akal Takht jathedar Giani Partap Singh's house in Amritsar||Amritsar, December 31Two unidentified persons fired at the house of former Akal Takht jathedar Partap Singh on Sultanwind Road area here on Thursday night. The police found around 12 empty shells from the street outside his residence.The police have registered a case in this regard while further investigation was launched to identify the suspects who had covered their faces while firing.The complainant, Gurpreet Singh, told the police that he, along with his family members, were sleeping in the house when they heard firing. He said unidentified persons kicked their drawing room door that opened into the street. He said when the accused fled away, they came out and saw gunshot marks on the door and windows. There were empty shells on the ground. He said unidentified persons had fired gunshots to kill them as they used to sit in the drawing room after dinner.Talwinder Singh, SHO, Division B police station, said a case under Sections 307, 427 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against unidentified persons and efforts were on to identify them. He said some personal enmity is apparently the reason behind the incident though the family members had denied this.Giani Partap Singh, a noted Sikh preacher and Punjabi writer, remained Akal Takht acting jathedar from 1938 to 1948 and later as jathedar from 1952 to 1955.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gunshots-fired-at-late-akal-takht-jathedars-house-356837
01-01-2022||---||Punjab CM Channi announces slew of sops for policemen||Jalandhar, December 31Announcing a slew of incentives for policemen, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today lauded the services rendered by cops in maintaining peace and law and order in the country, and said any question mark on their integrity is “unwarranted and undesirable”.PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu had drawn criticism over his statement regarding the men in uniform recently.Attending a function at the PAP complex, the Chief Minister accepted one of their major demands by announcing restart of uniform allowance from New Year.He said superior uniform would be provided to policemen for which the cost would be borne by the state government. He also announced free bus travel for on duty cops in government transport, and added personnel would continue to get 13 months’ salary.The Chief Minister said the government would provide risk allowance to the bomb disposal unit. He also enhanced diet money for sportspersons of the Punjab Police from existing Rs 150 to Rs 250 per day during camps. CM Channi further approved ground renovation on the PAP campus at a cost of Rs 1 crore to boost sports.He said a ‘Police Sanjh Kendra’ would be opened at Amritsar and Mohali airports to facilitate NRIs coming into the state. He announced requisite funds for purchase of 250 vehicles for the force and enhanced the police welfare fund from existing Rs 10 crore to Rs 15 crore from the next budget.He lauded the role of the Punjab Police in restoring normalcy in the state after the black days of terrorism. He expressed hope the police would be successful in wiping out drugs from the state.The CM said some forces inimical to state were bent upon disturbing peace, but expressed hope with support of people, the challenges would be overcome. On his arrival on the campus, the CM was given a guard of honour. He laid a wreath at martyrs’ memorial and interacted with officials during a welfare meeting.Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa, Cabinet Minister Raj Kumar Verka, DGP Siddharth Chattopadhyaya, PAP DGP IPS Sahota and others were also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-announces-slew-of-sops-for-policemen-356744
01-01-2022||---||Guru Ravidas centre to come up in Punjab's Ballan||Jalandhar, December 31Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today announced the establishment of a state-of-the-art Guru Ravidas Bani Adhiyan (Research) Centre at Ballan, to be built a cost of Rs 50 crore. He handed over a cheque for Rs 25 crore for the purpose during a visit to Dera Sachkhand Ballan here. Also, SAD MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal called on the dera chief separately.With the dera being a revered seat of the Ravidassia community, political leaders visit it ahead of the elections to woo Doaba’s crucial 32 per cent Dalit vote. In August, PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu had visited the dera.While paying obeisance in the presence of chief Sant Niranjan Dass, Channi said the centre would go a long way in undertaking extensive research and study of the ‘bani’ of Guru Ravidas. The dera chief presented him with a ‘siropa’ (holy robe).The CM also announced the formation of Guru Ravidas Bani Adhiyan Kendra Prabandhak Committee, to be headed by its head, to manage the overall affairs of the centre. The CM added that the Secretary, Tourism, and DC would be the government’s representatives in the committee, which would decide the future course of action with respect to development of the centre, including procurement of requisite land. Cabinet minister Pargat Singh, MLA Surinder Chaudhary, Chaudhary Santokh Singh and former minister Mohinder Singh Kaypee were also present.— TNSLeather bizman back in Congress Leather businessman Satpal Mal, who had quit the Congress in 2017 to join the SAD, on Friday returned to the party fold. Mal rejoined the Congress in the presence of CM Channi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/guru-ravidas-centre-to-come-up-at-ballan-356746
01-01-2022||New Delhi||Manjinder Singh Sirsa withdraws resignation as DSGMC chief||BJP leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Friday said he has withdrawn his resignation as president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee as a stopgap arrangement to address administrative issues of the body. Sirsa, as a SAD candidate, had lost from Punjabi Bagh seat in the DSGMC polls held in August. The party, however, won the polls by bagging 27 of the 46 seats.Later, Sirsa quit the SAD to join the BJP. He had also resigned from the post of DSGMC chief that he was holding before the elections.“I withdrew my resignation to address administrative problems like release of salaries of the employees. I will be there till a new chairman is elected in January next year,” he said.He also claimed the resignation tendered by him from the post was not accepted due to technical and legal issues.In a DSGMC office order issued under Sirsa’s name on Friday, collapse of the administrative system, non-payment of salaries and bonus to employees and its institutions, and preparations at Bala Sahib Hospital run by the DSGMC to tackle third wave of COVID, were cited as reasons behind the move.“The undersigned has decided to withdraw his resignation for the smooth functioning of the DSGMC and will continue to discharge his duties as president, DSGMC, till the formation of new committee,” said the order. Meanwhile, the SAD accused the BJP of the bid to take control of the DSGMC. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sirsa-withdraws-resignation-as-dsgmc-chief-356747
01-01-2022||---||9 Punjab farm unions to protest PM's visit||Bathinda, December 31Nine farmer unions have announced that they would hold protests and raise “Modi go back” banners across the state during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s scheduled visit to Punjab on January 5.The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) has already said it would protest the PM’s visit. Now eight more unions — Krantikari Kisan Union, Punjab; Azad Kisan Committee, Doaba; Jai Kisan Andolan; BKU (Sidhupur); Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Kotbudha; Lok Bhalai Welfare Society, BKU (Krantikari); and Dasuya Sugarcane Committee — have declared to do the same.BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) secretary Shingara Singh Mann said: “The farmer unions have announced the protest against PM Modi’s visit as the Centre has failed to do anything to meet our pending demands.”Demands not met yetThe Centre has failed to fulfil our demands, including financial aid to the families of farmers who died during the Delhi stir. —Surjeet Phool, BKU (krantikari) ChiefFurther, farmers said after repeal of the farm laws, the government had promised to take back the criminal cases and compensate the deceased Delhi protesters. “No serious action has been taken on this and even no mention has been made of the committee working on the MSP. Also, no action has been taken even after the SIT report on the incident of killing of farmers in Lakhimpur,” they added.The farmer leaders have appealed to the other farmer, labourer, employee and youth organisations of Punjab to take active part in the protest.The BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) is already holding indefinite protests against the state government at 15 places in the state, demandingdebt waiver and compensation for the cotton crop damaged due to pink bollworm attack in the state. BKU (Krantikari) Surjeet Singh Phool said we had requested all like-minded organisations to support our decision to compel the Centre to fulfil all our demands. This is the first visit of the PM after repeal of the farm laws. — TNSThe action planOn January 2, every village in the state will stage protest. On January 5, tehsil and district-level dharnas will be held from noon to 2 pm. Effigies of Modi government will be burnt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/9-farm-unions-to-protest-pms-visit-356750
01-01-2022||Ludhiana||2 BKU factions won't contest Punjab polls||Both Lakhowal and Kadian factions of the BKU have today decided not to contest the state Assembly elections.After a state-level meeting here today, BKU (Lakhowal) president Ajmer Singh Lakhowal said the decision to stay away from electoral politics had been taken on the basis of opinion of majority of the state committee members and the directions of BKU national spokerperson Rakesh Tikait.Resign to take plungeIf any of the BKU members or office-bearers intends to contest the polls, he or she would be required to resign from the body. —Harmeet Singh Kadian, BKU (Kadian) president“We (farmer leaders) shall not join or support any political party during the elections but continue to fight to achieve the goals fixed during the farmers’ agitation by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM),” said Lakhowal.He further said it was the majority opinion that the struggle was not over and it would continue till other demands like formation of a committee to set up a legal framework for the MSP of all crops, martyr status to farmers killed during the agitation and a government jobs to their family, withdrawal of false criminal cases against farmers and punishment to perpetrators of Lakhimpur Kheri incident were met.On the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Punjab on January 5, he expressed confidence that before his visit the PM would scrap the black list of farm leaders and take a decision of immediate release of Sikhs languishing in jails even after completion of their sentences among others. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-bku-factions-wont-contest-polls-356751
01-01-2022||Aman Sood||Kejriwal questions timing of Golden Temple 'sacrilege', Ludhiana court blast||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 31In a show of strength, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today organised a peace march led by AAP national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal.Addressing the people participating in the procession, Kejriwal said, “with the Assembly elections due in a few months, attempts are being made to break communal harmony and disturb peace. A desecration attempt was made at the Golden Temple in Amritsar and a bomb exploded in Ludhiana recently.”After the accused in the sacrilege attempt died, the Congress government had promised to identify and arrest the conspirators behind the attempt in 48 hours, but it failed to fulfil its promise, Kejriwal said.Lost faith in governmentThe AAP will not allow peace and prosperity of Punjabto be affected at any cost. Punjabis no longer trust people who are currently in power. —Arvind Kejriwal, AAPKejriwal questioned the timing of the desecration bid, bomb blast and terrorist activities before the holding of the elections. “That is why Punjabis need to be extremely vigilant and united,” he said.Slamming the government, he said, “Congress men have no concern for Punjab as they are fighting among themselves for the Chief Minister’s post. The Channi dispensation is the weakest government of Punjab. It has failed to restore peace in the state.”Kejriwal said, “people are well aware of selfish and opportunistic parties. Therefore, for the 2022 elections, the people have made up their mind to remove these corrupt people from positions of power. The people of Chandigarh have recently shown this after Delhi.”Appealing to people, he said, “We must bring a new government in which people will decide and the AAP will implement their decisions.”Earlier, Kejriwal and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema along with others paid obeisance at Gurdwara Sri Dukh Niwaran Sahib and Kali Mata Mandir and prayed for communal harmony in Punjab. Kejriwal and his associates also laid wreaths at the memorial of Mahatma Gandhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kejriwal-questions-timing-of-sacrilege-ludhiana-court-blast-356753
01-01-2022||Mansa||Sher Singh Gagowal's family again seeks Congress ticket from Mansa||After the sudden emergence of Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala as the main contender for the Congress ticket from Mansa, the family of late Congress leader Sher Singh Gagowal has again sought the ticket from the party high command. It today again held a show of strength here.Gurpreet Kaur, daughter-in-law of Sher Singh Gagowal, said her family had served the Congress for three generations. “We faced oppression during the rule of Opposition parties, but never turned our back on the Congress,” she said. Arshdeep Singh Michael Gagowal, a member of the Mansa Zila Parishad, said workers would never accept the ticket being given to someone who joined the party recently. The family had earlier also claimed the ticket and several leaders had expressed opposition to Moosewala. PCC general secretary Balwinder Narang said the Congress would not tolerate any “parachute candidate”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gagowal-family-again-seeks-ticket-from-mansa-356755
01-01-2022||Ludhiana||BJP starts membership drive, launches 'Nawan Punjab BJP de naal' campaign for Punjab polls||Union Minister and BJP’s election incharge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and state party chief Ashwani Sharma today launched a membership drive here. The party also officially launched ‘Nawan Punjab BJP de naal’ campaign and a mobile number for the membership drive.Shekhawat said the parties should refrain from making announcements that were not feasible. Claiming that the “days of the mafia” were soon going to end, he said the BJP’s mission was a prosperous Punjab. “The PM wants the border state to regain its former glory, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/saffron-party-starts-membership-drive-356756
01-01-2022||Sameer Singh||Poor facilities make life a struggle for residents of Rampura Phul||Potholed roads, poor sewerage system, lack of medical services and drug menace are some of the key issues being faced by residents of the Rampura Phul constituency. “In Rampura city, heaps of garbage can be seen strewn along roadsides. In Phul town, during the rainy season, roads gets waterlogged and muddy, making it difficult for both the vehicles and pedestrians to cross from here,” said Gurkirat Singh, a resident of Rampura Phul.“At Kotha Guru village, the pond has not been cleaned for decades. As a result villagers have to bear the foul smell daily. Moreover, stagnant water is also a breeding ground for many diseases,” said Gurpreet Singh, a villager.“Due to the construction work of an overbridge in Rampura city, traffic is diverted to the main Phul market area, resulting in traffic chaos. People park their vehicles on roads, worsening the situation,” said Sasi Kala, a local.Gurinder Singh, a resident of Bhagta Bhai Ka village said, “There is no effort whatsoever to improve the ailing medical infrastructure in government hospitals. Even for a minor medical emergency, they refer you to Bathinda. The hospitals here are ill-equipped and do not have sufficient staff.”Past trendThe constituency was once a stronghold of the CPI with its nominee Babu Singh winning in 1962, 1969, 1977 and 1980. In 1997, SAD’s Sikandar Singh Maluka defeated Harbansh Singh. Sitting MLA Gurpreet Kangar won twice in 2002 and 2007 by defeating SAD.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,65,673Male 87,487Female 78,181Third gender 5||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poor-facilities-make-life-a-struggle-356758
01-01-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Rural belt in Talwandi Sabo under bollworm attack||Talwandi Sabo, famous for one of the five Takhts of Sikhism — Takht Sri Damdama Sahib — has many issues with which its residents of 15 wards have been grappling for long.This Assembly segment includes two towns — Talwandi Sabo and Rama Mandi — and 87 villages. Located along the border, tail-end villages like any other complain of water shortage, sewerage, no railway connectivity, besides lack of civic amenities.Apart from this, residents in the rural belt are quite upset as pink bollworm has attacked the cotton crop on vast swathes of fields for long, and there seems no solution in sight. Farmers had to launch a stir to get the government moving on the issue and announce compensation to those affected by the pest attack. It can again become a major issue in the forthcoming elections this time.The town has two universities — Guru Kashi University and Akal University — besides a regional campus of Punjabi University. “The town still lacks a railway station. The nearest railway station is situated at Maur Mandi, which is 19 km away. Locals face a tough time commuting from one place to another. It’s time the segment gets rail connectivity,” says Prof NK Gosian of Guru Kashi University.Past trendThe segment is represented by AAP’s Baljinder Kaur, who has been fielded again by the party. In 1985, Capt Amarinder Singh won from here on SAD ticket and became the Agriculture Minister. Since 1969, the Congress has won seven times, SAD four and AAP one.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,54,600Male 82,507Female 72,090Third gender 3||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rural-belt-under-bollworm-attack-356759
01-01-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Over 2,000 pest-hit Sangrur farmers await relief||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, December 31Amid state government’s claims of giving quick financial aid for crop loss to farmers, around 2,500 pink bollworm-affected farmers in Sangrur are still awaiting compensation. The state government had cleared funds worth Rs 2.33 crore for relief, but the amount is yet to be disbursed to farmers.“Despite repeated assessments of cotton loss due to pink bollworm, the state government has not released any financial aid to us. Leaders of the ruling party are making big claims. The amount must be released before the imposition of the code of conduct,” said Gurmeet Singh, a farmer from Lehra.2 years on, no helpIn last two years, I have suffered losses twice. The state government is yet to provide any relief. —Satinder Singh, Moonak farmerAs per a report of the Agriculture Department, pink bollworm had affected hundreds of acres of cotton in around 85 villages of Sangrur. The state government had announced a compensation of Rs 17,000 per acre to all those farmers, who have suffered losses above 76 per cent. Those who have suffered losses between 32 to 55 per cent, would be given Rs 5,400 per acre, while Rs 2,000 per acre would be given for 26 to 32 per cent losses.“In last two years, I have suffered losses twice — first due to rainwater and later due to pink bollworm attack. The state government is yet to provide any relief for these losses,” said Satinder Singh, another farmer from Moonak.According to sources, after officers of the Sangrur Revenue Department, including Patwari and Tehsildars, prepared detailed reports about the damage to crop, the government had released Rs 2.33 crore. The amount has been lying in Sangrur treasury and officers are likely to start the disbursement in the coming days.Sangrur District Revenue Officer (DRO) Gagandeep Singh said the funds had been sanctioned. “The disbursement to pink bollworm-affected farmers will start soon after the transfer of the money from the treasury to the SDM offices,” said the DRO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-2-000-pest-hit-farmers-await-relief-356760
01-01-2022||Karam Prakash||Patiala's Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology turns hotspot, 69 pupils Covid +ve in 3 days||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 31With 54 more testing positive on Friday, the Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology has become a cluster of Covid-19, reporting 69 cases over the past three days.The district Health Department said all cases were reported from one of the hostels on the campus. Following the detection of cases, Hostel ‘J’ has been declared a containment zone. During the second wave in March, the institute had turned into a hotspot with over 70 cases.Meanwhile, chaos prevails on the campus with hundreds of students, without undergoing testing, are said to be leaving the premises. Parents, out of panic, have assembled outside the hostels to take their wards home.Those testing -ve allowed to leaveHealth teams have been conducting Covid tests there. Only those students who tested negative were allowed to leave the campus. —Sandeep Hans, Deputy commissionerDeputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said: “Health teams have been conducting Covid tests there. Only those students who tested negative for Covid were allowed to leave the campus.”The Health Department said they would conduct more tests on the campus to stem further spread.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said they had conducted over 300 tests at the hostel. Those testing positive were being isolated, while the others had been allowed to leave.“Apart from movement from different parts of the country, students residing in proximity to the hostels could be a possible reason for the spread. However, the situation will soon be under control,” he said.Sources said many students had claimed there were many symptomatic students in other hostels but the department was yet to conduct testing there.The department has already sent the samples of positive students to the Genome Sequencing Lab at Government Medical College, Patiala, to ascertain the new strain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/thapar-turns-hotspot-69-pupils-ve-in-3-days-356762
01-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Bid to take possession of Tarn Tarans Baba Charan Das gurdwara, 1 injured||Tension prevailed at Chuslewar village, near Patti town, after residents opposed armed Nihangs’ bid to take possession of Gurdwara Baba Charan Das last night.According to information, the Nihangs associated with the Dal Panth Jhad Sahib had gone to take over the gurdwara when local residents converged on the spot and opposed the move, leading to a clash. One person was injured and was admitted to a hospital.The residents led by sarpanches Narinder Singh (Chuslewar), Harjindeer Singh (Boparai) and Satbir Singh Rammi (Thakarpura) besides other prominent figures accused the district police of inaction.The residents alleged the Nihangs had detained Dharam Singh, chief sewadar of the gurdwara, and his four family members. Shopkeepers of the area downed their shutters in protest.DSP Baljinder Singh said they were trying to pacify both sides. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bid-to-take-possession-of-gurdwara-1-injured-356763
01-01-2022||GS Paul||Migratory birds flock to Harike wetland in Tarn Taran district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 31With the advent of winter, birds through the Central Asian Flyway have started converging in a number of clusters at Harike, India’s second largest wetland, in Tarn Taran district.The winged guests are expected to stay at the wetland till March.The WWF, Wildlife and the Forest Department, which oversee the wetland, have started the process to conduct a study and make arrangements to prevent poaching incidents.Gitanjali Kanwar, coordinator, Aquatic Biodiversity, WWF (India), said around 60 species of birds migrate from around 33 countries of Europe and Eurasia.Flocks of greylag goose, bar-headed geese, common pochards, red-crested pochards started coming here in October.“It is just an onset of representative birds. Species like brown-headed gull, Eurasian coot, marsh harrier, Pallas’s gull, shanks and sandpipers had arrived early. Besides, other species of birds in Harike include tufted duck, Eurasian wigeon, grebes, ruddy shelduck, common teal, northern pintail,” she said.Kamaljit Singh, Harike Range Officer of Forest Department, said adequate arrangements had been made to facilitate bird lovers and ensure security of the winged guests.“Our teams are vigilant round the clock and patrolling to keep a check on poaching. We also keep a close watch on the behaviour of migratory birds. For bird watchers, there are bird hide shelters to observe the birds at close quarters, besides the usual watch towers. We have adequately arranged binoculars for them,” he said.A total of around 90 species of birds find abode at Harike lake, including the migratory ones.The wetland and the lake were formed by constructing headwork across the Sutlej in 1953. Since then, the wetland, spread about 41 sq km, has become a favourite destination among rare varieties of avifauna.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/migratory-birds-flock-to-harike-wetland-356764
01-01-2022||Mansa||Farmers lock Mansa district administrative complex entrance||Farmers’ indefinite protest outside the District Administrative Complex (DAC) in Mansa and Bathinda entered its 12th day today. Protesters under the banner of BKU Ekta Ugrahan locked the DAC entrance and raised slogans against the state government, demanding compensation for the cotton crop damage and debt waiver for marginal and small farmers.Ram Singh Bhaini Bagha, district Mansa president, said: “While the state government has directed administration officials to provide compensation for cotton crop damage to affected farmers, when union leaders took up the matter with the CM yesterday, he was being evasive on the matter. Our agitation will continue without any break until the state government provides us with compensation for the crop loss. We also demand that the five acre condition must also be revoked at the earliest.”“Compensation of Rs 5 lakh, complete debt waiver and government job next to the kin of farmers who died at the Delhi border must be provided immediately,” added Bhaini Bagha. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-lock-mansa-dac-entrance-356765
01-01-2022||---||Sukhjinder Randhawa, Bharat Bhushan Ashu stress collective responsibility||Chandigarh, December 31Days after Cabinet Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh hit out at Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu alleging the latter had divided the party, Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa today advised the latter to be the torch-bearer of party discipline.Randhawa’s statement comes in the wake of PCC chief Sidhu and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi coming out in support of different candidates at recent public rallies.“If party presidents remain in discipline, the entire party remains in discipline. My father served as the Pradesh Congress Committee president twice. The announcement of ticket is always made by the party high command. Any statement or announcement made should appeal to all, not divide,” said Randhawa, adding the voice of the people should be heard, instead of forcing one thoughts on them.Food and Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, too, echoed Randhawa’s sentiments. He said the PCC president needed to “learn the Congress culture”. “It is collective responsibility (distribution of party ticket) and collective decisions have to be taken. Our party leadership needs to be together,” the minister advised Sidhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/randhawa-ashu-stress-collective-responsibility-356769
01-01-2022||---||CRPF men attacked in Bathinda jail, 2 gangsters among 3 booked||Bathinda, December 31Three persons, including category ‘A’ gangster Dilpreet Baba, have been booked for allegedly assaulting CRPF personnel inside the Central Jail here.The gangsters along with their accomplices allegedly attacked the Central Reserved Police Force personnel with iron rods and a sharp object. The police have registered a case on the basis of a letter received from the jail authorities and initiated further action.Those booked included another gangster Rajveer Singh. In his complaint, Assistant Superintendent Sachin Meet Singh claimed the accused violated the jail manual and obstructed government servants from performing duties.Dilpreet had shot at singerASI Baljit Singh of the Cantt police station said in the complaint, it was claimed Rajveer, Dilpreet and inmate Karamjit Singh got into an argument with CRPF personnel on duty and attacked them. Other security personnel later overpowered the accused.Dilpreet Baba was allegedly involved in the assault on Punjabi singer Parmish Verma from whom he had demanded a ransom of Rs 10 lakh. He had also allegedly made an extortion call to singer-actor Gippy Grewal. On April 9, 2018, he had allegedly shot a sarpanch in broad daylight in Chandigarh. He faces several other cases. Rajveer, too, has been nominated in several cases.Earlier, Dilpreet had escaped from the Punjab Police custody in July 2016 with the help of fellow gangsters while being shifted from the Ropar jail to the Hoshiarpur jail in a drugs case.The Jails Department has shifted at least 37 dreaded gangsters to the Central Jail, Bathinda, where a special ‘dead zone’ has been created. In this zone, there is no mobile connectivity within a 2 km radius. All communication by the jail staff or prisoners (facility available at a fixed time) is done through landline.Cantt police station SHO Varun Singh said the gangsters would be interrogated after obtaining their production warrant and the iron rods and sharp object used in the assault were yet to be recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crpf-men-attacked-in-jail-2-gangsters-among-3-booked-356771
01-01-2022||GS Paul||Missing 'Saroops' of Guru Granth Sahib: Suspended SGPC employee to challenge panel's decision||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 31After the Shiromani Gurdawara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) imposed Rs 5-lakh fine on its suspended employee Gurmukh Singh, the accused alleged that he was being made a scapegoat. Gurmukh Singh was suspended following disappearance of 328 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib.He said he was appointed in the publication department on February 5, 2019, whereas the alleged embezzlement pertained to the period between 2013 and 2015.Gurmukh Singh, who got retired in April, said he had already challenged his suspension orders in the High Court and now would file another writ regarding ‘penalising’ him.“I had received a letter dated December 28 that the SGPC executive had imposed a penalty of Rs 5 lakh on me. I am directed to deposit the amount by January 10, otherwise the amount would be deducted from my retirement dues. This is unfair and I am going to take a legal action against it,” he said.Several Sikh organisations had criticised the SGPC for preventing to lodge an FIR in the case. The Sikh Sadhbhawna Dal, led by Golden Temple’s former raagi Baldev Singh Wadala, has been staging a dharna for the past 14 months at the Heritage Street against the SGPC’s lenient administration. He had also moved the High Court as no FIR was lodged with the police in the case. “We had also submitted a complaint with the Amritsar Commissioner of Police in this regard, but the SGPC did not let the case be registered,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/suspended-sgpc-employee-to-challenge-panels-decision-356774
01-01-2022||Faridkot||Guidelines for 'surya namskar' event in Punjab schools issued||The School Education Department has written to all District Education Officers (DEOs) to ensure maximum participation of school students in a project of “750 million Surya Namaskar” from January 1 to February 7, 2022.The students have also been asked to participate in a musical performance on Surya Namaskar to be held on January 26, 2022 across the country.The National Yogasana Sport Federation is organising the project of “750 million Surya Namaskar” in 30 states, involving 30,000 institutes and 30 lakh students.The department has asked the DEOs to disseminate information about the project among teachers, parents and students and ensure maximum participation from every school. The project is being organised under the banner of “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/guidelines-for-surya-namskar-event-356776
01-01-2022||Ferozepur||BSF arrests man near border, recovers pistol||The BSF has nabbed an Indian national near the Indo-Pakistan border and recovered one pistol and live cartridges from him.BSF officials said the Indian national was arrested following his suspicious movement near the border. Later, the arrested man was identified as Jagdish Singh. The BSF seized one 32 bore pistol and seven live cartridges from his possession.BSF officials said investigation was on to ascertain his motive. “We are also checking whether the weapon recovered from him was smuggled from across the border,” said sources. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-arrests-man-near-border-recovers-pistol-356777
01-01-2022||Bathinda||Teachers demand regular employee benefits||Computer teachers, who have been rendering their services in government schools across the state for the past over 16 years, have been demanding benefits of regular services.Threaten to launch stir againAfter our 3-day protest in Kharar, the government gave us assurance that our demand will be fulfilled. But nothing has been done since then. If our demands are not fulfilled then we will be forced to start stir again. — Paramvir Singh, Union LeaderRecruited in 2005 by the state government, their services were regularised in 2011. Representatives of the Computer Adhyapak Union rued that though their services were regularised by the government, they were yet to get benefits of regular employees. Talking to The Tribune, Jonny Singla, a senior leader of the union, said: “The government has also not provided us with the benefits of the Sixth Pay Commission Report. Moreover, benefits under the Punjab Civil Services Rules are also not being provided to us. We have been rendering our services in schools for the past many years but despite regularising our services, we were not given complete benefits.”Paramvir Singh, another union leader, said: “There is no increment on our salaries and even medical reimbursement and provision of employment to kin in case of death of an employee is not there.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/teachers-demand-regular-employee-benefits-356780
01-01-2022||---||7-yr-old mauled to death by stray dogs||Ludhiana, December 31A seven-year-old boy was mauled to death by a pack of stray dogs at Bahomajra village in Khanna on Friday.Deceased Om Parkash, son of a migrant labourer, lived with his grandparents at Korhi village. He along with his grandfather and mother had gone to Bahomajra to collect wages when the incident occurred.“When we reached Bahomajra, Om went to answer the call of nature. He was suddenly cornered by five stray dogs. By the time we rushed to save our child, he was bleeding profusely from the face, throat and other parts. He died on the spot,” said Dindesha Ram, his grandfather.After the incident, irate villagers lodged a protest against the authorities. The place where the incident took place was ‘hadda rodi’ (where dead animals are dumped) and dogs usually stay there to feed off the carcasses.“The authorities concerned have been requested many a time to shift ‘hadda rodi’ to a different location, but the pleas have gone unanswered,” alleged a villager.This is not an isolated incident. On January 26, 2020, a pack of stray dogs had mauled a four-year-old boy to death at the village. Nearly a month after the incident, stray dogs had killed a 12-year-old girl at Samrala’s Naulri Khurd village, also in Khanna district, on February 18, 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-yr-old-mauled-to-death-by-stray-dogs-356782
01-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Sepoy cremated with honours in Tarn Taran village||Sepoy Jasbir Singh (26) was cremated with military and state honours at his native Vein Poin village on Friday. The martyr had died in an encounter with terrorists in Anantnag, Jammu and Kashmir, on Thursday.Martyr Jasbir is survived by his father Gurbhej Singh, mother Sukhwinder Kaur, younger brother Ranjit Singh and sister Rajwinder Kaur.The body of Jasbir was brought to the village by the Army, where the kin paid their tribute and the Punjab Police saluted the martyr. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday announced an ex gratia of Rs 50 lakh and a government job for a member of the bereaved family of the martyr. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sepoy-cremated-with-honours-356784
01-01-2022||Muktsar||Bank manager, 6 booked for fraud||The Muktsar police have booked a manager of a local branch of the State Bank of India and six others in an alleged fraud of Rs 35 lakh.The complainant, Tejinderpal Singh, a retired Inspector of Vigilance Bureau, had alleged that his wife died of Covid in November 2020 and his relatives after changing the nomination of some fixed deposit receipts committed a fraud of nearly Rs 35 lakh. The police said the accused were yet to be arrested. The accused are yet to be arrested. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bank-manager-6-booked-for-fraud-356785
01-01-2022||Bathinda||Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University, Bathinda,  shines at ARIAA-21||Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University, Bathinda, has bagged the fourth rank in the “Beginner Band” category and overall 62nd position among government universities in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) for 2021. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-varsity-shines-at-ariaa-21-356786
01-01-2022||---||NIA books Jaswinder Singh Multani for attempt to revive terrorism in Punjab||New Delhi, December 31The National Investigation Agency (NIA) today registered a case against Jaswinder Singh Multani, a Germany-based alleged operative of the Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), and his associates for motivating and recruiting youths in Punjab for anti-India activities and attempting to revive terrorism in the state.An NIA spokesperson said the case had been registered under Sections 120B and 121A of the IPC and Sections 10, 13, 17, 18 and 18B of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. He said, “The case relates to criminal conspiracy hatched by Multani with other pro-Khalistani elements for radicalising, motivating and recruiting youths in Punjab on ground and through social media.”They had been involved in raising funds to procure arms by using smuggling networks in Punjab to revive terrorism, the official said, adding that Multani had also been in contact with ISI operatives for carrying out terror attacks in Mumbai and other parts of the country.Another official said as Multani had been detained in Germany, the registration of the case would help the government take requisite action for the SFJ operative’s extradition to India.Ludhiana blast: Cop suspended||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nia-books-multani-for-attempt-to-revive-terrorism-in-punjab-356740
