03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ready to give up Punjab Home Ministry if Sidhu wants it: Dy CM Randhawa||Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Monday said he is ready to give up his Home portfolio if state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu wants it for himself.Randhawa’s statement came as Sidhu has been questioning his party’s government in the state for not being able to arrest Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, who has been booked in a drug case under the NDPS Act.Sidhu said nothing would happen with the registration of an FIR against the Akali leader, saying he would not rest till Majithia is arrested.“If my brother (Sidhu) says that he wants the Home Ministry, then I will immediately put it at his feet,” said Randhawa while talking to reporters here.Ever since he became the Home Minister, Sidhu has been upset with him, added Randhawa. The Punjab Deputy Chief Minister also denied the allegation that the state government did not want to arrest Majithia. He said Majithia is not in Punjab and he is not carrying his mobile phone.If he is spotted anywhere here, then Majithia will be arrested within a second, he said as he dubbed fake some photos of the Akali leader, which showed him at the Golden Temple complex. Randhawa said Majithia is also not abroad as a lookout circular, which prevents a person from leaving the country, had been issued against him.Randhawa said no security person was accompanying Majithia. “He is alone and he is not carrying his mobile phone,” said Randhawa.Replying to a question, Randhawa said Majithia had been booked under the non-bailable provisions of the NDPS Act.Asked if he is facing any sort of pressure, Randhawa denied it and said had there been any pressure, how could an FIR be registered against Majithia. Majithia was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on the basis of a 2018 report of a probe into a drug racket in the state.Majithia is the brother-in-law of Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and brother of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal. Besides Sidhu, the Aam Aadmi Party has been attacking the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government for not being able to arrest Majithia despite several days passing since the registration of the FIR. AAP leader Raghav Chadha on Sunday had alleged the Channi-led Government did not want to arrest Majithia as there was a “setting” between it and the Badals. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ready-to-give-up-punjab-home-ministry-if-sidhu-wants-it-dy-cm-randhawa-357831
03-01-2022||Neeraj Bagga||An era of relaying TV through antennas comes to an end||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 2Doordarshan closed its transmitting station at Basarke Gillan village, situated near here, on December 31. The move has brought to an end an era of relaying terrestrial transmission to TV sets through the obsolete roof-top antennae. Installed in 1973, it is the third oldest DD tower in India.The transmitting station not only used to serve the district, but also areas across the International Border (IB). The old Prasar Bharati tower at Basarke Gillan village has no presence of Prasar Bharati and only four private transmitters are operating through it.Harjap Singh Aujla, a retired engineer, said: “The only FM radio transmitter operating on 103.6 MHz from another dwarf tower adjoining the tall tower is too busy. That is why the night transmission of external Urdu service from 9:30 pm to 1:00 am is not being carried by this transmitter. We need at least three transmitters at this location to continue this Urdu service.”Aujla recalled that its signals used to be available in Pakistan’s Lahore. On the other hand, the completion of partially dismantled super high-transmitting tower at Gharinda village was still awaited. “As far as the super high-transmitting tower at Gharinda is concerned, it was partially dismantled in June 2020. After that, on the excuse of Covid-19 pandemic, the re-construction work was suspended, but even when Corona was negligible, the work was not started,” he said.The construction of the project at Gharinda had commenced in 2006. Now, 2021 was also over and the work had not been completed even after 15 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/an-era-of-relaying-tv-through-antennas-comes-to-an-end-357597
03-01-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Spotlight back on Majitha constituency||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 2Well ahead of the announcement of the Assembly election, the focus has shifted to high-profile Majitha Assembly constituency being represented by Bikram Singh Majithia, second senior most leader of the SAD after the Badals.Firstly, on December 21, former Akali minister Bikram Singh Majithia was booked under various sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.Lately, his arch rival Congress leader Sukhjinder Raj Singh Lalli Majithia, who had lost last three Assembly elections consecutively to senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, joined the Aam Aadmi Party to give him a tough fight.Earlier, Lalli resigned as chairman-cum-director, Punjab State Grains Procurement Corporation Limited (Pungrain). The AAP had fielded Himmet Singh Shergill in the 2017 election, who had negligible impact on voters. Now, Lalli being a native of the town could pose a formidable challenge.In Majitha, the SAD proved its dominance by grabbing 10 wards out of 13 in the municipal councils and nagar panchayats held in the district in February last year indicating Bikram Majithia’s influence in his constituency. The forthcoming election would be a test of his grip on the natives of Majitha.A keen contest between Akali Dal, Congress, AAP and possibility of Capt Amarinder Singh, SAD (Sanyukt) and BJP combine fielding a candidate, will offer a plenty of choice to voters.Bhagwant Pal Singh Sachar, president of District Congress Committee (Rural) and a claimant for Congress ticket from Majitha constituency, has launched a scathing attack against Lalli Majithia to woo Congress minded voters and party workers in the constituency to his side. Majithia’s pic on social media adds to confusion Amritsar: Confusion prevailed over the visit of former Punjab Minister Bikram Singh Majithia to the Golden Temple for paying obeisance to mark the New Year celebration after his pictures were uploaded on the social media handle of Youth Akali Dal. The pictures immediately went viral on social media, which also hit headlines on websites and online media. Majithia has been evading arrest and went underground after he was booked by the Punjab Police under the NDPS Act. Nevertheless, Nachhatar Singh, IT cell in-charge of Youth Akali Dal maintained that these were fresh pictures of Majithia. He paid obeisance at Baba Gurbax Singh Gurdwara to mark the beginning of New Year. A top police official said the pictures were fake or old. He said on minutely monitoring the pictures that surfaced on social media, it was discovered that the carpet shown in the pictures does not match the one that was present now. The decoration on the palanquin set up near Dukh Bhanjani Beri also differed. “This implies that the picture could not be fresh ones but old,” he said. Meanwhile, the missing posters of Majithia titled Gumshuda Di Bhal (right) were spotted on the walls of the circuit house. — PK JaiswarAAP joint secy & former ADC Rakesh Kumar joins SADAmritsar: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) received a boost in the holy city, particularly in the North constituency, with Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) joint secretary and former additional deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar joining the party in the presence of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday. Welcoming Kumar into the SAD at his residence, Sukhbir said the former ADC was known for various social welfare initiatives and had also carved out a name for himself as a poet. While stating that the party would utilise his services appropriately, Sukhbir appointed Kumar as vice-president of the SAD on the occasion. Kumar said he would serve the SAD sincerely and also assured to work wholeheartedly for the victory of former minister Anil Joshi, SAD candidate from the North constituency. Joshi, who was also present on the occasion, appreciated the services rendered by Kumar towards the welfare of the weaker sections during his long innings in government service and even afterwards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/spotlight-back-on-majitha-constituency-357592
03-01-2022||---||FIR sought against Navjot Singh Sidhu for injuring nurse||Amritsar, January 2Senior BJP leader and Minister of State for External Affairs Meenakshi Lekhi visited Government Medical College here on Sunday to meet auxiliary nurse and midwife (ANM) Amandeep Kaur, who was injured by a vehicle in the cavalcade of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu.Also read: Protesting nurse 'hit' by Navjot Singh Sidhu's convoy, injuredKaur had sustained injuries after she was allegedly dragged by the vehicle in which the PPCC president was sitting. Lekhi demanded that the injured health employee be given justice and a police case be registered.The ANMs had earlier alleged that the security deployed with Sidhu had manhandled and misbehaved with them.The BJP leader said the Union Government had doubled its share of allowances for ANMs in 2018. She said though Haryana had immediately provided relief to the health employees, the Punjab Government had still not done the same. She lauded the role of ANMs and other health employees in successfully tackling two Covid waves and running the vaccination drive.Aam Aadmi Party district president Jivanjot Kaur also visited the GMC and met the injured nurse. She said insensitivity and indifference of the Congress government, especially PPCC chief, has been unveiled, as he did not intervene to stop his security personnel. She demanded that a case of attempt to murder be registered against Sidhu.Meanwhile, ANMs intensified their protest after the incident. The employees smeared the posters of Sidhu and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh outside Sidhu’s residence. The employees also hit the pictures with shoes to express their anguish.Sukhbir Kaur, vice-president, Contractual Multipurpose Health Workers’ (female) Union, said: “For the last 16 years, many of us are working at meagre salaries and in poor working conditions. When we finally stand up to demand our right, we are mowed under vehicles, berated and demeaned.” She said the employees merely wanted to talk to the Congress leader, but his arrogance was palpable with the way he asked his security to treat the poor employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fir-sought-against-navjot-singh-sidhu-for-injuring-anm-357577
03-01-2022||Sanjiv Bakshi||Woman, paramour 'strangle' NRI husband's parents in Tanda village||Hoshiarpur, January 2In a shocking incident, a woman, whose husband lives abroad, allegedly killed her father-in-law and mother-in-law, residents of Jaja village in Tanda sub-tehsil, and set their bodies on fire in the village on Saturday night. The woman allegedly strangulated and stabbed them with the help of her ‘paramour’ who is said to be a granthi at a gurdwara in Data village.The woman tried to paint the matter as robbery and murder, but during the police investigation and as per circumstantial evidence, the matter was exposed. The police have arrested the woman and the granthi after registering a case of murder against them. Her husband, Ravinder, settled in Portugal soon after his marriage, said he even warned Mandeep against her affair, but she ignored it and kept threatening to kill his parents.The accused woman had got annoyed with her in-laws for creating a hurdle in her extramarital affair with the granthi. The woman tried to paint the matter as robbery and murder, but during the police investigation and circumstantial evidence, the matter was exposed. The police have arrested the woman and the granthi after registering a case of murder against them.According to information, around 11.15 pm on January 1, Tanda police received information that an elderly couple were murdered in their own house at Jaja village and their bodies were set on fire.DSP Raj Kumar along with Tanda police station SHO Surjit Singh rushed to their house and found the flames in the bedroom of Subedar Manjit Singh (56) (retd) and his wife Gurmeet Kaur (52) and their bodies were badly burnt. At that time, Ravinder Singh, son of the victim, and his wife Mandeep Kaur were present in the house.According to the DSP, the victim’s son Ravinder Singh told him that he lived in Portugal and had come to his house these days. On January 1, he left the house around 11 in the morning and returned around 10.15pm. When he returned the door of the house was locked from inside and he somehow entered the house by jumping over the wall and found that the door in the lobby of the house was locked from inside and smoke was visible inside.He broke open the door inside and saw that his wife Mandeep Kaur was tied to a chair with a cloth in the room, but as soon as she touched the cloth to open it, the cloth worked itself loose. Then he went to his parents’ room and saw that the door of his parents’ room was closed. When he opened the door, he saw that there was a fire burning inside and the bodies of his parents were in flames.When he asked Mandeep, she told him that around 4 pm, three persons entered the house and tied her to a chair in her room and closed the door. She said the threesome ignited the fire.Ravinder said he settled in Portugal soon after his marriage. After a few days while living there, he got to know that his wife talked daily to some unidentified person late at night on the phone for hours. Ravinder even warned Mandeep against her affair, but she just ignored it. They even had several disputes over the matter. Ravinder said Mandeep kept threatening to kill his parents and due to this warning, he came to India on December 7 last year.According to the DSP, it came to light that one door of the bathroom attached to Mandeep’s room opens in the bedroom and the other in the lobby, both of which were not latched. In this regard, an in-depth investigation was done and the circumstantial evidence did not match with the story told by her.Keeping in view the sensitivity of the case, Hoshiarpur SSP Kulwant Singh Heer formed a team, headed by SP (Hqs) Ashwini Kumar, including DSP (D) Sarabjit Rai, Inspector Balwinder Pal and Inspector Karnail, and ordered a thorough investigation. The team along with Tanda SHO SI Surjit Singh went to the spot and investigated and solved the murder case in a few hours.According to the DSP, during investigation it came to light that Jasmeet Singh, who was originally a resident of Sanghar village in Amritsar, worked as a granthi in a gurdwara of Data village, had a love affair with Mandeep. Mandeep used to consider her mother-in-law and father-in-law as an obstacle in the way of her affair. Therefore, after her husband left house at 11am, she called her lover to home and both killed them and then set the dead bodies on fire so as to destroy the evidence. After the incident, both of them stole jewellery from the house, with Jasmeet took along with him and the police had recovered it from him.The DSP said after registering a case for murder, destruction of evidence and theft, both the accused had been arrested. He said Mandeep Kaur admitted that on November 23, she had stolen about 150 gm of gold along with her lover Jasmeet from her maternal home at Doburji village. A case has been registered in this regard at the Tanda police station.The DSP said the knife used in the incident, a motorcycle and gold bangles, chains with locket, chain with locket, gold rings, diamond rings, earrings, diamonds tops and Rs 45,000 had been recovered from the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-paramour-strangle-nri-husbands-parents-in-tanda-village-357539
03-01-2022||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu praises Charanjit Singh Channi as 'efficient' CM, woos Dalits at Phagwara rally||Phagwara, January 2Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, addressing a rally here on Sunday, said Punjab had got a Dalit CM after seven decades and credited his party (Congress) for the same.“The CM is heading the state with remarkable efficiency. In a short span, he has paved the way for an ‘enterprising’ Punjab and kindled hope for equality and justice for all,” Sidhu said.Calling the Congress the champion of the underprivileged, he claimed all other parties had failed to provide any significant benefit to the Dalits. “What has the BJP done for them,” he asked, exhorting the people not to be “misled” by those working for certain corporate houses. Sidhu dubbed the Shiromani Akali Dal, Capt Amarinder Singh and BJP as “different sides of the same coin”. Addressing the rally in favour of Phagwara Congress MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, he claimed Punjab was now changing. “We are moving towards a new Punjab. We are batting for the welfare of Dalits, education, employment and legal guarantee for MSP.”Amid applause, the Pradesh Congress chief, while attacking BJP’s politics of “divisiveness” and “arm-twisting”, said that this would not work in Punjab, “the land of the Gurus that only knows oneness”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-praises-channi-as-efficient-cm-woos-dalits-at-phagwara-rally-357450
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||File sent back on December 31, Punjab Governor rebuts CM Channi||Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Sunday said CM Charanjit Singh Channi’s claim that he was deliberately stalling regularisation of 36,000 employees was “factually incorrect.” A statement issued by the Punjab Raj Bhawan said the file concerned had been sent back to the CMO with six queries for clarification. “This file was duly received by the CMO on December 31, 2021, and the reply to the queries is awaited... Once the reply comes, the Bill will be re-examined at the Governor’s Secretariat,” the Governor said.The Bill on regularising the services of contractual employees was passed by the Punjab Assembly on November 11, 2021, and the file sent to Raj Bhawan on December 1, 2021. The Governor, who was visiting various districts of the state, concluded his tour on December 21. Thereafter, CM Channi met him on December 23. “The file was duly studied and reverted with observation/queries to the CMO on December 31, 2021,” the Raj Bhawan statement read. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/file-sent-back-on-dec-31-governor-rebuts-cm-channi-357453
03-01-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Sanyukt Samaj Morcha divided over pact with AAP for Punjab Assembly polls||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 2If a cause (the struggle against farm laws) led to the historic unity among various farmer unions of Punjab leading to the formation of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), it is politics that threatens to divide them.Even as a meeting was reportedly held between Balbir Singh Rajewal — chosen by the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) to lead the farmer unions in the political arena — and top brass of the Aam Aadmi Party in Delhi late last night, some of the 22 members of the Morcha seem to be still divided on a truck with AAP.Must remain apoliticalThe Sanyukt Samaj Morcha should rethink on contesting polls. We can serve society better by remaining apolitical and sticking to our cause of welfare of farmers.—Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala, KKU Vice-presidentSome of these constituent farmer unions of SSM want to contest elections independently. This is one of the reasons that though it was initially agreed between AAP and the farmers unions to leave 30-35 (of 117) Assembly segments for the political arm of farmers, the SSM announced that they would contest all 117 seats. However, the negotiations between the two sides are reportedly still “going on”. AAP, however, has already announced its candidates for 96 segments and has in principle decided on its candidates for Majitha and Malout segments. This leaves just 19 seats on which SSM can field its candidates, when and if the alliance is finalised.Since the SKM, which led the year-long farmers’ struggle, does not give mandate to its 32 kisan union members to contest elections or dabble with/in politics, those farmer union leaders who do decide to take the plunge, will have to resign from their posts in the unions. Failure to do so could debar their unions from the membership of the SKM, which none of the unions can afford.Sources privy to the rise of the Morcha and developments in the SSM since it announced its foray into politics on December 25, have told The Tribune that majority of the farmer leaders are not willing to resign from their posts in the union. As a result, these farmer leaders could ask their second-rung leadership to jump into the fray. A meeting to discuss these issues was held in Jalandhar late this evening. While 10 of the 32 unions in SKM have opted not to be a part of SSM, another union — BKU Kadian — which is part of SSM, has also announced that none of its leaders would contest the polls. Union president Harmeet Singh Kadian, who had announced the formation of SSM, has announced that he will not be contesting. Meanwhile, the 10 unions which are not part of the SSM, too, have renewed their efforts to ask SSM against throwing their hat in the political ring.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sanyukt-samaj-morcha-divided-over-pact-with-aap-357369
03-01-2022||---||Punjab Congress: Will go to people with our 5-year report card||Chandigarh, January 2In the upcoming Assembly elections, the Punjab Congress will go to the people with its five-year report card, including the decisions taken by the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government.Meeting on Sunday, the campaign committee decided that Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, CM Channi and panel chairman Sunil Jakhar would be the faces of the campaign. Apprehending that the code of conduct could be announced after Prime Ministrer Narendra Modi’s rally at Ferozepur on January 5, the meeting had been called to decide the course of the campaign to be launched in the coming days.Channi, Sidhu, Punjab affairs incharge Harish Choudhary, besides MP Ravneet Bittu and some MLAs attended the meeting.The meeting was held amid the simmering differences between the Chief Minister and the PCC president over announcing the CM face for the 2022 Assembly elections.The banners and posters of the campaign would have pictures of all three leaders, not Channi alone. “As the elections would be fought collectively with Channi as the Dalit face, Sidhu as the Jat face and Jakhar as the Hindu face, the posters would have pictures of all three leaders,” said a senior leader.In the previous meeting, the PCC chief pointed out scores of hoardings and posters of the Chief Minister put up on roadsides. Sources said various aspects of the campaign at the state and block-level, countering the Opposition were among the issues discussed. However, there seemed to be a truce for the time being between Channi and Sidhu, as the two participated in the meet in a cordial manner.Randhawa counters PCC presidentDeputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa has questioned PCC chief Navjot Sidhu over seeking announcement of the CM face. “It has been decided that the election will be fought under collective leadership. Be it the PCC chief, the CM... there are so many leaders. It is a collective effort,” said Randhawa.Namdharis seek ticket for HanspalThe Namdhari sect has sought the Sahnewal ticket for a Namdhari Sikh. In a representation to the party’s screening committee, the sect has sought the ticket for Sunder Singh Hanspal, grandson of HS Hanspal, ex-PCC chief. There are about 20,000 Namdharis in the segment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-will-go-to-people-with-our-5-year-report-card-357370
03-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Health, education facilities to get priority in Punjab, says BJP||State BJP president Ashwani Sharma today claimed that the BJP-led alliance would get a majority in the Vidhan Sabha in the elections and form a government. He said residents would be given every possible facility while education and health would be given the top priority in the developmental works.Addressing a district-level party workers gathering here, Sharma made a scathing attack on the rival political parties, including the ruling Congress, in the state.He charged the SAD with nepotism. Pointing out differences between CM Charanjit Singh Channi and PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, he said the latter was creating hurdles for Channi in the administration. He alleged AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal was making false promises to the people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/health-education-facilities-to-get-priority-says-bjp-357371
03-01-2022||Fazilka||Jobless teachers gherao BJP's Gajendra Shekhawat in Fazilka||Union Minister and incharge of Punjab BJP poll campaign Gajendra Shekhawat today faced the wrath of unemployed ETT teachers in Fazilka today. The protesters gheraoed the meeting venue.They blocked the way by lying in front of the minister’s vehicle. ETT, TET-pass Employed Teachers’ Union leader Pawan Kamboj alleged they were thrashed and dragged by the police. After sustained efforts of about half an hour, police prersonnel were able to clear the road and manage to escort the minister out to safety. Some protesters also tore the posters of Prime Minister Narendra Modi installed outside the venue.Kamboj claimed the High Court had announced that no other qualified person could be recruited against the ETT post, but the National Council for Teachers Education (NCTE) failed to implement the orders of the court. “They just had sought support from Shekhawat to meet the Union Education Minister in this regard, but were meted out with a callous attitude, resulting in protest”, said Kamboj. — OCPM Modi to sound poll bugleMuktsar: BJP’s Punjab election incharge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Sunday said the party would sound a poll bugle with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rally at Ferozepur on January 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-teachers-gherao-shekhawat-357372
03-01-2022||Sangrur||Disgruntled AAP leaders protest at Bhagwant Mann's house||Disgruntled AAP leaders on Sunday organised a demonstration in front of the local residence of Punjab AAP president and Sangrur Member Parliament (MP) Bhagwant Mann. Some AAP leaders want Mann to contest the Assembly elections from Sangrur instead of official candidate Narinder Kaur Bharaj. They announced that they would not support the party candidate if Mann did not contest from here.“AAP leaders from various villages, Sangrur and Bhawanigarh cities reached the local residence of Mann and sat on protest there to convince Mann to contest from Sangrur. All have decided that they would only support Mann as their candidate from the constituency and they would neither support Bharaj nor any other nominee,” said Inderpal Singh Khalsa, founder-member of the AAP from Sangrur.Some other leaders alleged that AAP’s decision to give the ticket to Bharaj, who has also been working hard for past many years, from Sangrur had caused a division in the party. Another AAP leader Dinesh Bansal, who had contested last elections from Sangrur on an AAP ticket, said: “Either Mann should contest or a senior leader should get the ticket.” Mann couldn’t be contact despite repeated attempts. AAP district president Gurmale Singh said they had informed their senior leaders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/disgruntled-aap-leaders-protest-at-manns-house-357373
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||BJP, Capt Amarinder's party, SAD (Sanyukt) hold seat talks for Punjab Assembly polls||In the first meeting of leaders of three parties — Bharatiya Janata Party, Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) and Punjab Lok Congress — on Sunday decided that the first criteria for seat sharing should be winnability and organisational strength on a particular seat.Agenda and seat division was also discussed in the meeting, which was attended by BJP state general secretary Shubhash Sharma, SAD (Sanyukt) leader Parminder Singh Dhindsa and PLC’s Raninder Singh.Talking to The Tribune, Sharma said the broad understanding among them in the first meeting was the seat allocation to the three parties should be on the basis of winnability of the candidate and organisational strength in a particular segment.“There was a broad agreement on both the points,” he said, adding it was the first meeting, they discussed about the roadmap, which they would follow during the 2022 Assembly elections. He said multiple meetings were lined-up during the next two weeks. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-amarinders-party-sad-s-hold-seat-talks-357374
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Weak FIR filed against Bikram Majithia, alleges Raghav Chadha||Raghav Chadha, co-incharge of state AAP affairs, today alleged the government had only registered a weak FIR against SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia.In a press conference here on Sunday, Chadha said the Congress government, which had promised to end the drugs trade in Punjab within three weeks, did nothing in the past five years. Now that the elections were approaching, an unsuccessful attempt was being made to mislead the people by registering only a weak FIR against Majithia.He said despite an FIR and rejection of anticipatory bail against Majithia, he had not been yet arrested. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/weak-fir-filed-against-majithia-alleges-chadha-357375
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Blockade in 15 Punjab districts to continue: BKU||The Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan ) has strongly condemned the postponement of the meeting from January 3 to 7 by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi.As a mark of protest, the sit-ins and complete blockade in 15 districts, including 12 DC offices and three SDM offices, would continue indefinitely. Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, general secretary, BKU ( Ekta Ugrahan), said the state government was adopting a very casual approach towards implementing their six demands, which were accepted during a brief meet held on December 23. He said their demands include compensation for crop damage, relief to families of martyrs of kisan stir, compensating families of farmers who have died by suicide and government jobs for farmers’ kin.“The worst part is that the government has adopted complete silence over the issue of removal of superfluous pre-conditions of limiting the crop damage relief to five acres only. The meetings fixed for December 28 and 30 were postponed by giving lame excuses,” he said.“The irresponsible attitude towards thousands of farmers and farm labourers has compelled us to resort to such a drastic action,” he said.The farm leaders said they burnt effigies of PM Modi in 239 villages ahead of his Punjab’s visit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/blockade-in-15-dists-to-continue-bku-357376
03-01-2022||---||Covid cases surge, Punjab Govt likely to impose curbs on gatherings||Chandigarh, January 2With a rapid increase in Covid-19 cases, the state is gearing up to put more restrictions on public gatherings and make Covid-related protocols stringent.According to sources, the decision was taken at a meeting chaired by the Chief Secretary. The sources said the Health Department’s statistical models predicted that the daily number of cases may reach 1,000 by January 5.Patiala reports 302 infections in 3 daysThe government has already asked the people without complete vaccination to stay indoors. The sources revealed that there may be more restrictions related to usage of public places. With 417 fresh cases and three deaths reported on Sunday, the state seems to be heading towards the third wave.With this, the number of active cases reached 1,369, which is a four-fold increase in just four days. The active cases in third week of December were around 300.As far as absolute number of cases is concerned, there’s almost 15 times rise as the daily average of cases in the past five months was around 30 cases. Among the districts in the state, Patiala is the worst affected with 133 cases reported today, followed by Pathankot (78), SAS Nagar (55), Jalandhar (45) and Ludhiana (40).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cases-surge-govt-likely-to-impose-curbs-on-gatherings-357377
03-01-2022||Ferozepur||Security up ahead of PM Modi's Ferozepur visit||Massive security arrangements have been put in place for the proposed visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to this border district on January 5. Around two dozen senior police officers, including four IGs and eight SSPs, sleuths from intelligence agencies, NSG and paramilitary forces have been deputed to ensure foolproof security ring around the venue.The PM is scheduled to arrive on January 5 to kick off the BJP’s poll campaign in the state. Besides, he will lay the foundation stone of PGI Satellite Centre for Ferozepur and two more medical colleges in Punjab. Modi is also expected to make several key announcements for the state. This is going to be Modi’s fourth visit to Ferozepur in the past two decades, but first in the state after scrapping of the controversial farm laws.The farmer unions’ protest and chances of heavy rain that day are keeping the security forces on tenterhooks. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/security-up-ahead-of-pms-ferozepur-visit-357378
03-01-2022||Sameer Singh||Regularised in 2011, Punjab teachers yet to benefit||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, January 2Members of the Computer Teachers’ Union, Punjab, have written an open letter to Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana and President Ram Nath Kovind requesting their intervention in the matter where they alleged that the state government did not provide them with benefits of regular employees though their services were regularised way back in 2011.Notably, there are more than 7,200 computer teachers recruited under the Punjab Information and Communication Technology Education Society (PICTES) initiative who have been serving in government schools across the state for the past more than 16 years now. Recruited in 2005 by the state government, their services were regularised in 2011.Jonny Singla, a union leader, said: “Despite taking up the matter with the state government and the High Court on numerous occasions for the past many years, there was no satisfactory outcome. We have now written an open letter to the Chief Justice of India and the President of India, requesting them to fulfil our long-pending demands.”“The government has also not provided us with the benefits of the Sixth Pay Commission Report. Moreover, benefits under the Punjab Civil Services Rules are also not being provided to us. We have been rendering our services in several schools across the state for the past many years but despite regularising our services in 2011, we have not been given complete benefits to date,” the union leader said.Paramvir Singh, another union leader, said: “We have worked in tandem with the state Health Department during Covid and many computer teachers have also died during the period but unlike other regular government employees, there is no provision of any compensation or relief to the families of deceased. There is no increment on our salaries and even medical reimbursement and provision of employment to kin in case of death of an employee is not there.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/regularised-in-2011-teachers-yet-to-benefit-357379
03-01-2022||Fatehgarh Sahib||Four arrested for murder bid in Sirhind||The Sirhind police have arrested four youngsters for allegedly ramming their car into the cops at a naka on the New Year’s Eve.Deputy Superintendent of Police Manjit Singh said there was heavy rush on the on New Year’s Eve as devotees thronged Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib. He said the police personnel deployed at Chawla Chowk, Sirhind, were diverting the traffic towards the alternative routes. He said as the police personnel signaled a car to stop, four youngsters in an inebriated condition tried to hit the barricade. The DSP said as the police personnel stopped them, the youngsters ran over a cop. He said the policeman had to be rushed to the Fatehgarh Sahib Civil Hospital from where doctors referred him to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. The DSP said the accused have been arrested under Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-arrested-for-murder-bid-in-sirhind-357380
03-01-2022||---||Sacrilege: SAD, SGPC observe 'Ros Divas'||Amritsar January 2Members of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) observed ‘Ros Divas’ in protest against the incidents of sacrilege here on Sunday.They lodged their protest at Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in the Golden Temple complex. They unanimously demanded a probe by a sitting judge of the High Court in the recent sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple.Akal Takht’s officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said conspiracies were being hatched to weaken the Khalsa Panth and its unique religious ideology was being targeted through sacrilege incidents and communal polarisation. Citing the attempt at the Golden Temple on December 18, he said had the accused been successful in committing sacrilege, a narrative would have been spread that the SGPC could not guard the sanctum sanctorum at the Golden Temple. “We analysed the incident with some Sikh intellectuals to zero in on the fact that it was designed to weaken the SGPC and SAD which governs it, but in vain,” he said.He appealed to the Sikh community to unite on one platform against such forces and strengthen the Akal Takht and the SGPC.Ex-CM Parkash Singh Badal said the atmosphere of peace and communal harmony was being harmed. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said despite nabbing culprits, who had committed sacrileges at Anandpur Sahib on September 13 and the Golden Temple on December 15 (when ‘Gutka Sahib’ was torn and thrown into the sarovar), the government did nothing to uncover the conspiracy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-sad-sgpc-observe-ros-divas-357381
03-01-2022||Abohar||In Abohar, two minors held for theft, snatching||Two minors were arrested on Friday in connection with some thefts and snatchings in commercial establishments on the old tehsil road here.On the lookout for their accomplice Harpreet Singh, the police said stolen goods had been recovered. The trio belongs to Sriganganagar and many cases have been registered against them. They belong to economically weaker section. Both minors will be produced in a juvenile court. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-abohar-two-minors-held-for-theft-snatching-357382
03-01-2022||---||Monitoring Covid situation, Punjab CM Channi tells Sonia Gandhi||Chandigarh, January 2Sharing her concern over the recent surge in Covid cases throughout the country, Congress president Sonia Gandhi has directed Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to be fully prepared to combat any eventuality arising out of the pandemic, especially in the wake of new variant Omicrcon.She said there should be no complacency in this regard and concerted efforts should be made to face any possibility of emergency efficaciously.Apprising Sonia, the CM said he was constantly monitoring the current situation with the health, medical education & research and other departments.Channi further said the overall situation in the state was under control and people were being sensitised to take all precautionary measures as per health protocols to check the further spread of virus. The CM said efforts were being made to arrange sufficient stock of medicines, ventilators and oxygen to deal with any emergency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/monitoring-situation-cm-tells-sonia-357383
03-01-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Bhadaur: Awaiting booster dose of infra||After they elected Aam Aadmi Party MLA Pirmal Singh Dhaula, Bhadaur constituency locals have not seen the required development in the area as the government allegedly ignored the area deliberately. But even after joining the Congress, Dhaula’s constituency didn’t get the required attention.There are a total of 77 villages in the constituency and two urban areas — Tapa and Bhadaur. The lack of health facilities can be gauged from the fact that both hospitals at Tapa and Bhadaur have become referral centres. Whenever any patient faces a serious problem, the staff prefers to refer him to Barnala, Patiala, Ludhiana or Bathinda hospitals.Besides, many roads of the constituency are in bad shape, leading to frequent accidents. Despite repeated requests of residents, authorities have not released any funds to start repair work. Many areas of the constituency are without proper bus service. Sewage and water supply lines are also in bad shape in many areas, while many sarpanches alleged that they had not received funds for developmental works even after several promises by the government authorities.“In many areas the developmental works have started, while remaining parts would also see the development as the government has sanctioned projects as per my requests,” said MLA Dhaula.Past trendIn the past seven Assembly polls, voters have elected Congress, BSP and AAP candidates once and SAD four times. It has primarily been an SAD stronghold, with the party registering four consecutive victories from 1972 to 1985 and three wins from 1997 to 2007.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,53,195Male 82,025Female 71,163Third gender 7||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/awaiting-booster-dose-of-infra-357384
03-01-2022||Sameer Singh||Bhucho Mandi: Sub-division demand still unmet||The reserved constituency, which has the Scheduled Caste (SC) population in majority, comprises two blocks — Goniana Mandi and Bhucho Mandi — and an equal number of nagar panchayats.The demand for sub-division status to Nathana sub-tehsil has been pending for decades. Residents of over two dozen villages have to travel 60 km to Bathinda for all their administrative and educational needs.Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Goniana, said: “Although a dozen link roads have been built in the past five years, the existing ones, 15 to 17 in number, are in a dilapidated condition. No attention has been given to the demand for carpeting the kutcha stretch of 6-7 km between Mehma Sarja and Deon (Muktsar road) villages. Residents of around 37 villages have to take a long route to reach AIIMS, Bathinda.”“The demand to augment medical infrastructure at the dispensary at Mehma Sawai village and convert it into a PHC (Primary Health Centre) has been pending for years. Residents of 12 villages have to visit the Community Health Centre, Goniana,” said Harmail Singh.Balkar Singh, a resident of Goniana Mandi said, “Drug menace is quite rampant in the constituency in the absence of police inaction. Also, the Agriculture Department needs to encourage farmers to come out of the vicious cycle of wheat-paddy by way of diversification.” Maingal Singh, another resident, said: “There’s no proper garbage disposal system. Water ponds have not been cleaned for years.”Past trendUntil 2012 polls, it was known as Nathana constituency. In 2012 and 2007, Cong’s Ajaib Singh Bhatti won from this reserved segment. In 2002, SAD’s Gura Singh bagged the seat. In 2017, Cong’s Pritam Singh Kotbhai won by just 645 votes.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,81,598Male 95,370Female 86,225Third gender 3||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sub-division-demand-still-unmet-357385
03-01-2022||Muktsar||Parkash Singh Badal's 'special chair' missing||Moosewala creates buzz with FB pageMansa: After joining the Congress recently, singer Sidhu Moosewala has started distributing grants for development works in the Mansa Assembly segment. He has created a page on Facebook in the name of “Mansa Da Putt” and uploads his political activities on it daily. Yet to be announced the party candidate from Mansa, he has already started campaigning.Locals want hospital shifted back to cityGurdaspur: Politicians, as they say, cannot see beyond their nose. Reason enough why seven years ago a SAD MLA rather wrongly convinced the health department to shift the Civil Hospital to the outskirts of the city. Now that the elections are at the bend, locals want politicians to rake up the issue to bring the hospital back to the heart of the city. But, no leader is willing to play ball. The issue is not on their agenda as it no longer remains a vote-catching issue.Young hotelier has roadmap to growthPathankot: Industrial units in and around Pathankot have been floundering due to various reasons. The Centre has now appointed a local hotelier, Abhinav Mahajan, as the Director of the Federationof Association of Small Industries of India, torevive these sagging units. The young businessman has prepared a roadmap, which will boost industrial activity. His priority is to revive the timber, transport and tourism businesses, which were once the pride of Pathankot. “The others will follow suit,” he said.Gearing up for Swachh SurvekshanAbohar: To make people aware of the MC’s cleanliness campaign, Robin Hood Army local chief Megha Charaya has been appointed as the brand ambassador for the Swachh Survekshan-2022. Handing her the appointment letter, MC Commissioner Abhijeet Kaplish said she had been chosen in view of the social work she had done for the common man. Ranked 428th among 434 cities in 2017, Abohar secured 105th position in 2021. The MC stood 5th in the state, while last year it ranked 13th.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/locals-want-hospital-shifted-back-to-city-357386
03-01-2022||Dera Baba Nanak||Dera Baba Nanak: Spouse of sarpanch shot at||Commando cremated in LehraSangrur: The mortal remains of CRPF commando Varinder Singh (25) were consigned to flames on Sunday at Lehra village. He was killed in an encounter with the Maoists in Sukma, Chattisgarh, on Friday. Sangrur DC Ramvir and former CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal attended the cremation. TNSMIMIT staff not paid for 3 mthsMuktsar: Children of the staff at the Malout Institute of Management and Information Technology (MIMIT) on Sunday wrote to the CM and the FM in blood, demanding wages of their parents who had not been paid for the past 101 days. TNSCancer awareness drive heldSangrur: Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital, Sangrur, along with IMA Sangrur Chapter organised a cyclothon to spread awareness related to cancer. Hospital Director Dr Rakesh Kapoor said making residents aware about early detection and how to fight cancer was the need of the hour. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/spouse-of-sarpanch-shot-at-357387
03-01-2022||Phagwara||BJP using Central agencies to trigger defections: Navjot Singh Sidhu||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday alleged that the BJP is using Central agencies to arm-twist and browbeat political opponents, and trigger defections.Addressing a rally organised by local MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, Sidhu said rival political leaders are being asked to either join the BJP or be put behind bars.The BJP resorted to “bad politics of vote polarisation and using the Enforcement Directorate and other agencies for browbeating opponents to trigger defections”, he said.Taking a dig at the BJP for opening its office in Jalandhar, Sidhu said a party which was not seen in the state for five years has now opened its office just to “arm-twist opponents”.“The opening of the BJP office meant that either ‘aa jao sadey daftar Jalandhar, nahi ta kar diyange jail de andar’ (either join us or be behind bars),” said Sidhu.He alleged the BJP is playing “dirty games of creating terror among its opponents”.Truthful people will remain undeterred by such “tricks” of the BJP, he said.Sidhu said the upcoming Assembly polls in the state are for the next generation and saving Punjab from the mafia.“If you want to save Punjab and the next generation, then vote for us but if you want to make Punjab unlivable, then you can vote for thieves and the mafia,” he said.“The polls are a big opportunity for choosing between goodness and the mafia, truth and falsehood,” he said.He spoke against his political rivals for offering “lollipops” and making false promises.Sidhu said he gives his word that his 13-point programme is meant for the welfare of the poor.“I promise that I will quit politics if five lakh jobs were not given to skilled or unskilled urban labour under his model,” he said.“I am not with the politics of lollipops but for bettering lives of Punjabis,” he said, stressing that his model is pro-poor and pro-farmer. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-using-central-agencies-to-trigger-defections-navjot-singh-sidhu-357368
03-01-2022||New Delhi||National Commission for Minorities chief Iqbal Lalpura to visit Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib on Monday||The National Commission for Minorities chairman Iqbal Singh Lalpura is scheduled to visit Gurdwara Darbar Sahib Kartarpur in Pakistan on Monday.He will lead a group of devotees and pray for happiness, peace, prosperity and progress of India at the the Sikh shrine, the NCM said in a statement on Sunday.The NCM chief will also pray for the welfare and progress of all minority communities in India, the statement further read.“NCM Chairman Iqbal Singh Lalpura will be travelling tomorrow, January 3, 2022, to Gurdwara Shri Kartarpur Sahib with some prominent leaders and many more in a group of devotees of Guru Sahib to bow their heads and to pray for happiness, peace and prosperity in our nation, welfare progress of all minority community and for progress of our country,” the commission stated.Former MP Kamal Chaudhry, Kuldeep Singh Kahlon and Ajayveer Singh Lalpura are among those who will accompany the NCM chief, the statutory body mentioned. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/national-commission-for-minorities-chief-lalpura-to-visit-gurdwara-kartarpur-sahib-on-monday-357361
