04-01-2022||Amritsar||Stay in limits, don’t interfere in Panthic affairs: SGPC chief to Deputy CM Randhawa||SGPC chief Harjinder Singh Dhami on Tuesday told Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to “stay within his limits” and not to interfere in Panthic affairs.The statement came a day after the Congress leader objected to Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh’s “appeal” to people to strengthen the SAD.Giani Harpreet Singh on Sunday had urged the Sikh community to strengthen the Akal Takht and the SGPC.“The SAD will get stronger automatically,” he had said.Reacting to the minister’s remark, Dhami in a statement said, “Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has no right to interfere in the Panthic affairs.”                 He told Randhawa to “stay within his limits and not to interfere in Panthic affairs”.“But these Congress leaders are on the path of undermining traditions of Sri Akal Takht Sahib. Their aim is to create confusion in the ‘qaum’ (community),” he alleged. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stay-in-limits-dont-interfere-in-panthic-affairs-sgpc-chief-to-deputy-cm-randhawa-358164
04-01-2022||Bathinda||BJP only party that can take care of Punjab’s security, economic challenges: Capt Amarinder Singh||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said the BJP is the only party that can take care of the state’s security and economic challenges and he slammed the Congress and AAP for making poll promises that can’t be fulfilled. Capt Amarinder Singh also claimed his party’s alliance with the BJP and Shiromani Akali Dal-Sanyukt for the next year’s Assembly polls is in the interest of the nation and the state. The former chief minister had formed his own party, Punjab Lok Congress, after quitting the ruling Congress in the state following his unceremonious exit as the CM last year.Addressing a public meeting after inducting Congress leader Raj Numberdar into his party here, Capt Amarinder Singh said Punjab faces multiple challenges, particularly on security and economic front.“I found the BJP as the only party that can take care of both things,” he said as he welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Punjab’s Ferozepur on Wednesday. He said having known Prime Minister Modi for a long time, he had seen him concerned about Punjab and the Punjabis. Later addressing a press conference, the former CM lashed out at Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu for taking people of the state “for a ride” by making promises which they knew cannot be fulfilled. Referring to Sidhu’s poll promises he made to women and girl students, Capt Amarinder Singh wondered whether he realised their financial implications. “The cumulative debt of Punjab is already about Rs 5 lakh crore and I do not know from where Sidhu and Kejriwal will get the money to support these schemes,” he said, adding that Sidhu a month ago had opposed freebies announced by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Arvind Kejriwal.Sidhu does not have a permanent stand on anything, he added.On the distribution of tickets for the polls, he said winnability will be the sole criterion for choosing candidates and the process has already begun as the three parties have started negotiations. On the chief ministerial face, he said it will be a collective decision of the alliance partners. He further said a few weeks ago he had written to the prime minister, seeking a special package of Rs 1 lakh crore package for Punjab for agriculture diversification, which could be given over a period of five years, Rs 20,000 crores every year.He said this can be specifically used for encouraging and promoting cultivation of pulses as India imported pulses worth Rs 1.5 lakh crore every year.     “If we grow pulses here, we can save enormous foreign exchange besides saving water table that is fast depleting due to the widespread cultivation of paddy,” he added.Replying to a question that Channi had been accusing him of non-performance, he said the CM as well as Congress leaders are seeking votes showing the Congress government’s performance of five years, of which four and a half years he was at the helm.“You ask them, if I did not perform, why are they seeking votes for the past five years and not their own three months alone,” he asked. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-only-party-that-can-take-care-of-punjabs-security-economic-challenges-capt-amarinder-singh-358155
04-01-2022||Aditi Tandon||At 2.24 per cent, Jammu and Kashmir lowest spender of Covid emergency fund in region; HP lags too||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 4Jammu and Kashmir has emerged as the poorest performer among states and UTs in the region when it comes to spending of the funds available to under the Covid 19 Emergency Response and Health Systems Preparedness Package approved by the Union Cabinet on July 8, 2021, to create infrastructure in the wake of a third wave.Health Ministry data shows that while Delhi has spent 138.74 per cent of the funds earmarked for it under the scheme, Jammu and Kashmir has spent 2.24 pc, Ladakh 7,41 pc, Himachal Pradesh 9.94 pc, Chandigarh 27.77 pc, Haryana 60.13 pc and Punjab 87.45 pc.Only five states in India have reported expenditure of more than 50 pc under the plan.These are Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal.Nationally, states and UTs have spent 19.42 pc of the funds under the centrally sponsored scheme aimed to prevent, detect and respond to the threat of the pandemic and strengthen health systems for emergency preparedness to avoid the kind of crisis hospitals faced at the height of the third wave.The Centre has so far released 50 pc of the funds earmarked for states/UTs under the scheme where the Central share is Rs 15,000 crore and state share is 8,123 crore.The scheme is to be implemented from July 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022.Of the Rs. 6075.85 crore made available by the Union Government, Rs 1679.05 crore, (27.13 pc), have been spent by States as December 31, 2021.However, states and UTs had spent 19.42 pc of the total funds (central and state share together) available under the scheme until January 3.Under the scheme, Rs 20,308.70 crores are to be spent by states out of which Rs 12,185.70 crore is to be provided by the central government and Rs 8,123 crore is to be provided by state governments.The remaining central funds will be released to states and UTs based on the progress and utilization of at least 50 pc funds already released.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/at-2-24-per-cent-jammu-and-kashmir-lowest-spender-of-covid-emergency-fund-in-region-hp-lags-too-358153
04-01-2022||Aditi Tandon||Punjab Assembly polls: First meeting of Congress screening panel starts||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 4The first meeting of the Congress screening committee for the upcoming Punjab Assembly elections commenced at 6 pm at the party’s war room here on the Gurdwara Rakabganj Road.Senior leader and AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Ajay Maken is heading the screening committee.Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has not come for the maiden conference of the panel due to his official engagements in Chandigarh, sources said.The committee has among members Chandan Yadav and Krishna Allavaru, Congress joint secretary in-charge of the Youth Congress.Ex officio members of the committee are Harish Choudhary, AICC in-charge of the state; PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu; ex-state chief and chairman, Punjab election campaign committee, Sunil Jakhar; and all AICC secretaries in-charge of the state.The screening committee will consider candidates for the upcoming elections, with 80 of the state Assembly’s current 117 MLAs hailing from the Congress.Denying tickets to sitting MLAs would be an uphill task for the Congress with the BJP and Amarinder Singh’s new outfit waiting to poach senior leaders.The Congress has agreed to follow one family, one ticket rule in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/punjab-assembly-polls-first-meeting-of-congress-screening-panel-starts-358134
04-01-2022||Morinda||Honorarium of Anganwadi workers hiked in Punjab||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi Tuesday announced an increase in the monthly honorarium of over 53,000 anganwadi workers and helpers across the state.He said the monthly emoluments of anganwadi workers stand increased from Rs 8,100 to Rs 9,500, mini anganwadi workers from Rs 5,300 to Rs 6,300 and helpers from Rs 4,050 to Rs 5,100. Likewise, the honorarium of anganwadi workers would be increased every year by Rs 500 while it would be Rs 250 in case of both mini anganwadi workers and helpers, according to an official release.He also said all these workers will be now eligible for regular increase in their honorarium annually from January 1, 2023, onwards.Describing anganwadi workers as the backbone of the administrative machinery of the state, the Chief Minister reiterated the welfare of women and their empowerment always remained the highest priority of the state government. "Earlier also, the monthly emoluments of over 67,000 ASHA workers and mid-day meal workers were increased," said Channi.In his address, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal said the present dispensation is fully conversant with the problems being faced by women who had to undertake household chores before leaving for professional commitments. Therefore they deserved this much-awaited increase in their monthly emoluments.Exhorting people to follow precautionary measures amid rising Covid-19 cases, the CM said the state government has a robust healthcare infrastructure in place to face any eventuality.Listing the “pro-people” initiatives undertaken by his government, Channi said power tariff for the domestic consumers has been reduced by Rs 3 per unit, petrol and diesel prices have been slashed by Rs 10 and Rs 5 respectively and water charges have been brought to a flat rate of Rs 50. All these measures reflect the state government's commitment that people's money must revert to them, added Channi. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/honorarium-of-anganwadi-workers-hiked-in-punjab-358120
04-01-2022||---||41 nursing students of Ludhiana college test Covid positive||Ludhiana, January 4 As many as 41 students of DMC College of Nursing, Malakpur, have tested positive for Covid. The condition of all the students is said to be stable.“Out of the total infected students, 20 have been admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital while the rest are in institutional quarantine at the college itself. The condition of all the students is stable,” said Dr Ashwani Chaudhary, Medical Superintendent of DMCH. All the students are said to be BSc Nursing first year students. Some students in the college had started showing symptoms on Sunday. More samples are being collected from the college for testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/41-nursing-students-of-ludhiana-college-test-covid-positive-358095
04-01-2022||Arun Sharma||Chamkaur Sahib villagers to dump Congress in Punjab election, say unhappy over Channi 'not acceding to their demands'||Tribune News ServiceMorinda, January 4Announcement of development projects worth Rs 1,000 crore and grant to village panchayats by CM Charanjit Singh Channi does not seem to have made the electorate in his assembly constituency of Chamkaur Sahib happy as they want more.As Channi “failed” in meeting their demands, a large number of people in nearby Sarhana village announced not to support Congress in the upcoming assembly elections.While an aggrieved family wanted that their son in police get promoted from assistant sub inspector to sub inspector, the other had demanded transfer of a woman police official from Morinda to Chamkaur Sahib near her village. A 'staunch' supporter of Channi in the village decided not to support him henceforth as his son and daughter were not given suitable jobs.Another family is annoyed with the chief minister as he didn't issue directions to the deputy commissioner to issue an arms licence to their son-in-law.This is not the only section of people in the chief minister's assembly constituency who are disappointed with him for not acceding to their demands.Local mediapersons are also up in arms against him as their complaint is that Channi has stopped attending their phone calls since taking over as chief minister. One of the scribes believed to be his confidant is reportedly annoyed with Channi as his brother didn't get job as excise and taxation officer. Another wanted her daughter to be inducted in Staff Service Selection Board.Sources said hundreds of similar requests reach the chief minister from Chamkaur Sahib and Morinda every day.Announcing the decision to quit Congress along with a large number of locals, Sarhana village sarpanch Simarjit Singh said the village had more than 700 voters and majority of them had supported Channi wholeheartedly during the last three elections. “Besides many development works, including repair of roads, construction of a dharamshala and cremation ground and cleaning of water pond, the chief minister issued a grant of Rs 22 lakh to the village panchayat. But he did nothing to solve the problems of individuals,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chamkaur-sahib-villagers-ready-to-dump-congress-in-assembly-elections-say-unhappy-over-channi-not-meeting-their-demands-358073
04-01-2022||Karam Prakash ||Doctors at Patiala medical college and hospital violate protocol; health dept reminds them of guidelines||Tribune News Service Patiala, January 4Amid the rising Covid cases, Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital has turned into a covid hotspot after over 60 doctors and 30 MBBS students have tested positive.Alumni meet, retirement party and New Year party held on the college premises are said to have been the contributory factors in the worsening situation.The Tribune has learnt that even the administration staff of the hospital and staff from the medical education department had participated in the parties, disregarding the Covid guidelines. And many of those who attended have tested positive.The departments of radio diagnosis, surgery, and gynaecology are the ones severely hit. Some resident doctors of paediatrics and medicine have also tested positive.Junior residents, who have tested positive, told the Tribune that hospital staff was not following Covid-appropriate behaviour which eventually led to the situation.The Patiala Health Department, after a sudden rise in cases, had to write a letter to the Rajindra Hospital to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour strictly. The letter reads: “Doctors, in large numbers, have already tested positive. This will hamper health services at the hospital; therefore, Covid protocol should strictly be followed.”Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans held a late-night meeting with college and hospital authorities at Government Medical College. Hans has been holding a series of meetings to control the situation at the hospital. Dr Harjinder Singh, director principal, Government Medical College and Hospital, said, “We are trying to convert one of the hostels as an isolation centre for doctors and MBBS students. Besides, we are planning to send other MBBS students, who have not tested positive, to their homes.”Later, Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said all MBBS students of the medical college, including positive cases, had been sent home.The DC said it appears that all cases are of omicron variant. Samples had been sent for genome sequencing.The DC said this after holding a review meeting at Circuit House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctors-at-patiala-medical-college-and-hospital-violate-protocol-health-dept-reminds-them-of-guidelines-358071
04-01-2022||Amritsar||Another video of police raid on Bikram Majithia's house viral||Amid confusion over Bikram Majithia’s visit to the Golden Temple which later turned out to be fake, another old video surfaced on social media in which a police team was shown as raiding his residence at Green Avenue area here.Also read: Bikramjit Singh Majithia absconding, not in Punjab: Sukhjinder RandhawaIn the video, SAD leaders, including Shivcharan Singh, OSD to former Punjab minister, SAD district president Gurpartap Singh Tikka, SAD’s Amritsar South candidate and Majithia’s close associate Talbir Singh Gill, were seen interacting with the police team headed by Assistant Commissioner of Police Sarabjit Singh Bajwa, SHOs Perneet Dhillon and Gurwinder Singh.A police official wishing not to be named said the video was around two weeks old when the police team had visited his residence following the registration of a case against him. He said he did not know why the old video was being circulated on social media and some electronic media channels now. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/another-video-of-police-raid-on-bikram-majithias-house-viral-358048
04-01-2022||---||Pingalwara an oasis of compassion & love, says Punjab Women Commission's head||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 3Manisha Gulati, Chairperson Women’s Commission, Punjab, has praised Pingalwara, a home for the destitute for its selfless service. She hailed it as an institute which was worthy of emulation to ameliorate sufferings of the homeless, aged and the physically challenged.She made this observation after paying a visit to the institute here on Monday. She stated that “I wanted to begin the New Year at this temple of humanity set up by Bhagat Puran Singh, founder of Pingalwara.” She also commended the works of Pingalwara president Inderjit Kaur and her team for their tireless efforts for the betterment of the humanity.Manisha Gulati also visited the wards of the Mananwala branch and spent some time with the inmates there. She said visiting the Pingalwara’s centre instilled empathy in her heart and expresses her desire that each citizen must take out time to visit it at least once.On the occasion, she listened to the grievances of its women inmates who had been displaced from their homes and in some cases assured immediate action. For instance repatriation of a woman inmate to her country of origin Bangladesh.Dr Inderjit Kaur said the Chairperson of the Women’s State Commission visited the Pingalwara family for the first time. She said the government needed to be serious about the plight of the homeless, helpless children and women, but it was unfortunate that the issues of these people are being ignored by the governments. She said there were about 1.5 lakh deaf and dumb children in the state. Pingalwara Institute is running some schools hearing impaired students but the government was not paying attention to their needs, she said. She sought the government intervention in order to look into the issues of the orphans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pingalwara-an-oasis-of-compassion-love-says-women-commissions-head-358045
04-01-2022||---||Sikh doctor donates diamond necklace, gold sword at Takht Sri Harmandir Ji, Patna Sahib||Jalandhar, January 3To mark the 355th birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh, Dr Gurwinder Singh Samra, a Sikh devotee, who runs Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital at Kartarpur here, donated a necklace studded with diamonds and rubies, a gold sword, a quilt and a handkerchief made of gold embroidery at Takht Sri Harmandir Sahib in Patna, Bihar, on January 1.The valuables were offered at a special ceremony held in the presence of jathedar of Takht Sri Harmandir Sahib, Patna, Gauhar-e-Maskeen Giani Ranjit Singh, Panj Pyaras and other office-bearers of Takht Sri Harmandir Sahib Parbandhak Committee. Divine magnanimityWhile addressing the gathering at Takht Harmandir Sahib, Giani Ranjit Singh praised Dr Samra for his services and charitable work and mentioned that just 15 days ago, he presented a gold-studded bed to Guru Gobind Singh here at the same place. He also honoured Dr Samra and his son Harmanbir Singh with siropa (robe of honour).Talking to The Tribune, Dr Gurwinder Singh Samra said the necklace presented at the feet of 10th Sikh master, Guru Gobind Singh was studded with 1,300 diamonds, rubies and other precious gems. He said it took the artisans almost a year’s span to prepare the items.When asked about the total cost of the ornaments, he refused to share and hinted it’s all worth crores. Meanwhile, this is not the first time he has donated such items to gurdwara, earlier too, he had presented a ‘kalgi’ worth Rs 1.73 crore to Takht Sri Patna Sahib and another one at the Golden Temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sikh-doctor-donates-diamond-necklace-gold-sword-358022
04-01-2022||---||Amritsar: 2-year-old falls into dirty water pit, dies||Amritsar, January 3A 2-year-old child, identified as Ishan, lost his life after he accidentally fell into a pit dug for laying sewer pipes in Ram Nagar Colony on Majitha Road here on Monday.The pit was filled with dirty sewerage water. He along with his elder brother was going to his maternal aunt’s house when both of them slipped and fell into the pit. His brother somehow managed to come out and started crying. Listening to his cries, nearby residents gathered on the spot and started looking for Ishan. Around 10 minutes later, his body was recovered and rushed to hospital where doctors declared him dead.Enraged over the incident, the family members along with residents of the area started a protest against the contractor, who was assigned the work of laying sewer pipes underground and the civic body authorities, keeping the body of the victim on the road.They protested against their failure to supervise the work and take precautions to avoid such incidents. They also raised slogans against the administration.The residents prolonged their protest as they were demanding compensation for the victim’s family.Joshanjit, father of the victim, said he worked as a junk dealer and his wife as a domestic help. He said Ishan along with his elder brother was going to his aunt’s house when they slipped into a pit. While his brother managed to come out of the pit, Ishan got stuck into it. He said there was no arrangement or precautionary measures made by the contractor to avoid such incidents. He demanded the registration of a case against the contractor.The protest led to a massive traffic chaos on Majitha Road. The police reached the spot and tried to pacify the victim’s family and the residents. They took the body into their possession and sent it to the Civil Hospital for a post-mortem.Gurvinder Singh, SHO, Sadar police station, said a case under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC had been registered against the unidentified contractor and member panchayat Upkar Singh. Despite registering a case, the residents continued with their protest as they were seeking compensation from the government for the victim’s family.His elder brother managed to save himselfThe victim along with his elder brother was going to his maternal aunt's house when both of them slipped and fell into the pit. His brother somehow managed to come out and started crying. Listening to his cries, nearby residents gathered on the spot and started looking for Ishan. Around 10 minutes later, his body was recovered and rushed to hospital where doctors declared him dead||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-2-year-old-falls-into-dirty-water-pit-dies-358037
04-01-2022||---||Padma Shri Gurmat Sangeet legend Prof Kartar Singh dies at 93||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, January 3Padma Shri awardee Gurmat Sangeet legend Prof Kartar Singh breathed his last here on Sunday. He was 93.He was awarded Padma Shri for his immense contribution to the field of art last year but since he could not attend the awards ceremony at Rashtrapati Bhawan due to his ill health, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma went to the DMCH here on December 20 to present him the award.Among the five recipients of the fourth highest civilian award from Punjab and second from the maximum city of Punjab on the occasion of Republic Day last year, this nonagenarian Ludhiana native had been awarded several prestigious honours for his contribution to Gurbani, which he had been practicing since the age of 13 and had specialised in the popular classical music form for the Sikhs, in the past.He was cremated in the presence of a large gathering here. Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and the SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami have sent condolence messages to the bereaved family and wreaths were placed on the body on their behalf. He is survived by two sons and two daughters.Prof Kartar Singh was one of the Gurmat Sangeet legends, who perused his career in teaching music and retired as Head of Department of Music (vocal and instruments) from Guru Nanak Girls College in Ludhiana. In the last, he was working as Director of Gurmat Sangeet Academy in Anandpur Sahib, run by the the SGPC.On being awarded the Padma Shri, the Pakistan-born classical singing legend had in January last told The Tribune that he still feels himself as a student, who is eager to learn. “Music is meditation and one has to meditate rigorously besides doing hard work to learn and practice it,” the Gurbani singer had said.The Union Government had awarded him the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award and Tagore Ratna Award for Music. He was also the recipient of the Punjab Government’s Shiromani Ragi Award and Punjabi University’s Gurmat Sangeet Senior fellowship.He was also conferred the Sikh Lifetime Achievement Award in London (UK) on October 9, 2011, and was nominated to the Top 100 Global Sikhs by the Sikh Directory in the UK.One of the two legends from Punjab who performed during the Common Wealth Games held in New Delhi in 2010, Prof Kartar Singh’s contribution to Gurmat Sangeet had also been recognised by the SGPC, Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University in Jammu and Kashmir and Lovely Professional University in Jalandhar.Prof Kartar Singh also had five books, with a total of over 40,000 copies, on Gurmat Sangeet published by the SGPC, to his credit, while his two other books are under publication.Born at Ghummanke village in Lahore (Pakistan) on April 3, 1928, Prof Kartar Singh had done graduation and post-graduation in music (vocal and instrumental) from Panjab University, Chandigarh.After beginning his career as a music lecturer (vocal and instrumental) at the Malwa Central College of Education in Ludhiana from 1968 to 1971, he served as Head of the Department of Music from 1971 to 1988. Later, he worked as a music lecturer, bursar and registrar at Guru Nanak Girls College here till 1997.He had also served as an examiner (up to PG classes) for Panjab University, Guru Nanak Dev University, Punjabi University, PSEB, Mohali, and Pracheen Kala Kendra in Chandigarh.He was assigned to restart Gurbani kirtan in prescribed ragas with traditional musical instruments in the Golden Temple, Amritsar, on March 6, 2006.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/padma-shri-gurmat-sangeet-legend-prof-kartar-singh-dies-at-93-357993
04-01-2022||Deepankar Sharda||Punjab Sports Dept transfers Rs 3,000 kit money into players’ accounts; asks them to purchase kits from designated vendors||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 3The Punjab Sports Department has asked players, who were recently given Rs3,000 (each) of kit money, to purchase kits from three designated vendors immediately. The kit includes one track-suit and two pairs of shoes.The players alleged that they were being forced to purchase kits in anticipation of attending Punjab Chief Minister’s rally. However, officials maintained, the department was ensuring a smooth process to help eligible players to get kits.The players, who have been approached through coaches, have been asked to submit cheques for Rs3,000 in favour of either of three vendors, namely Ess Kay Sports Industries, Ess Kay Sports and Santosh Sports Industries.“There’s nothing like that (players to attend the CM’s rally). The players were awarded money through the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme for purchasing kits. If the money is designated to purchase kits, it should be used for that purpose only. We are just ensuring a smooth process,” said Parminder Pal Singh Sandhu, Director, Sports Department (Punjab).“The process to buy kits through headquarters and distribute it to players is very tedious and time consuming. There are more than 8,000 beneficiaries covered under this scheme and we have been ensuring a smooth process to give them the kits. Why would we ask them to attend any rally?” he asked.The players, meanwhile, alleged that the department was covering up for the blunder and benefitting the vendors directly. “How is it possible to get a good quality track-suit and two pairs of shoes for just Rs3,000? If the department had made DBT to players, they should let them use the amount as per their wish. The process clearly indicates a prior planning between the vendors and the authorities, while the players were kept in the dark,” said a player, seeking anonymity. “The department has done an appreciable job by sending money directly to all beneficiaries. However, they should not interfere in its usage. Different disciplines have different requirements and players can use the amount accordingly. This is turning out to be a problem for coaches, parents and the department itself,” said a parent.No orders in writingNotably, there are no orders in writing asking players to submit cheques and the coaches are pursuing players verbally. “We have been asking players to submit cheques. Some parents understand, while the others ask for official orders. Since we don’t have any orders in writing, we end up facing the parents’ fury. If the department had these plans, it should be put under official orders. An undertaking should have been taken from parents or players, so that they buy the kits directly from the vendors. Our views were nowhere in the policy making, but we are ones facing problems,” said a senior coach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/controversy-over-players-kits-357971
04-01-2022||Jalandhar||Infighting may lead to poll setback: Rana Gurjeet Singh||Order FIR against CM: Akalis to GuvChandigarh: The SAD on Monday urged Governor Banwarilal Purohit to order registration of a criminal case against CM Charanjit Singh Channi for allegedly cheating more than 36,000 contractual employees by claiming that the Governor was sitting on the file which recommended regularisation of their services while the file was actually in the CMO. TNS Make pollution poll issue, say activistsKotkapura: Environmentalists, religious leaders and farmers on Monday urged the parties to give importance to environmental issues in the run-up to the elections. They said pollution should be made the poll plank. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/infighting-may-lead-to-poll-setback-rana-357925
04-01-2022||Abohar||8 peddlers held||The police on Monday arrested eight drug peddlers and seized drugs from their possession. SP Preeti Jain said 94-gm heroin was seized from three persons near Gogamedi. In another case, five persons were held with 28-gm heroin. The accused have been booked under the NDPS Act. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/8-peddlers-held-357924
04-01-2022||Behbal Kalan (Faridkot)||Punjab Government flayed for inaction in Behbal Kalan police firing case||Members of the Dal Khalsa on Monday reached Behbal Kalan today to express solidarity with families of the two persons killed in the 2015 police firing incident at Behbal Kalan. The victims’ kin have been sitting on an indefinite dharna at the incident spot from December 16 last year. Dal Khalsa leaders flayed the successive state governments for inaction in the case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-flayed-for-inaction-in-behbal-kalan-firing-case-357923
04-01-2022||Fatehgarh Sahib||AAP councillors corner MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra over development works in Fatehgarh Sahib||The last meeting of the Fatehgarh Sahib Municipal Council ahead of the 2022 Assembly poll witnessed a political slugfest between the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) councillors.The meet was held to give ownership rights of 81 shops and 44 residential properties to those tenants of civic body who had been occupying it since long as per the government policy.The AAP’s councillors alleged that no development works were undertaken in their wards at the behest of MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra. After the MLA and councillors objected to their allegations, the AAP’s councillors raised slogans against the former.Later, as Nagra was distributing ownership rights to the tenants, the AAP councillors again reached the spot and raised slogans. As the Congress and the AAP councillors almost came to blows, the MLA and the police had to intervene to avert the clash. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-councillors-corner-nagra-over-development-works-357922
04-01-2022||---||Amritsar: Poor upkeep of historic Ram Bagh catches MoS Meenakshi Lekhi's attention||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 3The unauthorised construction and dilapidated condition of the historic Ram Bagh (Summer palace of the legendary Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh) has caught the attention of Minister of State (MoS) for External Affairs and Culture Meenakshi Lekhi.The Union Minister who was in Amritsar today, said she was pained to see the condition of Ram Bagh, which comes partially under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).She said steps would be taken to remove encroachments.‘Protected monument’The Summer palace of Maharaja Ranjit Singh was declared a ‘Protected monument’ in 2004Ram Bagh was declared a “Protected monument” in 2004. However, even after the notification, it was never fully handed over the ASI. The ASI has the possession of the garden and carries out conservation work at the entrance, four watch towers, Hamamghar, Small Baradari and Machhighar.The remaining structures, including the main “Summer palace”, come under the ambit of the Punjab Cultural and Tourism Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poor-upkeep-of-ram-bagh-catches-lekhis-attention-357921
04-01-2022||Patiala/Bathinda||2 from Rampura Phul die as car falls into canal in Patiala||Two persons died while three are missing as the vehicle they were traveling in fell into the Bhakra canal near the Passiana police station in Patiala.The deceased have been identified as Neelam Rani and Samita Garg, both residents of Rampura Phul in Bathinda. The police said search operation to find the missing persons was underway.According to the deceased’s kin, all five members of the family were on their way to their home town after paying obeisance at the Mansa Devi Temple in Panchkula. The missing persons include Jaswinder Garg, Peeru Garg and Isha Garg.Passiana SHO Ankurdeep Singh said they had received information about the incident on Sunday night. Following this, divers were roped in to carry out rescue operation.In another incident, a student was killed and three others were injured in a road mishap as a school van collided head-on with a tractor-trailer in Maur Mandi on Rampura-Talwandi road on Monday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-die-as-car-falls-into-canal-357920
04-01-2022||Tarn Taran||Four of family killed in mishap near Naushehra Pannuan||Four persons of a family were killed and another received serious injuries in a road accident on the National Highway-54 near Naushehra Pannuan village on Monday.The family belonged to Katorewala in Mukatsar district. The victims have been identified as Chanan Singh (56), his wife Devinder Kaur (54), their newly married son Anmoldeep Singh (25), his wife Gagandeep kaur (24) and another close relative Ajaypal Singh (27).They were going to Gurdwara Beer Baba Budha Thatha Sahib. When they reached near Naushehra Pannunan, their car hit a tractor-trailer. All five, who were injured in the mishap, were taken to a local hospital where Chanan Singh, Devinder Kaur, Ajaypal Singh and Gagandeep Kaur were declared dead by doctors. While, Anmoldeep Singh is under treatment. The police have registered a case under Sections 304-A, 279, 337, 338 and 427 of the IPC against Gursewak Singh of Varhian Purane (Chohla Sahib) who absconded from the spot. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-of-family-killed-in-mishap-357919
04-01-2022||---||Residents block traffic against illegal mining in Anandpur Sahib||Tribune News ServiceAnandpur Sahib, January 3A large number of residents staged a protest alleging that state government as well as officials concerned had failed to check illegal mining and collection of “goonda tax” in the area. Last week, the protesters cutting across party lines had formed an organisation “Haryaval Punjab” to raise the issue of illegal mining.Local leaders from the SAD, BJP and the ruling Congress, including Sandeep Singh Kalota, Satvir Singh and Dr Achhar Sharma, addressed the protesters. Initially, the protesters staged a dharna at the crusher zone in Agampur village. Later, they blocked the traffic for one hour on the Anandpur Sahib-Garhshankar road.Kalota and Satvir Singh, who were leading the protesters, alleged that illegal mining and collection of “goonda tax” from tippers ferrying the sand and gravel was rampant in area under political patronage. Due to political pressure, the officials had turned a blind eye towards it and they had no option but to protest against it, they alleged.Lifting the blockade around 3 pm, the protesters announced that large-scale protests would be staged across the district in case no action was taken against the offenders.The authorities, however, denied that there was any laxity on their part against people involved in illegal mining. SDO, Mining Department, Satwinder Singh said action is taken against the offenders as soon as they get any complaint. There was, however, no complaint regarding collection of the “goonda tax”, he said, adding that the local police could be contacted to lodge any such complaint.No laxity: AdmnThere is no laxity on our part against people involved in illegal mining. Action is taken against the offenders as soon as we get any complaint. — Satwinder Singh, SDO, Mining Department||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/residents-block-traffic-against-illegal-mining-in-anandpur-sahib-357918
04-01-2022||Aparna Banerji||Regional languages won't be taught at Army schools now||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 3The Army Welfare Education Society (AWES) has told all Army Public Schools in the nation that regional languages won’t be taught in the schools. The directions in this regard have been issued.The AWES has stated that “the provision of teaching a regional language is not practical,” hence, to standardise the system, no other language other than English, Hindi and Sanskrit would be offered at the schools. It also says that students of Class IX to XII can get themselves registered for regional languages but a teacher for the same would not be provided by the school.AWES Additional Director (Academics) Dr RS Panwar said: “It is not that students won’t be allowed to go for regional languages. It’s about the availability of resources. A child is free to opt for a regional language but we won’t have a teacher for that. We want to go for a common set of languages which we can make available in our schools.” Dr Panwar confirmed that the directions would be applicable to 156 Army schools across the nation.The instructions have been issued in a letter sent to all schools by the AWES Additional Director (Academics). The letter, issued on December 8, 2021, states: “All Army schools have a heterogeneous group of students belonging to different states, hence provision of teaching a regional language is not practical. It has come to the notice that some schools are following regional language and a separate teacher is being recruited for the same. To standardise the system, it has been decided that no other language other than English, Hindi and Sanskrit be offered for conducting classes and providing teacher at all Army schools. However, if a student wants to opt for any regional language, he/she would be allowed to do so. The school will get the student registered for that subject in CBSE LOC (IX-XII only) but the schools will not be able to provide resources (such as teachers) for the same. This fact may be informed to the parents of the concerned student too.”While some schools have already informed the parents, sources said some schools were considering writing to boards to reconsider the decision. Schools are also said to be flooded with requests from parents regarding appointment of a teacher for regional languages.A senior Army school functionary in the state said: “How can we not teach a regional language? People living in Punjab want their kids to learn Punjabi. We are thinking of asking the management to reconsider its decision.”Bathinda Army School Principal Sukhdeep Kaur said: “A standardised language system will benefit students.” Jalandhar Army Public School Principal Saksham Singh said the school was following the new instructions.Standardised systemA child is free to opt for a regional language but we won't have a teacher for that. We want to go for a common set of languages which we can make available in our schools. — Dr RS Panwar, AWES Addl Director (Academics)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/regional-languages-wont-be-taught-at-army-schools-now-357917
04-01-2022||Gurbaxpuri||Patti: Drug menace, poor infra irk locals||Amid rising drug abuse cases and deteriorating law and order situation, residents of Patti are complaining of poor civic amenities, faulty sewer lines, inadequate drinking water supply and broken roads. They allege no successive government spared a thought to change their lives.They say several youths die due to drug abuse here, but are shown as natural deaths. Though the police recover drugs and peddlers are arrested, but nothing is done to curb the menace, they say.Mukhtiar Singh, chief organiser of a social society, said drugs were now easily available in several towns and villages. “Peddlers have now hired armed gangsters, which has further deteriorated the law and order situation,” he said.Residents say gangsters are well connected with politicians and don’t fear law any more. They say a few days ago, two gangsters were shot dead during a clash over cash dealings.They say the situation has worsened to such an extent that snatching purses and even killing women for it has become a minor incident now. There is a locality in the town where just a few vehicles have a registration number as these have been stolen. “People don’t think before abandoning such vehicles, particularly after committing a crime,” they say.Locals’ key demandsPast trendKairon family belongs to Patti. Cong’s Partap Singh Kairon was elected the CM from here in 1952, the first polls after the Independence. His wife Ram Kaur Kairon, too, represented the constituency in 1967. Adesh Partap Singh Karion was elected thrice from here (1997-2012)Electorate strengthTotal voters: 1,95,515Male: 1,02,121Female: 93,384Third gender: 10||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patti-drug-menace-poor-infra-irk-locals-357916
04-01-2022||---||SAD, Congress pushed Punjab into debt trap: AAP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 3AAP’s Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha accused the previous Akali-BJP and the current Congress governments of pushing Punjab into debt trap.“Punjab is under Rs 3 lakh crore debt. With the population of 3 crore today, every individual is under Rs 1 lakh debt. Every child born here is already under debt,” he said.Chadha said it was surprising that 20 per cent of the annual Budget was being spent only to pay the loan interest. “Had the government not been under debt, this money could be used to construct hospitals, schools, roads and overbridges. But the taxpayers’ money is being spent in repaying the debt,” he said.Accusing SAD and Congress leaders of corruption, Chadha said: “Every year, Punjab’s treasury is getting empty, but the assets of these corrupt leaders are increasing rapidly. Legislators, who earlier only had scooters, roam in high-end cars today. They have constructed mansions and farmhouses with public money. The exchequer has been emptied because of the loot and corruption of these leaders.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-cong-pushed-punjab-into-debt-trap-aap-357888
04-01-2022||Kulwinder Sandhu||Nihalsinghwala: Battling groundwater pollution||Polluted groundwater is the byword for the Nihalsinghwala constituency, which has been declared a “dark zone” by the Central Ground Water Board.The use of fertilisers and pesticides has left harmful traces of uranium and heavy metals in the groundwater in several villages of the reserved segment.Groundwater pollution is not the only problem residents of 65 villages of this segment grapple with. Groundwater has been overexploited, so much so that the water table goes down by 75 to 85 cm every year.Manjinder Singh, a resident of Bilaspur village, says: “I recently reinstalled my submersible pump at a depth of more than 600 ft to pump out water for irrigating my fields.”He is among hundreds of farmers who reinstal their submersible pumps deeper every year. There are 20,000 tubewell connections in the constituency.Balwant Singh of Patto Hira Singh village says, “About 20 years ago, we used to drink water from hand pumps which were installed at a depth of 30 to 40 ft. Today, we cannot think of installing hand pumps as the water table has gone down drastically.”Locals’ key demandsPast trendThe Congress has never won the seat after the Emergency. Zora Singh of the SAD won in 2002 and Ajit Singh Shant (Independent) in 2007. Akali Dal’s Rajwinder Kaur contested successfully in the 2012 poll, while Manjit Singh Bilaspur of the AAP won in 2017.Electorate strengthTotal voters: 1,94,095Male: 1,04,274Female: 89,813Third gender: 8||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nihalsinghwala-battling-groundwater-pollution-357886
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Shamsher Singh Dullo takes potshots at Charanjit Singh Channi over mafia in Punjab||Coming out in support of PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on the mafia raj still prevalent in the state, Rajya Sabha member Shamsher Singh Dullo on Monday said CM Charanjit Singh Channi should take stern action against those involved in the SC Post-Matric Scholarship scam and those responsible for more than 100 deaths due to consumption of spurious liquor in 2020.Dullo said the Dalits were upset as the Channi had failed to initiate action against those responsible for the misappropriation of the SC Post-Matric Scholarship funds and those operating illegal distilleries. He said he had written to the Chief Minister in this regard.“A majority of those who died due to the consumption of spurious liquor were Dalits. Being a Dalit CM, Channi should feel the pain of the downtrodden,” said Dullo, while questioning double standards of the government in acting against Bikramjit Majithia in the drug case.The future of more than 8 lakh SC students had been affected due to the SC Post-Matric Scholarship scam, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shamsher-singh-dullo-takes-potshots-at-channi-over-mafia-in-punjab-357883
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Sunil Jakhar hits out at parties over freebies||Sunil Jakhar, chairman of the AICC-appointed campaign committee on the Punjab elections, hit out at other political parties and PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu over funding of poll promises through increasing revenue from liquor sale and other means.In a statement, the former PPCC chief said, “Increasing the collections from excise seems to be the basis for the promises being doled out by all parties. Even if it were not as absurd as it sounds, any economic model which is to be primarily fuelled by sale of liquor is not what Punjab deserves. If ‘chitta’ has been the bane, then liquor is no elixir to be propagated! Please don’t lead the youth astray. Hard work, blood, toil, tears and sweat has always been the Punjabi way to progress and prosperity.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunil-jakhar-hits-out-at-parties-over-freebies-357881
04-01-2022||---||Bikramjit Singh Majithia absconding, not in Punjab: Sukhjinder Randhawa||Chandigarh, January 3Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa has said he is ready to give up his home portfolio if state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu wants it for himself.Also read: AAP slams Channi govt for not arresting Majithia as his photos paying obeisance at Golden Temple surface onlineAnother video of police raid on Bikram Majithia's house viral“The Congress chief has been upset with me ever since I became the Home Minister. If Sidhu wants the Home Ministry, I will put in my papers in a minute,” he told the media here today.His statement comes in the wake of Sidhu questioning his own government over the delay in arresting Akali leader Bikramjit Singh Majithia, who has been booked in a drug case under the NDPS Act.The Deputy CM said raids were being conducted to arrest the “absconding” Akali leader.“Majithia is not in Punjab. If he is spotted anywhere in the state, he will be arrested within minutes,” Randhawa said, as he dubbed as fake the recent pictures of Majithia paying obeisance at the Golden Temple.“Since Majithia has no government security, it is wrong to say that the police have knowledge about his whereabouts,” said the Deputy Chief Minister.He hit out at AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal, claiming that the Delhi Chief Minister was hand in glove with the Akalis.“After having apologised to Majthia, Kejriwal has not clarified his stand on the Akali leader’s involvement in drug trafficking, especially when he has been booked under the NDPS Act,” said the Congress leader.He said AAP’s position in the state was weak as its former leaders Sucha Singh Chottepur, Dr Dharamvir Gandhi and HS Phoolka, who built the outfit, had deserted Kejriwal.Congress spokesperson Alka Lamba, who was also present at the press meet, claimed AAP was supporting the Akalis by trying to derail the probe into the drug trafficking.Will resign if Sidhu wants Home DeptState Congress chief Navjot Sidhu is upset with me ever since I became the Home Minister. If Sidhu wants the Home Ministry, I will put in my papers in a minute. — Sukhjinder Randhawa, Deputy CM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bikramjit-singh-majithia-absconding-not-in-punjab-dy-cm-357879
04-01-2022||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||BJP not centered on one leader: Ashwani Sharma||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 3State BJP president Ashwani Sharma has played down the absence of senior BJP leaders from the campaigning ahead of the Assembly elections, saying that each leader has been assigned a specific role.“Unlike the SAD and the AAP that are centered on only one leader, the BJP is a democratic outfit that allows several leaders to voice their opinion. None of our leaders are projected as heroes. Each one is assigned a specific role,” he told The Tribune over phone today.Parl board decides line of actionSenior leaders might not be visible during the campaigning. However, each leader is carrying out a specific role. The BJP’s parliamentary board decides the line of action. — Ashwani Sharma, state BJP presidentIn the run-up to the elections, senior BJP leaders, including Manoranjan Kalia, Avinash Rai Khanna, Vijay Sampla, Shwait Malik and Tarun Chugh, are not visible prominently on stages during the campaigning.“Senior leaders might not be visible. However, each one is carrying out a role assigned to them. The party’s parliamentary board decides the line of action,” said Sharma.The BJP leader is busy making last-minute arrangements for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Ferozepur on Wednesday.“PM Modi is not coming here to address BJP supporters alone. He is coming for Punjab. Besides laying the foundation stone for the PGI’s satellite centre and paying tributes to martyrs at the Hussainiwala memorial, he will show us the vision for Punjab’s brighter future,” said the state BJP chief.He sidestepped the question on Sir Hargobindpur legislator Balwinder Laddi rejoining the Congress only a week after he had joined the BJP. Instead, he said: “The BJP always welcomes like-minded people so that the menace of corruption, caste discrimination and unemployment can end. The party is working on ‘Naveen Punjab’. We are not forcing anyone to join us.”Without giving any names of possible entrants from other parties, Sharma said: “The parliamentary board takes the final call on all those interested in joining the party.”He claimed that farmers’ views about the BJP had changed after the Centre withdrew the three controversial agricultural laws.“There is a perceptible change in farmers’ outlook after PM Modi withdrew the farm laws. I have toured at least 52 Assembly segments and did not face opposition from the public at any place,” added Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-not-centered-on-one-leader-ashwani-sharma-357878
04-01-2022||Moga||Punjab Congress former secretary Ravi Grewal in BJP fold||In another jolt to the ruling Congress, a former secretary of the Punjab Congress Committee, Ravi Grewal, today joined the BJP.Senior BJP leader and Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who is incharge of the political affairs of Punjab, welcomed Grewal in the saffron party.A former minister and MLA from Guruharsahai Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi was also present when Grewal joined the BJP.Grewal alleged the ruling Congress was ridden with factionalism after the resignation of Captain Amarinder Singh from the CM’s post. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congs-ravi-grewal-in-bjp-fold-357877
04-01-2022||---||Week after joining BJP, Sri Hargobindpur MLA Balwinder Laddi back in Cong||Sri Hargobindpur/chandigarh, January 3Sri Hargobindpur MLA Balwinder Laddi has rejoined the Congress barely a week after he had joined the BJP.On Sunday, he was seen with Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma at a function in Batala. The two leaders had a lengthy deliberation and the prospect of his contesting from Sri Hargobindpur was also discussed.However, in a sudden change of mind, Laddi drove straight to Chandigarh on Sunday night and rejoined his “parent party”— as he likes to put it — in the presence of Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Punjab Congress in-charge Harish Chowdhury.A senior BJP leader said his party had not agreed to his request for the ticket from Sri Hargobindpur. “This might have piqued him. Hence, he decided to leave the BJP,” he said.Sources say that Laddi has been assured the Congress ticket from Sri Hargobindpur and that no other candidate will be fielded from his segment.Qadian legislator Fateh Jung Bajwa and Laddi had joined the BJP on December 28 in New Delhi. Both had jumped the ship because they feared that they would be denied the party nomination this time, although Fateh has repeatedly denied this.After getting Laddi back in the Congress fold, the party is learnt to be making efforts to bring back Fateh Jung and Guruharsahai legislator Rana Gurmit Sodhi.Though both Fateh Jung and Sodhi denied any such move, sources said by bringing back the MLAs, the party could arrest the narrative of Congress MLAs joining the BJP ahead of the Assembly elections.On the instructions of the party high command, Vijay Inder Singla, Balbir Singh Sidhu, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Bharat Bhushan Ashu have denied reports of them joining the saffron party. They termed the reports as baseless.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/week-after-joining-bjp-sri-hargobindpur-mla-balwinder-laddi-back-in-cong-357876
04-01-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Farm loan waiver on Punjab ministers' agenda today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 3Amid a growing clamour for announcing debt waiver for farmers, the state government is all set to give loan waiver to 1.5 lakh farmers.The decision will be taken during the meeting of the Council of Ministers, which will be chaired by CM Charanjit Channi, on Tuesday. Sources told The Tribune that the government has been scrambling to garner Rs 2,500 crore to be distributed to 1.09 lakh farmers, previously considered under the state’s debt waiver and debt-relief scheme.The farmers having less than 5 acres were found eligible for getting a waiver of up to Rs 2 lakh, but it was denied to them because of some glitches. The farmers who were earlier left out of the scheme (those who had availed loans from Punjab State Cooperative Agriculture Development Bank) and whose cases were in dispute, may also be considered for eligibility under the scheme in Tuesday’s meeting.The “hurried” decision to release the waiver to remaining beneficiaries comes in anticipation of a debt waiver to be announced by the PM in Ferozepur on Wednesday. The anger among farmers over the inability of the government to fulfil its promise of debt waiver, too, has been threatening to hurt its electoral prospects. Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan, general secretary, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said since the government was unable to clear the debt, farmers had no option, but to protest. “The government says it has given money to the Cooperative Department, but it has not been released to banks, which are targeting farmers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-loan-waiver-on-punjab-ministers-agenda-today-357875
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court switches to virtual mode of hearing cases||Amid apprehensions of a Covid third wave propelled by the Omicron variant, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today ordered virtual mode of hearing cases. The High Court is currently hearing cases both physically and virtually.An order by the HC this evening made it clear that the decision was taken following a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. The orders issued by the Haryana State Disaster Management Authority and by the office of Adviser to the UT Administrator in this regard were also taken into consideration. The entire exercise was aimed at ensuring the safety of judges, advocates, staff and litigants.The order followed recommendation of a “special committee” in consultation with Additional Solicitor-General, Punjab, and Haryana Advocates General, UT senior standing counsel and public prosecutor. The order specified that hearing of the cases in the High Court would be held through virtual mode/videoconferencing from January 5 and the present system of filing, listing and mentioning of cases would continue as such. The decision to list the freshly registered ordinary cases in January passed vide an earlier order dated December 23, 2021, would be kept in abeyance. A note issued by the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association’s honorary secretary Vishal Aggarwal said the “emergency meeting” of the special committee was also attended by him and Bar president Santokhwinder Singh Grewal Nabha. — TNSDist Judges to take call at local levelThe HC Chief Justice said District and Sessions Judges in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh would take appropriate measures at their own level regarding hearing of cases through videoconferencing /hybrid /physical mode in consultation with the administrative judges, district administration and district Bar associations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-switches-to-virtual-mode-of-hearing-cases-357872
04-01-2022||Karam Prakash||60 doctors and 30 MBBS students of Patiala medical college test Covid positive||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 3Amid rising Covid-19 cases, more than 60 doctors and 30 MBBS students of Government Rajindra Hospital and Medical College have tested positive. Majority of them are resident doctors. In the face of the sudden spread of infection among doctors, the collapse of the healthcare system looms large, say experts.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said, “Of course, it is a matter of concern. If doctors themselves test positive, we will be in great trouble to handle the patients.” Apart from Rajindra hospital, staff of the Patiala Health Department, including doctors, have also tested positive.In the highest single-day spike over the past six months, Patiala, on Monday, reported 143 positive cases. Of the 143 cases, Patiala city alone reported 131. With 486 cases within five days, the tally of active cases in the district has risen to 491.Patiala appears to have already turned into a Covid hotspot. Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said they were facing tough time as majority of the health staff was on strike, while some had tested positive.Patiala DC Sandeep Hans, in a public appeal, asked residents to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and avoid large gatherings. He said the sudden spike was an outcome of the recently held elections to the Rajindra Gymkhana and Mahindra Club and parties on the New Year’s Eve. Hans said positive cases at Thapar University were also due to gathering by students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/60-patiala-doctors-covid-ve-357871
04-01-2022||---||Delay in genome reports hits efforts to track Omicron spread in Punjab||Chandigarh, January 3The delay in reports of genome sequencing of Covid samples is hampering the fight against the new variant, Omicron, in Punjab.The problem was evident even when the first Omicron case was reported from SBS Nagar in the state. He tested positive on December 12, but the presence of Omicron variant was confirmed on December 28.The man, who arrived at Chak Ramu in Mukandpur block of the district on December 4, had visited his relatives. He had tested negative upon his arrival, but tested positive on December 12. He was then admitted to a hospital and his samples were sent for genome sequencing at a facility set up at the Government Medical College, Patiala. The genome sequencing report declaring him positive for the Omicron variant arrived on December 28.By the time the report reached officials of the state Health Department, the patient had already recovered. Had the Health Department come to know about the variant in time, it would have taken the case more seriously and ensured the isolation of the infected person.Sources in the department revealed that there was too much delay in getting the reports of genome sequencing samples, especially from Delhi. “It is common that we get reports of samples sent for genome sequencing to Delhi after three weeks. However, reports in Punjab take one week,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state’s nodal officer for Covid.Significantly, the state health department has been conducting around 15,000 Covid tests every day, which is almost 15 per cent of the average samples tested during the second wave.According to health officials, during the second wave, around two lakh cases were reported. Around 10 per cent of the patients required hospitalisation and around 2 per cent required intensive care.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delay-in-genome-reports-hits-efforts-to-track-omicron-spread-in-punjab-357869
04-01-2022||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu woos women with cash incentive, free LPG cylinders||Barnala, January 3Pradesh Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday announced Rs 2,000 per month and free eight gas cylinders per year to homemakers in Punjab, besides interest-free loans up to Rs 2 lakh for starting business.He was speaking at a rally in Sehna in Barnala district. Significantly, AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal had at a rally in Moga in November promised to give Rs 1,000 per month to women aged above 18 years, if AAP was voted to power.Under Punjab modelSidhu announced an incentive of Rs 5,000 for girls after Class V, Rs 10,000 after Class VIII, Rs 15,000 after clearing Class X and Rs 20,000 after Class XII. For college-going girls, he announced computers and Scooty and loansup to Rs 2,00,000 till the doctorate level.“Law provides equal rights to women in property. However, its implementation has been poor. Under the ‘Punjab Model’, women will be given the right to property with zero charges on registration of property,” Sidhu said. Announcing a women commando battalion, he said women from each district would be picked for training with the Punjab Police.In an apparent dig at AAP, Sidhu said: “Giving women freebies will not empower them.” Sidhu also announced that there would be a special provision for education loans up to Rs 2,00,000 for girl students up to PhD level. Sidhu also announced that they would create a women commando battalion to protect other women. A selected group of women in every district would be trained with the Punjab Police.“Giving women freebies like AAP will not empower them. We want to make our women skilled and will lay a special emphasis on it,” said Sidhu.NHM Employees Union leader Kamaljit Kaur Patti said all claims of women empowerment were only on paper.“Lakhs of daughters of Punjab are being dragged on roads by the police to make way for the vehicles of Sidhu and other Congressmen. But on stages, these leaders become the champion of women rights. All know their reality very well,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-woos-women-with-cash-incentive-free-lpg-cylinders-357866
04-01-2022||---||Ferozepur visit: PM Modi to lay stone of over Rs 42K crore projects||New Delhi, January 3Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Ferozepur on Wednesday to lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects worth more than Rs 42,750 crore, including the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway that will cut the travel time between the cities by half, according to a statement by the Prime Minister’s Office.The other projects include the four-laning of Amritsar-Una section, Mukerian-Talwara new broad gauge railway line, PGI Satellite Centre at Ferozepur and two new medical colleges at Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur.Rain, hail likely to play spoilsport tomorrowThe Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway will connect key economic centres such as Ambala, Chandigarh, Mohali, Sangrur, Patiala, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Kathua and Samba in Haryana, Chandigarh, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir, officials said.They added that “the consistent endeavour of the Prime Minister to improve connectivity all across the country has led to multiple national highway development initiatives across Punjab. It has resulted in more than doubling the total length of national highways from about 1,700 km in 2014 to more than 4,100 km in 2021.“In continuation of such efforts, the foundation stone of two major road corridors will be laid in Punjab. This will also be a step towards fulfilling the Prime Minister’s vision to enhance accessibility to major religious centres,” the PMO said.Meanwhile, the four-laning of the Amritsar-Una section will be done at the cost of around Rs 1,700 crore.The 77-km section is part of the larger Amritsar to Bhota corridor spanning across the longitudinal expanse of northern Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, connecting four major national highways — Amritsar-Bathinda-Jamnagar Economic Corridor, Delhi–Amritsar-Katra Expressway, North-South Corridor and Kangra-Hamirpur-Bilaspur-Shimla Corridor. It will help in improving the connectivity of religious sites at Ghoman, Shri Hargobindpur and Pulpukta town (home to the famous Gurdwara Pulpukta Sahib), the PMO said. The PM will also lay the foundation stone of a new Broad Gauge railway line between Mukerian and Talwara of around 27 km, to be built at a cost of Rs 410 crore.Farmers vow to oppose Ferozepur rallyAmritsar: Farmers, under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), have announced to oppose the PM’s rally on Wednesday. At a meeting at Chabba village on Monday, KMSC state secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said the Amritsar wing of farmers would reach the venue to protest against the Centre for not fulfilling all their demands. “Though the farm laws have been withdrawn, most of our demands are unaddressed, he said. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pm-to-lay-stone-of-over-rs-42k-cr-projects-357864
04-01-2022||---||PM Modi to lay foundation stones of projects worth over Rs 42,000 crore in poll-bound Punjab on Jan 5||New Delhi, January 3Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Ferozepur in poll-bound Punjab on January 5 and lay foundation stones of multiple development projects worth more than Rs 42,750 crore.These projects include the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway, the four laning of Amritsar-Una section, the Mukerian-Talwara New Broad Gauge railway line, a PGI Satellite Centre at Ferozepur and two new medical colleges at Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur.An official release said that the consistent endeavour of the Prime Minister to improve connectivity all across the country has led to multiple national highway development initiatives being taken up in the state of Punjab.“It has resulted in more than doubling the total length of National highways in the state from about 1,700 kilometres in 2014 to more than 4100 kilometres in 2021. In continuation of such efforts the foundation stone of two major road corridors will be laid in Punjab. This will also be a step towards fulfilling the Prime Minister’s vision to enhance accessibility to major religious centres,” a release said.The 669-kilometre long Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway will be developed at a total cost of about Rs 39,500 crore. It will halve travel time from Delhi to Amritsar and Delhi to Katra.The Greenfield Expressway will connect key Sikh religious sites at Sultanpur Lodhi, Goindwal Sahib, Khadoor Sahib, Tarn Taran and the holy Hindu shrine of Vaishno Devi in Katra in J&K.The expressway will also connect key economic centres like Ambala, Chandigarh, Mohali, Sangrur, Patiala, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Kathua and Samba in Haryana, Chandigarh, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir.The four-laning of Amritsar-Una section will be done at the cost of around 1,700 crore. The 77-kilometre long section is part of the larger Amritsar to Bhota corridor spanning across the longitudinal expanse of northern Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, connecting four major national highways—Amritsar-Bhatinda-Jamnagar Economic Corridor, Delhi–Amritsar–Katra Expressway, North-South Corridor and Kangra-Hamirpur-Bilaspur-Shimla Corridor.It will help in improving the connectivity of religious sites at Ghoman, Shri Hargobindpur and Pulpukta town (home to famous Gurudwara Pulpukta Sahib).The Prime Minister will lay the foundation stone of a new broad gauge railway line between Mukerian and Talwara, of around 27 Km in length, to be built at a cost of over Rs 410 crore. The railway line will be an extension of Nangal Dam-Daulatpur Chowk railway section.It will provide an all-weather means of transportation in the area. This project also holds strategic importance as it will serve as an alternative route to Jammu and Kashmir, joining the existing Jalandhar-Jammu railway line at Mukerian in Punjab.The project will prove especially beneficial for the people of Hoshiarpur in Punjab and Una in Himachal Pradesh. It will give a boost to tourism in the region, and provide ease of connectivity to hill stations, as well as to places of religious importance.“In line with the Prime Minister’s endeavour to provide world class medical facilities in all parts of the country, foundation stone of new medical infrastructure in three towns of Punjab will be laid,” a statement said.The 100-bedded PGI Satellite Centre at Ferozepur will be built at a cost of more than Rs 490 crore. It will provide services in 10 specialities, including internal medicine, general surgery, orthopedics, plastic surgery, neurosurgery, obstetrics & gynaecology, paediatrics, ophthalmology, ent and psychiatry-drug de-addiction. The satellite centre will provide world-class medical facilities at Ferozepur and nearby areas.Two medical colleges at Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur will be developed at a cost of around Rs 325 crore each and with a capacity of about 100 seats. These colleges have been approved in Phase-III of the Centrally-sponsored scheme, ‘Establishment of new medical colleges attached with district/ referral hospitals’.A total of three medical colleges have been approved for Punjab under this scheme. The college approved at SAS Nagar in Phase-I is already functional.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-stones-of-projects-worth-over-rs-42-000-crore-in-punjab-on-jan-5-357821
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu promises Rs 2,000 for women homemakers, 8 LPG cylinders||Advancing the race to lure voters with promises of freebies ahead of the upcoming state assembly elections, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday promised Rs 2,000 per month for women homemakers if his party is voted to power.Sidhu also promised eight free cooking gas cylinders to homemakers every year.The state Congress chief also promised two-wheelers to girls taking admission in colleges for further studies, Rs 20,000 to those passing 12th Class, Rs 15,000 to the ones passing 10th standard and Rs 5,000 to the others passing fifth grade.Sidhu’s promises virtually outdo those of Aam Aadmi Party national convenor and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal who has promised Rs 1,000 to all women in Punjab, besides up to 300 units of free domestic power every month if his party is voted to power in the poll-bound states of Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and Goa.Sidhu made these announcements in a rally organised in Punjab’s Barnala district.Addressing the rally, Sidhu made the promises while stressing the need for empowering women in the state.“Women homemakers will be given Rs 2,000 per month and eight (LPG) cylinders free by the Punjab government,” he said.Announcing his second promise, Sidhu said girls, be it from villages or urban areas, after passing fifth class will be given Rs 5,000.“As an incentive, girls who pass Class 10th will be given Rs 15,000 and girls after passing 12th standard and wish to go to colleges for higher studies will be given Rs 20,000,” he said.He further promised computers for girls for pursuing higher studies.He promised that the girls will also be given two-wheelers to enable them to go to college.Transfer of properties in the name of women will be done free of charge, he further said.He also promised to set up 28 skill development centres for women across the state. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-promises-rs-2-000-for-women-homemakers-8-lpg-cylinders-357808
04-01-2022||---||2 killed, others missing as car falls into Bhakra canal near Patiala||Patiala, January 3Two occupants of a car were killed while others are missing after their vehicle fell into the Bhakra canal near Passiana police station.The deceased have been identified as Neelam Rani and Shikha Garg.Police said that search operation to find the others was under way.Passiana SHO Ankurdeep Singh said they had received the information on Sunday night.Following this, divers were called to carry out the rescue operation, he said.However, the operations could not be carried out during night—due to poor weather conditions, he added."In the morning, we resumed the operation and fished out the Swift car. Two bodies, both of women, have been recovered from the car."The SHO said the deceased were residents of Rampura Phul in Bathinda district.He said they were yet to ascertain the cause of the accident.The car occupants were on their way to their hometown after paying obeisance at Mansa Devi Temple in Panchkula district of Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-killed-others-missing-as-car-falls-into-bhakra-canal-near-patiala-357798
04-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||With rise in Omicron cases, Punjab and Haryana High Court to conduct hearings virtually||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 3Amidst apprehensions of a Covid third wave propelled by the Omicron variant, a special committee constituted by the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday recommended virtual mode of hearing cases. The High Court is currently hearing cases both physically and virtually.A note issued by the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association’s Honorary Secretary Vishal Aggarwal said: “Seeing the current situation, it has been decided that all courts shall function in virtual mode till January 14, without any reduction in the number of courts functioning earlier, when the situation will be reviewed again. However, the listing, mentioning etc of cases shall continue to remain the same as earlier”.He added the “emergent meeting” of the special committee, held to discuss the functioning of the courts from January 5, was attended by Bar president Santokhwinder Singh Grewal Nabha. Aggarwal added he, along with the Punjab and Haryana Advocates-General, Additional Solicitor-General of India and UT senior standing counsel, were also present, along with senior advocates.The High Court had shifted to virtual mode of hearing in March 2020. Limited physical hearing was ordered to be resumed from February 8, 2021, but it had to be suspended as the second wave took in its grip High Court Judges, judicial officers in the subordinate judiciary, advocates, and the staff. The High Court was forced to go back to restrictive functioning from April 19, last year. But all Benches kept on functioning through the virtual mode.Following a “massive surge” in cases, the functioning had to be restricted further from April 28, last year. But all Benches resumed functioning through the virtual mode from July 28 last year, with the reduction in the severity of the Covid second wave. The High Court decided to partially resume physical hearing of cases from September 6, last year. The number of Benches hearing cases physically increased gradually.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-decide-on-mode-of-hearing-cases-today-following-apprehensions-of-omicron-outbreak-357766
04-01-2022||---||AAP announces 5 more candidates for Punjab Assembly polls; Lalli Majithia to contest from Majitha||Chandigarh, January 3The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday announced five more candidates for the Punjab assembly polls.According to the party's seventh list of candidates, Lalli Majithia has been given a ticket from the Majitha assembly seat.Majithia had quit the Congress party and joined the AAP on January 1.At present, the Majitha seat is represented by Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia.Ajay Gupta will contest from Amritsar Central seat, Kashmir Singh Sohal from Tarn Taran, Surinder Singh Sodhi from Jalandhar Cantt and Baljit Kaur from Malout, the AAP said.The total number of candidates announced by Punjab's main opposition party has now reached 101.Punjab has 117 assembly seats. With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-announces-5-more-candidates-for-punjab-assembly-polls-357765
04-01-2022||---||Days after joining BJP, Sri Hargobindpur MLA Balwinder Laddi rejoins Congress||Chandigarh, January 3Days after joining the BJP, Sri Hargobindpur MLA Balwinder Laddi has rejoined the Congress.Assurance for party ticket to the sitting MLA and absence of any another candidate from the seat is being cited as the reason for the move.Laddi rejoined the party in the presence of Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary and Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa on Sunday night.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/days-after-joining-bjp-sri-hargobindpur-mla-balwinder-laddi-rejoins-congress-357706
