07-01-2022||Chandigarh||2,901 Covid cases in Punjab in new 1-day high||In yet another big jump in coronavirus cases, Punjab reported 2,901 fresh infections on Friday while one more person succumbed to the disease, according to a medical bulletin.The new cases pushed the infection tally to 6,13,976 in the state, the bulletin said.Punjab has been witnessing a surge in the number of infections for the past several days.The state had recorded 2,427 infections on Thursday.The positivity rate climbed to 11.75 per cent from 10.20 per cent on Thursday.With one more coronavirus-related fatality, the toll reached 16,663.The number of active cases jumped to 9,425 from 6,687 a day before.With 831 new cases, Patiala again reported the highest number of fresh infections. The district now accounts for 28 per cent of the total COVID-19 cases in the state.Among other districts, Ludhiana, Mohali, Amritsar and Jalandhar registered 324, 319, 276 and 266 new coronavirus cases, respectively.The recovery count reached 5,87,888 with 135 more people recovering from the infection, the bulletin said.Meanwhile, the Union Territory of Chandigarh reported 390 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the total count to 67,214.The toll stood at 1,080 while the positivity rate was 10.77 per cent.The number of active cases in the city was 1,323 while the count of recoveries stood at 64,811. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-901-covid-cases-in-punjab-in-new-1-day-high-359135
07-01-2022||Amritsar||Akal Takht jathedar denounces PM's security breach, pleads against blaming Sikhs for it||The Jathedar of Sikhs' highest temporal seat Akal Takht, Giani Harpreet Singh, on Friday denounced Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security breach in Punjab's Ferozepur, terming the incident as “unfortunate”.While denouncing the road blockade by farmers near Piareana village in Ferozepur, leaving the PM's convoy stuck on a flyover on the Ferozepur-Moga road for 15-20 minutes and forcing PM Modi to cut short his visit, the Jathedar also appealed against blaming the Sikh community at large for it.“The Prime Minister of the nation is a highly respectable and esteemed personality but whatever happened with him was a matter between the Punjab government and his security staff as well as the Central government as it was a case of absolute lack of coordination between them," he said in a video statement.At the same time, it is also highly unfortunate that after the incident the Sikh community was being targeted and held accountable for the blockade, going by what was circulating over the social media, Giani Harpreet Singh added."But targeting the Sikh community and holding them responsible for it are not good practices. The government should book all such persons who were spreading hatred," he said.Referring to some social media posts, the Jathedar also denounced “some responsible personalities” for blaming Sikhs for the incident.“It is also highly unfortunate and condemnable wherein some responsible personalities in the society are issuing threats to the Sikh community, saying that incident of anti-Sikh riots that occurred in 1984 could be repeated once again,” the Jathedar said.“Such statements are spreading hate crime and Sikh Community is being targeted unnecessarily and governments are watching as mute spectators," he alleged.After PM Modi's security breach, the Union Home Ministry had directed the state government to file an immediate report, saying it did not ensure the required deployment.Union Home Minister Amit Shah too had said such dereliction of the security procedure during the prime minister's visit was unacceptable and accountability would be fixed.The incident has triggered a major political row with the BJP alleging that the ruling Congress in Punjab "tried to physically harm" the Prime Minister while other parties too attacked the state government over the law and order issue. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akal-takht-jathedar-denounces-pms-security-breach-pleads-against-blaming-sikhs-for-it-359131
07-01-2022||GS Paul||Cops ignore Blue Book protocol due to ‘political interference’: Kunwar Vijay Partap||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 7Former Punjab Police IGP Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh on Friday alleged that the state police seldom follow the Ministry of Home Affair’s ‘Blue Book’ that details about the security given to the President, Vice-President and Prime Minister, due to undue political interference.Kunwar’s statement pertains to the alleged ‘security breach’ during PM Narendra Modi’s Ferozepur visit on Wednesday.Kunwar, who is AAP’s candidate for Amritsar North in the 2022 Assembly elections, held a joint press conference with his party colleague Maneesh Aggarwal, who had unsuccessfully contested the 2017 elections from the same seat.Talking about the PM’s controversial visit, he said that the fixed protocol was not followed that led to the chaos.“The ‘Blue Book’ is always in the personal possession of the Police Commissioners and SSPs. This book contains the security protocol that has to be followed during the visit of VVIPs like the President, Vice-President and Prime Minister. These directions have to be followed by officers concerned. But today hardly any officer would be aware of the ‘Blue Book’. The reason is that under the existing political system, officers have to follow ‘political guidelines’ rather than the laid-down procedure,” he said.Kunwar said he never favoured either the PM or the CM. “No matter which party they belong to, I am concerned about the sanctity of the chair that has to be maintained at any cost”, he said.Expressing dissatisfaction with the state government’s action to curb drug menace in the state, he said: “It would be the prime priority on our agenda to eradicate drug abuse. Arvind Kejriwal has already declared at Gurdaspur rally to rein in the drug nexus in the state within six months’ of coming to power.”Kunwar said the revenue is misappropriated due to corruption and if the AAP comes power, the tax payers’ money would be ploughed back for development and betterment of people’s life.On President’s rule as was being demanded by the BJP and other Opposition parties to be implemented in the state, he said that it actually meant by the Centre to have an indirect control over the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-ignore-blue-book-protocol-due-to-political-interference-kunwar-vijay-partap-359115
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Navjot Singh Sidhu says BJP created 'security breach drama' keeping Assembly elections in mind||Puncturing the BJPs narrative of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security being compromised during his Punjab visit, PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday said the saffron party had created the security breach drama keeping in mind the coming assembly election in UP and other states.He said the PM wanted to hide behind the party’s failure of not gathering enough people at its Ferozepur rally.Sidhu said the BJP did not bother about the security of farmers who had been sitting at Delhi borders for over a year and 700 died in the agitation.“Now he is creating a security threat drama for himself,” said Sidhu.With elections in mind, the BJP has created the issue to divert attention from voters’ issues of Punjab. People of Punjab understand the political mischief of the BJP, said the PPCC chief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-says-bjp-created-security-breach-drama-keeping-assembly-elections-in-mind-359111
07-01-2022||---||Following Supreme Court directions, Punjab panel puts on hold inquiry into PM's 'security breach'||Chandigarh, January 7The high-level committee set up by the Punjab government to look into the alleged security lapse during the prime minister's Punjab visit has decided to put on hold all its proceedings following directions by the Supreme Court.The committee headed by Justice Mehtab Singh Gill had issued a questionnaire to the top brass of Punjab Police, including the DGP, and was to scrutinise their response on Friday.Justice Gill, when contacted, said the apex court had restrained the committees from going ahead. "We will wait for further directions from the Supreme Court," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/following-sc-directions-punjab-panel-puts-on-hold-inquiry-into-pms-security-breach-359057
07-01-2022||---||Haryana CM Khattar holds yagna for Modi's long life, demands dismissal of Channi govt||Panchkula, January 7Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday demanded the dismissal of the Charanjit Singh Channi government and imposition of President’s rule in Punjab.Khattar and Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta performed a yagna at the Mansa Devi temple for the long life of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.He alleged that the Congress dispensation was unable to ensure law and order in the state citing Wednesday Prime Minister “security breach” as evidence. Khattar along with State Home Minister Anil Vij and State BJP chief OP Dhankar submitted a memorandum to Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya at the Raj Bhavan here regarding the Ferozepur incident.“We submitted a memorandum to the Governor requesting President to take strict action against Punjab government,” Khattar later told reporters.“I have made an appeal to the President that Punjab government should be dismissed and President’s rule should be imposed under which forthcoming assembly polls in the state should be held.“In the upcoming polls, political leaders of various parties will campaign and Prime Minister will also visit the state again, and it appears that the incumbent regime in Punjab will be unable to ensure law and order,” he said.Earlier on Friday morning, Khattar, State Assembly Speaker and BJP MLA Gian Chand Gupta, former Union Minister R L Kataria, and other senior party leaders performed a ‘yagna’ and ‘Mahamrityunjay’ religious ritual at Mata Mansa Devi temple in Panchkula for “long life of Prime Minister Narendra Modi”.The memorandum mentioned how Prime Minister’s convoy was blocked for several minutes in Ferozepur by some “Congress goons” who were holding protest there.“We are world’s biggest democracy. The way obstacles were created in Prime Minister’s programme in the state is totally unacceptable,” Khattar said.“Why arrangement for an alternative route was not made? The state government gave clearance, but road was also blocked by protesters, to say that administration did not know about this is hard to believe,” he said, adding the incident smacks of conspiracy.Khattar said he heard police also egged the protesters on .   In what the MHA defined as a “major security lapse”, the prime minister’s convoy was stranded on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Ferozepur on Wednesday after which he returned from poll-bound Punjab without attending any event or rally.Khattar said law and order responsibility lies with state government and the Channi dispensation had utterly failed in this.“If Punjab government says there was no lapse, then why did they form a probe committee?” he asked.Khattar alleged that Punjab government knew that weather was inclement for the last couple of days and road route may have to be used for Prime Minister’s travel.He said Channi looked “uneasy” during the inauguration of projects in Ferozepur which was done via video conference and attended by both CMs.Khattar said even Congress leaders are in a “cath-22 situation” whether to condemn the security lapse or not.“Still some Congress leaders have condemned the incident,” he said.He also termed Modi the most popular prime minister of the country till date. He said Modi took bold decisions which his predecessors feared to touch.“No one was ready to touch Article 370 in J&K and he took a big decision to scrap it. The way for construction of Ram Temple was cleared during his regime,” Khattar said.He also said decisions like the Citizenship Amendment Act were taken in the nation’s interest. — With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-khattar-holds-yagna-for-modis-long-life-demands-dismissal-of-channi-govt-359034
07-01-2022||---||AAP announces 3 more candidates for Punjab Assembly election||Chandigarh, January 7The Aam Aadmi Party on Friday released a list of three more candidates for the Punjab Assembly election.It has now fielded candidates in 104 of the 117 constituencies.Raman Arora has been fielded from Jalandhar (Central), Fauja Singh Sarari from Guru Har Sahai and Deep Kamboj from Abohar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-announces-3-more-candidates-for-punjab-assembly-election-359024
07-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||Consider minor's preference in child custody cases: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 6The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the court in child custody matters was required to take into consideration the minor’s preference to stay with either of the parents or the grandparents. The ruling came in a case where a minor wanted to stay with her grandparents. The mother’s claim, on the other hand, was that a minor’s custody could not be claimed by anyone, once the natural guardian, the mother, was alive.Well-being most importantA mother or father’s right to a minor’s custody was not absolute. The child’s well-being, and not the legal right of a particular party, was of utmost importance in such matters. Punjab & Haryana High CourtJustice Sant Parkash asserted that the most important consideration, which must always weigh with the court in making orders on the appointment of guardians, was the minor’s welfare. It was true that a mother, being the minor child’s natural guardian, had a preferential right to claim her daughter’s custody, but the utmost consideration before the court was the minor’s well-being and not the legal right of a particular party.Justice Sant Parkash added that the term guardian was required to be taken in its widest possible sense. It was required to be seen not only in terms of money and physical comfort, but was also required to include the child’s moral and ethical welfare. The term custody, too, was required not to be interpreted in its strict physical sense. It meant sense of supervision and control over a child. The mother or father’s right to the custody was circumscribed by the consideration of the minor’s welfare, which was decisive for custody claim.“In the case of the custody of a minor child, the court is expected to strike a just and proper balance between the requirements of the welfare of the minor child and the rights of the parents over the minor child. The court should also take into consideration the preference of the minor child to stay with either parent or grandparent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/consider-minors-preference-in-child-custody-cases-hc-358965
07-01-2022||Aditi Tandon &||Three-member panel to probe 'serious lapses' during PM Modi's Punjab visit: MHA||Mukesh RanjanTribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 6The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) today constituted a three-member committee headed by Sudhir Kumar Saxena, Secretary (Security), Cabinet Secretariat, to look into “serious lapses” during PM Narendra Modi’s visit to Punjab on Wednesday, exposing the VVIP to a grave risk. The other members on the panel are Balbir Singh, Joint Director, IB, and S Suresh, IG, Special Protection Group (SPG).Unfortunate, says ex-PM Deve GowdaFormer Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda expressed concern over the ‘security breach’ saying the incident was unfortunate and unacceptable in democracy.3-judge SC Bench to hear matter todayThe committee has been asked to submit its report at the earliest, a spokesperson said. The PM’s cavalcade was stranded on a flyover near Ferozepur due to a blockade by farmers.Expect tough decisionAfter gathering info, whatever steps... big and tough decisions will be taken. — Anurag Thakur, Union MinisterThe panel was announced hours after the Union Cabinet expressed “grave concern over the lapses” with most ministers seeking exemplary action in the matter. The Cabinet meeting took place after the PM met President Ram Nath Kovind to brief him on the matter. “Thankful to him (the President) for his concern,” the PM tweeted, even as the BJP demanded President’s rule in Punjab. A three-judge Bench led by CJI NV Ramana will hear the matter tomorrow.Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said, “Big and hard decisions that need to be taken will be taken. Everyone in the country has expressed concern over the massive lapse. Some have gone to the Supreme Court.” Thakur said the Home Ministry had sought action and accountability in the matter and was awaiting report from the Punjab Government.Official sources maintained that the PM’s cavalcade proceeded to Hussainiwala by road only after clearance from the Punjab DGP.The Home Ministry had yesterday asked the Punjab Government to fix responsibility for the “lapses” even though the Congress continued to deny there was a breach and termed the controversy political. The matter is all set to gain massive momentum ahead of the elections in Punjab, UP, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur with the BJP geared up to project the Congress as “Modi hater which tried to bring him harm”. The Congress rejected the charge of security breach terming it “a fake narrative and an insult to Punjabis”.Party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged, “The BJP is enacting a political drama because of thin attendance at the PM’s rally. When his convoy was stuck in traffic in Gautam Budh Nagar in December 2017, and in Delhi in September 2018, there was no security breach. But when the PM changed his route at the last minute in Punjab and there was a lag of 15 minutes in clearing the road, it endangered his life. Did anyone attack his convoy?”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-member-panel-to-probe-serious-lapses-during-pms-punjab-visit-mha-358877
07-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||Modi's Punjab visit: Punjab also sets up probe commission||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 6Constituted this morning to probe alleged lapses during PM Narendra Modi’s Punjab visit, a high-level committee headed by Justice Mehtab Singh Gill has sent a questionnaire to the police functionaries concerned, including the Director General of Police.Justice Mehtab sends posers to DGP, othersPrima facie, there is a lapse somewhere, which the probe panel will look into before fixing responsibility. — Justice Mehtab Singh Gill committee headReport in 3 daysAvailable information suggests the committee gave the DGP time till evening to submit his response to the questionnaire. Some other police officers have been given time till 9 pm tomorrow.When contacted, Justice Gill refused to divulge details, but said the response received from the police officers would be scrutinised minutely before forming an opinion on the issue.Describing the matter as “very serious”, Justice Gill said: “The incident has raised concerns about the approach adopted by the law and order maintenance machinery towards security issues. Prima facie, there is a lapse somewhere, which the committee will look into before fixing responsibility.”Earlier in the day, the state government constituted the committee to carry out a “thorough probe into the lapses that occurred during the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Ferozepur” on Wednesday.An official spokesperson said Principal Secretary, Home Affairs and Justice, Anurag Verma was also a member of the committee that had been given three days to submit its report.A former Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice Mehtab Singh Gill is currently functioning as Punjab Chief Vigilance Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-also-sets-up-probe-commission-358879
07-01-2022||Anirudh GuptaFerozepur||Thought PM Modi going to Ferozepur via road was bluff: Farmer leader Surjit Singh Phool||The protesting farmers who allegedly blocked the way of PM’s convoy in Punjab yesterday claimed they didn’t initially know that the PM was travelling by road from Bathinda to the rally venue.Also read: Protesting farmers had no clue of Modi's convoy travelling by road from Bathinda to Ferozepur: Samyukt Kisan MorchaAvoided Bargari repeatHad the police used force on protesters, it would have led to a Bargari-like incident. Won’t let that happen. — Charanjit Channi, CMWhy the scare?Why is the BJP so scared if PM Modi had to stop for 15 min in Punjab? Farmers sat on Delhi borders for over a year. — Navjot Sidhu, PCC ChiefTalking to The Tribune, BKU (Krantikari) chief Surjit Singh Phool said they had started assembling at Ferozshah grain market since 9 am yesterday as per a pre-planned programme to march towards the DC office to burn an effigy of the PM against non-fulfilment of their demands.“Around 11 am, when a group of around 700 farmers reached near Piareana village, the police stopped them, after which they sat in the middle of the road, unmindful of the fact the PM was to pass through that road in some time,” Phool said.Later, the Ferozepur SSP came there and asked farmers to vacate the road saying the PM’s convoy was to pass from there. The farmers took it as a “bluff” and an attempt by the police to remove them from there to clear the way for the buses carrying BJP workers to go to the rally venue.Meanwhile, several vehicles, including those carrying BJP workers, got stuck on the road up to the flyover where the PM’s cavalcade was stranded, triggering a huge outrage about the breach of his security.Sources said it was ironical that despite the road blockade for two hours, the PM`s convoy was allowed to start journey from Bathinda by road. “It was undoubtedly a huge risk to PM’s security. He remained stuck on the flyover for 15-20 minutes, making him vulnerable to any kind of mischief,” said an official, pleading anonymity. Police officials remained tight-lipped on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/thought-pm-going-via-road-was-bluff-farmers-358880
07-01-2022||Rajmeet Singh||Central security agencies should have ensured safe passage: Punjab Deputy CM||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 6Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who holds the Home portfolio, on Thursday squarely blamed the central agencies — SPG, NSG and IB — for allowing the PM’s convoy to halt on a flyover near Ferozepur’s Piareana village for 15-20 minutes. “The security agencies should have either ensured a safe passage for the PM’s vehicle or opted for the alternative route, already chalked out in coordination with the PM’s security officials”, he maintained.Nobody tried to come near the PM. The farmers raised slogans from a distance. — Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Deputy CMTalking to The Tribune, he pointed out that an alternative route was chalked out, “even though the PM decided to travel to Ferozepur by road at the last minute.” The Home Minister said Justice Mehtab Singh Gill (retd) Commission would submit its report on any “lapses” within three days and action would be taken accordingly. “An interim report on the incident, as sought by the MHA, is in the process of being prepared.”On the security threat to the PM, Randhawa said: “Nobody tried to come near the PM. The farmers raised slogans from a distance. On the other hand, people carrying the BJP flag were seen in one of the videos.” He stoutly refuted the allegation made by senior BJP leaders that the Punjab CM refused to “come on the phone” to address the matter.“Both of us were at a video-conference. As the PM’s convoy stopped on the flyover, within minutes I was informed about it by the DGP, who rushed to the site.The Union Home Minister talked to the CM. We did not receive any other call ”, he explained.Sources said as per the programme chalked out in coordination with PM’s security team, the Chief Secretary and DGP were to receive the PM at Hussainiwala, Ferozepur, while at the Bathinda airport, which was a transit point, Governor Banwari Lal Purohit, CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Finance Minister Manpreet Badal were to be present. However, the CM, having come in contact with some Covid positive employees, could not make it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/central-security-agencies-should-have-ensured-safe-passage-deputy-chief-minister-358882
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||ADGP Ishwar Singh appointed Chief Director, Punjab Vigilance Bureau||5 held with 80 kg poppy huskAbohar: The police have seized 80 kg poppy husk and 200 gm opium after intercepting three trucks on their way back to Punjab from Rajasthan. Baljinder Singh of Baghapurana, Inderjit Singh and Baldev Singh of Ferozepur, Karamjit Singh and Manjit Singh of Bathinda have been arrested under the NDPS Act. OCMan held for raping minorFaridkot: A 35-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for allegedly raping his nine-year-old stepdaughter at Golewala village here. The police later arrested Jagdev Singh who had married the minor’s mother three years ago. TNSCRPF commando’s bhog heldSangrur: The bhog ceremony of CRPF commando Varinder Singh (25), who was killed in an encounter with Maoists in Sukma district of Chattisgarh last week, was held at Lehra town here on Thursday. “The government will provide all help to the family,” said Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, vice-chairman, Punjab State Planning Board. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ishwar-singh-appointed-chief-director-vigilance-358917
07-01-2022||Pathankot||Student found dead in Pathankot school hostel||Mystery shrouds the death of a 16-year-old student who was residing in the hostel of a prominent private school here.The student’s body was found hanging in the bathroom in the morning. He belonged to Lubana Jhanda village of Gurdaspur. SSP Surendra Lamba said investigations to ascertain the exact cause of death were still on. He said the police had registered a case under Section 304-A (death due to negligence), adding prima facie it appeared a dispute within the family was said to be the cause “behind student remaining depressed”.The parents blamed the management for the incident. Though the school was closed following Covid outbreak, students were allowed to stay in the hostel till Jan 15. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/student-found-dead-in-pathankot-school-hostel-358915
07-01-2022||Ludhiana||Court junks MLA Simarjit Singh Bains' plea to transfer rape case||Court of Sessions Judge Munish Singal today dismissed the plea of Lok Insaaf Party chief and MLA Simarjit Singh Bains from Atam Nagar constituency to transfer the pending rape case against him from the court of Illaqa Magistrate to some other court.In its plea, Bains mentioned that the case was a result of political rivalry. It was also averred that the police had filed the incomplete chargesheet against him before the court, which was not acceptable.On November 16, 2020, the woman had moved an application to the Ludhiana Commissioner of Police for registration of FIR against Bains, Kamaljit Singh, Baljinder Kaur, Jasbir Kaur, Sukhchain Singh, Paramjit Singh and Gogi Sharma of Ludhiana. She sat on a dharna outside his office. But when no FIR was registered, she moved a local court, seeking an FIR and thereafter, the case was registered in July 2021. But none has been arrested so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/court-junks-mla-bains-plea-to-transfer-rape-case-358913
07-01-2022||Sameer Singh||Bathinda Rural: Drain of woes in this rural seat||Farmers of the Bathinda Rural constituency (reserved) still await compensation for the massive cotton crop loss due to the pink bollworm attack in the last kharif season.Avtar Singh, a resident of Teona village, says, “In the name of action, the district administration had just conducted a girdawari to assess the crop loss. That was it. Affected farmers have not received a single rupee in relief. The sitting legislator did not care to visit villages hit by the pink bollworm attack.”Another problem ailing the segment is the poor condition of Losada drain, which has not been repaired for years. As a result, water overflows and fields get submerged during monsoon, damaging the crops.Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Sangat village, points out that the Bathinda Rural constituency is no exception when it comes to the menace of drug abuse.“The problem of drugs is rampant in villages. Addicts, who are often victims, are caught and not the suppliers. Members of the civil society have often urged the police to curb the drug menace, but in vain,” he adds.On the health front, the segment fares no better. “The sub-divisional hospital lacks proper infrastructure. There are not enough doctors in the hospital to cater to around 300 patients who visit the OPD every day. Two-thirds of the posts are vacant,” says Hartej Singh, a resident of Ghudda village.Locals’ key demandsPast trendBoth SAD and Congress managed to win the constituency till the 1997 elections. In 2002, CPI candidate Gurjant Singh contested successfully. In the 2017 elections, AAP’s Rupinder Kaur Ruby had defeated Akali candidate Amit Rattan Kotfatta.Electorate strengthTotal voters: 1,55,964Male: 82,791Female: 73,172Third gender: 1||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-rural-drain-of-woes-in-this-rural-seat-358912
07-01-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Banga: Lagging behind on growth front||Even though this reserved Assembly seat houses Khatkar Kalan, the ancestral village of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh, and tall promises are made here every year to spruce it up, nothing much seems to have happened here in the name of development.The four-laning of Phagwara-Ropar stretch and raising of flyovers in Banga town have reduced the travel time for the residents of Jalandhar and Phagwara commuting to Chandigarh. However, locals are certainly an affected lot. The flyover has made the road congested and the area inside its pillars is being used for parking, thus imparting it a rather busier look. Even the defacement of pillars due to the pasting of huge banners and posters has made the town look ugly.Residents of the town rue that they do not even have a functional Municipal Council, despite polling in February this year. “While the councillors took oath, there could be no elections of the president as no party was able to get the majority. The town also got the sub-division status in 2011, but it is still to get the required infrastructure for the purpose”, said Harjot Singh, a resident. The ruling government, however, is trying to give a fresh push by announcing huge doles in villages and getting development started.Locals’ key demandsPast trendVoters here have voted for the SAD and Congress alternatively since 1997. The SAD won in 2017, 2007 and 1997, while the Congress claimed victory in 2012 and 2002. Earlier, BSP won the seat in 1992, while the CPM emerged victorious in 1977.Electorate strengthTotal voters: 1,64,318Male: 84,730Female: 79,583Third gender: 5||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/banga-lagging-behind-on-growth-front-358911
07-01-2022||---||Centre gives Rs 840 cr deficit grant to Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 6Punjab has received Rs 840.08 crore as revenue deficit grant from the Centre today. The state is among 17 states to have received this grant.To date, the state has received Rs 8,400.83 crore as revenue deficit grant from the Centre during the ongoing financial year.An official release said the grant of Rs 9,871 crore has been released to 17 states today. This was the 10th instalment of the post devolution revenue deficit grant released to the states. So far, an amount of Rs 98,710 crore has been released to eligible states in the current financial year.The grants are provided under Article 275 as per the recommendations of the Fifteenth Finance Commission to meet the gap in revenue accounts of the states post devolution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-gives-840-cr-deficit-grant-to-punjab-358910
07-01-2022||---||Punjab, Chandigarh teachers stage protest over denying of UGC pay scales||Chamkaur Sahib, January 6Demanding implementation of University Grants Commission (UGC) scales, a large number of teachers from the universities and colleges from Punjab and Chandigarh under the banner of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (PFUCTO) staged a march in Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s constituency here today. They had staged a similar protest in Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s Bhatinda constituency on Tuesday.PFUCTO general secretary Dr Jagwant Singh said the protests followed their month-long ‘education bandh’, that has been continuing in the higher education institutes of Punjab and Chandigarh from December 1.“The teachers are seeking implementation of UGC pay scales that are due since January 1, 2016, and against the Punjab Government decision to delink Punjab teachers from UGC pay scales,” he said.The move would deprive the higher education institutions of the state of central grants and lead to multiple problems for institutions, students as well as the teachers, added Dr Singh.PFUCTO president H Kingra said all other states had already implemented the new UGC pay-scales for teachers.This action of the state government in denying revised UGC pay scales to teachers in higher educational institutions of Punjab, despite numerous assurances, defied logic, he added. Professor Kingra said when all other cadres of public servants had been given the benefit of revised scales, it was unjustified that teachers were being denied the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/teachers-stage-protest-over-denying-of-ugc-pay-scales-358909
07-01-2022||---||SIT free to quiz Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh again in Rohtak jail: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 6The Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear that the special investigating team could again interrogate Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in Sunaria Jail at Rohtak in connection with a sacrilege case.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted the court was conscious of the fact that directing Ram Rahim’s appearance before a trial court in Punjab could create law and order problems.The assertion came on two petitions filed by Ram Rahim through senior advocates R Venkataramani and Vinod Ghai with counsel Kanika Ahuja, Kirti Ahuja and other advocates. Ram Rahim had moved the High Court after a Faridkot court issued his production warrants in the matter.Justice Sangwan asserted it was a matter of fact that large-scale violence had erupted, causing loss of “hundreds of crores of rupees” to the state exchequer through damage to public and private properties when the petitioner was convicted by the CBI court at Panchkula in 2017.“Therefore, this court is conscious of the fact that if the petitioner is directed to appear before the trial court in Punjab, it may create a lot of law and order problems, especially in view of various recent incidents in Punjab due to forthcoming Assembly election and the state police are already under heavy pressure,” Justice Sangwan observed.Fixing the case for April 21 for further hearing, Justice Sangwan added it would be open for the SIT to again interrogate the petitioner, if so required, by giving advance information to the Sunaria jail superintendent. The direction came on Advocate-General DS Patwalia’s request that the SIT was still investigating the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-free-to-quiz-dera-chief-again-in-rohtak-jail-hc-358908
07-01-2022||Ravneet Singh||6 months on, over 200 SDOs await joining in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 6Six months after they took the state government’s exams for recruitment of Sub-Divisional Officers (SDOs), over 200 selected candidates still await joining.The candidates fear the joining will be delayed due to the implementation of elections code of conduct.The state government, through the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC), had conducted exams for recruitment of 50 sub divisional engineers (civil and mechanical) at the department of water supply and sanitation, and 156 sub divisional engineers (civil) at its nine different departments in July 2021. The results of the written exams were declared the same month, but the final result was released after a gap of five months in December.Selected candidates, who are awaiting joining, said: “The state government earlier delayed the conduct of interviews for the posts for nearly five months. Now that the interviews have been conducted and results declared, the final joint counselling session, followed by joining, are pending. We fear the recruitment could get delayed in the name of election code of conduct once it is implemented.”A senior official at the Public Works Department (PWD) said: “The file for the recruitment has been received at the office and put up for further process. The recruitment process for the posts at various departments will be carried out together. A decision on the matter will be taken soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-months-on-over-200-sdos-await-joining-in-punjab-358907
07-01-2022||Surinder Bhardwaj||Fatehgarh Sahib: Covid cases up from 2 to 192 in 5 days||Fatehgarh Sahib, January 6The district reported only two Covid cases on January 1, which rose to 52 on Wednesday and 78 on Thursday, taking the tally of positive cases to 192 and total cases to 9,110. The positive rate, too, has jumped to 3 per cent in just a few days.District immunization officer Dr Rajesh, too, has tested positive and has isolated himself. Dr Dipti Sharma, in charge of immunisation, said the Health Department was vigilant about the rising number of cases and people were being told to get both doses of vaccine.She said apprehending threat to life, people had now started thronging hospitals to get jabbed. “In the Fatehgarh Sahib Civil Hospital, long queues are being witnessed and people without masks are being provided with one,” she said, adding that people had become a little careless and even today only a few came forward to get tested, whereas the department had made elaborate arrangements for testing and vaccination. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur held a meeting of district health officials and issued directions to make all arrangements. She urged them to intensify vaccination and achieve 100 per cent vaccination goal soon.58 teenagers vaccinated in Abohar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fatehgarh-sahib-covid-cases-up-from-2-to-192-in-5-days-358906
07-01-2022||Amritsar||Public entry banned at Beating Retreat at Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post||The surge in Covid cases has compelled the Border Security Force (BSF) to suspend visitors’ access to the spectators’ gallery to watch ‘Beating the Retreat’ ceremony held every evening at the Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post.This decision was taken by the BSF following the latest Covid prevention guidelines issued from the office of the District Magistrate, Amritsar, that prevent the operation of stadia for the public.BSF, DIG, Punjab Frontier Kuldeep Singh said after reviewing the situation, it was decided to prevent the visitors’ entry to the reveille and retreat ceremony at Attari as a preventive measure against Covid spread. The orders have been implemented with immediate effect and public viewing has been suspended till further orders. Sources said the drill carried out during these ceremonies has also been suspended in the absence of spectators. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/public-entry-banned-at-beating-retreat-at-attari-wagah-joint-check-post-358904
07-01-2022||Amritsar||Now, deposit passport for Pakistan visit till Jan 20: SGPC||Amid the Covid-19 threat, the SGPC has extended the date of depositing passports for aspirants who wish to visit Gurdwara Sri Panja Sahib (Pakistan) on the occasion of Khalsa Sajna Diwas (Baisakhi). SGPC secretary Mohinder Singh Ahli said like every year, the SGPC planned to send a jatha of pilgrims to the gurdwara and other Sikh shrines in April to mark the occasion.“The pilgrims can deposit their passports with the yatra department at the SGPC headquarters in Amritsar by January 20 so that the requisite procedure could be followed to obtain visa documents,” he said. The SGPC had earlier asked the pilgrims to deposit their passports by December 31. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-deposit-passport-for-pak-visit-till-jan-20-sgpc-358902
07-01-2022||Charanjit Singh Teja||125 passengers from Italy test +ve on arrival at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, Rajasansi||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 6As many as 125 passengers out of 179, who arrived at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, Rajasansi, from Italy, tested positive here today.The Air India flight arrived at the airport around 11.20 am and those who tested positive were asked to quarantine at a local hospital. However, the passengers refused to go to government isolation centres. They claimed they had already undergone the RT-PCR test before boarding the flight. “If majority of the passengers tested positive, why the airlines staff did not test positive?” asked a passenger.They raised slogans against the government and demanded that they be allowed to go home. Those who had reached the airport to receive the passengers also staged a protest. After five-hour argument, health authorities agreed to allow them to return to their home districts and quarantine at local hospitals. Of the 125 passengers, 13 were from Amritsar and the rest went with health officials to their respective districts. However, of the 13 Amritsar patients, nine fled the airport and four, who reached Guru Nanak Hospital, also escaped.DC Gurpreet Khaira directed ADC Ruhi Dugg to register a case against all of them. “We will tell the Home Department to cancel passports of these patients, as we have their records," he said.Airport Director VK Seth said: “We tried to convince the flyers to follow the government guidelines. Later, they were handed over to the state authorities for further decision.”Omicron case in Malerkotla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/125-passengers-from-italy-test-ve-on-arrival-at-sri-guru-ram-das-jee-international-airport-rajasansi-358894
07-01-2022||Samana||End blockades in Punjab's interest: Capt Amarinder Singh to farmers||Former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today urged farmers to stop blocking roads and railway tracks and instead focus on what is in theirs and Punjab’s interest.As the PM was supposed to inaugurate projects worth Rs 43,000 crore, which included a few hospitals and roads, all these have now got delayed, said the former CM, adding he was willing to support farmers like he did in the past.He lashed out at the Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa for “running away from their responsibilities”. He also criticised the CM for not receiving the PM personally at the Bathinda airport. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/end-blockades-in-punjabs-interest-capt-to-farmers-358891
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||BKU puts off protest outside DC offices in Punjab||The BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), which has been holding sit-ins outside offices of Deputy Commissioners for past several days, has decided to put off their protest, saying the government has started implementing some of their demands. Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan, general secretary of the union, said protests at toll plazas (which have not rolled back the hiked charges) would continue. “We will take up the remaining demands with the new government,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-puts-off-protest-outside-dc-offices-358886
07-01-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Fix responsibility: Farm union leaders on Modi's 'Security breach'||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 6The PM’s security breach issue has become the latest flashpoint between the BJP-led Centre and farmers.Dr Darshan Pal, president of Krantikari Kisan Union, said rather than blaming each other or farmers, the government should fix responsibility on central agencies and the SPG, who decide on the route to be taken and others responsible for sanitising the route.“The agencies knew that farmers were protesting on several routes leading to Ferozepur. Generally, VVIPs do not travel for such long distances (over 140 km) by road. Isn’t it strange that the PM was travelling by road for two hours when all agencies were aware that farmers are protesting? The decision of the 10 unions that met on December 31 was to only burn effigies of the PM. The protesters were caught unawares,” he added.Farmer unions say the sit-in at Piareana was to stop the BJP workers from reaching the rally venue. “The place where the PM’s cavalcade was forced to stop was 1.5 km away from the protest site... the entire event appeared to be politically manipulated,” said Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala, vice-president, Kirti Kisan Union.Don’t blame usRather than blaming farmers, the responsibility should be fixed on central agencies and the SPG. — Dr Darshan Pal, KKU president||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fix-responsibility-union-leaders-358884
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Protesting farmers had no clue of Modi's convoy travelling by road from Bathinda to Ferozepur: Samyukt Kisan Morcha||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has said the protesting farmers at Piareana village had no clue that PM Narendra Modi’s convoy was to take the route they were protesting on. They learnt about it only later from the media, after the PM had returned.Also read: Thought PM Modi going to Ferozepur via road was bluff: Farmer leader Surjit Singh PhoolIn a statement, the SKM had said it was clear from a video of the scene that the farmers did not make any effort to go towards the PM’s convoy. “Only a group with BJP flag and raising ‘Narendra Modi zindabad’ slogan had reached near that convoy. Therefore, the threat to the life of the PM seems concocted.”“It is a matter of regret that to cover up the failure of his rally, the PM has tried to malign both the state and farmers’ movement by using the pretext of ‘somehow his life was saved’,” said the statement sent by eight SKM leaders and Joginder Singh Ugrahan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/attempt-to-malign-us-cover-up-failure-skm-358881
07-01-2022||Ferozepur||Was stuck at roadblock on Ferozepur-Zira road for 40 mins: Deputy CM OP Soni||Deputy Chief MinisterOP Soni, who was here to take part in the stone-laying ceremony of the PGI Satellite Centre, was also reportedly stuck at a roadblock on the Ferozepur-Zira road for 45 minutes yesterday.He had to make a distress call to police officials, who dispatched additional police force, to bail him out.Soni claimed his convoy could not move further due to a traffic snarl-up on the road owing to the farmers’ protest.Later, an IG-level officer came to the spot and got the traffic cleared for the further movement of the Deputy CM’s convoy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/was-stuck-for-40-mins-deputy-cm-op-soni-358878
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Hold impartial inquiry into 'lapses' in PM’s security: AAP||Terming the Congress government as “weak”, AAP’s Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha today accused it of failing to protect the people of the state as he demanded an impartial inquiry into "lapses" in PM’s security. Chadha said: “Our ideology is different from that of the BJP, but there is a lapse in PM’s security. While the PM wanted an excuse to cancel the rally, the state government gave them exactly that.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hold-impartial-inquiry-aap-358876
07-01-2022||---||West Bengal resident booked for sacrilege in Ajnala||Amritsar, January 6A day after the alleged sacrilege instance was reported at Bhangupur village, the police have booked the accused identified as Zedrol, a resident of Malda, West Bengal, on charges of hurting religious sentiments of a community.Amritsar (rural) Senior Superintendent of Police Rakesh Kaushal said medical examination of the suspect was conducted to ascertain not only his mental state of mind, but also whether he was a drug addict.“The health official also got his dope test conducted as he consumed some pills before he was caught by sangat and later handed over to the police,” he said.The situation turned tense after a large number of people gathered near Gurdwara Nanaksar. The accused had picked up Guru Granth Sahib from “Palki Sahib” and put it on a table before stealing “Rumala Sahib”. He also lifted “Sri Sahib” from its place. The entire incident was captured on a CCTV camera.Despite the fact that the managements of religious places had been requested not to left the shrines alone and ensure the presence of some persons on the complex, the gurdwara at Bhangupur village was left unattended, the SSP said.The complex remained unattended for at least six hours, which give the accused a chance to enter the gurdwara.A number of senior police officials, including the SSP and other police personnel were deputed in Ferozepur for the Prime Minister’s rally.Kaushal said considering the previous incidents, which took place at the Golden Temple and Kapurthala district, we did not wanted the repetition and immediately rushed cops to the spot and took custody of the suspect.“Residents and members of different Sikh organisations asked the police to hand over the accused in order to give him exemplary punishment, but cops kept their cool and remained firm not to hand him over to them,” he said and added that this would have destroyed the evidence.“Till 2.30 am, I remained in touch with the DGP, IG (Border Range) and other senior police and administrative officials, besides different Sikh bodies and continued to pacify the people who gathered outside the gurdwara,” said the SSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wb-resident-booked-for-sacrilege-in-ajnala-358871
07-01-2022||Muktsar||Shouldn't have happened: Parkash Singh Badal||On the PM’s security breach, former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal today said it should not have happened and blamed the state government for its alleged failure. On the sidelines of a public meeting at a village in Lambi, Badal said: “The state has the responsibility to provide adequate security to the PM. Even the CM has to receive him. These are standard protocols.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shouldnt-have-happened-parkash-singh-badal-358874
07-01-2022||Sameer Singh||Farm unions divided on PM Modi's 'security breach'||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, January 6Farm union leaders stand divided with regard to the alleged breach in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security on Wednesday.The BKU (Lakhowal) and Kul Hind Kisan Sabha have condemned the alleged blockade by farmers near Piareana village on Ferozepur-Moga road. However, the Punjab Kisan Union and BKU (Sidhupur) have supported the protesters.Also read: Protesting farmers had no clue of Modi's convoy travelling by road from Bathinda to Ferozepur: Samyukt Kisan MorchaBKU (Dakaunda) president Buta Singh said there was no collective call given by the SKM for a protest or bloackade of the road on which the PM’s cavalcade was passing through. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leaders, without justifying or speaking against the blockade or security breach, have said it was a “planned move” with political motives. Few farm union leaders have even termed it a “big loss” to the state as projects worth Rs 42,750 crores were to be inaugurated by the PM.Baldev Singh Sandoha, general secretary of BKU (Ekta Sidhupur) said: “Farmers protested against the PM’s visit which is their democratic right.”Blockade wrongBlocking the road on which the PM’s convoy was to pass through was wrong. — Harinder Singh Lakhowal, BKU (Lakhowal)Stir memory freshOur wounds are still fresh. The PM does not have moral authority to visit the state. — Ruldu Singh Mansa, Punjab Kisan Union||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-unions-divided-on-security-breach-358873
07-01-2022||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab Congress launches offensive to counter BJP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 6To counter BJP’s allegations of the Congress hatching a conspiracy against Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Punjab visit yesterday, the latter has gone on the offensive to counter the saffron party charge.Leading the offensive, CM Charanjit Singh Channi said to cover up its failure to muster enough gathering at its Ferozepur rally, the BJP was diverting attention by creating a “false narrative” of PM Modi’s security being put at stake when his convoy was halted on way to Ferozepur.There was no incident of stone pelting or him being shown black flags at the spot as the PM’s convoy had been stopped way behind the spot where the farmers has suddenly emerged on the road.Countering the BJP’s stand of collusion between the government and agitating farmers, the party’s digital team has started sharing pictures of persons with BJP flag near PM’s convoy. AICC-appointed media coordinator for Punjab polls Alka Lamba said the PM himself had breached his security on different occasions. Now, it was being painted as a serious security lapse.To buttress its claim, the Congress is playing an old video of former PM Dr Manmohan Singh, who faced an angry protest from supporters of social activist Anna Hazare outside Golden Temple, Amritsar, in 2012. Still, the Congress PM did not make it a security issue, it claims.Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa said baseless allegations were being levelled against the state government. He said BJP leaders did not want to face its flop rally. Siding with the protesting farmers, the party accused the BJP of using violence on farmers, be it at the Delhi border or Lakhmpur Kheri. “But we are protecting them. The farmers of Punjab have given a befitting reply to Modi and BJP for not providing justice to the victims of Lakhimpur Kheri. Modi and BJP forced the farmers to protest against the three laws due to which 750 farmers lost their lives,” read one of the tweets of the PCC.‘No stone-pelting, black flags’Virtual poll panel meet tomorrowAmid rising Omicron cases, the meeting of the Congress central election committee to clear the first list of candidates has been called virtually on January 8. Members of the AICC-appointed screening committee, including campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar, will also attend the meeting. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-launches-offensive-to-counter-bjp-358870
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||BJP leaders meet Punjab Governor, reject government probe panel||State BJP leaders today met Governor Banwarilal Purohit demanding the ouster of state Home Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and DGP Siddharth Chattopadhyaya in the wake of the security breach during PM Narendra Modi’s Punjab visit on Wednesday.Talking to mediapersons outside the Raj Bhawan, BJP state president Ashwani Sharma termed the stalling of the PM’s cavalcade a conspiracy and accused CM Charanjit Singh Channi of being the main conspirator. They rejected any probe committee formed by the state government.Blot on democracyThe entire rank and file of the Congress is playing politics over the issue. The blockade of the PM’s convoy was not only a ‘blot’ on democracy, but also a ‘black day in the history of Punjab’. — Gajendra Shekhawat, Union ministerClaiming that the Congress was unhappy with the massive response to the Ferozepur rally, Sharma said neither the CM nor his deputy turned up to receive the Prime Minister at Bathinda. Later at a press conference, Sharma said they would expose as to how the government had sent its own people to sabotage the rally.He played some videos of stranded buses heading towards the Ferozepur rally, claiming the police were hand in glove with protesters and it was a conspiracy hatched at the highest level in the Congress to sabotage the rally.Sharma dubbed the incident worse than the Emergency, adding the Congress wanted to push Punjab towards militancy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-leaders-meet-punjab-guv-reject-government-probe-panel-358868
07-01-2022||Barnala||Navjot Singh Sidhu: Why scare over PM Modi's 15-min stop? Farmers waited for year||Amid the ongoing political slugfest over the Ferozepur security breach yesterday, Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Sidhu today said when farmers could sit at the Delhi border for over a year against the farm laws, “why is the BJP so scared if Prime Minister Narendra Modi had to stop for 15 minutes in Punjab”.Sidhu said the BJP and former CM Capt Amarinder Singh failed to muster enough support, as a result of which there were empty chairs at the rally. “Former CM Capt Amarinder Singh addressed only a few hundreds residents at the rally. It was failure on part of the BJP and Captain. The BJP’s bubble has burst,” said Sidhu, while addressing a rally at the grain market to seek votes for former MLA Kewal Singh Dhillon. Sidhu alleged the BJP had promised to double the income of Punjab farmers, but by bringing in the farm laws, it tried to create more problems for them.Centre forced to repeal farm lawsThe BJP government didn’t withdraw the laws willingly, but was forced to do so due to the farmers’ anger. — Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC president“Now, the BJP and its leadership are enacting a drama of repealing the laws to garner farmers’ votes. But we all know full well the BJP government didn’t withdraw the laws willingly, but was forced to do so owing to the farmers’ anger,” said Sidhu.Questioning the timing of fresh “sacrilege” cases and the Ludhiana court blast, Sidhu alleged certain forces were trying to spoil the peace of Punjab. “We will vote in the Assembly elections not only to elect the next state government, but also to save our future generations. Many forces are working to destroy Punjab, I request all to stay alert while voting,” said Sidhu.He criticised SAD leaders for their alleged involvement in mining and cable mafia and challenged AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal to a debate about on his development model in New Delhi and other facilities there.“Kejriwal has been making false claims about development of New Delhi. If he is right, I challenge him to a debate,” said Sidhu. Meanwhile, the police detained National Health Mission employees as they staged a protest against Sidhu. They were demanding regularisation of services. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-why-scare-over-pm-modis-15-min-stop-farmers-waited-for-year-358867
07-01-2022||Ludhiana/Hoshiarpur||Modi's 'security breach': Averted Bargari-like incident, says Punjab CM Channi||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday said had the police used force on protesting farmers on Wednesday, it would have resulted in Bargari-like incident.He questioned the Intelligence Bureau’s (IB’s) role in the security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the state on Wednesday. He also categorically denied any lapse on the part of the state government in the much-hyped incident, which he dismissed as “a gimmick aimed at toppling the democratically elected government in the state”.In Chandigarh, responding to a query on reported demands from certain quarters to impose President's rule in the state, he said it would be infringement on the democratic rights of the people. “The Congress will oppose any such move of the Centre tooth and nail. The democratic process of holding the election on time is the need of the hour,” said the CM.Addressing a public gathering at the grain market in Ludihana, he said: “If the IB had sensed any threat perception during the PM’s road travel from Bathinda to Ferozepur, what it did to not let it happen.” He held the intelligence paraphernalia around the PM responsible for whatever happened. He said Punjabis had never ever shied away from making sacrifices for the nation and were as patriot a race as any other in the country.Channi claimed the fact of the matter was barely 700 people turned up at rally site, which forced the PM to return midway and later the blame was pinned on the Punjab Government, citing security threat to the Prime Minister, which he dismissed categorically.“Five days prior to the scheduled rally of the PM, the Special Protection Group (SPG) took over the landing spot, rally site and each security detail, but later on the PM’s cavalcade suddenly took the land route,” shared the Chief Minister, claiming that the PM’s road route was also cleared by the SPG. — TNS‘Will not allow use of force on farmers’ Terming PM Narendra Modi’s “life threat” a gimmick, CM Channi on Thursday said had the police used force on protesting farmers on Wednesday, it would have resulted in Bargari-like incident. “Protesters were at least 1 km away from the PM, then how could there be any threat to him as told to our Finance Minister Manpreet Badal on Wednesday,” he said, stressing till he was the CM of Punjab, not even a single bullet would be fired on peaceful protesters and no canecharge or force would be used. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/security-breach-averted-bargari-like-incident-says-punjab-cm-channi-358863
07-01-2022||Aman Sood||Next government will bear burden of over Rs 12K-cr power subsidy in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 6Continuous non-payment of dues in lieu of subsidies clubbed with the recent pre-poll freebies have added to the financial burden of the already cash-strapped Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL).As a result, the next government will have to face total dues of Rs 12,600 crore, including around Rs 9,000 crore pending power subsidy.According to data collected by The Tribune, at present the state government owes more than Rs 8,900 crore of pending subsidy to PSPCL in next quarter as it has paid only Rs 9,600 crore in the first three quarters of the financial year, including Rs 900 crore this week.“In addition to these, the PSPCL management is yet to receive Rs 1,500 crore on account of waiver of arrears of defaulting consumers and the pending power bills amounting to around Rs 2,000 crore from different government departments. The total payments due in the current financial year will touch Rs 12,600 crore,” said a top official.In the Annual Revenue Requirement (ARR) for next financial year, now PSPCL has submitted a revised subsidy payment estimate for the year 2021-22 amounting to Rs 12,245 crore.“The cash constraints may pose problems for the purchase of essential material, and delayed payments to suppliers and contractors, and thus hindering the development works,” said VK Gupta, spokesperson, All India Power Engineers Federation.“The financial condition of PSPCL is continuously deteriorating due to non-payments by the state government and it could soon face a scenario where even employees’ salary and pensions could face hurdles,” Gupta added.Since assuming power in 2017, the Congress government has also defaulted on paying subsidy dues in every fiscal. The previous SAD-BJP regime had left arrears of Rs 2,342 crore for it. With CM Channi’s announcement of further sops, the subsidy bill for the present fiscal has reached Rs 20,000 crore.PSPCL CMD Baldev Singh Sran said they received Rs 900 crore earlier this week and were “in touch with government for release of pending payments”. “We are taking it up with the state government,” Sran added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/next-government-will-bear-burden-of-over-12k-cr-power-subsidy-in-punjab-358860
07-01-2022||New Delhi/Chandigarh||'Security breach': PM briefs President; Minister says MHA will take 'tough decisions'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday briefed President Ram Nath Kovind on the "security breach" that stalled his Punjab visit and the government indicated that some “big and tough decisions” will be taken after the Union Home Ministry gathers information.Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi claimed that what happened in Ferozepur wasn’t a security threat but a “gimmick” aimed at imposing President’s Rule on the state.The Supreme Court also took note of the matter and the Punjab government announced a two-member committee to probe the episode, as the BJP and the Congress continued to spar over it.BJP leaders offered prayers at temples in different parts of the country for a long life for the PM. They also posted their wishes and prayers for Modi on Twitter, using the hashtag “LongLivePMModi”.From Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, political leaders weighed in on the controversy, largely following their party line.Punjab BJP leader met Governor Banwarilal Purohit in Chandigarh, seeking the dismissal of the state’s home minister and its police chief.In what the Centre described as a “major security lapse”, Modi’s convoy was stranded Wednesday on a flyover due to a blockade by farm protesters in Ferozepur.He returned from poll-bound Punjab without attending any event, including a rally, and the Centre blamed the Congress government in Punjab for the breach. CM Channi, however, claimed that a last-minute change of travel plans by Modi led to the situation.On Thursday, his government constituted a two-member committee to conduct a “thorough probe” into the incident.The panel of retired Justice Mehtab Singh Gill and Principal Secretary, Home Affairs and Justice, Anurag Verma will submit its report on the “lapses” in three days.In Delhi, Union minister Anurag Thakur indicated that the Home Ministry will act on the security breach.“The home ministry has also spoken about taking action. After gathering information, whatever steps... big and tough decisions will be taken by it,” he told reporters during a briefing on a cabinet meeting.“It is my firm belief that the country’s judicial system does justice to everyone and when such mistakes happen, whatever steps need to be taken will be taken,” the minister added.Modi also met President Ram Nath Kovind, who expressed concern over the security lapse.“President Ram Nath Kovind met Prime Minister Modi at the Rashtrapati Bhavan today and received from him a first-hand account of the security breach in his convoy in Punjab yesterday,” the President’s secretariat said on Twitter.“The President expressed his concerns about the serious lapse,” it added.Earlier, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu spoke to the PM and expressed his deep concern over the incident.The Supreme Court will on Friday hear a plea seeking a thorough investigation into the security breach. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana took note of senior advocate Maninder Singh’s submission on the issue.“Serve the copy (of the petition) to the state government. We will take it tomorrow as the first item,” the bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, said.Hours after his government announced a probe into the “lapses” in Ferozepur, CM Channi took an aggressive stand at a public meeting in Hoshiarpur’s Tanda.He maintained that the security threat claim was “cheap theatrics” that did not behove a leader of the PM’s stature.The CM claimed that Modi cancelled his trip because of the “thin” crowd at the rally venue, and there was a “conspiracy” to defame the state.“Yesterday’s gimmick by the PM and his coterie is aimed at imposing President Rule in the state,” he said.In Uttarkashi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said if the safety of the prime minister cannot be ensured, it would be difficult to prevent the “disintegration of the country’s democratic institutions.”           The Punjab BJP said it did not have any expectations from the probe committee set up by the state government.“The chief minister is the conspirator of this conspiracy. What will this committee set up by his government do?” Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma told reporters after meeting the Governor.The BJP delegation demanded the dismissal of the state home minister—Deputy Chief Minister Sukjinder Singh Randhawa holds the portfolio – and DGP S Chattopadhyay over the lapse. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/security-breach-pm-briefs-president-minister-says-mha-will-take-tough-decisions-358837
07-01-2022||Charanjit Singh Teja||High drama at Amritsar airport after 125 passengers of Italy-Amritsar flight test positive for Covid||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 6As many as 125 passengers out of 179, who arrived at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport Rajasansi from Italy, tested positive here today. The Air India flight arrived at the airport around 11.20 am. The Covid-positive passengers were asked to quarantine in local hospital as per the guidelines of the government. A high drama prevailed at the airport when they refused to go to government isolation centers. The passengers claimed that they had already undergone the RT-PCR test before boarding the flight. “If majority of passengers had tested positive, then why any of the airline staff not tested Covid-positive?” asked a passenger. Irked over the airport and health authorities, the passengers raised slogans against the government and demanded it to allow them to go to their homes. The relatives of the passengers too staged a protest outside the airport. The matter was resolved after five hours, after the health authorities agreed to put them under home quarantine with certain conditions. The passengers left for their respective villages and home towns in the evening. VK Seth, Director of the airport, said: “A total of 125 passengers of Air India’s Italy-Amritsar flight have tested positive for Covid-19 on arrival. It took two hours to conduct the rapid PCR test. We have asked the passengers to follow government guidelines. Later, they were handed over to state authorities for further action”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-drama-at-amritsar-airport-after-125-passengers-of-italy-amritsar-flight-test-positive-for-covid-358821
