08-01-2022||New Delhi||DDMA allows visitors to Delhi gurdwaras on Sunday for Guru Govind Singh birth anniversary||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Saturday allowed devotees to visit gurdwaras in the city on the occasion of Prakash Purab of Guru Govind Singh on January 9.Amid rising Covid-19 cases in the city, the authorities had allowed religious places to remain open in Delhi but visitors are not permitted.The DDMA, however, granted special permission for the occasion of Sikh guru Govind Singh's birth anniversary, subject to adherence with Covid norms."I am directed to convey the concurrence of the competent authority that the devotees will be allowed to visit gurdwaras of Delhi on the occasion of Prakash Purab of Guru Govind Singh ji to be held on January 9, subject to the strict compliance of instructions or guidelines of the government of India and the government of NCT of Delhi issued from time to time," the order issued by DDMA Additional CEO Rajesh Goyal said.Covid-appropriate behaviour such as masks and social distancing are to be followed, and arrangements such as thermal screening, focus on hygiene, sanitisers and staggered timings among others will have to be made.All district magistrates of Delhi and district DCPs will ensure that guidelines issued by the Centre and the Delhi government are strictly complied with by visitors as well as the gurdwara management committees, the order order. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/ddma-allows-visitors-to-delhi-gurdwaras-on-sunday-for-guru-govind-singh-birth-anniversary-359443
08-01-2022||Mumbai||Teachmint partners with Punjab government to offer its teaching platform to over 500 schools||Education infrastructure startup Teachmint on Saturday said it has partnered with the Punjab government to provide its teaching platform to over 500 government schools in the state and enable them to run their classrooms efficiently.In the first phase of the partnership, schools in Pathankot will be able to digitise their operations and ensure their students have continuous access to teachers and digital content through Teachmint’s proprietary platform, the company said in a statement.“We are humbled to partner with the Punjab government to empower schools, educators and students in the region with tech-enabled education. We’re delighted to start this in Pathankot.“We believe that digitisation of education is critical in today’s world and our platform is designed to enable education at the grass-root level,” Teachmint Vice President - Business, Aditya Agrawal said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/teachmint-partners-with-punjab-government-to-offer-its-teaching-platform-to-over-500-schools-359382
08-01-2022||New York||Indian-origin Sikh taxi driver assaulted, turban knocked off at JFK Airport in US||In yet another case of suspected hate crime, an Indian-origin Sikh taxi driver in the US has been assaulted by an unidentified man, who knocked off his turban and also used expletives against him outside the JFK International Airport here, according to a video on social media.The undated 26-second video was uploaded by Navjot Pal Kaur on micro-blogging site Twitter on January 4, showing a man assaulting the Sikh taxi driver outside the airport. She said the video was shot by a bystander at the airport.The person can be heard allegedly using expletives against the victim. He repeatedly hits and punches him and knocks off his turban.“This video was taken by a bystander at John F. Kennedy International Airport. I do not own the rights to this video. But I just wanted to highlight the fact that hatred continues to remain in our society and unfortunately I've seen Sikh cab drivers get assaulted again and again,” Kaur tweeted.Further details about the driver or the cause of the incident were not available.The video led to angry reactions by the community members.“Another Sikh cab driver assaulted. This one at JFK Airport in NYC. So upsetting to see. But it's crucial that we don't look away…What I am sure of is how painful it is to watch our fathers and elders get assaulted while they're just trying to live an honest life.“For those who aren't Sikh, I can't put into words what it means to have your turban knocked off — or to see someone else's turban knocked off. It's visceral and gut-wrenching and just so disheartening to witness,” Simran Jeet Singh, author and Director for the Aspen Institute's Inclusive America Project, tweeted.The National Sikh Campaign said, “We are only a few days into the New Year and there has already been a hate crime committed against a Sikh. A bystander recorded an unidentified man attacking a Sikh taxi driver, ultimately knocking off the driver's turban.”“No additional details have been released outside of the video, but we know this story too well. A Sikh person goes about their daily lives only to be senselessly attacked by someone. Common road rage between people can escalate when someone who is ignorant of who we are takes their disdain for our turbans and becomes violent,” it said.This is not the first time a Sikh taxi driver has been assaulted in the US.An Indian-origin Sikh Uber driver was in 2019 assaulted and racially abused in the US state of Washington in a suspected hate crime.In 2017, a 25-year-old Sikh cab driver in New York was assaulted and his turban knocked off by drunk passengers. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/diaspora/indian-origin-sikh-taxi-driver-assaulted-his-turban-knocked-off-by-unidentified-man-at-jfk-airport-359363
08-01-2022||---||Rain, thunderstorm to continue over Punjab, Haryana: IMD||New Delhi, January 8Light to moderate rain/thunderstorm activity is likely to continue over Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Rajasthan till the next 24 hours, the IMD has said.It said that it would subside thereafter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/light-to-moderate-rain-thunderstorm-activity-likely-to-continue-over-punjab-haryana-till-next-24-hours-imd-359356
08-01-2022||---||Farmers meant no harm to PM: BKU||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 7The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) has strongly condemned the hue and cry being created by the Government of India and the BJP over the “security lapse” during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the state.Why question right to protest?Farmers did not come even close to the Prime Minister’s convey… to question the democratic right of protesters by raising the bogey of PM’s security on unfounded basis is wrong. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan)The BKU termed this propaganda to further the divisive game plan for serving the narrow political interests. In a statement, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan and general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan said the hype was being created in order to cover up the failed rally at Ferozepur. This drama has been enacted after Modi got information of the poor turnout at the rally while he was on his way.Farm leaders clearly stated the unions had no plan to hold demonstration to block the movement of the Prime Minister at all. “However, even if due to the farmers’ demonstration the Prime Minister had to stop for 10 minutes, how does it become an issue of security at all? No untoward incident occurred, nor did any attempt to harm the PM come to the light. So much so, not even a single suspicious person was detected near the PM’s convoy. Rather in a video going viral on social media, BJP workers are shouting slogans near the convoy,” they said.As for the decision of the route plan, it was a mutual issue among the administrators themselves, to make the matter political was wrong and inappropriate in its entirety, they stressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-meant-no-harm-to-pm-bku-359164
08-01-2022||Bathinda||Modi's 'zinda laut paya' remark can sully Punjab's image: Farm leader Dallewal||BKU (Sidhupur) leaders today condemned Prime Minister’s remark upon his return to Bathinda that “apne CM ko thanks kehna ki main Bathinda airport tak zinda laut paya”, citing that it would set wrong precedent and defame the people of Punjab.Also read: Drama as BJP has no base in Punjab: Navjot Sidhu on Modi's 'security breach'Punjab CM Channi hints at 'other reasons' for PM Modi's returnBKU: Protesters meant no harm to PM ModiAddressing a press conference in Bathinda today, BKU (Sidhupur) president Jagjit Singh Dallewal said, “The farmers were protesting there and meant no harm or threat to the PM.”Dallewal said: “We condemn the PM’s statement that he came back to Bathinda alive. Farmers were only protesting there, they did not want to cause any harm to the Prime Minister. The main reason for not reaching at the rally venue was the thin presence of party supporters there. Such statements can vitiate the atmosphere here and defame the people of the state.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/modis-zinda-remark-can-sully-states-image-dallewal-359166
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Drama as BJP has no base in Punjab: Navjot Sidhu on Modi's 'security breach'||PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was insulting ‘Punjabiat’ by “falsely” misleading the nation claiming his life was put in danger during his recent state visit. He accused the BJP of using the PMO for political agenda.Collective responsibilityThe ‘security lapse’ is a collective responsibility of central agencies and Home Ministry…. Those talking about President’s rule (in Punjab) are your (BJP) parrots. — Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC ChiefAddressing a press conference here, Sidhu said with elections round the corner, an attempt was being made to vitiate the atmosphere as the BJP had no support or base in Punjab. “The saffron party is enacting a political drama ahead of the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and other states.”Taking a dig at PM Modi over “security breach” during his visit, Sidhu said: “You not only belong to the BJP, but are also the PM of this country. Every child knows the value of your life. You may not have hoisted as many national flags as the number of bodies of Punjabis have come home wrapped in the Tricolour. It is a disrespect to their sacrifice.”The PCC chief alleged the PM smartly made an alibi of threat to life to avoid humiliation because of party’s inability to ensure a massive turnout at the Ferozepur rally.Commenting on the proposition of President’s rule in Punjab, Sidhu said: “They (BJP) must stop playing politics. You will get a befitting reply here. All those talking about President’s rule (in Punjab), are your (BJP) parrots.” “It may have never happened that the PM addresses 500 people at a rally, planned for 70,000 people. The security of the PM is not limited to Punjab Police. It involves a large force of the SPG, IB and other related agencies,” he pointed out, adding the “security lapse” was a collective responsibility of the central agencies and the Home Ministry.Coming to the rescue of farmers, the PCC chief said the BJP never talked about security threat to farmers who sat on the Delhi border for over a year. “You called them terrorists, anti-nationals or ‘andolanjivis’. Still, they remained peaceful.” He said 750 farmers lost their lives fighting for their democratic rights. The PM had promised that farm income would be doubled by 2022. While no substantive rise in their income was achieved due to Centre’s failures, an attempt was made to snatch their legal right of MSP by the government, he claimed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drama-as-saffron-party-has-no-base-in-state-says-sidhu-359168
08-01-2022||Amritsar||Sanctity of chair must be maintained at all costs: Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh||Former IG-turned-AAP leader Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh today alleged the Punjab Police seldom follow the Ministry of Home Affairs’ “blue book”, which lays down the security norms for the President, Vice-President and Prime Minister, due to “undue political interference”.Police Officers made slavesUnder the existing political system, leaders have made police officers their slaves. Officers have to follow the ‘political’ guidelines, rather than the laid down procedure. — Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, AAP LeaderReacting to the alleged ‘security breach’ during PM Narendra Modi’s recent Ferozepur visit, he said the protocol was not followed, leading to chaos. Addressing a joint press conference with party leader Maneesh Aggarwal, Kunwar, AAP candidate for Amritsar North, claimed: “The ‘blue book’ is always in personal possession of Police Commissioners and SSPs. It contains the security protocol that has to be followed during VVIP visits. But if you ask officers of the present times about it, hardly anyone will be aware of the book.“The reason is under the existing political system, leaders have made police officers their slaves. Officers have to follow the ‘political’ guidelines, rather than the laid down procedure.”Asserting he didn’t favour either the PM or CM, as for him both belonged to Opposition parties, he said: “No matter which party they belonged to, I am concerned about the sanctity of the chair, which has to be maintained at all costs.”On the drug menace, Kunwar expressed dissatisfaction over the action taken by the state government, claiming legal proceedings were an eyewash to deceive people. “Eradicating the drug menace will be our foremost priority. AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal has already declared at a Gurdaspur rally that our government will rein in drug nexus in the state within six months of coming to power.”On speculation over imposition of President’s rule in the state, as is being demanded by the BJP and other parties, he said it would mean the Centre would have indirect control over the state.“Now that former CM Capt Amarinder Singh is part of an alliance with the BJP, which has a government at the Centre, he intends to run the state on his whims and fancies,” he claimed.Channi govt ‘too weak’ to maintain law Jalandhar: Referring to the PM’s ‘security lapse’, AAP’s state unit co-incharge Raghav Chadha on Friday alleged the Channi government was too weak to maintain law and order in the state. “We saw the ‘sacrilege’ incidents, blast in the Ludhiana court and the lapse in PM’s security. Some people are trying to sully the atmosphere in the state. Only a strong government can restore law and order in the state,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sanctity-of-chair-must-be-maintained-at-all-costs-aap-359171
08-01-2022||Rajpura||Punjab CM Channi hints at 'other reasons' for PM Modi's return||Taking a dig at the BJP over a thin presence at its Ferozepur rally on a rainy Wednesday, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday said the weather was also bad today, but a large number of people turned up at the venue due to the popularity of the state government. He reiterated that there was no security threat to PM Narendra Modi during his visit to the state.Takes dig at BJPDespite the bad weather, thousands have turned up today. But in the Ferozepur rally, barely 700 people were present. Capt Amarinder had to address empty chairs. — Charanjit Singh Channi, Chief MinisterAddressing a rally at Rajpura, Channi said there were other reasons behind the whole controversy surrounding the return of the PM, but the security threat or breach.“Despite the bad weather, thousands have turned up today. But in the Ferozepur rally, barely 700 people were there, even though 70,000 chairs were laid out. Capt Amarinder had to address the empty chairs,” he said.Meanwhile, CM Channi announced Rs 10 crore for Rajpura, besides sub-division status to Banur shortly. He counted reduction in the fuel prices, power tariff and water charges, waiver of power bills of gaushalas and hike in the honorarium of the anganwari, ASHA and Midday meal workers as the main achievements of his government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-channi-hints-at-other-reasons-for-pms-return-359173
08-01-2022||Chandigarh / Jalandhar||BJP takes to streets across Punjab||The BJP held protests across the state against the alleged breach of security of Prime Minister Narendra Modi near Ferozepur on January 5.On the call given by the party’s state leadership led by Ashwani Sharma, BJP workers staged dharnas and raised slogans against the Channi government. They alleged the ‘security breach’ was a conspiracy hatched by the Congress. They expressed anger that though the state DGP had given a clearance for the route to be taken by the Prime Minister, such an incident still took place. The protesters handed over memorandums to the deputy commissioners in all district headquarters.In Jalandhar, BJP workers held a massive protest outside the DC office. Huge placards reading ‘Rosh March' were put up at the protest site. BJP leaders said on the day of the Ferozepur rally BJP leaders and supporters were stopped all over the state. They alleged many were beaten and manhandled and their clothes and flags were torn.They alleged that the state police worked in connivance with the Congress government of the state on the day of the rally. In Fatehgarh Sahib, BJP workers took out marches in Sirhind, Mandi Gobindgarh, Amloh, Bassi Pathana and Khamano towns of the district in protest. District BJP president Pardeep Garg, along with other leaders, submitted a memorandum, addressed to the President, to the DC.Garg said if the PM was not safe in Punjab, then what safety could be assured to the common man. He said the PM was going to announce projects worth of thousands of crores for the state in the Ferozepur rally, but the way the Congress government did not allow him to reach the venue had caused a huge loss to Punjab. BJP leaders sought imposition of President’s rule, claiming that the law and order situation had worsened in the state. — TNS(With inputs from Fatehgarh Sahib)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-takes-to-streets-across-state-359175
08-01-2022||---||Gikki case: SC acquits 2 of 4 accused||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 7More than 10 years after hotelier Gurkirat Sekhon, alias Gikki, was shot in Jalandhar, the Supreme Court on Friday acquitted two of the four men convicted and sentenced to life term by a trial court and the Punjab and Haryana High Court.2011 Jalandhar hotelier’s killingGikki was shot in front of his father on the intervening night of April 21 and 22, 2011, in Jalandhar’s Model Town around 12.45 am.An FIR was lodged under various sections of the IPC and the Arms Act. The trial was later shifted out to a Gurdaspur court on the orders of the High Court.The trial court had convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment four accused — Prince Makkar; Amardeep Singh, alias Sunny; Jasdeep Singh Jassu and Amarpreet Singh Narula — for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and common intention under Sections 304(1) and 34 of the IPC in August 2015.In 2019, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had upheld their conviction and life imprisonment.Allowing the appeals filed by Jasdeep Singh Jassu and Amarpreet Singh Narula, a Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said “the prosecution has not proved its case beyond reasonable doubt as against A3 and A4 by reflecting the offence committed by A1, taking umbrage under Section 34 IPC (common intention)”.“Thus, we are inclined to set aside the judgment of the High Court confirming that of the trial court as against the accused-appellants namely A3 and A4 alone are concerned,” the top court said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gikki-case-sc-acquits-2-of-4-accused-359176
08-01-2022||---||AAP activists clash, wave black flags at Raghav Chadha||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 7Resentment within the Aam Aadmi Party over the ticket disbursal process came to the fore today as disgruntled local party workers engaged in fisticuffs and laid siege to the venue of state unit co-incharge Raghav Chadha’s press meet here.Will sort it outSome hopefuls may not have got the ticket and are disappointed. They are our brothers. We will talk to them. It’s a democracy. — Raghav Chadha, Atate AAP Co-InchargeWhile resentment had already been brewing here ever since BJP leader Sheetal Angural, who recently joined the AAP, was fielded from Jalandhar West, workers today protested the candidature of Raman Arora from Jalandhar Central.While Chadha was here to announce the joining of several leaders, the event turned into a major embarrassment for the party as AAP workers and supporters of one of the candidates clashed with each other. Heated exchanges were witnessed between both sides after which they allegedly manhandled each other.Earlier, workers holding posters blocked the entry to the venue. They gathered around AAP vehicles and waved black flags at Chadha, delaying his entry to the venue. At one point, Chadha’s car was forced to turn around and had to return again amidst the protests.Former district president Dr Shiv Dyal Mali, party leader Iqbal Singh Dhindsa and several other workers held a protest against the party leadership.“Old leadership is driven out every elections. None of the good people are left in the party. A quartet of sycophants is calling the shots. All key organisational posts in the party have been taken over by leaders from Delhi and local leaders and workers are being sidelined,” claimed Dr Mali.The leaders who joined the party included Dinesh Dhal, former general secretary, Youth Congress; Amit Ratan, a social worker and DPS Walia, brother of former MP Charanjit Singh Walia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-activists-clash-wave-black-flags-at-chadha-359178
08-01-2022||Amritsar||172 more flyers from Italy test positive on arrival at Shri Guru Ram Das Jee Airport||As many as 172 of the 285 passengers, who arrived from Italy at Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport here, tested positive for Covid-19 today.Lab to be InspectedOf the 285 passengers, 172 tested positive. These test results raise a question mark on the functioning of the lab. We have asked the airport authorities to inspect the private lab. Moreover, 75 passengers are being re-tested in other labs. — Dr Charanjit Singh, Civil SurgeonThe Rome-Amritsar flight arrived around 11.30 am today. Yesterday, of the 179 passengers on the Rome-Amritsar flight, 125 had tested positiveMany of the passengers, who tested positive, protested against the authorities alleging faulty testing system and refusing to be admitted to government hospitals. The passengers claimed that before boarding the flight, they had tested negative in Italy.Reacting to the charges of passengers, Amritsar Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh on Friday evening ordered inspection of the private lab operating at the airport.“Of the 285 passengers, 172 tested positive. These test results raise a question on the functioning of the laboratory that how so many passengers tested positive on the second day consecutively. We have asked the airport authorities for inspection of the private lab. Moreover, 75 passengers are being re-tested in other laboratories,” said the Civil Surgeon.Meanwhile, the district administration today traced all Italy-returned 13 passengers, hailing from Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts, who had escaped from the airport and hospital yesterday.Of the 13 patients, three have been admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital due to lack of separate rooms and bathrooms in their houses, while the rest have been isolated in their houses, said the Civil Surgeon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/172-more-flyers-test-positive-on-arrival-359180
08-01-2022||---||2,901 new Covid cases in Punjab, positivity rate climbs to 11.75%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 7With Covid-19 spreading further in Punjab, the number of active cases in the state today stood at 9,425. As many as 2,901 new cases were reported today, with Patiala continuing to lead the surge in the state with 831 cases.One death was reported from Hoshiarpur.The positivity rate in Patiala has jumped to 33.05 per cent, meaning that every third person tested for the virus was found to be infected. As many as 2,514 samples were tested in the city.In Patiala, Friday’s rise in the cases was the highest single-day increase since the pandemic broke out in 2020. Health officials estimated that the daily case count could go around 1,500 during the peak of the third wave. The district has reported 2,216 cases over the past three days. However, the Health Department said hospitalisations, despite an exponential rise, were around two per cent of the active cases.The highest positivity rate of 35.48 per cent was reported from Bathinda, though the number of cases there is comparatively less at 149. The overall positivity rate in Punjab jumped a notch up to 11.75 per cent today, with 11 districts reporting a positivity rate of over 10 per cent.In Ludhiana, in spite of a good vaccine coverage, as many as 22 doctors from the two prominent medical colleges in the city as well as those in the public sector have tested positive. The city reported 324 new cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-901-new-cases-positivity-rate-climbs-to-11-75-359181
08-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||Senior citizen can move civil court for family member's eviction, rules HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 7The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that a senior citizen-parent is entitled to file a suit before a civil court seeking eviction of a family member from his property. With this, the High Court has put an end to the legal debate on the civil court’s jurisdiction to decide such pleas by parents.The ruling by Justice Anil Kshetarpal came on an appeal by a son, along with another appellant, against his mother after they were directed to quit, vacate and handover, the vacant physical possession of a residential property exclusively owned by her.The mother’s case was that she had permitted her son and his family to stay in the house as a gratuitous licensee. Since the appellants misbehaved, she terminated the licence and sought possession by filing the suit. The courts below concurrently recorded that the appellants neither had any right, title or interest in the property, nor were they having right to continue staying in the house.Their counsel contended exclusive jurisdiction in such matters was with a tribunal constituted under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act and the civil court’s jurisdiction was barred under Section 27.Referring to Section 27, Justice Kshetarpal asserted careful perusal showed that the civil court’s jurisdiction was excluded “only in respect of any matter to which any provision of the Act applied”. But the appellants failed to show any provision enabling the tribunal to pass eviction order. Such a provision was made under the Punjab Action Plan-2014.Justice Kshetarpal added: “Once the object behind the Act is to ensure the protection and welfare of parents and senior citizens, the provisions of the Act cannot be construed in a manner to defeat the very purpose of the Act for which such social welfare legislation has been enacted.”Justice Kshetarpal observed some states had framed a scheme to confer power upon a tribunal to decide such matters, but its validity was under challenge. In one of the judgments, the Punjab Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Scheme, enabling the aggrieved to file an application before a tribunal, was struck down by the High Court and appeal was pending. In another matter, it was held that an eviction petition in such circumstances was maintainable before the tribunal.Dismissing the appeal, Justice Kshetarpal added the question of tribunal’s jurisdiction was in a state of flux. It was not appropriate to keep the matter pending, particularly when the civil court’s jurisdiction was plenary. “The courts have been established to ensure speedy and effective justice to the parties. The objections taken only to thwart the process of justice, must be interpreted in a manner so as to advance the cause of substantive justice”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/senior-citizen-can-move-civil-court-for-family-members-eviction-rules-hc-359182
08-01-2022||Manmeet Singh Gill||Ajnala: Rural road infra crumbling||A predominantly rural constituency with a majority of the electorate comprising Jats and Rai Sikhs (SC), Ajnala has favoured the candidate who manages to get along with both the communities. The constituency is alongside the International Border with Pakistan. With the Ravi crossing through it, the area has peculiar problems of its own. A better road infrastructure and concrete bridges continue to remain two of the major demands of the residents here.Past trendSince 1994, voters have elected either SAD’s Rattan Singh Ajnala or his son Amarpal as an MLA, with the only exception being 2005-2007, when Congress’ Harpartap won the bypoll. Before Rattan, Harpartap’s father, Harcharan was the tallest leader.Electorate strengthTotal voters - 1,51,794Male - 77,914Female  - 75,890Third gender - 7Locals’ key demandsThey complain that the link roads in rural areas have been damaged by trucks and machinery of the sand mafia.Farmers owning land across the Ravi depend on pontoon bridges and large boats to ferry their men, machinery and produce. Those owning lands across the international fence depend on the BSF for permission to allow them to enter their villages.Farmers say they have to travel long distance to get to pontoon bridges, therefore concrete bridges should be constructed. The shortage of large boats, which could transport combine harvesters and tractor-trailers, is another problem for the farmers who have land across the border.The damage caused to the areas near the river by sand mafia is another cause of constant threat for nearby over 40 villages especially during monsoons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rural-road-infra-crumbling-359184
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Sack Sukhjinder Randhawa, Punjab DGP Chattopadhyaya, Chief Secy Anirudh Tiwari, says Tarun Chugh||BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh today demanded sacking of Home Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa, Chief Secretary Anirudh Tiwari and DGP S Chattopadhyaya for laxity in the PM’s security.He said an attempt to murder case be registered against them for gross negligence in maintaining the PM’s security. Chugh said the Congress government flagrantly violated the provisions of the ‘blue book’ which lays down rules for the PM’s security.He said it was a matter of grave concern that the Punjab Government allowed it to happen just 15 km away from the Indo-Pak border.He said under a “conspiracy”, the Congress government leaked information about the PM’s road route to protesters. He said in spite of the fact that ADGP Naresh Arora had given a report of a possible disturbance on the route, no action was taken to ensure PM’s safety. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sack-randhawa-dgp-chief-secy-says-chugh-359185
08-01-2022||Bathinda||PM Modi's 'security breach': MHA issues show-cause notice to Bathinda SSP Ajay Maluja||In the wake of the alleged security breach during the PM’s visit to Punjab on January 5, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has issued a show-cause notice to the Bathinda SSP. In the letter, a copy of which is with The Tribune, Deputy Secretary, MHA, Archana Varma said: “Since there was a grave security lapse during the PM’s visit, you are directed to show cause as to why action should not be initiated against you under the provisions of law.”DGP, other officers told to join probeThe letter further said: “Your reply should be received in this ministry on or before January 8 by 5 pm, failing which it will be presumed that you have nothing to say and disciplinary action as deemed fit will be initiated.”Talking about the alleged breach, the Deputy Secretary wrote, “It is abundantly clear that route clearance was given without adequately attending to all security concerns pointed out in ASL meetings on January 1 and January 2.... The contingency rehearsal for road journey from the Air Force Station, Bathinda, to Ferozepur was also carried out on January 4. Notwithstanding, the ASL report emphasising the need to have a strong police deployment for a road journey and contingency rehearsal, adequate security deployment was not made and the VVIP’s cavalcade was blocked with tractors, trolleys and schools buses by a group of protesters about 30 km from National Martyrs’ Memorial in Hussaniwala,” stated the letter.It also said available information indicated the police at the protest site were found to be inactive, senior officers were also found to be ineffective in making efforts to facilitate the convoy’s movement . “Throughout the route, only skeleton police deployment was observed.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mha-issues-show-cause-notice-to-bathinda-ssp-359186
08-01-2022||Amritsar||Akal Takht: Incident unfortunate||Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Friday denounced PM Narendra Modi’s security breach in Ferozepur, terming the incident as “unfortunate”.In a statement, he said: “Whatever happened was a matter between the Punjab Government and PM’s security staff as well as the Centre as it was a case of absolute lack of coordination between them,” he said. “But targeting the Sikh community is not right. The government should book those spreading hatred,” he added. — TNS(With PTI inputs)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/takht-incident-unfortunate-359187
08-01-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Excessive rain may harm crop, farmers worried||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, January 7Farmers are a harried lot as excessive rain may damage their standing wheat crop. The Agriculture Department said short spell of rain is beneficial for wheat and advised farmers to stay vigilant and track fungus in their crops.Gagan Sharma, a farmer from Moonak, said, “Like other farmers, I am also aware that rain is beneficial for the growth of wheat, but if rain continues for some days, I will suffer loss. Many farmers suffered losses after their crops, including cotton and paddy got damaged. The state government has not released any financial relief despite repeated claims.”Earlier, majority of farmers were busy protesting against the Punjab Government for the fulfillment of their long pending demands. Now, as the agitation has ended, farmers have been regularly visiting their fields to check any signs of fungus, said Sharma.Rajpal Singh of Mangwal village, said, “From outside, all the crops look fine, but as per the advise of the Agriculture Department, we need to monitor fungus. It rained throughout the night. I came to check whether there is any need to remove water from the fields.”Another farmer, Brijinder Singh from Thalesa village, said there’s nothing to worry as rain has been limited. “Though there is no excessive rain as yet, but we need to monitor our crops. Accumulation of rainwater in the fields can damage crops,” he said.Amarjeet Singh, Agriculture Development Officer, said, “Rain is beneficial for wheat crop, but farmers should keep monitoring their crops to prevent spread of fungus.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/excessive-rain-may-harm-crop-farmers-worried-359188
08-01-2022||---||Ambulance staff seek pay hike, strike work||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, January 7Employees of the ‘108’ ambulance service went on strike today in support of their demands, causing inconvenience to patients as well as their attendants.Jitendra Singh, district president of the employees’ union, said the state government had given the contract for the ‘108’ ambulance service to a private company, which was alleged exploiting them as they were being paid nominal wages with no extra benefits for overtime, even as they worked round the clock to ensure patients got treatment in time.He said they had been forced to go on strike as their voice had not been heard. Jitendra demanded an increase in salaries, besides provision of other facilities and perks for staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ambulance-staff-seek-pay-hike-strike-work-359189
08-01-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Sardulgarh: Polluted Ghaggar major concern||This backward area, located on the border with Haryana, has faced the wrath of the Ghaggar umpteen times.Past trendVoters of this seat have been choosing between the families of SAD leader Balwinder Singh Bhunder and Congress’ Ajit Inder Singh Mofar. In the past 12 elections since 1967, the Bhunder family has won the seat six times and the Mofars thrice.Electorate strengthTotal voters - 1,80,882Male -  95,762Female -  85,117Third gender -  3Locals’ key demandsDuring monsoon, the raging river often floods adjoining areas. Sardulgarh has witnessed floods in 1966, 1988, 1993, 1995 and 2010.Industrial pollution has turned the river, and even groundwater, black at some places. As a result, residents of more than two dozen villages, continue to get the polluted water in the absence of waste treatment by factories.Another problem is a severe shortage of canal water for drinking and irrigation in the villages located at the tail-end. Many villages are also grappling with lack of health and education facilities.Moreover, the constituency has only one sub-divisional hospital, but it does not have specialist doctors. Hence, residents have to go to private hospitals in Mansa or Sirsa in Haryana. Locals claimed all politicians had made promises to make Ghaggar pollution-free, but nobody did anything.Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Sardulgarh, said, “Unpleasant smell comes from the Ghaggar due to pollution. One cannot stand near it for more than a few minutes. Cancer and skin diseases are common in adjoining villages.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/polluted-ghaggar-major-concern-359192
08-01-2022||---||Ferozepur: Pak boat seized near International Border||Our CorrespondentFerozepur, January 7Amid the controversy surrounding the “breach” of Prime Minister’s security in Ferozepur, who was slated to visit the National Martyrs’ Memorial at Hussainiwala two days ago, the Border Security Force (BSF) has reportedly recovered an abandoned Pakistan wooden boat in the Sutlej.As per information, the boat was spotted by the personnel belonging to 136 Battalion during patrol duty near the DT Mall border outpost along the International Border.While nothing suspicious was recovered from it, security agencies have been alerted in view of the present scenario. BSF officials were not available for comment.The area is not far from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi was to pay tribute to the martyrs on Wednesday. The Hussainiwala visit was reportedly not part of his itinerary initially, and it was later that the PM decided to visit the memorial before heading to address his first public rally in Punjab after repealing the farm laws.The PM had earlier visited Hussainiwala on March 23, 2015, after assuming the top position.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pak-boat-seized-near-ib-359193
08-01-2022||---||Jail inmates  to operate 12 retail outlets in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 7In a first-of-its-kind initiative aimed at reforming jail inmates, the Punjab Prisons Development Board (PPDB) on Friday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Indian Oil (IOCL) and Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL) for opening 12 retail outlets (ROs), which will be manned by prisoners across the state.The Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister approved the execution of the MoU with the IOCL and the BPCL. Out of 12 retail outlets, 11 would be opened by the Indian Oil and one by the BPCL.The MoU was executed by Additional Director General of Police-cum-Member Secretary- Punjab Prisons Development Board Praveen Kumar Sinha, while Amarendra Kumar executed it on behalf of the IOCL.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jail-inmates-to-operate-12-retail-outlets-359194
08-01-2022||---||Sonu Sood no more EC icon for Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 7The Election Commission of India (EC) has withdrawn the appointment of actor Sonu Sood as a state icon for Punjab.Chief Electoral Officer, Punjab, Dr S Karuna Raju confirmed the EC had withdrawn the actor’s appointment as a state icon on January 4, 2021. The actor had in November said his sister Malvika was joining politics but he had no such plans for himself.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sonu-sood-no-more-ec-icon-359196
08-01-2022||Faridkot||Mid-day meal workers to get Rs 36,000/annum||The School Education Department today issued a notice, announcing an increase in the yearly honorarium-cum-remuneration of about 42,000 mid-day meal (MDM) workers-cum-helpers from Rs 22,000 to Rs 36,000.This enhancement in the honorarium would be effective from January 1, said a letter, issued by the Secretary, School Education Department.So far, these workers were getting Rs 2,200 per month. This honorarium was paid only for 10 months in a year as the schools are closed for two months in due to summer and winter vacation.According to the new order, the honorarium would be Rs 3,000 per month and paid 12 months in a year.In June, 2021, the department had increased the annual honorarium to these helpers from Rs 17,000 to Rs 22,000 per annum. More than 80 per cent of cook-cum-helpers for the scheme are women.The scheme guarantees one meal for at least 200 days in a year to about 17 lakh students in government, government-aided primary and elementary schools in the state under the Samagra Shiksha, a programme of the Ministry of Human Resource Development. The helpers work in about 19,680 government and government-aided schools in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mid-day-meal-workers-to-get-36-000-annum-359197
08-01-2022||Karam Prakash||Omicron: Punjab's lone genome lab in Patiala runs out of test kits||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 7Amid the tsunami of Covid-19 cases, the efforts to detect and isolate the cases of the Omicron variant have been severely hit because the state’s only genome sequencing laboratory, at Government Medical College here, has run out of the testing kits. The laboratory detects the prevalence of the new mutation in the virus.Countrywide shortageWe gave around 100 kits this week to the lab, but there is a shortage of kits in the country. We are trying to provide more kits to the state lab. — Dr Rajesh Bhasker, State Nodal OfficerCurrently, the laboratory does not have even a single testing kit for the genome sequencing. It is learnt that the laboratory has, so far, tested only 532 Covid positive samples while 96 tests are pending.Dr Rajesh Bhasker, state nodal officer, said, “We have given around 100 kits this week to the lab. There is a shortage of kits in the country. We are doing what we can to provide more kits to the state lab.”Sources said the lab, owing to the shortage of the kits, was testing only international travellers from high-risk countries. Patiala Deputy Commissioner recently said Omicron variant was the potential virus behind the recent outbreak at Government Rajindra Hospital and Medical College. However, tests to ascertain the prevalence of Omicron could not be carried out due to the shortage of kits. Also, samples of cases at Thapar university, last week, also could not be tested.Lab officials informed that they had processed around 96 samples for Omicron on Thursday, but the reports might take more than a week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/states-lone-genome-lab-in-patiala-runs-out-of-test-kits-359198
08-01-2022||Sangrur||Malerkotla Omicron patient traced, isolated||The health authorities of Malerkotla have finally traced a resident who tested positive for Omicron variant and had gone missing from his house. The authorities have isolated the patient at his residence.SMO Dr Mohd Akhtar said, “As the Omicron patient is asymptomatic, we have isolated him at his house. Samples of all his relatives have been collected.” The Health Department had got information on January 6 that a resident had come back from Tanzania on December 28. His sample was taken at IGI Airport, New Delhi, and he tested positive for Omicron. However, when the health teams went to his house on January 6, he was found missing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/malerkotla-omicron-patient-traced-isolated-359199
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Patiala, Sangrur, Barnala district hospitals get radio labs||Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni virtually inaugurated three radio diagnostic and laboratory centres at the district hospitals of Patiala, Sangrur and Barnala today.Soni said work on setting up ultra-modern labs had been started under public-private partnership between Krishna Diagnostics and Health and Family Welfare Department.He said the government had made efforts to provide affordable radiology and laboratory facilities to the people. These hi-tech labs would provide services to all sections as earlier needy patients had to travel to big cities to get diagnostic tests done and it was also costly and time consuming. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-district-hospitals-get-radio-labs-359200
08-01-2022||Abohar||Missing minor found, two held||A 16-year-old girl, who was allegedly kidnapped by two motorcycle-borne persons on November 5 from Maujgarh village, was found at a field in Deengarh village near Sangria. Cops arrested Inderpal Nayak of Jandwala Hanwanta village and Jagdish Dhanak. The girl said told the police Inderpal had physically exploited her during the illegal confinement. The police said Section 376 will be added to the FIR, which initially registered under Sections 363 and 366, IPC. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/missing-minor-found-two-held-359201
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Dr Navjot Dhaiya appointed chairperson of Punjab State Commission for General Category||Punjab Govt inks agreement with Cambridge University PressChandigarh: To impart quality and world-class education to youngsters, the Punjab Government has initiated a new idea to impart IELTS coaching through government ITIs in synergy with Cambridge University Press, India, which is a subsidiary of Cambridge University Press, UK. TNS19K sedative pills seizedAbohar: The police have claimed to seize 13,300 sedative tablets from Inderjit Singh Gill, a resident of Bagha Purana. Gill has been arrested him under the NDPS Act. In another case, the Hanumangarh police have recovered 5,850 intoxicating pills from Vijay Meghwal, a resident of Hiranwali village. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dr-dhaiya-appointed-chairperson-of-pscgc-359202
08-01-2022||---||Congress targets SPG as BJP links Punjab CMO to security 'breach'||New Delhi, January 7The BJP today turned up the heat over the “security breach” during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Punjab on January 5, even as the Congress said BJP must explain why the Special Protection Group (SPG) left the PM’s line of sight uncovered when he was stuck on a flyover.Also read: Modi's 'zinda laut paya' remark can sully Punjab's image: Farm leader DallewalPunjab CM Channi hints at 'other reasons' for PM Modi's returnDrama as BJP has no base in Punjab: Navjot Sidhu on Modi's 'security breach'Union Minister Giriraj Singh has alleged that the attempt to “eliminate” the PM was “linked to the Punjab Chief Minister’s Office”.“The Prime Minister could have been killed by a drone or a telescopic gun,” claimed the Union Minister of Rural Development, terming the “major security breach” a “high-level conspiracy”.Sharing the video of the PM’s cavalcade stranded on a flyover, Giriraj Singh tweeted, “It was not a coincidence, but a conspiracy to pull the PM in the well of death. He survived by the grace of Mahadev (Lord Shiva). If a thorough investigation is conducted, it will not only unmask the role of the Punjab CM’s office, but also reveal that wires may be connected to the top.”BJP MPs held protests against the Congress near Mahatma Gandhi’s statue in the Parliament complex. They raised slogans, demanding an apology from the Punjab Government.Meanwhile, the Congress has said the BJP must stop politicising the issue of Prime Minister’s security.“The government-released pictures of the PM cavalcade on the flyover clearly show the PM’s line of sight uncovered. How could the SPG allow this?” said Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate.The Congress also said a new viral video of the January 5 incident showed that BJP supporters were in close proximity to the PM.“PM Modi is the sole SPG protectee in the country. The SPG reports to the PMO and the Cabinet Secretary. So we want to ask the government to make public all inputs, on which the SPG acted,” said Shrinate.She further said, “The time the PM was stranded on the flyover, the SPG had not even covered his line of sight as it is clear from the visuals. The PM’s vehicle is fully exposed. Why? The BJP must stop politicising PM’s security. Once they do that, this dirty politics will stop by itself.”High-level conspiracyIt was not a coincidence, but a conspiracy to pull the PM in the well of death. A probe will unmask the Punjab CMO’s role. — Giriraj Singh, Union ministerPM’s line of sight was uncoveredThe govt-released pictures of the PM cavalcade on the flyover clearly show the PM’s line of sight uncovered. How could the SPG allow this? — Supriya Shrinate, Cong||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/cong-targets-spg-as-bjp-links-pb-cmo-to-security-breach-359159
08-01-2022||---||BKU: Protesters meant no harm to PM Modi||Chandigarh, January 7The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) today accused the BJP-led NDA government of resorting to propaganda to further its divisive game plan for political goals. In a statement, BKU president Joginder Singh Ugrahan and general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan said the unions had no plan to hold a demonstration to block the Prime Minister’s movement during his Ferozepur visit.“No untoward incident occurred. There was no attempt to harm the Prime Minister. Not a single suspicious person was found near his convoy when it was stopped,” they stressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-protesters-meant-no-harm-to-pm-modi-359158
08-01-2022||---||Punjab sends report on Modi's security lapses to MHA, says FIR filed||Chandigarh, January 7The Punjab Government has sent its report to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on lapses in PM Narendra Modi’s security during his visit to Ferozepur on Wednesday. The report says the protest by farmers was sudden, but an FIR has been lodged and a two-member panel formed to probe the matter and respond in three days.The MHA had sought a detailed report on the PM’s security breach as his vehicle remained stranded on a flyover for 15-20 minutes.In the report sent to the MHA by Chief Secretary Anirudh Tewari last night, it has been stated that on completion of the probe, the findings would be shared with the Centre. The sequence of events leading to the incident has been shared.Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi chaired a meeting last evening to finalise the report. Sources said the report was prepared in consultation with the state DGP and other police officers in-charge of the PM’s security.Channi has been maintaining that there was no breach of security as farmers came suddenly on the road. The CM claimed that the SPG was informed and the PM’s convoy was stopped 1 km short of the spot.Notice to SSPEnsured peaceful passage of the cavalcade in my jurisdiction, which was till the limits of Bathinda district. — Ajay Maluja, SSPBadal against President’s rulePresident’s rule should not be imposed... Polls have nothing to do with the ‘security lapse’. These should be held on time. — PS Badal, SAD||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sends-report-to-mha-says-fir-filed-359157
08-01-2022||Mukesh Ranjan||IB had warned of possible trouble during Modi's Ferozepur visit||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 7The Intelligence Bureau (IB) report, which was shared with the Punjab Government, had “specific and actionable” input saying “some sort of demonstration or agitation” could not be ruled out while the PM was on his way to Hussainiwala, a stronghold of farmers’ unions.The report said: “Leaders of SKM constituents, including the BKU(E-U) and KMSC (Satnam Singh Pannu group), which have not joined the SKM’s recently floated political outfit ‘Sanyukt Samaj Morcha’, have already declared that they would organise a gherao of the PM on his visit to Ferozepur...”It also said farm unions “remained staunchly critical of PM Modi.” It cautioned the Punjab Government over radical Sikh organisations “time and again” raising the issue of release of Sikh prisoners. “They have submitted memorandums and organised protests many times to raise the issue.The possibility of opposition of Sikh radicals too cannot be ruled out,” the report read.The IB warned that Gurpatwant Singh Pannu of the proscribed Sikhs For Justice had been provoking local youths and luring them with money. Issuing a general alert, it asked the Punjab Government to remain vigilant as the venue of the PM’s function was close to the border with Pakistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/ib-had-warned-of-possible-trouble-359155
08-01-2022||Satya Prakash||Secure all records, put probes on hold: SC on PM Modi's security lapse||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 7Amid a raging controversy over the security lapse during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Punjab visit, the Supreme Court today ordered the Registrar General of the Punjab and Haryana High Court to secure and forthwith preserve all records relating to the visit.Also read: Modi's 'zinda laut paya' remark can sully Punjab's image: Farm leader DallewalPunjab CM Channi hints at 'other reasons' for PM Modi's returnDrama as BJP has no base in Punjab: Navjot Sidhu on Modi's 'security breach'Farmers meant no harm to PM: BKUCongress targets SPG as BJP links Punjab CMO to security 'breach'“We direct the Director General of Police, Union Territory of Chandigarh, and an officer of the National Investigation Agency, not below the rank of Inspector General, to be nominated by the Director General, National Investigation Agency, to assist the Registrar General, Punjab and Haryana High Court, to forthwith secure and seize the records from the state police as well as central agencies,” a Bench led by CJI NV Ramana ordered.It directed the Punjab Government, police authorities, the SPG and other central and state agencies to give necessary assistance to the Registrar General “in securing and seizing the records”.The order came on a petition filed by Lawyer’s Voice seeking a thorough probe into the lapse in the PM’s security on Wednesday.The Bench, which also included Justice Surya Kant and Justice Hima Kohli, asked the committees set up by the Centre and Punjab not  to go ahead with their respective inquiries for the time being and posted the matter for hearing on Monday. “We are not including this in our order, but ask both committees to hold their operations till Monday,” the CJI said.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta clarified that the Centre’s committee was not meant to punish any officer from Punjab and that it was only for ascertaining as to why and how the security lapse occurred.As Mehta termed it an issue of grave concern that has led to international embarrassment, Punjab Advocate General DS Patwalia said certainly there was a lapse but the Centre and the state committees should hold their horses till Monday. “Mr Modi is our Prime Minister and although this petition reeks of politics, we are not against it,” he said.Earlier, senior advocate Maninder Singh, representing the petitioners, demanded that the state’s committee should be stayed. Referring to statements by the Sikhs for Justice, he said it could be an issue of cross-border terrorism.The petitioners wanted the court to pass orders to fix responsibility of the Punjab Chief Secretary and the state’s Director General of Police and place them under suspension; and direct the Centre to initiate departmental action against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/secure-all-records-put-probes-on-hold-sc-on-security-lapse-359154
08-01-2022||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Actor Sonu Sood quits as Punjab state icon||Bollywood actor Sonu Sood announced on Friday that he’d stepped down as Punjab’s state icon just over a year after his appointment.Sood, who was made the state icon soon after he made headlines for his humanitarian work in 2020, said he was stepping down because his sister was going to contest in the Punjab Assembly Elections later this year.  The decision, he said in his tweet, was made after consulting the Election Commission of India.Sonu Sood named state icon of Punjab“Like all good things, this journey has come to an end too,” Sood, whose family is from Moga, said in his position. “I've voluntarily stepped down as the State Icon of Punjab. This decision was mutually taken by me and EC in light of my family member contesting in Punjab Assembly Elections. I wish them luck for future endeavours.”Sister Malvika may fight polls from Moga, says Sonu SoodSood had announced in November that his sister Malvika would stand for elections this year. It’s unclear yet if she’s joining a political party or will contest the elections independently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sonu-sood-steps-down-as-punjab-state-icon-359126
08-01-2022||Jalandhar||Raghav Chadha faces stiff opposition as disgruntled AAP workers lay siege to press meet||Intense resentment over the AAP’s ticket disbursal process came to the fore within the party on Friday during Punjab co-incharge Raghav Chadha’s visit to Jalandhar as disgruntled AAP workers laid siege to the Punjab Press Club here.  AAP leader Raghav Chadha was met with stiff opposition for hours from party workers ahead of his press conference at the Punjab Press Club.While Chadha was here to announce the joining of several leaders into the party, AAP workers and party members disgruntled with the ticket disbursal process indulged in intense sloganeering against Chadha and the party outside the Press Club.Party’s Jalandhar leader Dr Shiv Dyal Mali along with several other workers held a protest against the party. They blocked the entry to the club raising black flags and tying black bands on their heads, holding out posters reading “Dagi Bandeyan Nu Ticketan Deniyan Band Karo”.Assuming approaching cars to be those of Chadha, leaders gathered around them to sloganeer several times. They raised slogans — “Raghav Chadha Chor Hai”, “Raghav Chadha Lotu Hai”.Their anger was directed at the alleged side-lining of age old party workers and leadership in the ticket disbursal process of the party ahead of the 2022 elections.  When Chadha’s car finally arrived, leaders gathered around the club, climbed on the fence, ganged up around the club entryway indulging in angry protestations. The press conference of the AAP leader was delay by over an hour due to the chaos that ensued outside the press club.  Speaking on the occasion, Dr Shiv Dyal Mali said, “None of the good people are left in the party. Bas ‘Chaploos chaukri chaar bandeyan di’ reh gai hai (quartet of four sycophants only remains in the state) which is calling the shots. He added all the key organisational posts in the party had been taken over by Delhi people and the good leaders and workers from Punjab were being side-lined. It seems the party is unable to find talented, wise people in the state and that is why Delhi leadership is being thrust upon us.”Reacting later to the allegations by party workers, Chadha said, “They are our own people. Every elections some people are disappointed at not being allocated tickets. It is just them. We will sit and talk to them.”In the presence of Chadha in Jalandhar today, former Youth Congress general secretary Dinesh Dhar, former SAD leader Amit Ratan and DPS Walia, former official in the Punjab Administrative Service joined the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chadha-faces-stiff-opposition-as-disgruntled-aap-workers-lay-siege-to-press-meet-359123
08-01-2022||Amritsar||190 passengers from Italy test positive for Covid-19 at Amritsar airport||Some 190 passengers from Italy tested positive for Covid-19 at Amritsar’s Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport on Friday, authorities said.The development comes a day after 125 passengers on a flight between Italy and Amritsar tested positive at the airport. Those passengers were sent home for quarantine after they refused to go to government Covid care isolation centre.The development comes as India sees a worrying swell in its Covid numbers, prompting several states, including Punjab, to reimpose restrictions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/coronavirus/190-passengers-from-italy-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-amritsar-airport-359117
08-01-2022||Sameer Singh||PM's 'security breach': MHA issues showcause notice to Bathinda SSP, 5 other officers; warns of disciplinary action||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, January 7Following the alleged security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Punjab visit, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has issued a showcause notice to the Bathinda Senior Superintendent of Police, telling him to reply within a day.In the strongly-worded letter, a copy of which is with The Tribune, Archana Varma, Deputy Secretary to the Centre, has stated that since there was grave security lapse during the PM's visit, the Bathinda SSP is directed to 'show cause' as to why action should not be initiated against him under the law including disciplinary action under All India Services (Discipline and Appeal), Rules, 1969, the acts of omission and commission.The letter says: “Your reply should be received in this ministry on or before January 8 by 5 pm, failing which it would be presumed that you have nothing to say and disciplinary action as deemed fit would be initiated against you.“It is abundantly clear that the route clearance was given without adequately attending to all security concerns pointed out in the ASL meetings on January 1 and 2. As per the Blue Book and established procedures as Superintendent of Police, Bathinda, you were mandated to make adequate arrangements for the security and logistics for the VVIP's visit and also to make contingency plan for movement of VVIP by road with necessary deployment of security forces. It is manifestly obvious that a contingency plan with attendant security deployment was either not made or not put to effect when so required,” stated the ministry of home affairs letter. “The contingency rehearsal for road journey from AFS Bathinda to Ferozepur was also carried out on January 4. Notwithstanding the ASL report emphasising the need to have a strong police deployment for road journey and contingency rehearsal, adequate security deployment for contingency movement by road was not made and the VVIP's cavalcade was blocked with tractors, trolleys and school buses by a group of protesters about 30 km from National Martyrs Memorial in Hussaniwala,” said the letter.It has been learnt that the Bathinda SSP piloted the motorcade from Bathinda to Ferozepur.The letter by the MHA pointed out, “As provided in Section 14 of the Special Protection Group (SPG), 1988, the state government and every civil authority is legally obligated to provide all assistance to the SPG and, therefore, you as SSP Bathinda were obligated to make adequate security arrangements but available information so far indicates that police at the protest site was found to be inactive, senior police officers present at the site were also found to be ineffective in making efforts to facilitate movement of carcade of the VVIP. Throughout the route only skeletal police deployment was observed.”Bathinda SSP Ajay Maluja and Deputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu did not respond to repeated attempts for their version.Joint Secretary directs admn, police officials to join probeIn another letter issued by the office of secretary (security), Centre, D Sai Amutha Devi, Joint Secretary (Security) has asked senior police and civil administration officials to join the probe.In the letter, the joint secretary has said that Sudhir Kumar Saxena, Secretary (Security), Cabinet Secretariat, along with two members of the probe committee would visit Ferozepur on January 7 to conduct an inquiry.Showcause notice issued to 5 more officialsPTI adds: Meanwhile, showcause notices were served on at least five other senior officers of the Punjab Police who were on duty during the prime minister's visit, an official said in New Delhi on Friday.The identity of the other officers were not disclosed immediately, but sources said they are police officers on the rank of SSP, DIG and above.The Home Ministry, through its showcause notices, has asked the officers as to why action should not be initiated against them under the law including disciplinary proceedings as prescribed in the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal), Rules, 1969, for the acts of omission and commission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pm-security-breach-mha-issues-showcause-notice-to-bathinda-ssp-warns-of-disciplinary%C2%A0action-359062
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab govt submits report on PM's 'security breach' to Centre||The Punjab government has submitted a report to the Centre saying an FIR had been filed in the matter and a two-member panel set up.Chief Secretary Anirudh Tewari has submitted a report to the Centre regarding the security breach that stalled PM Narendra Modi's visit informing that an FIR had been lodged in the incident and the state government had formed a two-member panel to investigate the lapses.Tewari is learnt to have shared details pertaining to the sequence of events that unfolded on Wednesday, official sources said.The Punjab government had on Thursday announced the two-member panel to investigate the lapses. The panel has been asked to submit its report in three days.In a major security lapse, the prime minister's convoy was stranded on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Ferozepur on Wednesday after which he returned from poll-bound Punjab without attending any event, including a rally.The Union Home Ministry had directed the state government to file an immediate report, saying it did not ensure the required deployment, while Union Home Minister Amit Shah had said that such dereliction of the security procedure during the prime minister's visit was totally unacceptable and accountability would be fixed.The incident triggered a major political row with the BJP alleging that the ruling Congress in Punjab "tried to physically harm" the prime minister, while other parties also targeted the state government over the law and order issue. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-submits-report-on-pms-security-breach-to-centre-359046
08-01-2022||Satya Prakash||Supreme Court tells Punjab and Haryana High Court Registrar-General to secure all record on PM's 'security breach'||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 7Amid raging controversy over the security lapse during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Punjab visit, the Supreme Court on Friday ordered the Registrar-General of the Punjab and Haryana High Court to secure and preserve forthwith all records relating to the visit that had to be called off.“We direct the Director-General of Police, Union Territory of Chandigarh and an officer of the National Investigation Agency, not below the rank of Inspector General, to be nominated by the Director-General, National Investigation Agency, to assist the Registrar-General, Punjab and Haryana High Court, to forthwith secure and seize the records from the State police as well as Central agencies,” a Bench led by CJI NV Ramana ordered.It directed the Punjab Government, police authorities, the SPG and other Central and state agencies to give necessary assistance to the Registrar-General “in securing and seizing the records.”While ordering transmission of its order electronically to all concerned, the top court directed the Registrar-General, Punjab and Haryana High Court to keep the records in his safe custody for the time being.The order came on a petition filed by Lawyer’s Voice seeking a thorough probe into the lapse in the Prime Minister’s security during his visit to Punjab. The security breach happened on Wednesday when Modi was on his way to address a BJP rally and his cavalcade had to take a U-turn after some protesters blocked his way. The Prime Minister was reportedly stuck on a flyover for around 20 minutes.The Bench, which also included Justice Surya Kant and Justice Hima Kohli, asked the committees set up by the Centre and Punjab not to go ahead with their respective inquiry for the time being and posted the matter for hearing on Monday. “We are not including this in our order, but ask both the committees to hold their operations till Monday,” the CJI said.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta clarified that the Centre’s committee was not meant to punish any officer from Punjab and that it was only for ascertaining as to why and how the security lapse happened.As Mehta termed it an issue of grave concern that has led to an international embarrassment, Punjab Advocate-General DS Patwalia said certainly there was a lapse and the State didn’t want to join the issue with the Centre or the petitioners.He, however, said both the Centre and the State committees should hold their horses till Monday. “We can proceed according to the directions of this court,” Patwalia said.Agreeing that it was a matter of grave concern, Patwalia said the state took it seriously and immediately set up a committee to look into it.“Mr Modi is our Prime Minister and even though this petition reeks of politics, we are not against it,” The Advocate-General said.Mehta said the records must be secured first and then the top court can decide the future course of action on Monday.Earlier, senior advocate Maninder Singh, representing the petitioners, demanded that the state’s committee should be stayed. Referring to certain statements of Sikh for Justice, he said it could be an issue of cross-border terrorism. Under the Special Protection Group (Amendment) Act, 2019, the Centre, states and other local bodies have to act in aid of the SPG, the unit tasked with PM’s security, he said, adding there was an “impermissible stoppage of the PM’s cavalcade, and this is the highest breach”.When Maninder Singh sought a stay on the functioning of the state’s panel citing some allegations against the panel head, Patwalia said, “If there are allegations against the judge we appointed, I cannot argue one way or another. The IG of SPG, who is a member of the Centre’s committee, was also responsible for this (security lapse) and can’t be a judge in their own case.”Mehta suggested the SPG Inspector General can be replaced with the Union Home Secretary.Terming it an “unacceptable” and “serious lapse” on the part of the Punjab government and the state police, the petitioners have demanded a thorough investigation into it under the supervision of the top court.The petitioners wanted the court to pass orders to fix responsibility of the Punjab Chief Secretary and the state’s DGP and place them under suspension; and direct the Centre to initiate departmental action against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/lapse-in-pm-security-sc-orders-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-registrar-general-to-secure-all-records-forthwith-359044
08-01-2022||Anirudh Gupta||MHA team visits Ferozepur to investigate 'security lapses' during PM's visit||Ferozepur, January 7The MHA team set up by the Centre to investigate into the breach of the prime minister's security and fix up the responsibility for the lapses due to which his cavalcade remained stuck up at the flyover for 20 minutes arrived here on Friday morning and has launched investigation into the entire episode.Also read: Following Supreme Court directions, Punjab panel puts on hold inquiry into PM's 'security breach'PM's 'security breach': MHA issues showcause notice to Bathinda SSP; warns of disciplinary actionPunjab govt submits report on PM's 'security breach' to CentreProtesting farmers had no clue of Modi’s convoy travelling by road from Bathinda to Ferozepur: Samyukt Kisan MorchaPM Narendra Modi who had come to Punjab on Wednesday to attend the BJPs rally and inaugurate several development projects could not reach the venue as he remained stranded on a road overbridge near Piareana village in Ferozepur district on Wednesday, which triggered a nationwide debate over the alleged breach of his security.The team arrived in Ferozepur from Amritsar where they had landed in the wee hours and drove to the BSF sector headquarters where it interacted with the senior civil and police officers who were directly responsible to ensure smooth passage for the Prime Minister and and ensure foolproof security for him.Earlier, the MHA team along with the senior officers went to the flyover where the PM’s cavalcade remained halted for almost 20 minutes and asked a few questions to the officials. The team spent around 40 minutes at the flyover and then went back to the BSF sector headquarters for further investigation.The MHA team is headed by Sudhir Kumar Saxena, Secretary (Security) in the Cabinet Secretariat and includes Intelligence Bureau Joint Director Balbir Singh and SPG IG S Suresh as its members.Meanwhile, Punjab Police have also registered an FIR against unidentified protesters who blocked the Prime Minister’s cavalcade on Wednesday.As per information, the MHA team has summoned several senior police and civil officials, including Punjab DGP Siddharth Chattopadhyay, ADGP Nageshwar Rao besides 13 other officials who were deployed for the PM’s security during his visit to Ferozepur to appear in person before them on Friday.The other officials who have been summoned include ADGP Jitendra Jain, Inspector General of Police (IGP), Patiala, Mukhwinder Singh Chinna, DIG Ferozepur Inderbir Singh, Faridkot DIG Surjeet Singh, Ferozepur DC Davinder Singh, Ferozepur SSP Harmandeep Hans, Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sohal, Kotkapura Duty Magistrate Varinder Singh, Ludhiana Joint Commissioner Ankur Mahendru, Bathinda DC APS Sandhu, Bathinda SSP Ajay Maluja and the Ferozepur VVIP control room in-charge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mha-team-starts-investigation-into-pms-security-breach-in-punjab-359036
