09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab CEO tests positive for Covid-19||Punjab’s Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday.“CEO Punjab Dr. S. Karuna Raju, IAS, asymptomatic tested Covid positive. Under isolation at home taking all precautions as per Covid protocol. Those who came in contact with him in last few days, kindly get tested and take care,” according to a tweet by the office of the Punjab CEO.Raju on Saturday had held a press conference here after the Election Commission announced dates for polling in five states, including Punjab. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-ceo-tests-positive-for-covid-19-359718
09-01-2022||Ravneet Singh||DEO issues notice to Patiala AAP district chief over questionable content in pamphlet||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 9The district electoral officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner, Patiala, Sandeep Hans has issued a notice in the matter of violation of model code of conduct to Patiala district president of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and has sought clarification on statements made in a pamphlet by Monday.Apparently, this is the first notice issued in the state after the model code of conduct was implemented on January 8.The pamphlet in question was circulated in the district on Sunday which carried objectionable statements regarding allegedly accepting bribes from political parties. It is not yet clear about who has issued the pamphlet as it does not carry the name of the publisher, the address of the printing press along with the number of copies of the pamphlet printed.The heading of the letter said, ‘Sariyan partiyan ton paise lao par vote jharu nu deo’ (Accept money from all parties but cast your vote for broom -- election symbol of Aam Aadmi Party). Further, the letter says, “Accept money from these parties and cast your vote for Aam Aadmi Party.”Importantly, the election office had received a complaint on the content of the pamphlet on the cVigil app which was launched by the Election Commission of India to enable citizens to report on violation of election code of conduct.District electoral officer Sandeep Hans said a clarification regarding the pamphlet has been demanded from the concerned by 12 noon Monday.Dr Balbir Singh of the Aam Aadmi Party said, “We have not issued the pamphlet and do not justify it. Apparently, someone has played a trick to defame us.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/deo-issues-notice-to-patiala-aap-district-chief-over-questionable-content-in-pamphlet-359717
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Amarinder’s Punjab Lok Congress appoints 5 VPs, 17 gen secys||Former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday appointed five vice presidents and 17 general secretaries for his newly launched political outfit Punjab Lok Congress.General secretary in-charge (Organisation) Kamal Sain said the order for new appointments at the party posts were issued on Sunday.The five vice-presidents are Amrik Singh Aliwal, Prem Mittal, Farzana Alam, Harjinder Singh Thekedar and Sanjay Inder Singh Bunny Chahal.The general secretaries include Rajwinder Kaur Bhagike, Rajinder Singh Raja, Pushpinder Singh Bhandari and Sarita Sharma.Rohit Kumar Sharma has been appointed Mohali’s district president and advocate Sandeep Gorsi has been appointed as the chairman of PLC’s Legal Cell, he said.Notably, the BJP has stitched an alliance with the Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa-led SAD (Sanyukt) and the Punjab Lok Congress, led by Amarinder Singh, who quit the Congress following his unceremonious exit as the chief minister last year.   The state will vote on February 14 and the counting will take place on March 10. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinders-punjab-lok-congress-appoints-5-vps-17-gen-secys-359713
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu launches digital campaign for Assembly polls||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday launched his party’s digital campaign for the Assembly polls, a day after the Election Commission declared the schedule for it and banned public rallies till January 15 amid a surge in coronavirus cases.Sidhu said his party has already been emphasising on the importance of digitisation and maintaining a virtual interaction with the electorate, and asserted that the Punjab Congress has the highest digital footprint amongst the political parties.“Till January 15, directions are very clear that you will have to campaign digitally, through WhatsApp whatever it is,” Sidhu said, adding that he had addressed 40 to 50 rallies before the poll code came into the being.“We hope that things will change after January 15 and in case, if things go worse, then what cannot be cured has to be endured. We will have to pass through this litmus test. Life has to be given importance,” he said.“In Bengal, we saw big rallies, we were repenting and we were repairing rather than preventing and preparing. I think the Congress Party has taken the first initiative of preparing and with that preparedness we will be preventing,” he said.Asked when his party will announced candidates, Sidhu said this will be done very soon.“We are at it. Even today, the screening committee meeting is going on. We will take our decisions after careful thinking,” he said.On his “Punjab model”, Sidhu said it is not a personal or self-serving model.“It is the model of the people of Punjab. It is a tailor-made solution for the issues prevalent in Punjab which are created after intensive research conducted on the state and its functioning. This model brings the power back in the hands of people of Punjab for their own prosperity and growth,” he said in a statement.“The real stakeholders of the Punjab model are its people and the PPCC is soon going to pave the way for the people of Punjab through a WhatsApp service to provide their inputs for the Punjab model and seek clarifications,” he said.He said the “Punjab model” will not only bring the constitutional powers back to panchayats and urban local bodies, it will also aim at creating a “digital Punjab” where over 150 government services, permits and approvals will be made available to people on their doorstep.He said building a capable and accountable state is the key to reducing poverty.“Political leaders are the prime drivers, setting the objectives for the governance system. Today, Punjab needs a governance reform, which translates public issues into policies with a poverty reduction strategy,” he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-chief-navjot-sidhu-launches-digital-campaign-for-assembly-polls-359712
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Heavy rain lashes several parts of Punjab, Haryana||Heavy rain lashed several parts of Punjab and Haryana, but minimum temperatures hovered above normal limits at many places in the two states.According to the meteorological department’s weather report on Sunday, Chandigarh, Kapurthala, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Ferozepur, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Rupnagar, Mohali, Gurdaspur, Ambala, Hisar, Panchkula, Rohtak, Gurugram, Sirsa and Yamunanagar were among the places that saw rainfall until Sunday morning.There were reports of moderate to heavy rain at many places in the two states during the day on Sunday as well.The night temperatures hovered slightly above normal limits at many places, the MeT department said.In Punjab, Amritsar and Ludhiana recorded a low of 10.2 degrees Celsius each while Patiala’s minimum temperature settled at 10.8 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, was lashed by heavy rain on Sunday. The minimum temperature here early in the day settled at 11.1 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Ambala recorded a low of 11.8 degrees while Rohtak’s minimum temperature was recorded at 12.8 degrees Celsius.Gurugram recorded a low of 12 degrees Celsius while Bhiwani’s low settled at 11.3 degrees Celsius. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heavy-rain-lashes-several-parts-of-punjab-haryana-359680
09-01-2022||---||Punjab polls: AAP names five more candidates||Chandigarh, January 9The Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday released another list of candidates for the February 14 Punjab elections, thus declaring nominees for a total of 109 assembly constituencies.According to a statement by the party, Dinesh Dhall will be the AAP candidate from Jalandhar North, Jagtar Singh from Samrala, Hardeep Singh Mundian from Sahnewal, Amandeep Kaur Arora from Moga and Amit Rattan Kotfatta from Bathinda Rural.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-aap-names-five-more-candidates-359677
09-01-2022||Amritsar (Punjab)||Probe ordered after large number of passengers test Covid positive at Amritsar international airport||A probe has been ordered against a private laboratory after a number of flyers who reached here from Italy recently tested positive for COVID-19 amid allegations by several of them that their test reports were incorrect, health officials said on Sunday.The Airports Authority of India has also replaced the services of the Delhi-based laboratory with a local lab, officials said.The probe had been ordered after several of the passengers who returned from Italy had alleged that their Covid positive report was not correct as they had tested negative hours before boarding the flight. They had raised questions on the testing practice adopted by the lab. Many among them had even created ruckus at the international airport here.Some of the passengers who had arrived here at Shri Guru Ramdas International Airport had subsequently tested negative in a re-test later, officials said.Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr. Amarjit Singh said on Sunday, “A probe has been initiated by the Airports Authority of India against the alleged errant working of the lab. The services of the existing Delhi-based lab has been suspended and new local lab has resumed its working at the airport.”                He said the services of this Delhi-based lab were engaged on December 15, 2021 by the Airports Authority of India.At least 173 passengers on a Rome-Amritsar chartered flight were found to be Covid-positive after being tested on arrival on Friday, officials said.This is the second consecutive incident wherein a large number of passengers coming from Italy to Amritsar airport have tested positive for the coronavirus on arrival.On Thursday, 125 passengers who were travelling from Milan in Italy on another charter flight were found positive after being tested on arrival at the Amritsar airport.According to the rules of the Union Health Ministry, passengers coming from “at risk” countries to India have to compulsorily get tested for COVID-19 on arrival at the airport.All European countries, including Italy, have been deemed as “at risk” countries by the Union Health Ministry. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/probe-ordered-after-large-number-of-passengers-test-covid-positive-at-amritsar-international-airport-359661
09-01-2022||New Delhi||Supreme Court to hear PM’s security breach matter on Monday||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday a plea on the recent “breach” in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security in Punjab.On January, the Prime Minister’s convoy was stranded on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Ferozepur after which he returned from poll-bound Punjab without attending the planned events, including a rally.A three-judge Bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli is likely to take up the plea filed by an organisation, Lawyers Voice.The apex court on Friday had directed the Registrar-General of the Punjab and Haryana High Court to “secure and preserve” the records pertaining to arrangements made for the Prime Minister’s visit to Punjab when there was a “massive security breach”.It had also said the inquiry committees set up separately by the state and central governments will hold their horses and not proceed with their respective inquiries till January 10 when the matter will be taken up again by the court. The bench, however, did not dictate it as part of the order, and had asked the counsels to convey its feelings to the authorities.The Registrar-General of the High Court will be assisted by the Director General of Police, the Union Territory of Chandigarh, and an officer of the National Investigation Agency not below the rank of Inspector General in securing the requisite records from the state government, its police and central agencies, the bench had said.The plea has sought a thorough investigation into the “breach” in Prime Minister Modi’s security in Punjab to ensure there is no such event in the future.It has also sought preservation of evidence on security arrangements, court-monitored probe and action against erring officials of the Punjab government responsible for the alleged lapse. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/supreme-court-to-hear-pms-security-breach-matter-on-monday-359660
09-01-2022||---||Home Guards jawan shot at by robbers in Ropar||Ropar, January 9A home guard jawan was shot at during a scuffle with ATM robbers late Saturday night.The injured was identified as Krishan Lal.According to Ropar SSP Vivek Sheel Soni, a police party was patrolling in Pull Bazar area around 1.30 a.m. when they noticed some suspicious activity in the Axis Bank ATM kiosk. When Krishan Lal went inside the kiosk, he found that two unidentified persons were trying to break open the ATM. When he tried to nab them, one of the accused fired at him, inflicting injury on his arm. The accused later fled the spot.Krishan Lal has been admitted to the PGI, Chandigarh, and is out of danger, SSP Soni said, adding that search for the accused is on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/home-guards-jawan-shot-at-by-robbers-in-ropar-359658
09-01-2022||New York||US State Dept says ‘deeply disturbed’ by attack on Sikh cab driver at JFK airport||The US State Department is “deeply disturbed” by reports of an attack on an Indian-origin Sikh cab driver at the JFK International Airport and condemned any form of hate-based violence, saying perpetrators of hate crimes should be held accountable for their actions, no matter where such crimes occur.The Sikh taxi driver was assaulted by an unidentified man, who knocked off his turban and also used expletives against him outside the JFK International Airport here, according to a video on social media.The undated 26-second video was uploaded by a Twitter user, Navjot Pal Kaur, on the micro-blogging site on January 4, showing a man assaulting the Sikh taxi driver outside the airport. She said the video was shot by a bystander at the airport.State Department’s Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs (SCA), in a tweet on Saturday, said: “We are deeply disturbed by reports of an apparent attack on a Sikh cab driver at J.F.K. airport, captured on video last week. Our diversity makes the U.S. stronger, & we condemn any form of hate-based violence.“We all have a responsibility to hold perpetrators of hate crimes accountable for their actions, no matter where such crimes occur”.The State Department’s reaction came after the Indian Consulate General in New York termed the assault on the Sikh taxi driver as “deeply disturbing” and said it has taken up the matter with US authorities and urged them to investigate the violent incident.“The assault against a Sikh taxi driver in New York is deeply disturbing. We have taken up the matter with US authorities and urged them to investigate this violent incident,” Consulate General of India in New York tweeted on Saturday.In the video posted by Twitter user Kaur, the person can be heard allegedly using expletives against the Sikh individual. He repeatedly hits and punches the Sikh man, knocking his turban off.Kaur tweeted, “This video was taken by a bystander at John F. Kennedy international Airport. I do not own the rights to this video. But I just wanted to highlight the fact that hatred continues to remain in our society and unfortunately I’ve seen Sikh cab drivers get assaulted again and again.” Simran Jeet Singh, author and Director for the Aspen Institute’s Inclusive America Project, tweeted “Another Sikh cab driver assaulted. This one at JFK Airport in NYC. So upsetting to see. But it’s crucial that we don’t look away… What I am sure of is how painful it is to watch our fathers and elders get assaulted while they’re just trying to live an honest life.“For those who aren’t Sikh, I can’t put into words what it means to have your turban knocked off — or to see someone else’s turban knocked off. It’s visceral and gut-wrenching and just so disheartening to witness,” Singh tweeted.The National Sikh Campaign said that “we are only a few days into the new year and there has already been a hate crime committed against a Sikh. A bystander recorded an unidentified man attacking a Sikh taxi driver, ultimately knocking off the driver’s turban.“No additional details have been released outside of the video, but we know this story too well. A Sikh person goes about their daily lives only to be senselessly attacked by someone. Common road rage between people can escalate when someone who is ignorant of who we are takes their disdain for our turbans and becomes violent,” it said.This is not the first time when a Sikh taxi driver has been assaulted in the US.An Indian-origin Sikh Uber driver was in 2019 assaulted and racially abused in the US state of Washington in a suspected hate crime. The driver told the police that he believes his race prompted the attack.In 2017, a 25-year-old Sikh cab driver in New York was assaulted and his turban knocked off by drunk passengers. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/diaspora/us-state-dept-says-deeply-disturbed-by-attack-on-sikh-cab-driver-at-jfk-airport-359614
09-01-2022||Ashok KauraPhagwara||Roof collapse at Phagwara dairy kills two, wounds three||A roof collapse at a dairy caused by heavy rain at Mohalla Piparangi killed two and wounded three people, officials said.Sudarshan Kumar and Man Singh had been sleeping at the dairy when the roof collapsed. Two victims identified as Bahadur and Krishna, both of who were also asleep inside the dairy, were taken to the local civil hospital for treatment. Two buffaloes were killed in the incident. Locals who responded immediately pulled out three more from the wreckage.Local MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal and Anita Som Prakash, wife of Union Minister Som Parkash, visited the accident site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/roof-collapse-at-phagwara-dairy-kills-two-wounds-three-359613
09-01-2022||---||Poll time, Punjab farmers assess might, plight||Parvesh Sharma &Sukhmeet BhasinIt’s for the first time in his lifetime that he has seen politicians taking such a keen interest in the farming sector, says 43-year-old Major Singh from Badrukhan village in Sangrur, one of the Punjab districts that saw participation in large numbers at the protest sites on the Delhi borders, demanding repeal of the three contentious farm laws. “This time, the farmers would decide the future course of Punjab politics,” he is confident.‘Divisive politics on PM visit’Peaceful protest is the democratic right of farmers and the Centre and the BJP are making a hue and cry to cover up the flop show at the Ferozepur rally, says Sukhdev Singh Kokri, state general secretary of BKU-Ugrahan, on the controversy surrounding the Prime Minister’s visit to Punjab on January 5. Farmers’ unions, he claims, had no plan to hold a demonstration to block his movement. “However, even if due to the demonstration he had to stop for 10 minutes, how does it become a security breach? An attempt is being made to build a false narrative of Punjab versus the country.”Rajinder Singh Deep Singhwala, senior vice-president of Kirti Kisan Union, says it is “nothing but an attempt to create an anti-Punjab atmosphere”. It is clear from the videos, he says, that the people around the PM’s vehicle were not farmers but BJP activists with the party flag. “Unfortunately, some Punjab leaders, too, have became party to the BJP’s false propaganda.”Gurbaz Singh, 45, from Longowal is as upbeat. “The agitation was the first of its kind. Apart from awakening farmers across the country, it has compelled political parties and politics to revolve around farming,” he says.‘We have lifted our dharna’Since the Punjab government has started taking action to fulfil our demands, we have lifted our protests in front of DC offices. But we would again start indefinite protests if in future it tries to delay action on demands which have already been accepted — Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, BKU-Ugrahan‘Women equal stakeholders’It was for the first time that women from rural Punjab played a huge role in the success of such an agitation. They shouldered the responsibility on the Delhi borders, back home, and will continue to do so. They are equal stakeholders on issues that concern farmers. — Parmjit Kaur Longowal, Zameen Prapti committee‘Our struggle non-electoral’Our year-long agitation at the Delhi borders has created a new scope for non-electoral struggles. We don’t want to lose that momentum. What will we get by participating in elections, and having one or two MLAs from amongst those who were in the forefront of the protests? — Rajinder Singh Deep Singhwala, Kirti Kisan UnionSukhwinder Singh from Kulara shares the confidence after the success of the year-long agitation, but draws a clear distinction between supporting the movement and those keen to plunge into politics: “There are many politicians whose properties have increased manifold even though they do not work. Our landholdings are shrinking despite our hard work. But politics is a dirty game. No one with a clean image wants to join it. I feel farm unions deciding to contest Assembly elections is neither required, nor feasible.”Malkiat Lakhmirwala, secretary of BKU-Rajewal, is aware of the disapproving stares of many farmers who have returned home after the Delhi protests, but is convinced of his own understanding of the situation. “Political parties,” he says, “have failed to help us. We have decided to contest elections solely for the welfare of farmers; only they can take decisions for the betterment of their fraternity. We are confident that after winning, farmers would be able to devise pro-farmer policies.”Manpreet Singh Namol, spokesman of the Sanyukt Sangharsh Party floated by Haryana BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, is in complete agreement. “After winning, all parties forget farmers. This time, we are determined to have farmers as MLAs to raise our voice in the Punjab Assembly. Farmers can compel the government to fulfil their demands only by joining politics,” he feels.Jagrup Singh Sekhon, a retired proferssor of political science at GNDU, Amritsar, has been meeting farmers during the protest and after their return and senses a perceptible change. They seem to have a clear vision about what needs to be done to save farming, he says.“The movement looks like a prelude to big structural changes in the agricultural sector. In layman terminology, the repeal of the laws was just a trailer, film to abhi baaki hai. Farmers have shown the strength of their political existence through the massive socialisation. The voice of the farmer of today is based on facts; he is better educated, more aware and rational. Farmers are now a big organised group and can impact election results. The growth of the movement has redefined their existence as producers of national wealth,” he says.The political arena, for several farmer leaders, thus, is a natural corollary. Twenty-two farmer organisations which were a part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) that spearheaded the agitation have floated their own outfit, Samyukt Samaj Morcha, announcing that they will contest all the 117 seats in the Punjab Assembly elections, with Balbir Singh Rajewal as the face of the front.Many farmers’ organisations in SKM, however, have decided to stick to their stand that identifying with any party or contesting polls would blunt the struggle. No political leader was allowed to speak from the stage of SKM. “This struggle has created a new scope for non-electoral struggles. We don’t want to lose that. What will we get by participating in elections, and having one or two MLAs?” asks Rajinder Singh Deep Singhwala of Kirti Kisan Union.As a young farmer leader, addressing a gathering at Tikri, asserted, “Had we gone through the electoral route, we would have required 275 MPs in the Lok Sabha and 123 in the Rajya Sabha to repeal the laws. But our movement was spread in just 35-odd Lok Sabha seats. See what wonders people’s power can do!”Many farmers, too, still can’t wrap their head around charting a whole new course given the impact the movement has had. Ajaib Singh, an elderly farmer from Jakhepal village in Sangrur, wants the focus to remain on the gains of the agitation: “Earlier, only Punjab farmers used to take up cudgels. Now, we have a united voice. We have realised our strength. We held our ground, and we were heard. We matter. The realisation is of deep significance.” Why politics then, he questions.Back to basicsA key contribution of the prolonged agitation has been a critical study and decoding of government schemes and assurances ostensibly meant for the farmers’ benefit. Back in villages, the protesting farmers are now anxious for a visible change beyond the rhetoric.“Repeal of laws does not solve any problem at the ground level. We need things to move,” stresses Jaspal Singh from Mansa. “Our entire family actively participated in the protests, but it’s high time the authorities seriously look at the problems of marginal and small farmers,” adds Gurbaksh Singh of Nandgarh village, also in the same district.Gurnam Singh, 60, from Bathinda says the real issues are still to be addressed. “Make guaranteed support price a legal right, extend it to cover a wider range of crops. Forget politics and elections, just do something for us farmers,” says Gursewak Singh of Jhunir in Mansa.“You think we don’t care about the ecological consequences of growing paddy, but when procurement is assured for only a few crops, the choices are very limited. Give us minimum support price, we will grow pulses, other crops. The problems of the dwindling underground water, soil health and stubble burning will all be addressed. Why is it so difficult?” asks an agitated Gurpreet Singh.“Who wants to be labelled as a defaulter?” says Jaswinder Singh from Maidewal in Sangrur. “But we do not have any option. The input costs have increased, our children are without jobs even after completing the mandatory education. Majority of farmers I know want to repay the debt, but they should at least have the sources of income to repay.” The exodus of youngsters to other countries, he adds, is not some fad. “There are no jobs, and the farms cannot support the children. It’s a huge challenge for farmers. Provide jobs, make farming lucrative and they will stay, and toil.”The agitation saw farmers of all groups participate in equal numbers, but Harbhajan Singh from Chhajli in Sangrur points to the harsh reality: “The youth see no future in farming and their one and only plan is to go abroad. Look at our plight, indebted and children leaving.”Bikkar Singh, both of whose sons have gone to Canada on a study visa, had to borrow money to send them, apart from the farm loan. “We can derive satisfaction that we compelled the Centre to repeal the laws, but there is no denying that the future of farming is bleak. My wife wants to sell land to repay the debt, but how can I sell the fields bought by my father and grandfather with their hard work? It is plain injustice,” he says. “Politics is a big no, but I am all for continuing our struggle for a better deal,” he adds.“We sat at the Delhi borders for a year, and now we are sitting outside the Deputy Commissioner offices of Punjab. Our demands are not new, our resolve is. We are not asking for alms, just our rights. We are acutely aware that nothing would come our way without an agitation. If that is what is required, we will sit peacefully. Let the government test our patience,” says Niranjan Singh, a farmer from Phalera village.Singh incidentally had completed his industrial training diploma in 1992, but took to farming after failing to get a job, a switch his father was keen on, considering the hard life he could foresee in the farming sector.Chandigarh-based Institute for Development and Communication Director Pramod Kumar feels the signals make it apparent that the farmers will carry on with their agitation till they are able to have the Centre look into the several issues plaguing the farming sector, and that would require an honest interface. Now, with a section of farmers deciding to join the political bandwagon, he says, “they will be concentrating more on the supply side: the supply of promises”. That’s easier said than done, proven time and again by the political parties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/poll-time-farmers-assess-might-plight-359584
09-01-2022||Muktsar||Punjab assembly polls: Dera Bassi tops with  2.81L voters||The Dera Bassi constituency tops the state in terms of the total number of voters, male voters, female voters and third gender voters.Perusal of the final electoral rolls available at the official website of Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Punjab, suggests the constituency has the highest number of voters (2,81,864) in the state, while Bholath is at the bottom (1,35,245).Further, Dera Bassi has the highest number male voters (1,47,998), while Bholath has the least (68,735) in the state.Dera Bassi also tops with 1,33,840 female voters, while Bholath sits at the bottom with 66,509 voters. Similarly, Dera Bassi has the highest number of third-gender voters (26), while Ghanaur, Raikot, Majitha, Sri Hargobindpur and Bhoa don’t have a single voter in the category. The state has a total 2,12,75,066 voters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dera-bassi-tops-with-2-81l-voters-359491
09-01-2022||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab assembly polls: Yet to name candidates, Congress puts up joint front||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 8It will be a double challenge for the Punjab Congress as the state goes to the polls on February 14. Facing a four-way contest, the Congress is yet to resolve the differences between CM Charanjit Channi and PCC chief Navjot Sidhu.Trio’s posters outWithin minutes of the model code of conduct coming into force, the Punjab Congress digital platforms posted joint posters of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and campaign panel chief Sunil Jakhar.Also, the party is yet to announce its candidates. The meeting of central election committee to finalise the first list of candidates, that was scheduled today, has been postponed, as chairman Ajay Maken is reported to have tested positive for Covid-19. The party leaders have a consensus on nearly 90 candidates, whereas it has made up its mind to replace 15 to 20 sitting MLAs.So far, the party has been reluctant to announce the CM face and has been maintaining the line of going into the elections collectively under Channi, Sidhu and former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar, said party leader Randeep Surjewala on Saturday.A senior party leader said riding on the “anti-Punjabiat” narrative against the BJP, the party hopes to cash in on the achievements of the Channi-led government, apart from the Dalit factor to counter opponents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/yet-to-name-candidates-cong-puts-up-joint-front-359492
09-01-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab assemby polls: AAP bets big on sops, development agenda||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 8Aam Aadmi Party’s dwindling vote share since 2014 and desertions in the past five years notwithstanding, the party seems buoyant to take on political opponents.Will aim for growthWe will be seeking people’s mandate on development agenda and assure them that we will once again take Punjab on a growth trajectory. — Bhagwant Mann, AAPThis time, just like in the run-up to the 2017 polls, some poll pundits and pre-poll surveys have given the party a slight edge.While the party has learnt from its mistakes in 2017 when it overplayed the radical card and is banking on “sop agenda” this time, considering the deteriorating fiscal health of Punjab, it seems unviable. The party has also not announced its CM face. The party was also banking on an alliance with the Samyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) — the political outfit of farmer unions — which now looks unlikely.One thing that goes in the party’s favour is the voters’ sentiment looking for a change. Also, the AAP has been quick to announce a majority of candidates — 104 (of 117) have been fielded.Though state unit chief Bhagwant Mann, who is seeking mandate on development agenda, is emerging as the front-runner for the party’s CM face, the leadership may take the final call in the coming weeks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-bets-big-on-sops-development-agenda-359493
09-01-2022||Jupinderjit Singh||Punjab assembly polls:  Akalis start early; carry drug, sacrilege 'burden'||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 8With one of its senior leaders embroiled in a drug smuggling case and facing farmers’ protests besides the “baggage” of sacrilege cases, the Shiromani Akali Dal and its alliance partner Bahujan Samaj Party have led over others in starting the election campaign.Toured 100 seatsStarting quite early, Akali Dal candidates have toured their constituencies already. The leadership has covered 100 seats. — Daljeet Singh Cheema, SpokespersonThe SAD and BSP stitched their alliance, sharing 97 and 20 seats, respectively, on June 13, almost six months before the election code of conduct came into force. Beginning September last year, the SAD have announced 93 candidates, while the BSP has named 18.The SAD started early hoping to storm back into power. However, the party faced protests at several places by farmer organisations, who accused them of supporting the BJP’s farm laws initially. The party also faced questions surrounding the drug and sand mafias, besides the alleged mishandling of the sacrilege incidents that took place during its tenure.The Akalis hope their base in the rural constituencies, especially the Taksali Akali vote, coupled with the Dalit vote owing to the alliance with the BSP will see them through.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-start-early-carry-drug-sacrilege-burden-359494
09-01-2022||Vishav Bharti||Post farmers' stir, BJP focuses on urban seats||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 8Despite repealing the three farm laws, the BJP, which is leading an alliance with the SAD (Sanyukt) and Punjab Lok Congress, continues to face resistance in the rural areas. The party, using the RSS’ organisational muscle, is now focussing on Hindu-majority urban seats and rural pockets.Getting supportThere are people who may not like BJP, but they certainly like Modi. We are getting calls from people who have vowed to rally behind us. — Subhash Sharma, BJP State Gen SecyFor almost 15 months, the BJP leaders faced hostility from farmers’ unions as its leaders were prevented from carrying out party activities.The hostility in villages seems to be still present as was visible during PM Narendra Modi’s visit to Ferozepur on January 5. It has come as a setback for the party’s electoral prospects at a time when it is looking to create a momentum by bringing leaders from other parties into the BJP fold. However, BJP leaders feel the stalling of PM’s cavalcade will help them electorally. The party seems to have understood its priorities well as it has been mainly focusing on seats where Hindus have a sizeable population.The RSS also seems to have mobilised its cadre on the ground. Daily reports are being sought on 12 points from the sangh workers. The party may leave a large portion of rural seats to its allies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-farmers-stir-bjp-focuses-on-urban-seats-359495
09-01-2022||Avneet Kaur||Waterlogging a major concern in Jalandhar North||While the incumbent MLA claims to have carried out a number of development works in the constituency, residents are unhappy with the law and order situation and the problem of waterlogging in some areas.Past trendAvtar Henry, father of incumbent MLA Bawa Henry, had won the seat thrice, i.e. in 1992, 1997 and 2002. In 2007 and 2012, BJP’s KD Bhandari defeated Avtar Henry by 4,900 and 1,703 votes, respectively. In 2017, Bawa defeated Bhandari by 32,291 votes.Electorate strengthTotal voters - 1,84,337Male - 97,011Female - 87,325Third gender - 1Locals’ key demandsThe residents claim the crime rate in the constituency over the past four-and-a-half years has deteriorated, with as many as six murders and a firing incident outside the MLA’s office being reported in the past six-seven months alone.While the constituency boasts of having Industrial Focal Point, Focal Point Extension and Transport Nagar, industrialists are worried over rising incidents of snatching and looting.Ajay Sharma, an industrialist, says, “Incidents of snatching are commonplace here at the beginning of each month when workers get wages. Even women have been victims of snatching in the area and have suffered injuries.”“Gambling and consumption of drugs and liquor near Doaba Chowk are rampant but no action is taken,” claims Karanveer Singh, a resident of Preet Nagar.Alleging waterlogging in low-lying areas, specifically on the old Railway road (Ikehri Pulli), residents say the entire stretch remains inundated with keen-deep water after a brief spell of rain. Besides, damaged roads, waste management, traffic and encroachment remain a perennial problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/waterlogging-a-major-concern-359496
09-01-2022||Raj Sadosh||Need efforts to protect blackbuck||Efforts to protect various species in the open wildlife sanctuary spread over an area of about 18,650 hectares in the constituency have remained on paper only. The sanctuary comprises farmlands of 13 Bishnoi villages. Herds of blackbucks, the indigenous antelope, with its distinctive twisted horns, can be found wandering through the villages. The sanctuary is also considered home to blue bulls.Past trendThe Congress registered victories in 1977, 1980, 1985, 1992, 2002 and 2017. On the other hand, SAD candidates won in 1997, 2007 and 2012. In the last elections in 2017, Congress’ Nathu Ram Bishnoi emerged winner.Electorate strengthTotal voters - 1,79,449Male - 96,688Female - 82,759Third gender - 2Locals’ key demandsIn 2019, eight blackbucks reportedly died after being entangled in barbed wires while the animals were running away from stray dogs. Other unnatural reasons for deaths of blackbucks include road accidents and due to fall into water storage tanks and concrete drains.The local administration keeps on banning sale and use of barbed wire around fields, but to no avail. The injured animals were treated at gaushalas in Sukhchain and Daulatpura village.Political heavyweights’ attitude towards the protected species can be gauged from the report that the statue of Indira Gandhi Paryavaran Award winner Bishnoi Sabha national president Sant Kumar Bishnoi has been vandalised three times but none of the miscreants was held. Former minister Maneka Gandhi, who had unveiled the statue here, has offered to raise a state-of-the-art veterinary hospital in the sanctuary area but the state govt has not so far provided land for the same.Much sought re-construction of sub-canals to make water available at the tail-end villages has recently been taken up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/need-efforts-to-protect-blackbuck-359497
09-01-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Campaign curbs force parties to change tack||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 8With the Election Commission announcing curbs on rallies by political parties till January 15, candidates say they will have to change their campaign plans to abide by the new Covid protocol.Challenge in villagesPublic outreach in villages will be difficult especially through the social media. — Pargat Singh, Education ministerLeaders of various parties say they have started cancelling rallies in villages and city localities lined up for the week. “We do not expect the restrictions to ease after January 15 as Covid cases are already seeing a daily surge. The restrictions may stay and we might not be able to invite senior party leaders for rallies. We will explore online options to reach out to voters. Till then, I have decided to set up 12 teams of five persons each for the door-to-door campaign,” says Jagbir Brar, ex-MLA and SAD candidate from Jalandhar Cantonment.Education Minister Pargat Singh says he needs to sit with his team and study the detailed guidelines to chalk out the strategy. “Public outreach in villages will be difficult especially through the social media. As of today, I remained busy getting protesting teachers’ evicted from outside my residence. I have given them the assurance of taking their matter to a logical conclusion.”Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh says campaigning under the new norms will be interesting this time.“The Election Commission has taken the decision in view of the Covid surge. We will have to do away with the traditional modes of campaign. I have always preferred going from door and to door as it has a personal touch. I had not organised any rally even in 2017. There were nukkad meetings in the evenings then, but we will skip those this time. Phone calls will come in handy after 8 pm owing to the ‘poll curfew’.”BJP leaders say they will use the social media to reach out to the masses.“Since there will perhaps be no rallies till the end of the campaigning, we will try to go live on the Facebook, etc. on a regular basis to share our works, our promises and expose rivals,” says KD Bhandari, former Jalandhar North MLA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/campaign-curbs-force-parties-to-change-tack-359498
09-01-2022||Vishav Bharti||False alarm: Now, 297 flyers from Italy test negative||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 8A probe has found that the 297 flyers from Italy who were tested on arrival were “false positive” as they were tested with defective kits at Amritsar on arrival.Retesting orderedThe Government of India wishes to determine the positivity status of the 297 passengers, who are now in various districts. After their retesting, their flight-wise status report is to be compiled and sent to the department. — Dr GB Singh, Director Health Services\Three of CM’s kin +veNow, the Health Department has started retesting the “infected” passengers.According to sources, the fact came to the fore after the Health Department’s examination found testing kits to be defective on Friday. The testing at the Amritsar airport was being done by a laboratory functioning under the supervision of the airport authority.Following this, Director Health Services Dr GB Singh sent a note to all districts regarding false reporting of the cases.In a communication, all Deputy Commissioners, in whose districts the “infected” passengers were sent from Amritsar for home isolation and quarantine, were asked to note that the rapid testing kits at the Amritsar airport were defective.“The Government of India now wishes to determine the positivity status of these passengers, who are now in various districts. So, their retesting and status report is to be compiled, flight-wise, and sent to the department,” the order said.Apart from this, the Amritsar Deputy Commissioner has been asked to coordinate with all Deputy Commissioners concerned.“A report is to be sent to the Government of India as soon as possible. Please try to get it done so that a final report can be sent tomorrow,” the communication said.Dr Singh said after the department’s report found that the testing kits were defective, the airport authority had changed the lab as well.Significantly, when the passengers arrived at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, Raja Sansi, from Italy, they tested positive. The infected passengers were asked to quarantine in a local hospital according to the guidelines of the government.However, they refused to go to the government isolation centres and claimed that they had already undergone the RT-PCR test before boarding the flight.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/false-alarm-now-297-flyers-from-italy-test-negative-359500
09-01-2022||Manmeet Singh Gill||Probe ordered against lab that conducted Covid tests at Amritsar airport||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 8After a large number of flyers from Italy tested “false positive” for Covid-19 in the past two days, the Health Department has initiated a probe against the private lab conducting the tests at the international airport here.The airport authority has also replaced the Delhi-based testing agency with a local lab. The decision was taken after many of the passengers tested negative in the retest conducted by the Health Department.A total of 125 passengers on a flight from Italy had tested positive for Covid-19 on January 6. Again on January 7, 172 of the total 285 passengers on a flight from Italy had tested positive.The probe was initiated after a large number of returnees had alleged malpractices on part of the lab. The passengers had even created ruckus at the airport.With a large number of passengers testing positive, a few of them had raised objections and demanded that a retest should be done.Health officials said many of the passengers, who had tested positive initially, tested negative in the retest conducted a few hours later. Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh confirmed the agency conducting the tests of the passengers on arrival at the airport had been changed. He said an investigation was also being conducted into the functioning of the agency engaged by the airport authority earlier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/probe-ordered-against-lab-359501
09-01-2022||Bathinda||Farmers upbeat after rain, expect high yield||The short spell of rain over the past four days, coupled with dip in temperature, would be beneficial for wheat and other crops in the Malwa region, said experts.Suspend cotton purchaseCotton purchase was suspended at the new grain market in Abohar on Saturday as traders reportedly turned down farmers’ demand to pay Rs1,000 per quintal more than the prevailing price (Rs 9,500).Farmers, especially wheat growers in the region, are upbeat after the recent spell of mild to moderate showers that lashed Bathinda and Mansa. The experts said if the shower lasted long, it could affect the yield. As per the Meteorology Department, the minimum temperature recorded in Bathinda was 11.8 °C and the maximum was 16.4 °C. The district experienced 20.4-mm rain on Saturday till 8 am.Guradita Brar, an agricultural expert, said, “There could not have been a better time for rain than now, as the wheat crop is in vegetative growth stage. This rain is quite conducive to plant's growth and it will also strengthen its parts later, resulting in good yield.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-upbeat-after-rain-expect-high-yield-359503
09-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||Sanction dependent pension to freedom fighter's widow, rules HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 8Coming to the rescue of a freedom fighter’s widow, the Punjab and Haryana HC has rapped the Union of India for inaction before making it clear that the authorities concerned were required to do the needful for sanctioning forthwith dependent freedom fighter pension to her under the Swatantrata Sainik Samman Pension Scheme.Justice Raj Mohan Singh also held the petitioner entitled to arrears of pension from November 3, 2017, along with 9 per cent per annum interest. The matter was brought to the HC’s notice after a petition was filed against the Union of India and another respondent by Vidya Devi through counsel Jyoti Sareen.She was seeking directions for the respondents to grant dependent family pension under the scheme from November 3, 2017, when her husband died. The Bench was told that her husband Ram Saroop, a freedom fighter, was drawing freedom fighter pension under the scheme. He was also drawing state freedom fighter pension from Punjab, which had already sanctioned dependent’s freedom fighters pension to the petitioner.Justice Raj Mohan Singh said it was apparent that the application for dependent freedom fighter pension was submitted in 2018. Till date the needful had not been done. He observed the competent authority time and again raised objections, which according to the petitioner’s counsel, were unfounded as she was already drawing state freedom fighter pension from Punjab. Justice Raj Mohan Singh said the respondents had taken a “very hyper-technical view in the context of required documents”. Grant of pension by the state was a relevant factor to be considered for accepting the genuineness of certificates acted upon. The respondents could have resorted to the guidelines for disbursement of central Samman Pension to be followed by authorised public sector banks to complete the missing gaps while awarding the requisite pension to the petitioner. Despite more than three years, the needful had not been done till date.“The proceedings undertaken are suggestive of the fact that respondents have not responded to a genuine cause of the petitioner despite availability of remedy in terms of the guidelines,” Justice Raj Mohan Singh observed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sanction-dependent-pension-to-freedom-fighters-widow-rules-hc-359504
09-01-2022||Karam Prakash||Fateh kits still bear Capt's photo||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 8The Health Department is still distributing Fateh kits, bearing the photo of former CM Amarinder Singh, to Covid patients being isolated at their homes.The department seems unmindful of the fact that the former CM has already left the Congress and floated his own party. Various Congress leaders have sought a strict action against officials for the lapse. Thousands of kits have already been distributed across the state while many have been kept in the stores for distribution in coming days. The department, during the first wave, had launched the “Corona Fateh Kits” that included medicines and other medical items for the home isolated patients.Dr GB Singh, Director, Health Department, said, “We will remove the image of the former CM from the kits. The decision was taken as soon as the matter came to our notice.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fateh-kits-still-bear-capts-photo-359505
09-01-2022||---||Bhawra new DGP, Ferozepur SSP shifted||Chandigarh, January 8The Punjab Government today appointed 1987-batch IPS officer Viresh Kumar Bhawra as the state DGP just an hour before the model code of conduct came into force.The government also shifted Ferozepur SSP Harmandeep Singh Hans and posted Narindera Bhargava in his place. Ferozepur is at the centre of controversy over lapses in PM Narendra Modi’s security earlier this week.Bhawra has been appointed for a two-year tenure after the state had two officiating DGPs, Siddharth Chattopadhyaya and Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, in the last three months.After assuming the charge, Bhawra said his priority would be to conduct free and fair elections in the state. He said his focus would be on eradicating drug menace. He said people-centric policing and public service delivery were among his priorities.A recipient of distinguished service medals, Bhawra conceptualised the creation of the Bureau of Investigation and was posted as its first director. In separate orders, the government transferred seven IPS officers and two PPS officers. Apart from shifting Ferozepur SSP, the government posted Dr Nanak Singh as SSP, Gurdaspur, and Alka Meena SSP, Barnala.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has announced the return of truck unions. He announced it hours before the poll code came into force.The unions, considered ‘against’ industry’s interests, were banned by Captain Amarinder Singh in 2017.The Chief Minister couldn’t get regularisation of 36,000 employees cleared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhawra-new-dgp-ferozepur-ssp-shifted-359455
09-01-2022||---||Punjab assembly polls: 50 central force companies on way||Chandigarh, January 8With the election set to take place under the watch of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF), Punjab Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju said of the 75 companies allotted to Punjab, 50 would reach the state on Monday. After the arrival, the companies will start area domination operations.After the enforcement of the model code of conduct, Raju held a meeting with DCs-cum-DEOs and CPs/SSPs and issued directions to ensure its compliance in letter and spirit. Raju has also brought all Election Commission’s guidelines to the notice of the Chief Secretary and other senior officials. He said an app, cVIGIL, had been launched and the complaints registered on it would be redressed within 100 minutes.On another app, Suvidha, candidates can apply for various permissions, like for rallies etc. This will also be dealt with quickly. Highlighting that static surveillance teams and flying squads have been made operational all across the state to check violations of the model code of conduct, he said adequate security forces would be deployed for free and fair elections.He said keeping in view the emerging challenges due to the pandemic, all stakeholders had been requested to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. Requesting political parties to strictly follow mandatory Covid guidelines, he encouraged them to opt for virtual campaign.The CEO said as per the EC’s directions, no rallies would be held till January 15. He said there would be zero tolerance for any violation and action under the Disaster Management Act would be taken against anyone found violating Covid norms.ON ELECTORAL ROLLMale 1,11,87,857Female 1,00,86,514Third gender 695NRIs 1,601Service Electors 1,10,163Persons With Disability 1,44,667Total 2,12,75,066Agewise break-upAbove 80: 5,13,22918-19: 2,78,969Polling stationsRural 16,962Urban 7,727Total 24,689Poll scheduleJanuary 21: Issue of the notificationJanuary 28: Last date of filing nominationsJanuary 29: Scrutiny of nominationsJanuary 31: Last date for withdrawal of candidatureFebruary 14: Polling dateMarch 10: Counting of votesLEADER SPEAKWe support Covid normsWe welcome the poll panel’s instructions. As the spread of Covid-19 is a matter of concern, we will strictly abide by the rules.... It is for the party to decide the CM face. The party listens to the voice of the people — Charanjit Singh Channi, CMMafia rule to end soonThe days of mafia rule will soon be over and CM Channi, along with PCC chief Sidhu, will be routed. Punjab has suffered due to misguided policies and rampant corruption by the Cong government. — Ashwani Sharma, state BJP chiefWill form next governmentThe party and its workers are completely ready for the upcoming polls.... The party will achieve success, especially in Punjab, where surveys are showing that the AAP will form the government. — Raghav Chadha, punjab affairs co-incharge, AAP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/50-central-force-companies-on-way-359454
09-01-2022||---||Punjab polls on Feb 14; virtual rallies till Jan 15||New Delhi, January 8Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa will go to the polls in seven phases from February 10 to March 7. The votes will be counted on March 10.Announcing the dates today, the Election Commission said roadshows, physical rallies and corner meetings were barred till January 15. Only virtual campaigning was allowed. As many as 690 Assembly seats are up for grabs with the BJP in the race to defend its governments in four states except Punjab. The ruling Congress aims to beat anti-incumbency in Punjab while the AAP and the TMC seek to expand their footprint beyond New Delhi and West Bengal.Guidelines for campaigningPunjab, Goa and Uttarakhand will witness a single-phase election on February 14, UP will vote in seven phases on February 10, 14, 20, 23, 27, March 3 and March 7 and Manipur in two phases on February 27 and March 3. The total voters, as per electoral rolls of these states, are 18,34,23,364. The battlelines were drawn today the moment Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra announced the poll schedule, banning rallies, roadshows and corner meetings until January 15 in the wake of a surging Covid pandemic. The model code of conduct has come into effect immediately.On union budgetWouldn’t want to interfere in Union Budget. It will not disturb level playing field for parties during the elections.Social media postsStrict watch on social media posts is being kept to ensure that the election atmosphere is not vitiated.— Sushil Chandra, chief election commissioner The upcoming election cycle will be unprecedented in that physical outreach to voters has been banned for the first time in the history of independent India. Only door-to-door campaigns will be allowed with a maximum of five persons, including the candidate.The EC said it would review the pandemic situation after January 15 to decide on the rally ban, but till then all parties would have to follow its 16-point Covid guidelines. Non-compliance will invite action, including cancellation of permission for subsequent rallies and events of political parties and candidates.The upcoming elections are key to BJP’s fortunes considering the party along with allies holds 440 of the 690 seats going into polls, which is 64 percent (two third) of all seats. The Congress holds 114 seats and faces an uphill task of defending Punjab, one of the only three states (others being Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh) where it is in power on its own.In UP, the BJP and allies have a massive task at hand of saving a historic mandate it got in 2017 by winning 325 of the Assembly’s 403 seats. Defending this score would be significant for the BJP’s 2024 Lok Sabha prospects and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s return to power.According to the UP poll schedule, 58 constituencies in western UP will poll in the first phase on February 10 like in 2017. The eastern UP from where CM Yogi Adityanath hails will vote in the later phases. The impact of the farmers’ agitation against agricultural laws that stand repealed has been the highest in west UP, which the BJP had swept in 2017.In Punjab, AAP is building up as a major rival to the ruling Congress, which has 80 MLAs in the 117-member Assembly. The BJP and Capt Amarinder Singh combine and the SAD-BSP coalition are queering the pitch in a multi-cornered contest where the impact of farmers’ movement remains pervasive.In Uttarakhand (70 seats), the Congress with 11 MLAs is directly challenging the ruling BJP (with 57 MLAs). AAP is the third player here. In Manipur (60 seats) and Goa (40) where the Congress had emerged the single-largest party in 2017 only to squander its mandate to defections, the ruling BJP will defend its turf.The notification for elections in Punjab, Goa and Uttarakhand will be issued on January 21. The last date for filing nominations is January 28. After scrutiny of nominations on January 29, the last date for withdrawal of candidature is January 31.The CEC said all arrangements were in place to make the polls Covid safe with the maximum number of electors per polling station reduced from 1,500 to 1,250 and all people on election duties mandated to be fully vaccinated. “We have also doubled the allocated time to all recognised parties for publicity of election matters,” Sushil Chandra said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-on-feb-14-virtual-rallies-till-jan-15-359453
09-01-2022||---||Ferozepur SSP among 7 IPS and 2 PPS officers transferred in Punjab||Chandigarh, January 8The Punjab government on Saturday transferred seven IPS officers and two PPS officers.Ferozepur SSP Harmandeep Singh Hans is among those transferred.The Ferozepur police is in the eye of a controversy over the alleged security breach of Prime Minister Narendra Modi two days ago.Narendra Bhargava has been posted as Ferozepur SSP.In other postings, the Punjab government withdrew additional charge from zonal commissioners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepur-ssp-among-7-ips-and-2-pps-officers-transferred-in-punjab-359397
09-01-2022||---||VK Bhawra appointed new Punjab director general of police||Chandigarh, January 8VK Bhawra has been appointed the new Punjab DGP.CM Charanjit Channi has approved his appointment.The Punjab government selected the 1987 batch IPS officer out of a panel of three officers shortlisted by the Union Public Service Commission.The other two officers in the panel were Dinkar Gupta and Prabodh Kumar. The Punjab government order says, “On the consideration of the panel received from Union Public Service Commission, the Governor of Punjab is pleased to appoint Viresh Kumar Bhawra, IPS, as Director General of Police, Punjab (Head of Police Force). His term shall be for a minimum period of two years from the date of assumption of office in pursuance of the orders of the Supreme Court dated July 3, 2018.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vk-bhawra-to-be-new-punjab-dgp-359387
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Charanjit Channi's wife, son, daughter-in-law test Covid positive||Three family members of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi have tested positive for Covid, a senior health official said on Saturday.However, the chief minister has tested negative for the infection.Mohali Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said Channi's wife Kamaljit Kaur, their son Navjit Singh and daughter-in-law Simrandheer Kaur had tested positive for coronavirus.They all had mild symptoms and were in home-isolation, she said.Later on Saturday, Rana Gurjit Singh, a minister in Channi's cabinet, also tested positive. ---PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-charanjit-channis-wife-son-daughter-in-law-turn-covid-positive-359375
09-01-2022||New Delhi||Election Commission announces 7-phase elections from February 10; Punjab votes on February 14||The seven-phase elections to five states—Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand and Manipur—will be held from February 10 to March 7. Votes will be counted on March 10.EC bans public rallies, roadshows till January 15As many as 690 seats are up for grabs in the elections with BJP to defend its governments in UP, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa, and the ruling Congress facing a tough challenge from AAP in Punjab. (See the complete schedule and photos of various phases in the images given below)Announcing the poll schedules on Saturday, Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra said Uttar Pradesh (403 assembly seats) will witness seven-phase polling (February 10, 14, 20, 23, 27, March 3 and March 7).Punjab (117 seats), Goa (40 seats), and Uttarakhand (70 seats) will vote in a single phase on February 14 and Manipur (60 seats) in two phases on February 27 and March 3.Get ready to voteUP to vote in all seven phases The notification for elections in three states —Punjab, Goa and Uttarakhand—will be issued on January 21. The last date for filing nominations will be January 28. After scrutiny of nominations on January 29, the last date for withdrawal of candidature in Punjab, Goa, and Uttarakhand is January 31.Phase 1 of UP poll will be notified on January 14, last date for filing nominations of January 21, scrutiny on January 24 and last date for withdrawal will be January 27; phase 2 (filing of nomination on Jan 28, withdrawal January 31); phase 3 (last date for filing nomination February 1, withdrawal February 4), phase 4 (last date of nominations on February 3, withdrawal on February 7), firth phase (last date of nominations February 8, withdrawal February 11), sixth phase (last date of filing nominations February 11, last date February 16), seventh phase (last date of nominations February 17, withdrawal on February 21).UP elections will start from west Uttar Pradesh and go towards the east.Manipur first phase notification will be issued on February 1, last date for filing nominations is February 8, last date for withdrawal of candidature is February 11. Corresponding dates for Manipur second phase poll are—February 4, February 11, and February 16.The CEC said no roadshow, cycle, or bike rallies nor any physical rallies by parties and individuals can be held till January 15 after which the Covid protocol will be reviewed depending on the infection load.India saw over 1.14 lakh new Covid cases—the highest in seven months—on Saturday.CEC Sushil Chandra said there will be an absolute moratorium on physical rallies and road show till January 15. He said victory processions will not be allowed and only two people will be allowed to collect victory certificates.Door-to-door campaigns will be allowed with only five people.Maximum limit of people in rallies will be as per State Disaster Management Authority rules.The EC has increased the expenditure limits for candidates to Rs 40 lakh.HIGHLIGHTS —Seven phases of elections—Covid protocol and safety made priority, says EC —Door-to-door campaigns limited to 5 people —No victory processions to be allowed  —No physical rallies, roadshows padyatra, cycle rallies or sabhas to be allowed till January 15. No physical rallies till January 15. —Polling booths to be fully sanitised—All election officials and polling staff to be treated as frontline workers, to be double vaxxed, and eligible to be given "precautionary" doses. —Code of Conduct comes into immediately—Postal ballot services for Covid+ patients—Parties need to make public any criminal charges their candidate is facing. This information must be made public and the political parties need to explain why they chose such candidates —Online nomination option available — Polling stations to follow Covid protocol. Polling stations increased by 16 per cent to   2,15,368 to reduce the number of voters per polling station—24.4 lakh new voters in five states||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/ec-to-announce-election-schedule-for-5-states-later-today-359368
