10-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||Covid-19: Punjab and Haryana HC adopts odd-even formula for hearing cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 10Adopting odd-even formula for hearing cases, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday scaled down its functioning to almost half following the outbreak of the Covid third wave.An order issued this evening made it clear that three Division Benches would function daily.The Benches headed by Justice Augustine George Masih, Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao would function on “odd” dates such as first, third and fifth.The Benches headed by Justice Ajay Tewari, Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice G.S. Sandhawalia would function on even dates such as second, fourth and sixth.The first Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli would hold Court every Monday, Thursday or any other day.The order also made it clear that five Single Benches would hear civil matters and writ petitions, and 13 Benches would take up criminal matters during the odd dates. On even dates, four Single Benches would hear civil matters and writ petitions, and 13 Benches would take up criminal matters  The order was passed “keeping in view the upsurge of Covid-19 cases in the States of Punjab, Haryana and Union Territory Chandigarh, the government advisories and with a view to ensure the safety of the Judges, advocates, staff and litigants”.It followed recommendations by a special committee in consultation with the Additional Solicitor-General of India, Advocates-General of Punjab and Haryana, UT senior standing counsel and public prosecutor, and the president of the Senior Advocates Bar Association, along with president and secretary of the High Court Bar Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-punjab-and-haryana-hc-adopts-odd-even-formula-for-hearing-cases-360020
10-01-2022||New Delhi||Heartening to see judiciary rescue a vilified man: Naresh Gujral on Majithia order||Shiromani Akali Dal leader and Rajya Sabha member Naresh Gujral on Monday said it was heartening to see that once again the judiciary had come to the rescue of "an unjustly vilified citizen against whom a fabricated case was made out by a weak police chief in order to please his political masters." Reacting to the Punjab and Haryana High Court orders staying the arrest of Bikram Singh Majithia, Gujral said: "While it is a slap on the face of the Punjab Chief Minister and Navjot Singh Sidhu, it should serve as a lesson to all politicians in the country, who misuse their political power to harass innocent people. Bikram Singh Majithia and his family went through a harrowing time, but today’s order will certainly redeem his standing in public life. I once again applaud and congratulate our strong and independent judicial system".||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heartening-to-see-judiciary%C2%A0rescue-a-vilified-man-naresh-gujral-on-majithia-order-360014
10-01-2022||Tribune Web Desk||Capt Amarinder's Punjab Lok Congress gets 'Hockey Stick and Ball' as poll symbol||Chandigarh, January 10The Election Commission of India has allotted ‘Hockey Stick and Ball’ as election symbol to Punjab Lok Congress, led by former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, ahead of the Punjab Assembly elections.“Happy to inform that Punjab Lok Congress has received its Party Symbol - Hockey Stick and Ball,” Punjab Lok Congress said in a Tweet.Punjab will vote on February 14, while the counting of votes will take place on March 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinders-punjab-lok-congress-gets-hockey-stick-and-ball-as-poll-symbol-359998
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Grenade blast outside Army cantonment in Pathankot solved, police bust ISYF-backed terror module||Punjab Police on Monday said it has solved a case involving a recent grenade blast outside the gate of the Army cantonment in Pathankot by busting a major terror module backed by the International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF) group with the arrest of six of its operatives.The Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar police have also seized six hand grenades, one 9 mm pistol and one .30 bore rifle, along with live bullets and magazines, from the arrested men, Director General of Police (DGP) V K Bhawra said here.No casualty was reported in the blast that took place in November last year in front of the Triveni gate of the cantonment in Pathankot.The ISYF is supported by Pakistan’s intelligence agency ISI.The six men were arrested from different villages in Gurdaspur district. They were identified as Amandeep alias Mantri of Lakhanpal village, Gurwinder Singh alias Gindi of Kharal village, Parminder Kumar alias Rohit alias Rohta of Kharal village, Rajinder Singh alias Malhi alias Nikku of Gunnupur village, Harpreet Singh alias Dholki of Gotpokar village and Raman Kumar of Ghazikot village, according to a statement issued by the DGP’s office.“In two instances, some unidentified persons had hurled hand grenades at Pathankot—one grenade was hurled outside Triveni Dwar, outside the gate of Army cantonment at Pathankot, on November 21, 2021 at about 9 pm, while another one was hurled near Chakki Pull on November 11, 2021 at about 9:30 pm,” the statement said.Separate FIRs in connection with the incidents were registered at the Pathankot Division 2 and Division 1 police stations respectively, it added.The DGP said “during the preliminary interrogation, accused persons revealed that they were directly in touch with self-proclaimed chief of ISYF (Rode) Lakhbir Singh Rode and his close aides, identified as Sukhmeetpal Singh alias Sukh Bhikhariwal and Sukhpreet alias Sukh, for planning terrorist attacks”.  “The entire cache of the recovered hand grenades, arms and ammunition was pushed in from across the international border by Lakhbir Rode and arrested accused persons had been tasked for further attacking the pre-identified targets, which were mainly police and defence establishments, religious places etc.,” he said, adding that the accused have also confessed to have lobbed the two hand grenades in Pathankot.Senior Superintendent of Police, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Kanwardeep Kaur said an FIR has been lodged under the relevant provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), the Explosive Substances Act and the Arms Act at the Nawanshahr City police station, and “further investigations are on”.The role of Lakhbir Rode was also found in the killing of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh, who had fought against terrorism in Punjab, at Bhikhiwind in Amritsar district on October 16, 2020, besides in the recovery of tiffin IED, RDX, arms and ammunition from his relative Gurmukh Singh Rode from Jalandhar in August 2021, the statement said.Sukhmeetpal Singh alias Sukh Bhikhariwal, who is presently lodged in Delhi’s Tihar Jail, was also involved in the killing of Balwinder Singh and in a murderous attack on a Hindu outfit leader, Honey Mahajan, at Dhariwal on February 10, 2020.“He was deported from Dubai in December, 2020. Sukh Bhikhariwal provided foot-soldiers, arms and ammunition, logistics, funds, etc., for execution of these crimes,” according to the statement. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/grenade-blast-outside-army-cantonment-in-pathankot-solved-police-bust-isyf-backed-terror-module-359996
10-01-2022||Moga||Sonu Sood's sister Malvika joins Congress||Actor Sonu Sood’s sister Malavika joined the Congress on Monday.Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Sidhu and Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi made the announcement at an official event. "It is very rare that a party chief and the chief minister both have gone to someone's home to grant the honour, and she deserves it," Sidhu said.The ceremony was held at the Sood residence in Punjab's Moga district.Asked if Malvika Sood will fight the election from the Moga assembly constituency, Channi indicated that she would be the party's choice."Keeping in Sonu Sood's image in mind, I and Channi ji both decided to Sonu Sood's house to welcome his sister into the party," Sidhu said. "It is a matter of great happiness for us that a young woman who has earned a name for herself by running an NGO and dedicated herself to the people's service is joining our party."Referring to Malvika Sood's joining the Congress, Sidhu said, "In the cricketing world, it is called a game-changer. She is a young and educated woman, and her education as a software engineer will help her in her life ahead". Both Sidhu and Channi said that Malvika will work for the party. "We will soon give her a good assignment," they said.Speaking on the occasion, Malvika Sood said she has taken the political plunge to serve the people. A photo tweeted by the Punjab Youth Congress showed Sonu and Malvika Sood meeting Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu.Sonu Sood recently stepped down as Punja’s state icon citing his sister’s foray into politics. He’d announced last year that his sister would contest elections from their hometown Moga. --- With PTIThe future of Punjab is ready! #SonuSoodWithCongress pic.twitter.com/qxyJ2yCXeT  Welcoming Malvika Sood Sachar, sister of Social Worker & Actor, @SonuSood , into the party-fold. I am sure Malvika will serve the people with full honesty and integrity and help spread the message of the Congress party at the grass-root level.#SonuSoodWithCongress pic.twitter.com/yqxXV8hHCP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-indicates-sonu-soods-sister-malvika-joining-party-359980
10-01-2022||New Delhi||AAP unfazed in Punjab by EC's ban on rallies; says it has voter outreach plans in place||The Aam Aadmi Party(AAP) is unfazed, especially in Punjab, by the Election Commission’s diktat against holding rallies, roadshows, public meetings for campaigns till January 15 with regard to Assembly elections to the five States.A senior AAP leader said the party was anticipating a ban on the physical mobilisation of the public, going by the experience of elections in other states, including West Bengal, a few months ago last year which was followed by a massive outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic.The party had already thought through its backup plans even before EC’s ban on election-related gatherings.AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Gupta, who has been assigned as one of election incharge in Punjab, on Monday said that the cadre of the party will resort to door-to-door campaigns.“The new format of the electioneering suits the AAP just as well because its thrust has always been proximity to people and personal contacts with them,” Gupta said.The party in Punjab, which had emerged as the main Opposition in the last Assembly elections, had started compiling contact details, including telephone numbers and mail-IDs as part of its micromanaging plans of voter outreach.With 20/20 vision of electoral affairs in the state---riding on hindsight of parliamentary election Assembly elections forays---the party has sufficient data to carry forward its campaign in a scientific manner.The AAP leaders will soon hold a war-room meeting to devise a strategy to give more teeth to its electoral campaign under the new format in Punjab and deploy its IT technology that became a very useful tool for the party during the Delhi assembly elections. The AAP leaders have already declared that the party will approach Punjab’s electorates regarding the Assembly election with its “Delhi Model”.Another AAP leader said that the party will throw its all, kitchen and sink, to emerge victorious electorally in Punjab and form a government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-unfazed-in-punjab-by-ecs-ban-on-rallies-says-it-has-voter-outreach-plans-in-place-359976
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC grants interim anticipatory bail to Bikram Singh Majithia; orders him to join probe||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday granted interim anticipatory bail to Bikram Singh Majithia in a drug case. Justice Lisa Gill made it clear that the senior Akali leader would join investigations in the case. An MLA and former minister in the Akali government, Majithia was apprehending arrest after a case under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered at Mohali on December 20.He moved the high court after a Mohali court dismissed his anticipatory bail petition. Majithia was represented by senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and RS Cheema with counsel DS Sobti and Arshdeep Singh Cheema.Appearing on his behalf, the senior counsel “vehemently” argued there was inexplicable delay in lodging the FIR. Besides this, the FIR itself could not have been lodged as it was incumbent upon the authorities to firstly seek the competent Court’s permission before proceeding against him if any material had indeed surfaced against him.The senior counsel also referred to orders passed by a Division Bench during the hearing of a writ petition on the drugs issue to submit that the matter was being investigated by the Enforcement Directorate, a Special Task Force and a committee constituted under orders of the Court. But no action was taken against the petitioner for all these “long” years.The Bench was also told that the registration of the present FIR was vitiated by political and ulterior motives. The petitioner had no criminal record. He was a “mainstream politician” and undertook to join the investigation, fully cooperate with the investigating agency and abide by any conditions imposed by the Court. The notice of motion issued by the Bench was accepted by senior Deputy Advocate-General Gaurav Garg Dhuriwala on behalf of the respondent-State.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-hc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-bikram-singh-majithia-orders-him-to-join-probe-359974
10-01-2022||---||BKU Ekta Ugrahan says won't contest Punjab poll, nor support other farmer unions||Chandigarh, January 10BKU Ekta Ugrahan on Monday announced that they would neither contest elections in Punjab, nor would they support other farmer unions who are in the fray.Punjab goes to polls on February 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-ekta-ugrahan-says-wont-contest-punjab-poll-nor-support-other-farmer-unions-359958
10-01-2022||Sameer Singh||Bathinda: 'Off season' management can keep pest at bay, says Panel||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, January 9To counter pink bollworm infestation on cotton crop in the coming seasons, a high-level meeting of agricultural experts and agri-scientists from three states, which were affected with the pest attack this season, was held under the aegis of the Interstate Consultative and Monitoring Committee here.High-level meeting heldApart from other requisite measures, the experts primarily laid focus on “off season” management of pink bollworm. The meeting was organised to assess the status of pink bollworm on cotton and to review the plan of action for its management.In addition to committee members, officers from the Department of Agriculture, Punjab; scientists from Punjab Agricultural University, Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, Rajasthan Agricultural University, Ganganagar, and ICAR-CICR, Sirsa, participated in the meeting. Chief Agriculture Officers from Bathinda, Mansa, Fazilka, Muktsar, Faridkot, Barnala, Sangrur and Moga; Directors of Regional Station in Bathinda, Faridkot and Abohar; Associate Directors of KVKs in Muktsar also participated in the meeting.Dr Gurvinder Singh, Director of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Punjab, said the state department of agriculture and PAU needed to be more vigilant at pink bollworm-infested areas in Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar and Fazilka districts during the off season.“Regular surveillance and training camps for the pest management are a must. Strategies need to be chalked out to manage pink bollworm in an effective manner,” said Dr Gurvinder.The director said: “The decisions taken during the meeting include constituting district, block and village-level teams by the Chief Agriculture Officers of the respective districts and surveillance should be done twice a week. Timely availability of canal water for sowing of cotton, preparation of informatory literature on pink bollworm management, complete destruction of leftover cotton sticks in February-March, online meeting with ginning factories and oil extraction mills will be organised during the first fortnight of January, covering of seed cotton stocks lying in the ginning-cum-oil extraction mills with polythene sheets and fumigation of the same at regular interval, providing the list of the recommended Bt cotton hybrids at the earliest. The state government will be approached to exempt officers of the cotton belt from being put on election and other duties.”Dr Harinder Singh, Joint Director Agriculture, said teams were regularly organising training camps to create awareness among cotton growers for off season management of pink bollworm.Dr Pakhar Singh, Bathinda Chief Agriculture Officer, discussed the status of cotton arrival in Bathinda. He said pink bollworm attacks remained significantly higher in Bathinda and Talwandi Sabo blocks of the district. He also said district and block-level teams were constituted for organising training camps for off season management of the pest.Dr SK Verma, Sirsa CICR Regional Station head, said: “Pink bollworm infestation was more in Punjab and Haryana in comparison to Rajasthan. Timely action to contain the infestation is the key to keep it at bay.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/off-season-mgmt-can-keep-pest-at-bay-panel-359828
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||AAP slams Punjab Govt's job promise||Reacting to the announcements made by CM Charanjit Singh Channi recently, senior AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema said the CM was now talking about the employment guarantee scheme 2022, but the people wanted to know what happened to the Congress’ earlier promise of providing jobs to youth. He said: “After five years, the Congress is talking about jobs. The employment guarantee scheme sounds a lot like “Ghar, Ghar Naukari 2.0.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-slams-govts-job-promise-359829
10-01-2022||Bathinda||Private ambulance operators fleece patients in Bathinda, Mansa||Citing non-payment of salaries for the past three months and non-fulfillment of their long-standing demand of regualrisation, members of the 108 Ambulance Employees’ Union went on an indefinite strike in Bathinda and Mansa.As a result, patients and their attendants have been left at the mercy of private ambulance operators. Amandeep Singh, chief, 108 Ambulance Employees’ Union, said, “Neither have we received salaries for the past three months nor we have got increment in the past 10 years. Either the government should run 108 Ambulance service or must select a responsible firm. The incumbent operator is harassing us.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pvt-ambulance-operators-fleece-patients-359830
10-01-2022||Gurdaspur||Punjab Diary: Suspense over Congress manifesto||MLA extols party ‘virtues’Gurdaspur: In an election year, politicians waste no time to thank their senior leaders for any “benevolent” gesture they make. Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa had recently donned the BJP cap and since then he has been extolling the virtues of his party and its leaders. Minutes after PM Narendar Modi announced to declare December 26 as ‘Veer Baal Diwas’, in memory of the sons of Guru Gobind Singh, Fateh Jung thanked him. He added that it was only due to the generosity of Modi that the Kartarpur Corridor had seen the light of the day.Approaching estranged supportersSangrur: The announcement of the Punjab poll schedule has compelled many politicians to visit the houses of their estranged supporters. After getting information that some leaders from the Opposition were approaching his supporters, a local politician had to return disappointed as they refused to meet him. The timing of his visit near the polls was questioned by people. Requesting anonymity, a political leader said many people were waiting for their leaders to visit their area to openly announce their boycott.Rumour-mongering on social mediaMuktsar: As soon as the Election Commission announced schedule for the Assembly elections, rumour mongers got active on the ground. For instance, one such rumour was spread on Saturday evening that a number of senior officers had flocked to Badal village. It was later found that a Facebook page, having nearly 1.92 lakh followers, had fuelled this fake message.Sidhu Moosewala attacks rivals through FB postMansa: Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala, through his new Facebook page titled “Mansa Da Sidhu”, has launched an attack on his political rivals within the Congress. He said he was not being opposed by Mansa people but by those leaders whose shops of minting money had been closed due to him. He said they had made politics a business. It is pertinent to mention that since his induction into the Congress, Moosewala is facing opposition from local Congress leaders. Moosewala has been uploading his daily political activities on his page.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/suspense-over-manifesto-359831
10-01-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Maur: Wading through sewage mess||Maur, a suburban town in Bathinda district, reported a bomb blast outside a political rally few days before polling in 2017, killing seven persons.Past trendMaur segment was crafted in 2009. In 2012 polls, former SAD minister Janmeja Singh Sekhon won from here, while in 2017, people voted for AAP candidate Jagdev Kamalu, but later he joined Congress. In the 2019 LS polls, Congress got a lead of around 5,000 votes.Electorate strengthTotal voters - 1,66,417Male -  87,713Female - 78,700Third gender - 2Locals’ key demandsPeople in the region are still in shock when they talk about the incident. There is resentment against the state government over its handling of the case as nearly five years have gone by and there is no headway in the case. Maur is a new Assembly segment crafted in 2009 after delimitation and the area still lacks many basic amenities. Maur was upgraded to a subdivision in 2013, but the one-time hub of the cotton ginning and spinning industry has seen a rapid decline.Sewage disposal is a major issue in Maur town and residents are irked over sewage water stagnating on roads. A sewage treatment plant was constructed and its disposal was made at Lasara drain near Mandi Kalan, but the system failed due to leaking pipes. Staff shortage at the health department also hampers work. Even post-mortems are not conducted here, forcing people to go to the Talwandi Sabo Civil Hospital. The condition of ambulances is also bad. Leaders are seeking votes on development plank, but it seems providing basic amenities remained difficult for all ruling parties all these years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wading-through-sewage-mess-359821
10-01-2022||PK Jaiswar||Kin seek probe by independent agency into Jandiala 'encounter'||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 9Even as the police were yet to file a challan and make further progress in the Jandiala Guru ‘encounter’ case, the family members of the deceased have sought a probe by an independent agency while alleging that the magisterial probe conducted in the case was biased and incomplete as it remained silent on various aspects.Police yet to file challan An alleged carjacker and Hoshiarpur resident, Inderjit Singh was shot dead by the cops of CIA staff of Amritsar City police in Jandiala Guru Area on December 8, 2020. A magisterial probe was ordered immediately after the incident, which was conducted by the then Sub Divisional Magistrate Vikas Heera.Seven months after the incident, three ASIs were booked by the police following an investigation by the then Border Range IG SPS Parmar, who was directed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court for the same. ASIs Vinod Kumar, Darshan Singh and Surinder Kumar were booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and causing disappearance of evidence of offence.Maninderpal Singh, brother of the deceased alleged that the police did not made any progress in the case so far even after six months of registration of an FIR. Expressing dissatisfaction over the magisterial probe, he pointed out that it remained silent over several aspects.“Inderjit suffered a bullet injury in his leg, but it could not find how he suffered this injury while driving an SUV. Another big question was about a .32 bore bullet found in a tyre of the car. The police had claimed in their statements that they had hit the tyre for stopping the SUV being driven by him. The front glass of the SUV was also intact,” he said while adding that the report was silent on these aspects. Further, the report was yet to be filed before the High Court, as required.Sarabjit Singh Verka of Punjab Human Right Organisation alleged that a DSP-rank official got video recordings of the incident, made by farmers protesting at the site, deleted but the SDM did not enquire this aspect.Jandiala Guru Deputy Superintendent of Police Sukhwinderpal Singh said the challan in the case was yet to be filed as the investigation was under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kin-seek-probe-by-independent-agency-into-jandiala-encounter-359822
10-01-2022||Neeraj Bagga||'Veer Baal Diwas' evokes mixed response||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 9Some prominent Sikh personalities and members of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) did not appreciate Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s move to mark December 26 as “Veer Baal Diwas”.SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami said: “Restricting the martyrdom of Sahibzadas to “Veer Baal Diwas” does not commensurate with the Sikh ethos.” He said the Prime Minister Modi’s announcement might had come out of respect, but not according to the Sikh tradition.He appealed to the Akal Takht Jathedar, Giani Harpreet Singh, to take the lead in connection with the recognition of the “Veer Baal Diwas”. He said the Sikh sangat and their historic institutions consider the incomparable sacrifice of the Sahibzadas like those of great warriors.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee member Kiranjot Kaur, through a post on social media, said: “The move of declaring the Shaheedi Diwas of younger Sahibzadas as “Veer Baal Diwas” is reductionist in nature.”Meanwhile, head of the Damdami Taksal and president of Sant Samaj, Harnam Singh Khalsa, appreciated the Prime Minister’s decision. He said no other government had thought of paying homage to the sacrifice of the Sahibzadas in the past 325 years.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee Secretary Karnail Singh Panjoli, while talking to the media here on Sunday said he had urged the Prime Minister that all those airports that were named after some individuals should be renamed after the 10 Sikh Gurus to commemorate their unique sacrifices.The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee Secretary said he had also written a letter to the Prime Minister in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/veer-baal-diwas-evokes-mixed-response-359823
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Veer Baal Diwas: PM Modi has special affection for Punjab, says BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) today welcomed the announcement made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to observe December 26 as “Veer Baal Diwas” in the honour of martyrdom of Guru Gobind Singh’s two younger sons.BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh said “Veer Baal Diwas” would become an inspiration for children of the nation. BJP’s state executive member Lalit Mahajan said Modi had special affection for Punjab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pm-has-special-affection-for-punjab-says-bjp-359824
10-01-2022||---||Illegal barbed wire fences cause for concern in Abohar||Our CorrespondentAbohar, January 9Barbed wire fencing installed by locals defying the ban in various villages often results in injuries to animals and human beings. Three residents of Patrewala village got injured due to the barbed wire on January 8.Nand Kishore Bhobharia, district chief, Akhil Bhartiya Jeev Raksha Bishnoi Sabha, urged the administration to remove illegal fencing at the earliest. He said three persons—Rajinder, Jaswant Singh and Naresh—were heading from Patrewala to Churiwala Dhanna village when their motorcycle crashed into the barbed fencing. A couple of days ago, a cyclist was hurt grievously, said Bhobharia.He said that the district administration has banned the installation and sale of concertina wire in the area, yet people were fearlessly putting these around their fields, which proves dangerous for animals and humans.Abohar-based traders openly sell barbed wire fencing, he said. “We have urged the administration numrous times in the past two years to remove illegally installed barbed wire fencing. We also had meetings with officials concerned, but no action has been taken by them so far. The Forest and WildLife Department had once removed the barbed fencing in a few villages, which were a part of open wild life sanctuary,” said Bhobharia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-barbed-wire-fences-cause-for-concern-in-abohar-359825
10-01-2022||---||Moderate rain beneficial for rabi crop in Punjab: Agri experts||Moga, January 9Light to moderate rain lashed most parts of the Malwa belt and other parts of Punjab during the past 24 hours, which has raised the hopes of farmers for bumper wheat crop.Agriculture experts said rain at this point of time was beneficial for wheat, mustard and other rabi crops. The weather has become conducive for the growth of wheat plants.Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka, Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar, Faridkot, Barnala, Sangrur, Patiala, Ludhiana and other districts received moderate to heavy rainf, which helped in irrigation of crops.On Saturday night, Bathinda was coldest in the state with 5.6 degrees Celsius followed by 7 degrees Celsius in Faridkot and 7.5 degrees Celsius in Moga district. The minimum temperature in Gurdaspur was recorded at 11.7 degrees Celsius, Ludhiana 10.2 degrees Celsius, Patiala 10.8 degrees Celsius, Ferozepur 8 degrees Celsius, Muktsar 8.1 degrees Celsius, Barnala 10.1 degrees Celsius, Sangrur 10 degrees Celsius, Amritsar 10.2 degrees Celsius, Pathankot 8.5 degrees Celsius, Fatehgarh Sahib 11 degrees Celsius, Jalandhar 8.7 degrees Celsius and Ropar 10.9 degrees Celsius, Mohali 12.9 degrees Celsius, Hoshiarpur 8.9 degrees Celsius, Gurdaspur 8.4 degrees Celsius and Chandigarh 11.1 degrees Celsius.Moga received 24 mm of rainfall, Ludhiana 46.2 mm, Barnala 18.5 mm, Amritsar 12.8 mm, Patiala 44.7 mm, Pathankot 35.8 mm, Gurdaspur 32.6 mm, Fatehgarh Sahib 24 mm, Ropar 38 mm, Nurmahal in Jalandhar 84 mm and Chandigarh 30.8 mm of rainfall in the past 24 hours.The weather experts in Chandigarh predicted that isolated rain would occur in Majha, Doaba and in the eastern part of Malwa, while the western areas of Malwa would mostly remain dry on Monday.A spokesman of the district administration said there were no reports of yellow rust on wheat plants in any part of the district so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moderate-rain-beneficial-for-rabi-crop-agri-experts-359826
10-01-2022||Jupinderjit Singh||Akalis oppose virtual rallies enforced by Election Commission||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 9Literary saying no to virtual rallies and meetings enforced by the Election Commission, the SAD today said it was practically impossible to follow the new norms. The SAD also smelled a conspiracy behind the virtual rallies, saying it is aimed at benefiting the BJP, whose leaders have been facing hostility.New norms Will be challenging: CongressThe Congress says the poll campaign would be a challenge under the new rules. The party has started digital campaign by setting up social media war room. “It would be the first digital elections,” said Alka Lamba, AICC-appointed media incharge. The party has already set up 10,000 WhatsApp groups. “Efforts are being made to reach out to people via Facebook, WhatsApp and other digital means. Short films of the party are being readied.It Suits our style of reachout: AAPThe AAP says the style of campaigning recommended by the EC is what the party had been following for the entire duration of the pandemic. “The norms have been announced in the wake of a fresh surge. We have always believed in door-to-door campaigning in small groups,” said Harpal Cheema, senior AAP leader.“Virtual rallies are impossible. Does the EC think elders, rural people, labourers, daily wagers and voters below the poverty line will have smart phones, Internet to access such rallies?” said Daljeet Singh Cheema, SAD spokesperson.Taking to The Tribune, he said the party had conveyed its opposition to the EC in a verbal communication today. “We have told them to explain to us the practicality of the virtual campaign. If we want to address a rally in a town, can we send the link of the live telecast to all voters or to only those whose phone numbers are with us?”He said it was ritual for candidates to reach out to voters, listen to their concerns, problems and offer solutions through promises. “Would the virtual rallies, meetings be a two-way communication? How will the election commission compensate a lag in the Internet?” he said.The restrictions on door-to-door campaigning were absurd, he said. “I have more than 220 village in my constituency. Under the new norms, only five persons can go from door to door. And we have to give information in advance to the commission about these five people in addition to their movement plan. Is it possible to give names and exact door-to-door movement plan of leaders and supporters if we plan 20 villages in a day?” he said.Cheema said the restrictions were understandable if there was a general lockdown in the state. “People are thronging markets, religious places and attending parties and marriages. The only restriction is on political activities,” he questioned. Cheema said he had also asked the EC to explain how the parties would organise functions for leaders joining the party.LEADER SPEAKThere’s Wave for changeThere is a wave for change in the whole of Punjab. I am fully confident that on February 14, the people of Punjab will give a chance to AAP to serve them. — Raghav Chadha, AAP leaderPeople want stabilityPeople of the state are looking forward to a strong, stable and development-oriented SAD-BSP government, committed to peace and communal harmony. — Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD PresidentAlliance ready for big dayThe alliance of the BJP, SAD (Sanyukt) and PLC is all set for the ‘Big Day’ that will decide the future of Punjab. — Capt Amarinder Singh, Ex-CM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-oppose-virtual-rallies-359788
10-01-2022||Ravneet Singh||EC serves notice on AAP over 'bribe' flyer||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 9The District Electoral Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner has issued a notice to the AAP for violating the model code of conduct and sought a clarification by tomorrow on objectionable statements made in a pamphlet circulated here. This is apparently the first notice issued in the state after the code came into effect.Bid to defame usWe have not issued the pamphlet and do not justify it. Apparently, someone has tried to defame us. — Dr Balbir Singh, AAP‘Party promoting graft, take action’The pamphlet was circulated in the district on Sunday and carried objectionable statements regarding accepting bribe from political parties. It is not yet clear who issued the pamphlet as it does not bear the name of the publisher, the address of the printing press or the number of copies of the pamphlet printed. It reads: “Sariyaan partiyaan ton paise lao, par vote jharu nu deo.” The election office had received a complaint on the content of the pamphlet on its cVIGIL app. DEO Sandeep Hans said a clarification had been sought by 12 noon on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ec-serves-notice-on-aap-over-bribe-flyer-359789
10-01-2022||---||'Digital Punjab' to offer 150 services on doorstep: Navjot Singh Sidhu||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 9Following the Election Commission of India’s guidelines for the Assembly polls, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu kick-started party’s digital campaign and spoke about unveiling an agenda of governance reforms primarily through digitisation and making a ‘Digital Punjab’.Empowering panchayats need of the hourIt is the need of the hour to decentralise power by empowering panchayats and other local bodies and ensuring their functioning is digitalised. — Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCCBeing the first party to come out with a virtual campaign, the PCC president said the Congress had been emphasising the importance of digitisation and maintaining a virtual interaction with the electorate. Asserting that the state Congress had maximum engagement and outreach in digital space, he said: “We are ready for an online campaign, coordinating with our workers and leaders at district, Assembly and booth levels.”He said the party’s social media war room had more than 10k WhatsApp groups and they were reaching out to people at the booth level via Facebook, WhatsApp and other digital mediums.Bringing back the focus on the real areas of improvement, he said: “It is forgotten that panchayat has the power to perform 170 functions and levy 12 different kind of taxes. It is the need of the hour to decentralise power by empowering the panchayats and other local bodies and ensuring their functioning is digitalised.”Punjab needed governance reforms by bringing in policies to address public issues with a strategy to reduce poverty, he said. Speaking on the Punjab Model at a virtual press conference, the PCC president said it was not a personal or self-serving model, but one for the people of Punjab.“It’s a tailor-made solution for issues prevalent in Punjab which are created after intensive research conducted on the state and its functioning. This model brings the power back in the hands of the people of Punjab for their own prosperity and growth,” he asserted.The party aimed to create a “Digital Punjab” wherein over 150 government services, permits and approvals would be made available to people on their doorstep. The revolution was intended to begin with the first-of-its-kind ‘Digital Election’, planned to be held in Punjab, and pave the way for digitalisation for all other activities, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/digital-punjab-to-offer-150-services-on-doorstep-sidhu-359790
10-01-2022||---||Education, health AAP's top priorities: Bhagwant Mann||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 9AAP state president and MP Bhagwant Mann today claimed the party would form the government on March 10 and after that no one would have to go on strike as looting of the public exchequer would be stopped and its money would be used for the welfare of people.Kejriwal addresses party cadre Addressing mediapersons here, he urged people to beware of those who did politics of hatred and asked people to vote without fear, greed or influence. “AAP will contest the elections wholeheartedly. We guarantee you that AAP already has a roadmap ready for the development of Punjab. Every section is part of this roadmap and time-to-time we’ve been informing people about it,” he said.He said under the AAP rule, no school would be without teachers and no patient would die due to lack of doctors, quality treatment and medicine. He alleged the Congress was misleading people through announcements. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/education-health-our-top-priorities-aap-359792
10-01-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||No pact with AAP, farmers to contest Punjab elections unitedly||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 9No alliance with Aam Aadmi Party, but Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) will be closing ranks with all other farmer unions and Gurnam Singh Charuni-led Sanyukt Sangharsh Party to flex their political muscle in all 117 Assembly constituencies for the polls scheduled for February 14.The seven-member screening committee of the SSM headed by Harmeet Singh Kadian has held some meetings, including one held today in Chandigarh. The first list of the candidates will be declared by Wednesday.Talking to The Tribune, Balbir Singh Rajewal, SSM prime face for seeking votes, said since the talk of alliance with AAP failed and in accordance with public wishes of a common front of farmers, he was now in talks with Charuni to put up a joint show. “He is one of us. All farmers will contest the polls unitedly. Even those unions that have decided not to be part of SSM will be supporting their brethren who throw their hat in the ring,” Rajewal said. The SSM was earlier in talks with AAP for an alliance and initially it was decided that AAP would leave 30-35 seats for them. However, there were sharp divisions in the SSM over an electoral alliance with AAP and at least nine of the 22 constituent farmer unions of SSM had opposed it.Rajewal, however, said they decided not to go ahead with the alliance as AAP had proved to be just like other traditional parties. “I have audio recordings of party leaders demanding money to give ticket to candidates. I discussed this with AAP top brass and since they did not want to listen about this, I decided against going with them in the polls,” he said.Asked if the SSM would only have farmers as candidates, Rajewal replied in the negative. “Over the past 10 days, we have had several rounds of meetings with industrialists, traders, civil rights activists, intellectuals and breakaway leaders of Bahujan Samaj Party. Our candidates will be from all sections of society,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-pact-with-aap-farmers-to-contest-elections-unitedly-359794
10-01-2022||Ravi Dhaliwal||Gurdaspur leaders denounce rally ban, residents hail move||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, January 9Rising above political affiliations, voters of all nine Assembly seats of Gurdaspur parliamentary constituency have welcomed the Election Commission’s ban on public gatherings, even as leading politicians opined that “rallies were their staple diet during electioneering” and urged the poll panel to revoke the ban.Reconsider decisionHow is it possible to contest an election without organising gatherings? I don’t know what ‘flattening the curve’ means. All I know is my political graph will be flattened by no rallies. — Lakhbir Lodhinangal, SAD CandidateAn ex-Cabinet minister, who did not want to be named fearing he may be caught in the ECI’s line of fire, wondered how he and others of his ilk would do without rallies. “It is not possible to stay in contact with the masses if we do not hold gatherings. Moreover, such events act as a barometer to gauge our strength and also to gauge the weakness of the rival candidates. After all, in electoral politics it all boils down to numbers. If I hold a gathering and 500 people attend it, I am sure at least 350 will vote for me,” he said.However, voters and health officials fighting Covid are on the same page on the issue.“What purpose does a rally serve in any case? The political class should understand that it is imperative to prohibit gatherings if we have to save our already fragile health systems, which couldn’t keep up to the burgeoning demand for oxygen and hospital beds last year,” said Harbans Singh Dala, who addresses himself as a “veteran voter”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurdaspur-leaders-denounce-rally-ban-residents-hail-move-359798
10-01-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Farm issues dominate poll agenda in Sangrur||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, January 9Flag the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal in front of a group of local youths and they seem surprised. Probe them about other issues such as transfer of Chandigarh to Punjab and the merger of Punjabi-speaking areas, they have a blank look on their faces.With the Assembly elections due early next year, the electorate here is least concerned about the issues that dominated the narrative in the previous elections. This time, the farmers’ issues and their agitation are talking points.The youth, for their part, are least concerned about the elections, for they are busy preparing for IELTS. They say leaders must stop raking up old issues and, instead, put their ear to the ground and catch the pulse of the electorate for the forthcoming elections. “I am unaware of the SYL canal. My target is to obtain seven bands in IELTS and get admission in a good Canadian college. My father has taken Rs 10 lakh loan on our agriculture land. I do not want to waste his money,” said a 21-year-old man, who did not wish to be named, at a local IELTS institute.The youth say they have heard about drug menace, sacrilege of religious books, and mafias ruling the cable, transport and sand business. For them, these issues hold little relevance, for they say leaders rake them up at the time of elections to garner votes. But rural and urban youth are well aware of the farmers’ agitation. They thank the farming community for having put agriculture at the centre stage of discussions.“Politicians have failed to fulfil their promises, putting into question their credibility. We should be thankful to the farmers’stir, which has once again made our coming generations aware of the importance of farming,” said Rajpal Mangwal, a farmer leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-issues-dominate-poll-agenda-in-sangrur-359799
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Sonu Sood hints at sister Malvika joining Congress||Hinting at younger sister Malvika Sachar Sood joining the Congress, actor Sonu Sood on Sunday said she will contest the Assembly elections from Moga and that he will campaign for her.In reply to a question, the actor said it was her personal decision. Local Congress MLA Dr Harjot Kamal said she was welcome in the party. “But it doesn’t mean the leadership will give her the ticket,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sonu-sood-hints-at-sister-joining-congress-359800
10-01-2022||Faridkot||NGO comes up with green manifesto for all parties to adopt||Giving a 10-year prospective plan to reduce the consumption of fertilisers and eliminate the use of insecticides, pesticides and herbicides, Kheti Virasat Mission (KVM), a voluntary organisation, promoting natural farming for the last about two decades in the state has put forth a “green manifesto” for all parties to adopt.“The future Government of Punjab should bring an agricultural policy that empowers farmers and makes agriculture sustainable. Such policy should focus on prevention of farmer-suicide, reduction of debt burden on farmers, promotion of sustainable agriculture and guaranteed minimum living incomes to farm households, including farm workers and tenant households,” reads the manifesto.It further adds to save water resources and encourage diversification. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ngo-comes-up-with-green-manifesto-359801
10-01-2022||Fazilka||Fazilka DC orders deposit of firearms||Capt’s outfit names 5 VPs, 17 gen secysChandigarh: Former CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday appointed five vice-presidents and 17 general secretaries to his newly launched political outfit Punjab Lok Congress. The five vice-presidents are Amrik Singh Aliwal, Prem Mittal, Farzana Alam, Harjinder Singh Thekedar and Sanjay Inder Singh Bunny Chahal. The general secretaries include Rajwinder Kaur Bhagike, RajinderSingh Raja, Pushpinder Singh Bhandari and Sarita Sharma. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-dc-orders-deposit-of-firearms-359802
10-01-2022||---||Covid positivity rate hits 15%, Patiala worst-affected||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 9Punjab reported nine deaths in the last 24 hours — highest in a day since July last year when the second Covid wave was nearing end. As per the Covid media bulletin, the state reported 3,922 fresh cases, including nine deaths.Day after press meet, chief poll officer +ve40% yet to receive 2nd dose in aboharAfter fresh curbs last week, frequency of residents heading to the Abohar Civil Hospital to get vaccinated increased for a few days. The daily average stood above 1,000 shots. However, on Sunday, only 200 turned up. Senior Medical Officer Dr Gagandeep Singh said around 40% of beneficiaries were yet to get their second dose. Seven more persons tested positive in the past three days. OCIn district-wise break-up, Patiala reported three deaths and Sangrur, Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, SAS Nagar and Pathankot reported one death each.As far as cases are concerned, Patiala topped the chart with 768 cases, followed by SAS Nagar (750), Ludhiana (509), Amritsar (305), Jalandhar (292) and Pathankot (256).Amid high fatality rate, high positivity rate is another concern for the state. As Punjab’s Covid testing remains low, the positivity rate at 15 per cent is quite high as compared to the national average of around 10 per cent.Punjab Covid testing has reached around 25,000 tests daily, which is quite low as compared to the neighbouring states. On Saturday, out of 24,877 tests done, 3,643 were found positive. In Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, the positivity rate remains around 8 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/positivity-rate-hits-15-patiala-worst-affected-359806
10-01-2022||Karam Prakash||Booster dose drive begins today, most health workers already Covid positive in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 9Though the drive to administer “precaution” dose (booster dose) to healthcare and frontline workers would kick-off on Monday, majority of the workers have already tested positive for the virus across the state.Can be jabbed after 3 monthsThe workers, who have already tested positive for the virus, can receive the third dose only after 90 days from the day of infection. — Health DepartmentIt has been learnt that thousands of healthcare and frontline workers, who are expected to get the booster dose, are already infected and therefore, cannot receive it.The state Health Department said those workers, who had already tested positive for the virus, could receive the third dose only after 90 days from the day of infection.The timing of administering precaution (booster) dose is being questioned by none other than healthcare workers themselves, including senior consultants, resident doctors and officials of the department. On this, state Nodal Officer Dr Rajesh Bhasker said: “It is not our decision and the announcement regarding this was made by the Centre.”Notably, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on December 25, had announced the administration of the third dose of Covid vaccine from January 10.“Had we got a permission for the booster dose a month earlier, the frontline medical workers could have been saved from the spreading infection. We had enough Covid doses at the district headquarters. I think the frontline medical workers should have been jabbed with booster dose before the third wave had set in,” said an expert of the Health Department.Meanwhile, Patiala District Epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said: “Over 50 per cent of the employees at the health institutions in Patiala have tested positive. Now, as per the protocol, we have to delay the administration of the booster dose to the infected beneficiaries.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/booster-dose-drive-begins-today-most-health-workers-already-ve-359807
10-01-2022||Aparna Banerji||Punjab Assembly polls: Amid Covid curbs, infected politicians go digital||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 9The surge in viral infections has had an adverse impact on the election scenario as political parties and candidates have been advised by the Election Commission to campaign via the virtual mode.Home quarantinedWith strict guidelines in place, several leaders from the region have begun their campaign while being in home quarantine after having tested positive.BJP’s Manoranjan Kalia, who tested positive on January 5, has been in quarantine for the past one week. Speaking to The Tribune over the phone, Kalia said: “I will get tested tomorrow. In view of the Covid protocol, elections are indeed different this time. I will step out and start meeting people as soon as I test negative. Though the campaign will be in smaller groups under the strict social distancing protocol, abiding by the guidelines is in everyone’s interest. We will avoid large gatherings.”Cabinet Minister and Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh, who tested positive on Saturday night, has been keeping in touch with people over the phone. While his wife has been going out to campaign, he is confined to home. “I’m currently relaxing. I have been in quarantine since yesterday. I quite like the new guidelines. People have seen our work for five years. The last few days won’t change things. It is enough for them to decide our fate,” he said.AAP leader and member of the dissident volunteers group Dr Sanjeev Sharma, who too had tested positive, said: “I stepped out of the house for the first time after recovering. Shifting to the virtual mode will impact poor candidates as they won’t be able to garner necessary base that more influential or educated candidates can,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-curbs-infected-politicians-go-digital-359809
10-01-2022||Sangrur||2 'roughed up' at Sangrur rest house||High drama was witnessed last night when local BJP leaders allegedly barged into the PWD rest house and protested the stay of two persons on the recommendation of local Congress leaders.However, the two occupants lodged a complaint with the police, demanding action against the BJP leaders, even as the latter lodged a complaint with the Election Commission against PWD officers. “We had information that some Congress supporters had been staying in four rooms of the rest house for the past few months. When we reached there, we found three of the rooms locked and some persons staying in the fourth. The police helped them flee. We have lodged a complaint with the EC seeking action against PWD officers,” said Randeep Deol, who along with local leaders Jatinder Kalra and Sarjiwan Jindal was present at the scene.Initially, the room occupants allegedly refused to open the door and drama continued for over two hours. When they opened the door after the police arrived, they were allegedly roughed up. Both occupants — Vivek Gupta and Shubhdeep Singh — in their complaint to the police alleged they had scheduled a visit to Sangrur for personal work and booked a room at the rest house. They were allotted room No.106 for the night of January 8.“But BJP leaders caught hold of Vivek after forcibly entering our room and asked us to vacate the room. Later, around 30 unidentified persons roughed us up and threatened us with dire consequences,” the duo claimed.District Election Officer-cum-DC Ramvir said an inquiry was underway. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-roughed-up-at-rest-house-359810
10-01-2022||Archit Watts||AAP first to field all four candidates in Muktsar district||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, January 9In Badals’ home district Muktsar, the AAP has become the first party to declare its all four candidates from Muktsar, Malout, Gidderbaha and Lambi Assembly constituencies.Notably, the SAD has so far declared its three candidates and preferred to maintain silence on Lambi, which is the home turf of former CM Parkash Singh Badal. Surprisingly, the nonagenarian Badal has even toured nearly half of the villages falling in this rural constituency, but still keeping the cards close to his chest.The Congress and BJP are yet to release even their first list of candidates. The Sanyukt Samaj Morcha’s political activity is so far negligible. Recently, some Congress leaders joined the Punjab Lok Congress, but they, too, are yet to come into poll mode.Notably, the AAP has given the ticket to a woman doctor, an advocate and two farmers. It has fielded Dr Baljit Kaur (daughter of ex-MP Sadhu Singh) from Malout (Reserved) constituency, advocate Pritpal Sharma (ex-president of Muktsar Bar Association) from Gidderbaha, Jagdeep Singh Kaka Brar (former SAD leader) from Muktsar and Gurmeet Singh Khudian (former senior Congress leader) from Lambi. Except Dr Kaur, the other three candidates are residents of their respective constituencies. As Dr Kaur has served at the Muktsar Civil Hospital for a long period, she is not being considered an outsider.A political expert said: “Muktsar has a large number of downtrodden people and AAP is focusing on them. In the last Assembly polls, AAP had, however, failed to open its account here. The Congress should also start announcing its candidates for better results. The BJP seems to be waiting for some leaders of other parties to come into its fold.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-first-to-field-all-four-candidates-in-muktsar-dist-359812
10-01-2022||Ropar||Home Guards jawan shot at while trying to nab ATM robbers in Ropar||A Home Guards jawan was shot at during a scuffle with ATM robbers late last night.The injured has been identified as Krishan Lal. According to Ropar SSP Vivek Sheel Soni, the police party was patrolling at Pull Bazaar around 1.30 am when they noticed some activity in the ATM kiosk of Axis Bank.Lal, who went inside the kiosk, found that two unidentified persons were trying to break open the ATM. When he tried to nab them, one of the miscreants fired at him, injuring his arm, said the SSP. Following this, the duo fled the spot. Soni said Lal has been admitted to PGI, Chandigarh, and was out of danger. He said the police have initiated probe to nab the miscreants. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/home-guards-jawan-shot-at-359813
10-01-2022||Muktsar||93 Muktsar couples await Rs 50K inter-caste marriage grant||The state elections are scheduled to be held on February 14 and the Congress government had announced a number of freebies before the model code of conduct came into force, but the beneficiaries of the inter-caste marriage scheme are still awaiting the benefits since 2014. Under the scheme, a total of 93 couples in Muktsar are awaiting the benefit of Rs 50,000 each.The central and state governments had introduced the inter-caste marriage benefit scheme to abolish caste consciousness and untouchability by contributing money on 50:50 basis. Under the scheme, Rs 30,000 cheque is given to the beneficiary and the remaining Rs 20,000 is given in the form of national saving certificate. Initially, Rs 25,000 was fixed, which was doubled to Rs 50,000 in 2011. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/93-couples-await-50k-inter-caste-marriage-grant-359814
10-01-2022||---||Ex-minister Sher Singh Gagowal’s grandson eyes Congress ticket from Maur||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, January 9Former minister Sher Singh Gagowal’s grandson Maninder Singh Sekhon recently held a show of strength by organising a rally in Maur Mandi. Sekhon’s supporters urged the Congress high command to give him a party ticket from here.While addressing the gathering, Sekhon said sarpanches and workers had increased the number of votes in Bathinda parliamentary constituency of Congress candidate Amrinder Singh Raja Warring during the 2019 General Elections by nearly 5,600 votes, but some leaders insulted them as well.This is the first time that the sarpanches affiliated to the Congress had to stage a dharna in their own government, said Sekhon.Sekhon said whether he gets the ticket or not, he would at the service of people in Maur Assembly segment.Gamdur Singh, a former sarpanch, said Gagowal family has been associated with the Congress from three generations and has always supported party activists.He said those who had left the Congress to join the Shiromani Akali Dal have been asking for the party ticket today.A few days ago, Gagowal’s daughter-in-law Gurpreet Kaur Gagowal had held a rally and sought a Congress ticket from Mansa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-ministers-kin-eyes-cong-ticket-from-maur-359816
10-01-2022||Muktsar||No poll rally on Maghi in Muktsar||As the Election Commission has banned all political gatherings till January 15, this year there will be no political rally on Maghi here.Last year, too, no major political outfit had held its Maghi rally. However, the Bharti Kisan Union (Sidhupur), under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha, had held a programme on Malout Road here. Notably, the Maghi Mela is held every year on January 14 (a day after Lohri) to commemorate the 40 ‘Muktas’ (liberated ones) who laid down their lives while fighting the last battle of Sikhs against the Mughals in 1705 here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-poll-rally-on-maghi-359817
10-01-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Rajasansi: Fewer flights fuel joblessness||Reduction in the number of flights as a fallout of the Covid-19 induced restrictions considerably brought down job opportunities for skilled and unskilled people of this assembly constituency that houses Sri Guru Ramdas Jee International airport.Past trendCongress’ sitting MLA Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria has a stronghold on the constituency. He has won the last three Assembly elections in 2007, 2012 and 2017. Before him, Akali leader Vir Singh Lopoke had twice won the seat in 1997 and 2002.Electorate strengthTotal voters - 1,70,089Male - 89,711Female - 80,369Third gender - 9Locals’ key demandsThey are getting employment as loaders, electrician, safai karmacharis and others at the airport, but their wages have been reduced due to insufficient number of flights. Also, the carpet-weaving industry that had taken the shape of a cottage industry no longer interests youth here.So, the overall unemployment has increased, giving rise to addiction and crimes, especially vehicle thefts. The police neither have will nor resources to prevent these. For commoners, getting their complaints registering is an onerous task.Besides, residents have been demanding laying of inter-locking tiles, sewerage and installation of streetlights for the past five years. They also rue several small bridges on canals without safety grills which could cause accidents during the foggy winter season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fewer-flights-fuel-joblessness-359819
10-01-2022||New Delhi||Punjab Assembly polls: SAD-BSP will emerge victorious, claims Mayawati||A day after the EC announced the schedule for Assembly elections in five states, BSP chief Mayawati on Sunday threw down the gauntlet to her adversaries, mainly in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh.In a statement in Lucknow, she expressed confidence that the SAD-BSP alliance led by Sukbir Singh Badal would emerge victorious. She said Sukbir had the “blessings” of his father Parkash Singh Badal. “The formation of the SAD-BSP government will be the fulfilment of Kanshi Ram’s dream,” Mayawati said. The late Dalit leader was a native of Punjab and founder member of the BSP.With regard to Uttar Pradesh, Mayawati claimed all poll surveys projecting the contest between the BJP and SP by keeping the BSP out of the equation would fall flat as was the case in 2007.“People of UP, including Dalits, minorities and weaker sections, will vote for BSP and make it victorious,” she said. — TNSSetback to UP cong, ex-MLA Imran to join SPThe Congress is bracing for a setback in UP with former MLA and sitting AICC secretary Imran Masood set to join SP with supporters this week. Masood, who was arrested in 2014 for hate speech against then BJP PM candidate Narendra Modi ahead of LS poll, on Sunday said he would take a call on Monday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/assembly-polls-2022-sad-bsp-will-emerge-victorious-claims-maya-359827
10-01-2022||---||Why brief Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on security lapse, BJP asks Punjab CM Channi||New Delhi, January 9The BJP on Sunday questioned Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi for discussing the issue of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security breach in Ferozepur on January 5 with Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra asking whether she held any constitutional authority to be apprised of the sensitive matter.“A sitting CM briefs Priyanka on the PM’s security! Why?” BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra asked today. He further queried what constitutional post Priyanka held.“Who’s she to be kept in the loop regarding PM’s security?” Patra asked.Earlier, CM Channi had said he had constituted a probe committee on the PM security lapse after conversation in this regard with Congress president Sonia Gandhi.Top Congress sources on Sunday denied any conversation between CM Channi and Sonia and said the CM spoke only to Priyanka. The BJP questioned the propriety of a CM discussing the PM’s security issue with his party’s general secretary.What constitutional post does she hold?What constitutional post does Priyanka Gandhi hold and who’s she to be kept in the loop regarding PM’s security? — Sambit Patra, BJP spokesperson||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/why-brief-priyanka-on-security-lapse-bjp-asks-punjab-cm-channi-359820
10-01-2022||---||US to probe attack on Sikh taxi driver||New Delhi, January 9The US said it was committed to investigating a possible case of hate-based violence in which a Sikh taxi driver was assaulted at the JFK International Airport.“We all have a responsibility to hold perpetrators of hate crimes accountable for their actions, no matter where such crimes occur,” said the US State Department in a statement.An undated 26-second video uploaded on January 4 purportedly shows a man assaulting the Sikh taxi driver outside what appears to be JFK International Airport.The Indian mission in New York has already urged the US authorities to investigate the incident. “The assault against a Sikh taxi driver in New York is deeply disturbing. We have taken up the matter with the US authorities and urged them to investigate this violent incident,” said the Consulate General of India in New York.The US State Department’s Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs (SCA) said in a social media post that it was “deeply disturbed” by reports of an apparent attack on a Sikh cab driver at the JFK Airport, captured on video last week. “Our diversity makes the US stronger and we condemn any form of hate-based violence,” it said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/us-to-probe-attack-on-sikh-taxi-driver-359804
10-01-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Punjab poll 2022: Leaders rush to Dera Sacha Sauda to seek 'blessings'||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, January 9A day after the announcement of elections in Punjab, several BJP, Congress, AAP and SAD leaders were seen at a congregation of Dera Sacha Sauda followers at Salabatpura, Bathinda, on Sunday to seek “blessings”. Among them were Harjit Grewal and Surjit Jyani of the BJP; minister Vijay Inder Singla, former minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, former MLAs Harmander Jassi and Mangat Rai Bansal of the Congress; AAP’s Bathinda (Urban) candidate Jagroop Gill; and SAD candidate from Dirba Gulzar Singh.The leaders tried to downplay their visit, claiming there was nothing political about it. Significantly, dera’s political affairs committee chairman Ram Singh and state committee members were at the function too.The dera authorities are keeping their cards close to their chest, saying they would announce support to parties or candidates at the “appropriate” time.However, sources said the dera was unlikely to announce support for any party. Its strategy would be to back certain candidates on specific seats. Talking to The Tribune, dera spokesperson Harcharan Singh said, “It was a religious event. There was nothing political about it. Today’s congregation was in memory of dera’s second head Shah Satnam. However, the followers are angry over the implication of their head in sacrilege cases.”The dera can influence the election outcome in about 40 constituencies in Malwa. It has 84 branches in Punjab, 11 of these, including the biggest at Salabatpura, in Bathinda district. Therefore, leaders of Malwa have begun to reach out to the dera followers. A pink robe worn by Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh during a congregation at Salabatpura on May 13, 2007, had triggered a row. He was accused of ‘imitating’ Guru Gobind Singh. Influence in MalwaWooing supportCong: Minister Vijay Inder Singla, former minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, ex-MLAs Harmander Jassi and Mangat Rai BansalBJP: Harjit Singh Grewal, former state minister Surjit JyaniAAP: Jagroop Singh Gill, Bathinda (Urban) candidateSAD: Gulzar Singh, Dirba candidate||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/punjab-poll-2022-leaders-rush-to-dera-to-seek-blessings-359772
10-01-2022||---||Veer Baal Diwas in memory of Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh: PM Modi||New Delhi, January 9Prime Minister Narendra Modi today announced his government’s decision to mark December 26 as Veer Baal Diwas in memory of the sons of Guru Gobind Singh every year.Also read: 'Veer Baal Diwas' evokes mixed responseVeer Baal Diwas: PM Modi has special affection for Punjab, says BJPPaying rich tribute to the 10th Sikh Guru on the occasion of Parkash Purb today, Modi said, “Today on the auspicious occasion of Parkash Purb of Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ji, I am honoured to share that starting this year, December 26 shall be marked as ‘Veer Baal Diwas’. This is a fitting tribute to the courage of the Sahibzadas and their quest for justice.”He said, “The Guru’s life and message give strength to millions of people. I will always cherish the fact that our government got the opportunity to mark his 350th Parkash Utsav.”The PM shared on Twitter some glimpses from his visit to Patna at that time. Earlier, the PM had announced the decision to repeal three farm laws on November 19, birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev.Punjab will go to the polls on February 14.Name airports after gurus: SGPCI urge the PM to name airports after Sikh Gurus to commemorate their sacrifices. — KS Panjoli, SGPC secy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/pm-veer-baal-diwas-in-memory-of-sahibzadas-359769
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Sanyukt Samaj Morcha leader Rajewal rules out alliance with AAP||Sanyukt Samaj Morcha leader Balbir Singh Rajewal on Sunday ruled out an alliance with the Aam Aadmi Party for next month’s Punjab Assembly polls and said they will declare their candidates within a week. Various Punjab farmer bodies who had taken part in the stir against the Centre’s now withdrawn farm laws had launched their political front last month and announced to contest the Assembly polls.The Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) leaders on Sunday held talks with farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni, who had launched the Sanyukt Sangharsh Party to contest the polls. Addressing the media here, Rajewal said the Morcha will not have a tie-up with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).He termed as “baseless” the suggestions that his political front wanted 60 seats while AAP offered only 10.Asked if they will tie-up with any other party, Rajewal said, “We will see when the time comes.”   The leader said the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha has formed three committees, scrutiny committee for shortlisting of candidates, parliamentary board and a manifesto committee. “We will come out with our first list of candidates in two-three days and within a week, all candidates will be announced,” said Rajewal.Asked if only farmers will be the contestants, Rajewal said the candidates will be from every section of society, including the Scheduled Castes community and traders.Chaduni, who is the chief of the Haryana BKU (Chaduni), held a meeting with the SSM leaders and said he has decided not to announce candidates of his party.              His outfit has halted the announcement of 10 candidates which it wanted to field, Chaduni told reporters here referring to his talks with the SSM.Asked if there were any talks with them on seat sharing, he said, “As things progress, we will let you know.”       Asked if he could merge his outfit with the SSM, Chaduni said it is premature to comment on this.Asked about the meeting with Chaduni, Rajewal said the SSM has formed a committee, which will go into what is their requirement and accordingly a decision will be taken.“How many tickets they want, how many we can give, this will be decided by the committee,” said Rajewal.To a question on the PM’s security lapse in Ferozepur, Rajewal said farmers were not involved in it and demanded that security agencies should probe in this regard. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-sanyukt-samaj-morcha-leader-rajewal-rules-out-alliance-with-aap-359721
10-01-2022||---||'Veer Baal Diwas' to be observed on December 26 as tribute to Guru Gobind Singh's sons||New Delhi, January 9Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday announced the government decision to mark December 26 as Veer Bal Diwas in the memory of Guru Gobind Singh’s sons.Paying rich tributes to the tenth Sikh Guru on the occasion of Parkash Purab on Sunday, the Prime Minister said: “Today, on the auspicious occasion of the Parkash Purab of Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ji, I am honoured to share that starting this year, 26th December shall be marked as ‘Veer Baal Diwas.’ This is a fitting tribute to the courage of the Sahibzades and their quest for justice.”The Prime Minister also greeted people on the Parkash Purab of Guru Gobind Singh and said, “His life and message give strength to millions of people. I will always cherish the fact that our government got the opportunity to mark his 350th Parkash Utsav.”The Prime Minister also shared on Twitter some glimpses from his visit to Patna at that time.Earlier, the Prime Minister had announced the decision to repeal farm laws on November 19, the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev.Punjab is due for Assembly elections and will vote on February 14 to elect a new government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/veer-baal-diwas-to-be-observed-on-december-26-as-tribute-to-guru-gobind-singhs-sons-359628
10-01-2022||New York||Attack on Sikh cabbie 'deeply disturbing', says Indian Consulate in New York; takes up matter with US authorities||Terming the assault on a Sikh taxi driver at the JFK International Airport as “deeply disturbing”, India’s Consulate General here said that it has taken up the matter with the US authorities and urged them to investigate the incident.“The assault against a Sikh taxi driver in New York is deeply disturbing. We have taken up the matter with US authorities and urged them to investigate this violent incident,” the Consulate General of India in New York tweeted on Saturday. An undated 26-second video uploaded by Navjot Pal Kaur on Twitter on January 4, showed a man assaulting the Sikh taxi driver outside the airport.Kaur said in a tweet that the video was shot by a bystander at the airport.The person can be heard allegedly using expletives against the victim. He repeatedly hits and punches him and knocks off his turban.“This video was taken by a bystander at John F. Kennedy International Airport. I do not own the rights to this video. But I just wanted to highlight the fact that hatred continues to remain in our society and unfortunately, I’ve seen Sikh cab drivers get assaulted again and again,” Kaur tweeted. Further details about the driver or the cause of the incident were not available.The video has led to angry reactions by the community members. “Another Sikh cab driver assaulted. This one at JFK Airport in NYC. So upsetting to see. But it’s crucial that we don’t look away… What I am sure of is how painful it is to watch our fathers and elders get assaulted while they’re just trying to live an honest life.“For those who aren’t Sikh, I can’t put into words what it means to have your turban knocked off — or to see someone else’s turban knocked off. It’s visceral and gut-wrenching and just so disheartening to witness,” Simran Jeet Singh, author and Director for the Aspen Institute’s Inclusive America Project, tweeted.The National Sikh Campaign said, “We are only a few days into the new year and there has already been a hate crime committed against a Sikh. A bystander recorded an unidentified man attacking a Sikh taxi driver, ultimately knocking off the driver’s turban.”                “No additional details have been released outside of the video, but we know this story too well. A Sikh person goes about their daily lives only to be senselessly attacked by someone. Common road rage between people can escalate when someone who is ignorant of who we are takes their disdain for our turbans and becomes violent,” it said.This is not the first time a Sikh taxi driver has been assaulted in the US.An Indian-origin Sikh Uber driver was in 2019 assaulted and racially abused in the US state of Washington in a suspected hate crime.The driver told the police that he believes his race promoted the attack.In 2017, a 25-year-old Sikh cab driver in New York was assaulted and his turban knocked off by drunk passengers. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/diaspora/attack-on-sikh-cabbie-deeply-disturbing-says-indian-consulate-in-new-york-takes-up-matter-with-us-authorities-359582
