12-01-2022||Chandigarh||10 more Covid deaths in Punjab, 6,481 new cases||Ten more people died of Covid-19 in Punjab on Wednesday, while 6,481 fresh cases pushed the tally to 6,36,243, a medical bulletin stated.Three deaths were reported from Patiala, two from Hoshiarpur and one each from Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka, Jalandhar and Ludhiana. The toll size rose to 16,702.The number of active cases jumped to 26,781 from 23,235 on Tuesday. The positivity rate was 18.77 per cent.Of the fresh cases, Mohali reported 974 infections, followed by 906 in Patiala, 724 in Ludhiana, 654 in Jalandhar and 571 in Hoshiarpur.A total 290 patients are on oxygen support while 12 critical patients are on ventilator support, as per the bulletin.A total of 2,788 people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have recovered to 5,92,760, it said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-more-covid-deaths-in-punjab-6-481-new-cases-360719
12-01-2022||Mohali||EC issues notice to AAP for code of conduct violation||The Election Commission of India issued notice to the Aam Admi Party (AAP) on Wednesday for breach of model code of conduct during their door-to-door campaign.A notice from Kharar’s Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Abhikesh Gupta, who serves as the area’s Returning Officer (RO), asks the party to explain their stance. The party has 24 hours to respond.  The Election Commission of India has limited door-to-door canvassing to five people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ec-issues-notice-to-aap-for-code-of-conduct-violation-360710
12-01-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Torn pages of Gutka Sahib found in Bhawanigarh, police register FIR||Sangrur, January 12After finding torn pages of religious book Gutka Sahib (containing Gurbani) on Naraingarh road from the fields of Bhattiwal Kalan at a religious place, Bhawanigarh, police have registered a case against unidentified persons and started investigations.As per information, some residents informed that there was a religious place “Shaheeda Di Samadh” in the fields of Bhattiwal Kalan village on Naraingarh road. On Wednesday when residents reached there, they found that from one Gutka Sahib, all pages were missing, from second Gutka Sahib pages were scattered and torn while third book was safe.“Residents should not place religious books without proper security. Such incidents are happening repeatedly as there is no fear of police among criminals. Cops must arrest the accused at the earliest,” said Harjinder Majhi, president of Darbar E Khalsa organisations.Bhawanigarh SHO Pardeep Singh Bajwa said they had registered a case under Sections 295, 457, 380 of the IPC against unidentified persons.“We suspect that the accused had come for theft as locks were also found broken and the accused also tried to break Golak. We are conducting a thorough investigation,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/torn-pages-of-gutka-sahib-found-in-bhawanigarh-police-register-fir-360706
12-01-2022||Aparna Banerji||Majithia media advisor & Damdami Taksal spokesperson Prof Sarchand joins BJP||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 12Media Advisor of SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia and Spokesperson of the Damdami Taksal and  Prof Sarchand Singh, along with five other prominent SAD leaders, today joined the BJP in the presence of Union cabinet minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat at the party’s main election office in Jalandhar.This comes as a major setback for the SAD days ahead of the 2022 elections. The leaders have joined the party days after SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia was granted bail in the ongoing drugs case - for which an FIR had been lodged against him.Along with central Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Sekhawat, union cabinet minister Som Parkash, Lok Sabha MP Hans Raj Hans, BJP’s state general secretary Jeevan Gupta among others were also present on the occasion.Notably, while the recent declaration of the Prime Minister to observe December 26 as “Veer Baal Diwas” was widely condemned by various Sikh bodies, Damdami Taksal was one of the few  prominent Sikh organisations, which hailed the decision even as the SGPC itself condemned it. Head of the Damadami Taksal, Baba Harnam Singh Dhumma, had hailed the decision. Prof Sarchand is also the press secretary of Baba Harnam Singh. The Damdami Taksal is a Sikh educational organisation and a prominent voice on panthic issues in the state, which was once headed by Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale.Among other SAD leaders who joined the BJP today include Didar Singh Bhatti former MLA and 10-year Halka Incharge Fatehgarh Sahib and his son Gurvinder SIngh Bhatti, member of the current core group of the Shiromani Kali Dal; Akali leader Sardar Satwant Singh Mohi, former MLA; Rajpal Chauhan, President, SAD Sports Wing and Amritpal Singh Dalli, Zone President Student Organisation of India Shiromani Akali Dal. Dalli is grandnephew of recently expelled senior Akali leader Mohinder Kaur Josh. Josh is three-times MLA from Sham Chaurasi. Dalli is the son of Josh’s sister. All these leaders are members of the Shiromani Akali Dal. Some of them had been miffed with the SAD after recent ticket denials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/majithia-media-advisor-damdami-taksal-spokesperson-prof-sarchand-joins-bjp-360698
12-01-2022||---||974 new Covid-19 cases in Mohali||Mohali, January 12As many as 974 new Covid-19 cases were reported from the Mohali district on Wednesday.A total of 399 persons have recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours.Among the new cases, 394 were from Mohali urban, 254 were from Dhakoli, 177 from Kharar, 45 from Banur, 44 from Gharuan, 23 from Boothgarh, 16 each from Lalru and Dera Bassi and five from Kurali.The total positive case cases in the district are 74,065, of which 68,624 have recovered. The active cases are 4,363. The death toll in the district stands at 1,078.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/974-new-covid-19-cases-in-mohali-360692
12-01-2022||---||Punjab polls: Sanyukt Samaj Morcha releases first list, Balbir Rajewal to contest from Samrala||Chandigarh, January 12Sanyukt Samaj Morcha on Wednesday released its first list of 10 candidates for the coming Punjab Assembly elections.SSM leader Balbir Singh Rajewal will contest from Samrala and Prem Singh Bhangu from Ghanair.The SSM has ruled out alliance with Aam Aadmi Party and has decided to go it alone.Various Punjab farmer bodies who had taken part in the stir against the Centre’s now withdrawn farm laws had launched their political front last month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-sanyukt-samaj-morcha-releases-first-list-balbir-rajewal-to-contest-from-samrala-360678
12-01-2022||London||British Indian author reinvents Princess Sophia Duleep Singh for kids||Princess Sophia Duleep Singh deserves more attention as a role model for young girls in Britain, says British Indian author Suifya Ahmed about her new children’s book on the granddaughter of Maharaja Ranjit Singh and goddaughter of Queen Victoria.‘My Story: Princess Sophia Duleep Singh’, released this month, is intended to complement Britain’s school curriculum for nine to 13-year-olds around the country’s suffragette movement as it celebrates the royal’s tireless campaign for women’s right to vote.Ahmed felt a gap in the knowledge about this inspiring historical figure during school workshops, where she encountered very little awareness about Sophia Duleep Singh among not only pupils but also teachers.“I wanted to change that and so I wrote her story for children. Sophia’s story is inspirational because she puts the cause she believes in ahead of herself,” Ahmed told PTI.“Sophia believed in a woman’s right to vote. She stood up for what she believed in and played a role in a defining historical event of the 20th century,” she said.Sophia Duleep Singh was the daughter of Maharaja Duleep Singh – the last maharaja of the Sikh Empire and the youngest son of Ranjit Singh. He was famously exiled to England as a little boy during colonial rule and grew up in the midst of the British royal family, based at Elveden Hall in Norfolk, eastern England.As a young woman in the early 1900s, Sophia was introduced to the Women’s Social and Political Union and threw herself into efforts to campaign for women’s right to vote, using her position as a princess to bring publicity to the movement.From selling newspapers to protesting outside Parliament, Sophia was actively engaged in the suffragette cause. Her activism extended to the First World War, during which she tended to wounded Indian soldiers.“When I first heard about Princess Sophia, I was sad for that younger me who was always interested in women’s rights and who always felt like I was looking into someone else’s history. When really, it was my history too,” said Ahmed, whose familial roots are in Surat, Gujarat.“Sophia was a woman who looked like me in the suffragette movement and knowing about her when I was a schoolgirl would have made a huge difference to my sense of belonging in this country. These are role models who contributed to Britain,” she said.The London-based author has also written a similar children’s story about Noor Inayat Khan, a descendant of Mysore ruler Tipu Sultan who lost her life behind Nazi enemy lines in France during World War II as a British spy.“There are so many women from Indian history that we need to celebrate. I would love to write a book on Queen Laxmi of Jhansi, Razia Sultan, Nur Jahan... All wonderfully empowered women whose stories should be more widely known,” said Ahmed.For the moment, however, the author’s focus is on a fictional tale entitled ‘Rosie Raja – Churchill’s Spy’.“It is a thrilling and empowering World War II adventure about the French Resistance and their British allies, with a determined, mixed-race heroine,” the author said, of her next book to be published soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/diaspora/british-indian-author-reinvents-princess-sophia-duleep-singh-for-kids-360673
12-01-2022|| Chandigarh||Congress should declare Punjab CM face as such moves in past helped it reap poll gains: Charanjit Singh Channi||With polls in Punjab a month away, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi feels that the Congress should declare its chief ministerial candidate, pointing out that doing so in the past has helped the party reap electoral gains.Channi's statement has come at a time when opposition parties have targeted the Congress, saying it has many chief ministerial aspirants including its state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu and party leader Sunil Jakhar.AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said his party's chief ministerial face for the Punjab Assembly polls will be announced next week.It is likely that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) may declare its MP Bhagwant Mann as the chief ministerial candidate.Replying to a question on the chief ministerial candidate for the February 14 polls, Channi said the decision has to be taken by the party.Asked should the Congress declare its candidate for the 2022 Punjab assembly election because going by the past trend sometimes the party makes such announcement and sometimes not and last time they had declared Amarinder Singh as CM candidate, Channi replied, "Last time when they had declared Capt (as CM's face) we won and previous time the (CM) candidate was not declared we lost and before that when they gave (CM candidate) we won and when they did not declare candidate we lost" "This time they should give (declare the CM candidate). (Navjot) Sidhu is also saying that they should declare," Channi said in an interview to a news channel.Meanwhile, to another question during his interview, Channi claimed that "it will be a one-sided sweep" by the Congress. "We will win the election with an overwhelming majority".He said he received lots of love and respect from the people of the state.To a question on a survey claiming he was ahead of others in popularity ratings, Channi said then it will mean more seats in Congress's favour.When asked if the AAP declares its chief ministerial candidate and names party MP Bhagwant Mann then the popularity of the parliamentarian may soar, Channi said then the same logic will work for him as well.At the same time, Channi said neither Mann nor he has been declared as chief ministerial candidates by their respective parties.Asked if his party should declare him as the chief ministerial candidate, Channi replied, "I have never thought about such things. The last time when Partap Singh Bajwa was the state unit chief, I was standing with him against Capt (Amarinder). But going by the voice of people at that time, I told Rahul Gandhi that Capt should be declared candidate and he should be made CM as people are in his favour. They (party) conducted a survey and people wanted him (Amarinder). This time whom people like they will tell and the party will go by that".The Congress is yet to announce its CM's face for the next month's polls. If Congress retains power in Punjab, where it faces infighting, Charanjit Singh Channi, appointed the CM after the ouster of Amarinder Singh, is also being seen as a strong contender.To another question, Channi said the people are happy with the decisions taken by his government which are aimed at the welfare of various sections.He also pointed out that people like a leader who is accessible and grounded.He said that despite a short time of over 100 days which he got before the Model Code of Conduct came into force, he has worked hard to ensure that his government's decisions made a difference in the lives of common people.People elect MLAs and in Punjab, they will choose their chief minister as well, not the Congress "high command", the party's state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu had asserted on Tuesday.Sidhu had made the sharp retort amid speculation that the former cricketer is himself eyeing the top post if the Congress wins the next month's assembly polls."The people of Punjab will make the CM. Who told you that the high command will make the CM?" he had shot back at a reporter while answering a question on the party's possible pick for the post. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-should-declare-punjab-cm-face-as-such-moves-in-past-helped-it-reap-poll-gains-charanjit-singh-channi-360670
12-01-2022||---||Capt Amarinder Singh tests positive for Covid||Chandigarh, January 12Former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday tested positive for Covid."I have tested positive for #Covid with mild symptoms. Have isolated myself and request all those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested," Capt wrote on twitter. I have tested positive for #Covid with mild symptoms. Have isolated myself and request all those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested.  The 79-year-old leader had recently formed the Punjab Lok Congress. A few days ago, Singh's wife and Congress MP from Patiala, Preneet Kaur had tested positive for the infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-tests-positive-for-covid-360631
12-01-2022||Neeraj Bagga||Dream of over 37K contractual staff dashed in Punjab||Amritsar, January 11With the Model Code of Conduct coming into force on January 8, the long-cherished dream of over 37,000 contractual employees working in the state government as well as in the state-owned boards and corporations was dashed.After change of guard in the state, we were very hopeful of our job regularisation like nearly 7,500 contractual workers employed with Punbus and PRTC across the state. However, CM Channi paid only a lip-service. Kuljit Singh, a Punbus employeeThese employees are once again feeling cheated and found the Charanjit Singh Channi government no different from its predecessors. The agenda for the regularisation of their services have been debated in Cabinet meetings since September, raising hopes of these employees and their families.Seeking anonymity, a qualified youngster working as a Patwari on a monthly salary of Rs9,200 said they were being exploited by none other than the state. Citing the example of 1,766 retired Patwaris re-employed at Rs25,000, he said they were highly underpaid. Regularisation has become a far-fetched dream. About 8,000 posts of Patwari were lying vacant in the state and people were facing hardships due to the non-availability of officials. Yet the government was reluctant in filling all these posts. The government advertised 1,090 posts of Patwari last year, which elicited response from 2.33 lakh applicants.Kuljit Singh, working as a cashier on a contractual basis with Punbus for the past over 12 years, said his hope for regularisation were high like nearly 7,500 contractual workers employed with Punbus and PRTC across the state, after change of guard in the state. However, CM Channi paid only lip service.Jagroop Singh, a member of the BEd, TET Pass Union, says qualified youth have been the biggest sufferers of the policies of successive governments.“Our parents paid through their noses to foot the bills of our education. Instead of helping the aged parents, we continue to be dependent on them,” he said.The firebrand BJP leader Lakshmi Kanta Chawla said during the 111-day rule of CM Channi, he had been repeatedly saying about the regularisation of the staff. He got his photographs pasted on advertisements, billboards and flew in chartered flights thanks to the public exchequer. She said contemporary Punjabi youth was undergoing tremendous mental stress, agony and their families were also stressed. She called upon the electorate of CM Channi’s constituency to not vote in his favour as he lied to youth, like his predecessors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dream-of-over-37k-contractual-staff-dashed-360549
12-01-2022||Jupinderjit Singh||Money, muscle influence Punjab polls: Report||Chandigarh, January 11Candidates with muscle and money power have emerged victorious more than the others in the Punjab elections since 2004, says an exhaustive report released by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) and Punjab Election Watch in Chandigarh on Tuesday.Against the average assets of Rs 3.5 crore declared by the candidates since 2004, the average assets of the elected MPs and MLAs stood at Rs 11.42 crore, showing the influence of money.Among major parties, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) tops the chart of candidates facing criminal cases, while overall the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) has the highest ratio of such candidates. In the party-wise breakup, the report shows that 56 (14%) out of 406 candidates who have contested on Congress ticket have criminal cases against them.As many as 71 (22%) of 325 candidates who contested on SAD ticket since 2004, eight (10%) of 83 BJP candidates, 15 (11%) of 142 AAP candidates, five (45%) of 11 LIP candidates and 104 (9%) of 1,175 Independent candidates have declared criminal cases.The organisations have analysed election affidavits of 3,547 candidates and 413 MLAs/MPs fielded during the Vidhan Sabha and Parliament elections between 2004 and 2019. As per the report, 385 (11%) of the total 3,547 candidates and 69 (17%) of 413 MPs/MLAs declared criminal cases against themselves since 2004. Of these, 223 (6%) candidates and 32 (8%) MPs or MLAs had serious criminal cases against them.The average assets declared by these candidates were Rs 3.5 crore and the average assets of the elected MPs and MLAs stood at Rs 11.42 crore.ADR trustee Jaskirat Singh said: “The average assets of 385 candidates with declared criminal cases is Rs 6.62 crore. Of these, with serious criminal cases is Rs 7.27 crore, while the figure is Rs 18 crore if we look at winning MPs and MLAs with criminal cases and Rs 26.69 crore for MPs and MLAs with serious criminal cases.”About party-wise criminal cases among elected MPs/ MLAs, the report shows that 29 (15%) out of 195 MPs/MLAs of Congress have declared criminal cases against themselves. Twenty-nine (20%) out of 142 MPs/MLAs elected on SAD ticket since 2004, four (10%) of 42 BJP MPs/MLAs, three (13%) of 24 AAP MPs/MLAs, both LIP MPs/MLAs and two (25%) of eight Independent MPs/MLAs have declared criminal cases.Talking about winnability of candidates with tainted past, Parvinder Singh Kittna of Punjab Election Watch said: “The analysis shows that there are only 11% chances of winning an election for those with a clean record, which is 18% for those with criminal record.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/money-muscle-influence-polls-report-360456
12-01-2022||---||Ready to contest against Navjot Sidhu: Bikram Majithia||Chandigarh, January 11A day after getting an interim anticipatory bail in a drug smuggling case, former minister and senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia said he was open to contesting the Assembly election against PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu or any Congress leader if the people of Punjab and his party leadership asked him to.CM ‘hatched’ security threat conspiracyThe PM’s security threat conspiracy was hatched at the CM's residence with the CM and Home Minister being prime conspirators. — Bikram Singh Majithia, Senior Akali LeaderAddressing a press conference here today, Majithia said it was wrong to say he feared arrest and had run away. “I was not in hiding and the Congress leaders who got the false case registered against me knew about my whereabouts all these days,” he claimed.Majithia claimed senior ministers of the Congress government as well as leaders of the BJP and AAP had reached out to him and even visited his residence saying he had been wronged. “I express my gratitude to them,” he said.Thanking the judiciary, his party and supporters for the relief from the High Court, Majithia said he would join the probe on Wednesday and clear his name.Asked if his party would punish Congress leaders for a “false” case against him if the Akalis returned to power, Majithia said only time would tell who suffered or not. “I was targeted as part of a vendetta exercise by the Congress government and its top leadership,” he claimed.He alleged the CM and Home Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa held meetings on a daily basis to frame him in a false case. “The government even ran away from the PIL being heard on the issue of drug menace in the region to file a false case against me which was done on the orders of DGP S Chattopadhyaya who was brought in especially for this purpose,” claimed Majithia. The same DGP gave the clearance to “compromise” the safety of PM Narendra Modi during his Punjab visit, he alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ready-to-contest-against-sidhu-majithia-360458
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Akali-BJP pact intact: Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa||Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa today said by eulogising PM Narendra Modi and the BJP, Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia had proved the Akali-BJP were hand in glove.In a statement, Randhawa said by praising the BJP, Majithia had made it clear the Akali-BJP pact was still intact and the Akalis’ gimmick on the farm laws was aimed at misleading people.Randhawa reminded Majithia he was not a “freedom fighter” and was facing serious charges of drug smuggling. He said the Akali leader seemed to have forgotten the court had not yet exonerated him. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akali-bjp-pact-intact-randhawa-360459
12-01-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||Strong e-presence will give AAP edge in Punjab polls: Raghav Chadha||Chandigarh, January 11The “new-age” Aam Aadmi Party sees itself at a great political advantage because of its strong digital presence in the wake of the recent Covid-induced guidelines of virtual campaigning by the Election Commission.Chadha Files defamation suitChandigarh: Raghav Chadha (in pic) has filed a criminal defamation case in Delhi against a Patiala resident, Saurabh Jain, for attempting to harm his “goodwill and reputation in the eyes of citizenry of Punjab and NCT of Delhi”. It has been alleged Jain “has been issuing interviews on various media outlets, wherein false and fabricated allegations are levelled against Chadha with the mala fide objective of intimidating and harassing him”. Jain has been accused of trying to “obtain unwarranted political mileage”. TNSKejri’s Two-day visit from todayWhile Raghav Chadha refused to comment on the time for announcing the party’s CM face, sources say party supremo Arvind Kejriwal is expected to announce Bhagwant Mann as their face during his two-day visit from Wednesday.“This helps us in our voter outreach, considering that at least three of the other four political outfits in the election fray are lagging far behind in their digital outreach initiatives. But, it may lead to a repeat of the 2017 Assembly polls, when other parties joined hands and transferred their votes to the Congress in a calculated manner to hurt AAP’s political prospects,” Raghav Chadha, co-incharge of party’s affairs for the state, told The Tribune.“The only other party that can compete with the AAP on digital platforms is the BJP, but the saffron party is still finding it difficult to connect with voters in the rural constituencies in the wake of farm laws. All other parties, including the Congress and SAD, are controlled by the Prime Minister. Since the BJP has gauged that the people of Punjab are inimical towards it, it will try to repeat the strategy. However, this time, Punjabi voters, tired of the false promises of other parties, are keen on giving us a chance,” he said.“The Congress has failed on all fronts in the past five years. Though the security lapse during the PM’s visit is a matter of investigation, it does prove that maintaining law and order is the biggest failure of the Channi government,” he said.He accused the SAD and Congress of being hand in glove in all illegal “government-sanctioned businesses of sand, liquor, cable and transport”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/strong-e-presence-will-give-aap-edge-360460
12-01-2022||Morinda||After Sonu Sood's sister Malvika's entry, Moga MLA Dr Harjot Kamal meets Punjab CM||A day after the Congress inducted Malvika Sood, sister of Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, into the party fold, sitting party MLA Dr Harjot Kamal met Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi here today.The MLA reached here with a large number of supporters, including sarpanches, block samiti members, Mayor and councillors. He opposed the grant of ticket to Malvika, claiming that she could not match his working. “I have strengthened the party in the last few years,” he said.The CM said the party high command would look into the “winnability criteria” of the candidate before finalising the list.MLA Kamal said, “I will put up my case before the party high command strongly to get a renomination from Moga.”Sources said party policy makers offered him a ticket from Amargarh in Sangrur district but he was reluctant to take that offer. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-malvikas-entry-moga-mla-meets-cm-360461
12-01-2022||Moga||Moga: Efforts on to keep the flock together after Malvika Sood's entry into Congress||Amid speculations of a rebellion by the sitting Congress MLA Dr Harjot Kamal after the induction of Malvika Sood, efforts have been initiated by the Congress leadership to keep the flock together.Local leaders contacted many party members from the rural areas including sarpanches, panches and block samiti members, and brought them together at the new grain market in Moga city on Tuesday.MLA Dr Harjot Kamal, while talking to The Tribune, claimed, “More than 70 per cent of the panches, sarpanches and block samiti members are with me.”Meanwhile, senior Congress leader Dr Malti Thapar said it was just a matter of two-three days that all local leaders would toe the party line. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/efforts-on-to-keep-the-flock-together-360462
12-01-2022||New Delhi||Arvind Khanna, Gurcharan Singh Tohra's grandson Kanwarveer Singh join BJP||Former Congress MLA Arvind Khanna and three others from the state today joined the BJP. Khanna, a businessman and two-term former MLA, had not been much active politically after quitting the Congress a few years ago.Kanwarveer Singh Tohra, grandson of former SGPC president Gurcharan Singh Tohra, Gurdeep Singh Gosha, who was with the Akali Dal, and Dharamveer Sareen, a former councillor from Amritsar, also joined the saffron party. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/khanna-tohras-grandson-join-bjp-360463
12-01-2022||Aparna Banerji||Nakodar: Poor rail, road infra a bane||A dilapidated bus stand which has been declared unsafe, incomplete sewerage laying work, bad roads and traffic snarls sum up the story of the Nakodar constituency.Past trendThe last two terms saw consecutive wins for the SAD. SAD’s Gurpartap Wadala won both the 2012 and 2017 elections. From 1992 to 2007, the seat was with the Congress. From 1997, veteran Congress leader Amarjit Singh Samra had won three straight terms.Electorate strengthTotal voters - 1,93,655Male - 1,00,254Female -93,399Third gender - 2Locals’ key demandsA railway junction in the constituency has trains only up to Dhanbad, that too, via Ambala. Despite repeated appeals to the state government and the Centre, people’s demand of starting a railway line between Nakodar and Delhi is long-pending.Meanwhile, roads like the Murad Shah Road and the Kapurthala Road, which had been completed months ago, are already dotted with patchwork. Residents allege poor quality work done on the roads which were repaired just four or five months ago.A majority of Nakodar residents have to head to Jalandhar for both education and health facilities.Set up in 1983, the only Civil Hospital here is 50-bedded. While Nakodar recently got a 30-bedded mother and child care centre, residents say for the burgeoning population (currently nearly 4 lakh), at least a 100-bedded Civil Hospital was required.Meanwhile, the most definitive symbol of collapsing infrastructure in the area is its crumbling bus stand with poor water and sanitation arrangements.Other than this, traffic snarls, too, pose a big inconvenience to people on busy stretches like Ambedkar Chowk to Sabzi Mandi, Ambedkar Chowk to Dakkhani Adda, bus stand to Hoshiarpur road. With roads being encroached upon and traffic ever increasing, some busy routes sometimes see hour-long jams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poor-rail-road-infra-a-bane-360466
12-01-2022||---||New Jersey Senate condemns 1984 anti-Sikh riots||Amritsar/New Delhi, Jan 11The New Jersey Senate has passed a resolution condemning the 1984 anti-Sikh violence in India and termed it as genocide.Resolutions passed by other senatesEarlier, the California State Assembly in 2015 had passed a resolution, which recognised the “systematic and organised killings of Sikhs” in Delhi. In 2018, the Pennsylvania Assembly unanimously passed a resolution decrying the November 1984 anti-Sikh violence as genocide.“Yadwinder Singh, Pritpal Singh and Harpreet Singh of Sikh Caucus Committee appreciate the State Senate’s passing of this resolution,” said a statement from the Sikh Caucus. The move has also been hailed by the Sikh Coordination Committee East Coast and American Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee.The resolution was submitted by State Senator Stephen Sweeney and a Hindu member Veenu Gopal also voted in its favour.The resolution stated that the killings of Sikhs began on November 1, 1984, and lasted for three days in which Sikhs were brutally murdered in several states.Earlier, the California State Assembly in 2015 had passed a resolution which recognised the systematic and organised killings of Sikhs in Delhi. In 2018, the Pennsylvania Assembly unanimously passed a resolution decrying the November 1984 anti-Sikh violence as genocide.The New Jersey Resolution noted that many of the survivors of the Sikh killings eventually immigrated to the US and established large communities in places such as Fresno, Yuba City, Stockton, Fremont, Glenrock, Pine Hill, Carteret, New York City, and Philadelphia.The Sikh community in the US and New Jersey has recovered from the material damages of the genocide as they continue to keep the memory of those who were killed alive and will never forget the Sikh genocide, it said.Dr Pritpal Singh of the American Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee said: “The resolution recognises and condemns the state-sponsored violence that targeted Sikhs across India in 1984. It is an important and historic step towards justice, accountability, and reconciliation.”The resolution was sent to the US President and Vice-President and all elected officials of the US Senate of the US Congress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-jersey-senate-condemns-1984-riots-360467
12-01-2022||Vishav Bharti||Covid cases up 100 times in 2 weeks in Punjab||Chandigarh, January 11Punjab has witnessed almost 100 times increase in daily Covid cases in just two weeks.Going by Covid bulletins, the number of Covid cases remained static for almost five months between July and December. The state reported 46 cases on December 27. However, the cases increased to 167 on December 30 and after two days on January 2 they were 417. The number of cases reported on December 5 increased to 1,811. On January 8, the number of cases was 3,643. However, on Tuesday the state reported 4,593 cases and nine deaths. It is around 100 times increase in just two weeks.In district-wise break-up, Gurdaspur and Patiala reported two deaths each, Ludhiana, Moga, SAS Nagar, Pathankot and Bathinda reported one death each.As far as cases are concerned, Patiala topped the chart with 909 cases; followed by SAS Nagar 703; Ludhiana 678; Amritsar 455; Jalandhar 330 and Bathinda 233. Another concern for the state is high positivity rate, which has increased to 18.64 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cases-up-100-times-in-2-wks-360470
12-01-2022||Kulwinder Sandhu||Dharamkot: Plagued by drugs, illegal mining||Dharamkot is a rural-dominated Assembly constituency with 163 villages and two small townships — Dharamkot and Kot-ise-Khan — broadly spread along the Sutlej in Moga district. It does not have any historical significance in the state.Past trendSarwan Singh of the CPI won the seat in 1977 & 1980. While Cong’s Gurdev Gill wrested it in 1985, it went to BSP’s Baldev Bhatti in 1992. In 1997, 2002 & 2007, SAD’s Sheetal Singh became the MLA. In 2012, SAD’s Tota Singh emerged victorious.Electorate strengthTotal voters - 1,77,578Male -  94,141Female - 83,428Third gender - 9Locals’ key demandsThough the road network is good in all villages, the public transport facilities are poor. There is no rail link and no service of government buses in the villages. The three-wheelers, commonly known as ‘bhoonds’, are illegally plying on roads without any valid registration by the transport department. Although the Supreme Court in 2011 banned these ‘bhoonds’, the local officials have never taken legal action against them.The villages located in the Sutlej basin are often prone to floods during monsoon. Some villages are located inside the embankment of the river and crops are damaged during rains every year.The mining mafia has also made inroads into the constituency. Besides plundering the sand and minerals from the river belt, they have extracted sand from the fields of some local farmers by luring them with money, causing huge damage to the local environment. In some villages, heavily loaded tippers of sand have also damaged roads.Another big problem people are facing is the easy flow of drugs. Daulewala village, which is often referred to as the hub of drugs, falls under this constituency. More than 400 people of this village, including 50 women, have faced the charges of smuggling drugs during the past two decades. The illegal sale of illicit liquor is also common with the patronage of local politicians. Ranjit Singh of Fatehgarh Panchtoor village says remote rural areas need better education facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/plagued-by-drugs-illegal-mining-360471
12-01-2022||Ferozepur||Rs 110-cr heroin seized in Ferozepur district||The alert Border Security Force(BSF) jawans on Tuesday thwarted yet another attempt of Pakistan-based smugglers to push narcotics and ammunition inside the Indian territory and recovered 22-kg heroin worth Rs 110 crore in three separate incidents, besides a pistol, magazine and eight live cartridges.In the first incident, jawans belonging to the 103 Battalion recovered 10 packets of heroin weighing 19.375 kg. Along with heroin, the BSF recovered a pistol, magazine and eight cartridges. The contraband was estimated to be around Rs 100 crore.Sources said that the BSF jawans observed some suspicious movement ahead of the border fencing near the BOP Amarkot along the India-Pakistan border during the wee hours. Later, a search operation was carried out during which 10 packets wrapped in yellow packaging were recovered. Besides, the jawans also recovered 430 gram of opium.In another incident, the 116 Battalion recovered one packet of heroin weighing 1 kg near BOP Harbhajan while in the third incident, the jawans recovered 1-kg heroin near BOP Muthianwali. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/110-cr-heroin-seized-in-ferozepur-district-360472
12-01-2022||Abohar||Vendor hacked to death in Abohar||A was murdered by three youths, who attacked him with sharp-edged weapons. A case has been registered. The victim, who used to sell fruit juice, was attacked by the accused outside his house. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vendor-hacked-to-death-in-abohar-360473
12-01-2022||Aman Sood||Punjab elections: Traditional parties on sticky wicket||The general belief is one who captures the ‘Panthic’ Malwa belt, comprising 69 seats, usually forms the government in Punjab. In 2017, Malwa gave the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) a reason to dream of pulling off an unexpected victory, but it had to eventually content with 18 seats, with the remaining two seats in its kitty coming from elsewhere. The party is betting heavily on the southern Punjab belt to make further inroads into the state politics.The Malwa region comprises 15 districts — Ferozepur, Muktsar, Faridkot, Moga, Ludhiana, Malerkotla, Bathinda, Mansa, Sangrur, Patiala, Fatehgarh Sahib, SAS Nagar, Ropar, Barnala and Fazilka. This is the state’s biggest geographical region, also known as the cotton belt of Punjab.“Despite getting the district status, there is not much work at the ground level in Malerkotla due to poor implementation of government schemes. Apart from the drug menace and rising unemployment, the road infrastructure is in bad shape,” feels Naseem Anwar Khan, a resident. “Traditional parties in power for the past three decades have been unable to solve the water-logging problem. So change is inevitable,” he adds.In 2017, the SAD-BJP fared poorly in their traditional stronghold, winning just eight seats, while the Congress grabbed 40, enabling it to form the government. The repeal of the farm laws has brought about a sudden change, but it may not prove to be the “game-changer” for the BJP as its leaders are still not welcome in rural areas. Even industrialists are unhappy with Congress, as they feel ignored by the party in a bid to woo farmers.“Barring the urban belts of Ludhiana, Patiala, Mandi Gobindgarh, Bathinda and urban seats, the BJP and its allies will face a tough task seeking votes from the region, which lost over 150 farmers in the farm agitation,” says a senior police officer. “In industrial towns, Congress will face the same fate as farm unions were allowed a free run, blocking roads and causing losses to the industry,” he said.People are primarily unhappy with farmer suicides, rising incidents of cancer, inadequate drinking water, increasing sand prices, pest attack on cotton crop, growing unemployment and deteriorating law and order situation.“We do not have much hope from parties. The emergence of new parties has only added to the confusion, as all are making claims and counter-claims,” says Raman Kalajhar, a student leader. Experts believe the tactics being employed by traditional parties to flare up religious sentiments may not work as issues such as area’s backwardness and government’s failures on various fronts will dominate religious and caste factors. “The Malwa belt is a mix of farmers and Dalits. While religion still holds the key, people are ready to question leaders when they visit villages,” they say.“Both traditional parties in their past three tenures have failed to address the issue of joblessness. My wife, a PhD with over 11 years of teaching experience, is without a job as the government has failed to ensure enough opportunities for the educated class. The failure of the government to ensure good pay scales in private institutes has also not helped,” says Amanpreet Singh, legal head, Thapar University. “Rising crime graph, incidents of snatchings and drugs are cause for concern. Despite repeated assurances, high prices of sand and electricity continue to burn a hole in our pocket. The service class feels left out,” he says.In 2017, the Congress had managed to woo this belt riding on the Capt Amarinder Singh wave, but with the former CM now allying with the BJP, the party will have a tough task keeping its vote bank intact. The Congress is focusing on winning on the development plank but its failure on other fronts such as giving pension, generating jobs, compensating farmers’ families and law and order in addition to anti-incumbency will a play crucial role.People of Bathinda and Mansa are keeping cards close to their chest. These “silent voters”, as political parties call them, are giving jitters to candidates. But what is evident is a sharp polarisation of caste-based votes.Prof NK Gosian, an educationist, says: “We are going to support the party that will implement the 7th pay commission as granted by the UGC. Ironically, Punjab is the only state that has not implemented it yet. We also want pension for university and college teachers on the lines of other states.” A majority of the voters have expressed unhappiness with traditional parties, saying this time it will be a five-way fight among the Congress, SAD-BSP, BJP-PLC-SAD (Sanyukt), AAP and farmers’ outfit Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM).A BKU (Ugrahan) stronghold, the region is unlikely to see major impact of the SSM here as Joginder Singh Ugrahan has already announced not to support or oppose the morcha. Also, Congress leader Navjot Sidhu’s criticism of his own government over the quashing of the SIT’s probe reports by the HC into the Kotkapura firing case is being watched closely.(With inputs from Parvesh Sharma in Sangrur & Sukhmeet Bhasin in Bathinda)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/traditional-parties-on-sticky-wicket-360451
12-01-2022||New Delhi||Punjab Congress campaign, manifesto panels announced||Congress president Sonia Gandhi today constituted a 25-member campaign committee and a 20-member manifesto committee for the February 14 Punjab elections.Finance Minister Manpreet Badal has been appointed as the co-chairman of the manifesto panel with Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa.The campaign committee chaired by former state president Sunil Jakhar will have Amanpreet Lally as co-chairman and Ludhiana Lok Sabha MP Ravneet Singh Bittu as convener. Former bureaucrat-turned-MP Amar Singh has been named convener of the Punjab Congress manifesto panel. An important absentee from both panels is senior minister Brahm Mohindra with sources saying more committees may have wider representation.The campaign panel has among members Gurkirat Kotli, Vijay Inder Singla, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Sham Sunder Arora, Raj Kumar Verka, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Pargat Singh, Rajinder Beri, Yoginder Dhingra, Jugal Kishor Sharma, KK Bawa, Hardip Kingra, Emmaneul Masih and Charan Singh.The 20-member manifesto panel will include as members Deputy CM OP Soni, Rana Gurjeet, Jaiveer Shergill, JS Dhaliwal, Surinder Dawar, Hardyal Kamboj, Sushil Rinku, Jasleen Sethi, Ashok Choudhry, Anil Vij, KK Agarwal, Manju Bansal, Vijay Kalra and Surjit Swaich. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-campaign-manifesto-panels-announced-360452
12-01-2022||New Delhi/Chandigarh||Congress meet tomorrow, Punjab CM Channi may contest from 2 seats||As the Congress’ central election committee is scheduled to meet on Thursday to clear the first list of candidates, the party high command is contemplating to field CM Charanjit Channi from two segments, including his home constituency Chamkaur Sahib.The party leadership wants to cash in on the Dalit vote bank in Doaba and Malwa after Channi became the first Dalit Sikh CM. Sources said the party was contemplating to field Channi either from Mehal Kalan (Malwa), currently represented by AAP, or Adampur (Doaba), currently represented by SAD. Both the seats influence the adjoining reserved Assembly segments. Malwa has 19 reserved seats, Doaba eight and Majha seven.Sources said the party might release the first list on Thursday after a virtual meeting to be chaired by Sonia. There is consensus on nearly 70 candidates, said a source, adding that a call would have to be taken on how many sitting MLAs were to be dropped to offset anti-incumbency trends. The party has shortlisted candidates with "one family-one ticket rule" in mind.Meanwhile, the party’s campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar held a virtual meeting today to plan future strategy amid restriction on rallies. — TNSLEADERSPEAKCong’s employment scheme a fraudCongress’ ‘Ghar Ghar Naukri’ is a fraud. Unemployment has increased in last five years. About 98 lakh youths were registered as employed in 2016, but the latest figures say the number has dropped by three lakh.— Daljeet Singh Cheema, Shiromani Akali DalPOLL NUGGETSCongress, SAD leaders join BJPChandigarh: Several Congress and SAD leaders joined BJP on Tuesday. BJP claimed that 56 leaders and workers and SAD joint secretary Puran Chand joined the outfit. TNSSSM to contest all seatsMohali: The Samyukta Samaj Morcha (SSM) would contesting all 117 seats and would announce candidates soon, said Balbir Singh Rajewal in Mohali on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-meet-tomorrow-cm-may-contest-from-2-seats-360454
12-01-2022||New Delhi||Expect dense fog, more chill over next few days||Cold wave conditions, along with dense to very dense fog during night/morning hours, are likely to continue in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and UP over the next couple of days, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has said.According to the IMD, cold wave conditions were likely in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and parts of Rajasthan from January 13 to 15. It further said, "Dense fog is also likely in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh over the next four to five days."Two fresh western disturbances will also affect the north-west, first on January 16 and second on January 18. These are expected to cause precipitation over the western Himalayan region and rainfall over the adjoining plains, the IMD said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/expect-dense-fog-more-chill-over-next-few-days-360474
12-01-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Punjab poll 2022: Not tech-savvy, many find online outreach a task||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, January 11Leaders of various political parties are finding it difficult to have any meaningful conversation with their voters online.SAD leader and former MLA Sarup Chand Singla said, “With the Election Commission banning physical campaigning for elections, I have got the requisite system set up at my home for running a digital campaign. However, it’s not easy to do so, especially if you’re not already used to it.”Congress leader from Bathinda (Rural) Harvinder Laddi said, “One of my relatives is managing my social media campaign. Our segment is a rural area where people are not very tech savvy. With physical campaigning banned, we don’t know how to connect with them.”“Terms like virtual rallies, social media influencers and digital outreach etc. have many probable candidates baffled. I have been receiving calls from such persons enquiring about various options available for digital campaigning,” says Pushpinder Singh, owner of an IT company.However, some tech savvy leaders have already launched their virtual campaigns. Singer Sidhu Moosewala is one of them. He has created Facebook page “Mansa da Sidhu” where he uploads his video messages, highlighting his priorities on various issues.Several candidates are apprehensive that if the curbs continue beyond January 15, it could adversely impact the voter turnout.Tough in rural areaOur segment is a rural area where people are not very tech savvy. With physical campaigning banned, we don’t know how to connect with our voters. Harvinder Laddi, CongIt’s not easyI have got the requisite system set up at my home for running a digital campaign. However, it’s not easy to do so, especially if you’re not already used to it. Sarup Chand Singla, SAD||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-poll-2022-not-tech-savvy-many-find-online-outreach-a-task-360457
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Navjot Singh Sidhu promises government-run corporations to check mining, liquor, cable mafia in Punjab||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday said this time the people of Punjab would elect their CM, and not the party high command. People will choose a leader who has a futuristic agenda for the state, he said at a press conference here.Projecting himself as the numero-uno leader who has a plan to pull the state out of the fiscal crisis and mafia raj, Sidhu shared the roadmap about his “Punjab model” broadly. He talked about setting up government-run corporations to boost state’s income and check evasion of revenue in liquor, mining, transport and cable business.With a month left for the Punjab Assembly elections, Sidhu openly reiterated his stand on the CM face of the party just days after the Congress announced it would go to the polls with the collective faces of Sidhu, Charanjit Singh Channi and Sunil Jakhar.Sidhu stressed he was not at war with any individual, but fighting for the benefit and future of Punjab. Evading questions on the power tussle between CM Channi and him, the PPCC chief said: “Whatever I am talking about (on the Punjab model) is with the consent of the party’s general secretary. Punjab is not the property of an individual.”On being prodded to comment on the works and claims of 111 days of governance by Channi, he said: “If Channi has shown intent to run the government in 111 days, I am talking about the policy-making for the next five years. There should be no confusion.” — TNSRaising state incomeCong mulls fielding CM Channi from 2 seats||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-promises-government-run-corporations-to-check-mining-liquor-cable-mafia-in-punjab-360455
12-01-2022||---||Punjab poll candidates: First meeting of Sonia led CEC on January 13||Aditi TandonTribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 11Congress president Sonia Gandhi-led central election committee of the party will meet on January 13 evening to finalise candidates for the upcoming Punjab elections. The meeting of the CEC has been scheduled upon the return of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who has gone abroad. He returned Monday and has resumed election strategy meetings.AICC sources said the Punjab CEC might release the first list on Thursday after a virtual meeting chaired by Sonia Gandhi. Punjab Congress campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar, who is abroad currently, could join virtually. There is consensus on nearly 70 candidates, said a source adding that a call would have to be taken on how many sitting MLAs are to be dropped to offset anti-incumbency trends.  The party has short-listed candidates with “one family-one ticket rule” in mind.Punjab Congress leaders meanwhile said the party’s candidate list is behind schedule with SAD and AAP contestants having already hit the ground running.The Congress however appears to be in no rush to declare the candidates. It is aware that the Amarinder Singh led outfit and the BJP are waiting in the wings to poach disgruntled leaders and sitting MLAs who are denied tickets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-poll-candidates-first-meeting-of-sonia-led-cec-on-january-13-360371
12-01-2022||---||New Jersey Senate condemns 1984 Sikh killings||New Delhi, January 11The New Jersey Senate has condemned the 1984 anti-Sikh violence in India and termed it as genocide.“Yadwinder Singh, Pritpal Singh and Harpreet Singh of Sikh Caucus Committee appreciate the State Senate’s passing of this resolution,” said a statement from the Sikh Caucus which released this news.The resolution was submitted by State Senator Stephen Sweeney and a Hindu member Veenu Gopal also voted in favour.The resolution stated that the killings of Sikhs began on November 1, 1984, and lasted for three days in which Sikhs were brutally murdered in several states.Earlier, California State Assembly in 2015 had passed a Resolution which recognised the systematic and organised killings of Sikhs in Delhi. In 2018, Pennsylvania Assembly unanimously passed a Resolution decrying the November 1984 anti-Sikh violence as genocide.The New Jersey Resolution noted that many of the survivors of the Sikh killings eventually immigrated to the US and established large communities in places such as Fresno, Yuba City, Stockton, Fremont, Glenrock, Pine Hill, Carteret, New York City, and Philadelphia. The Sikh community in the US and New Jersey has recovered from the material damages of the genocide as they continue to keep the memory of those who were killed alive and will never forget the Sikh genocide, it said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-jersey-senate-condemns-1984-sikh-killings-360355
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Bikram Majithia visits gurdwara after anticipatory bail||SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Tuesday made a public appearance for the first time since registration of the case against him in December as he paid obeisance at a gurdwara in Panchkula.The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday had granted him an anticipatory bail in the NDPS case filed against him.He was also directed to join the investigation with the police on Wednesday.The former Punjab minister has been asked not to leave the country till the next date of hearing.He is also required to share with the investigating agency his live location through WhatsApp.Majithia was spotted wearing a yellow turban and jeans when he paid obeisance at the Nada Sahib gurdwara, about 20 km from here.The 46-year-old Akali leader was booked on December 20 last year under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bikram-majithia-visits-gurdwara-after-anticipatory-bail-360324
12-01-2022||---||Punjab is not the property of an individual, says Navjot Sidhu||Chandigarh, January 11Adopting a clear future line of action in the run-up to the Punjab Assembly elections, PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday reiterated that this time the people of Punjab would elect their CM based on the futuristic agenda for the state.Launching the basic income agenda of his Punjab model, Sidhu clarified that it not a war against any individual but fight for the benefit of Punjab with a revenue-based model.Categorically evading question on the tussle between him and CM Charanjit Channi, the PPCC chief said whatever he was talking about the agenda was with the consent of the Punjab affairs general secretary.The banner in the background during Sidhu’s press conferences had pictures of Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and Navjot Sidhu. The pictures of Charanjit Channi and Sunil Jakhar were not seen.Addressing the press conference, Sidhu said Punjab is not the property of an individual.“If Channi has shown intent to run government in 111 days, I am talking about policymaking for the next five years. There should be no confusion and false implications,” he said.Talking about his model, Sidhu talked about setting up liquor corporation, mining corporation, transport corporation, cable corporation and river water corporation to boost state revenue and check revenue pilferage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-is-not-the-property-of-an-individual-says-navjot-sidhu-360322
12-01-2022||---||Former Punjab Congress MLA Arvind Khanna joins BJP||New Delhi, January 11Former Punjab Congress MLA Arvind Khanna and three others from the state on Tuesday joined the BJP in the presence of Union ministers Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Hardeep Singh Puri. Khanna, a businessman and two term former MLA, has mostly remained out of the public eye since quitting the Congress a few years ago. Kanwarveer Singh Tohra, grandson of former Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president Gurcharan Singh Tohra, Gurdeep Singh Gosha, who was with the Akali Dal, and Dharamveer Sareen, a former counselor from Amritsar, also joined the saffron.  Welcoming them, Shekhawat, who is the BJP’s in-charge for the Punjab assembly polls, said their presence will boost the party which is “set to write a new chapter in the state’s electoral history”.Shekhawat also accused rival Congress of using the state machinery to foil Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s proposed rally in the state last week. It would have been the state’s biggest rally, he claimed. Prime Minister Modi had to cut short his visit following a “breach in his security”, triggering a political slugfest.The BJP has accused the Congress of conspiring to physically harm the Prime Minister.The Congress, which is in power in Punjab, has rejected the allegations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-punjab-congress-mla-arvind-khanna-joins-bjp-360300
