13-01-2022||Aditi Tandon||Punjab candidates: Sonia led CEC meets, Manmohan Singh not attending||New Delhi, January 13Congress president Sonia Gandhi-led central election committee of the party met in virtual mode on Wednesday evening to finalise candidates for the February 14 Punjab elections.The CEC membership includes former prime minister Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi, AK Antony, Ambika Soni, KC Venugopal, Girija Vyas, Janardan Dwivedi, Mukul Wasnik, Veerappa Moily and Mohsina Kidwai.The Tribune has learnt that Manmohan Singh, on account of frail health, is not attending the CEC meeting on Punjab.The former PM has not been attending the CEC meetings for other poll-bound states as well.Around 60 to 70 seats of Punjab are learnt to be in the clear with the meeting underway at 9 pm.Punjab Congress campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar is learnt to have joined the meeting from abroad where he has had to travel due to domestic exigency.The meeting is expected to clear, among other candidates, actor Sonu Sood’s sister Malvika Sood from Moga.The candidature of Sidhu Mossewala, a Congress ticket aspirant from Mansa, will be discussed, said sources.The party is expected to first clear the majority of sitting MLAs including the candidatures of top leaders Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Punjab Congress chief’s Navjot Singh Sidhu, ministers and former state unit president Partap Bajwa.Sources said the issue of a chief ministerial face in Punjab may also come up for discussions given the recent remarks by the CM and Sidhu.While the CM said the party should declare a CM face because it has always won whenever a face has been declared before elections, Sidhu said the people of Punjab and not the party high command will decide the Punjab CM.These remarks, Congress insiders say, are at variance with the decision in the screening committee meetings to fight elections under a collective leadership.Sources said the screening committee decided that posters of CM Channi, Sidhu and Jakhar should be used in equal measure to give Congress an inclusive appeal in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-candidates-sonia-led-cec-meets-manmohan-singh-not-attending-360989
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: SAD (Sanyukt) allotted ‘telephone’ symbol||The Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa-led Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) on Thursday said the party will be represented by the ‘telephone’ symbol in the upcoming Punjab Assembly polls.The SAD (Sanyukt) had recently entered into an alliance with the BJP and the former chief minister Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress for the elections.SAD (Sanyukt) spokesperson Maninderpal Singh Brar said the Election Commission of India has allotted ‘telephone’ as the election symbol to the party.Voting for Punjab’s 117-member assembly will be held on February 14. The counting of votes will take place on March 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-sad-sanyukt-allotted-telephone-symbol-360979
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Days after busting ISYF-backed terror module, Punjab Police seize 2.5 kg of RDX||Close on the heels of busting a terror module backed by the International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF), Punjab Police on Thursday said they have seized 2.5 kg of RDX, besides arms and ammunition, on the disclosure of the prime accused in two recent incidents of hurling of grenades in Pathankot.Police have also seized a detonator, a detonating cord, five explosive fuses along with wires and 12 live cartridges of AK-47 rifles, Director General of Police (DGP) V K Bhawra said here.The explosive material was to be used in assembling IEDs, police said.“The recovery was made on the disclosure statement of accused Amandeep Kumar alias Mantri of village Lakhanpal in Gurdaspur, who is the prime accused in the two recent incidents of grenade attacks in Pathankot,” the DGP was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the state police.Kumar was among the six ISYF operatives arrested by police on Monday. He has confessed to have hurled grenades in two separate incidents in Pathankot, according to the statement.Senior Superintendent of Police, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Kanwardeep Kaur said following the revelations made by Kumar, teams were sent to Gurdaspur district and the explosive material was recovered. According to the prime accused, it was to be used in assembling improvised explosive devices (IEDs).She said the consignment was provided to Kumar by the self-proclaimed chief of the ISYF (Rode), Lakhbir Singh Rode, who is presently residing in Pakistan, through his associate and the handler of this terror module, Sukhpreet Singh alias Sukh of Kharal village in Dinanagar.According to the statement, since June-July last year, Rode has figured prominently in operationalising a series of terror modules through his network in Punjab and abroad.A large number of militant hardware, including RDX, tiffin IEDs, associated explosive material for assembling IEDs, hand grenades and firearms, as also narcotics have been pushed in by him from across the international border, mainly via drones and using his network of cross-border smugglers, the police said.On Monday, police had said they had solved a case involving a recent grenade blast outside the gate of the Army cantonment in Pathankot by busting a major terror module backed by the ISYF with the arrest of six of its operatives.The Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar police had seized six hand grenades, a 9 mm pistol and a .30 bore rifle, along with live bullets and magazines, from the arrested men.The ISYF is supported by Pakistan’s intelligence agency ISI.“In two instances, some unidentified persons had hurled hand grenades at Pathankot—one grenade was hurled outside Triveni Dwar, outside the gate of Army cantonment at Pathankot, on November 21, 2021 at about 9 pm, while another one was hurled near Chakki Pull on November 11, 2021 at about 9:30 pm,” police had said in a statement.Separate FIRs in connection with the incidents were registered at the Pathankot Division 2 and Division 1 police stations respectively, they had said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/days-after-busting-isyf-backed-terror-module-punjab-police-seize-2-5-kg-of-rdx-360978
13-01-2022||Aditi Tandon||‘Aap jiyen qayamat tak’: Punjab CM Channi to PM Modi in Covid review meet; regrets Jan 5 security breach||New Delhi, January 13Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday wished Prime Minister Narendra Modi a long life and regretted the January 5 breach in his security.The CM was speaking during the Covid 19 review meeting the Prime Minister chaired with the states and UTs in a virtual mode today.In the meeting, Channi, top sources said, urged the PM to expedite the commencement of pending health infrastructure projects in Punjab that could not be inaugurated on January 5 due to the lapse in PM’s security, a matter that is not before a Supreme Court appointed committee.Sources said the CM “regretted the January 5 incident and the fact that the PM had to return without dedicating major projects to the people”. Medical colleges of Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala and a satellite centre of PGI Chandigarh in Ferozepur were to be inaugurated on January 5 when the PM returned after having to stay stranded on a flyover for 15 to 20 minutes.CM Channi, sources said, also wished the PM a long life saying, “Aap jiyen qayamat tak aur qayamat naa aaye.”The CM thanked the prime minister for the support extended by the Government during the first and the second waves of Covid 19 and the medical oxygen supply given to Punjab to address the second wave crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-jiyen-qayamat-tak-punjab-cm-channi-to-pm-modi-in-covid-review-meet-regrets-jan-5-security-breach-360977
13-01-2022||Ruchika M. Khanna||Punjab polls: AAP accuses BJP of trying to facilitate registration of a new ‘morcha’||Chandigarh, January 13In a major development, AAP has accused ruling BJP of trying to facilitate the registration of a new “Morcha”, so as to thwart the political advances made by AAP.Theparty’s Punjab affairs incharge Raghav Chadha has alleged that the Election Commission of India, under pressure from the ruling party at the Centre, is trying to change the rules for registration of a political party, by reducing the time required for inviting objections from 30 days to 7 days.“This is being done after the model code of conduct came into force. It is clearly meant to facilitate a “Morcha” (in an apparent reference to farmers’ Sanyukt Samaj Morcha led by Balbir Singh Rajewal) or a group, whose presence in the political arena during the elections would clearly harm AAP,” he said.It may be mentioned that initially both AAP and SSM were in talks for an alliance. Both sides have admitted to this. However, just yesterday, Arvind Kejriwal, national convener of AAP, said the alliance did not fructify as the SSM was demanding 60 seats, while they were willing to give them just 20-25 seats. Rajewal, on the other hand, had accused AAP leaders of giving tickets in exchange for money, a charge vehemently denied by the party.Chadha asked the group to clarify to the public its relations with BJP and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. “The BJP will go to any extreme to stop AAP from succeeding in the elections and forming a government in Punjab.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-polls-aap-accuses-bjp-of-trying-to-facilitate-registration-of-a-new-morcha-360955
13-01-2022||---||Film on Amritsar-based engineer Jaswant Singh Gill who saved 65 miners soon||GS PaulAmritsar, January 12Bollywood is all set to make a movie on Amritsar-based Er Jaswant Singh Gill, who died on November 26, 2019. Gill had played a significant role in the rescue work of miners that got trapped inside a flooded coal mine in Raniganj of West Bengal in 1989.Akshay Kumar, Ajay Devgn and Vicky Kaushal are under consideration for Gill’s role.Gill was awarded “Sarvottam Jeevan Raksha Padak” by President Ramaswamy Venkataraman in 1991. Lately, a chowk on Majitha Road was also named after him.Gill’s son Dr Sarvpreet Singh Gill said his father had entered into an agreement with the makers and had given all rights to director Dharmendra Suresh Desai who had visited the family recently. Born on November 22, 1939, at Sathiala in Amritsar, Gill had studied at Khalsa School and graduated from Khalsa College in 1959. A segment of the film would be shot in Amritsar and Khalsa College too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/film-on-amritsar-based-engineer-jaswant-singh-gill-who-saved-65-miners-soon-360948
13-01-2022||Zirakpur||Congress leader Jaspal Sarpanch joins Shiromani Akali Dal||Congress leader Jaspal Sarpanch on Thursday joined the Shiromani Akali Dal.He joined the SAD at Zirakpur in the presence of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal.Local MLA NK Sharma said that with Jaspal Singh joing the SAD the days of Congress in the state were numbered.Jaspal said he was impressed with the development work undertaken by Sharma in the Dear Bassi constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-leader-jaspal-sarpanch-joins-shiromani-akali-dal-360936
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Separated at India-Pakistan partition, brothers meet at Kartarpur after 74 years||Seventy-four years is a long time. And for these two brothers, it was a moment they had been waiting for long.They cried and hugged each other in the Kartarpur Corridor as they met after 74 years. The pictures and visuals showed the brothers and their family filled with joy. They reunited with the help of social media.Kartarpur Sahib corridor has reunited two elderly brothers across the Punjab border after 74 years. The two brothers had parted ways at the time of partition. A corridor of reunion 🙏 pic.twitter.com/g2FgQco6wGThe video of the two brothers meeting each other after a gap of 74 years has gone viral. The brother--Muhammad Siddiq and Muhammad Habib aka Cheela-- were separated at the time of partition in 1947.Muhammad Siddiq is a resident of Pakistan's Faislabad, while Muhammad Habib is a resident of India's Punjab.The two planned a meeting at Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib, Pakistan, on Tuesday after their relatives traced each other over social media.Mohammad Siqqique was a kid when India was partitioned in 1947. His family got split. His elder brother Habib alias Shela grew on the Indian side of the partition line. Now 74 years later, the Kartarpur Corridor that connects Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan to India has reunited the brothers.Reports say Siddique lives in Pakistan’s Faislabad. Shela is his elder brother and lives in the Indian side of Punjab. The two brothers have hailed the Kartarpur Corridor initiative that helped them reunite.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/diaspora/separated-by-india-pakistan-partition-brothers-meet-at-kartarpur-corridor-after-74-years-360928
13-01-2022||Rajmeet Singh||With first list of Congress candidates for Punjab election expected by Friday, all eyes on youth candidates||Chandigarh, January 13With the first list of Congress candidates for Punjab election expected by Friday, all eyes are on the youth candidates being given the opportunity to contest.PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has already announced that the youth will get one-and-half times more tickets than what they got earlier and he would honour merit and give respect to the youth, has been batting for a number of youth candidates who have been working in the organisational setup for long. In the 2017 election, six tickets were given to the youth.Barinder Dhillon, president of Punjab Youth Congress, is the frontrunner from Ropar assembly segment, followed by Amarpreet Singh Lally from Garshankar. Lally is general secretary of the Indian National Youth Congress and a former Punjab Youth Congress president. He was the frontrunner for the Anandpur parliamentary seat in the 2019 general election.A general secretary in Punjab Youth Congress, Amit Bawa Saini, is seeking a ticket from Dera Bassi, followed by Daman Bajwa from Sunam and Gurjot Dhindsa from Amargarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/with-first-list-of-congress-candidates-for-punjab-election-expected-by-friday-all-eyes-on-youth-candidates-360923
13-01-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||AAP opens phone line, asks people to choose party's CM face in Punjab||Chandigarh, January 13The Aam Aadmi Party seems uncertain on announcing Bhagwant Mann as its CM face. The choice of the CM has now been left to the people, even as party supremo Arvind Kejriwal has categorically ruled himself out as the CM face for the state.Kejriwal on Thursday announced that he was leaving the choice of the party’s CM face to the people of Punjab.Announcing the launch of a number (70748 70748), Kejriwal said that people of Punjab should call/ message or WhatsApp and give their choice of CM candidate. “We want to leave the choice to the people of Punjab, who can give us their choice by January 17. Following this, the candidate who is chosen by the public, will be the CM face,” he said.Though Kejriwal said he had himself asked Mann to be the CM face, the latter wanted that the CM face should be chosen by the public and not imposed on them. “I told Bhagwant that I should clear his name, but he gave me this idea that we should not choose the CM face in a closed- door meeting,” he said, adding “My personal choice is not important…public choice is supreme. But I will reiterate that I myself will not be the CM face,” he said.Mann’s supporters, however, termed it a political stunt by the party to get public validation for their choice. “His candidature for the CM face of party is almost certain,” said his close associate, adding that the public would chose only him. “Even on Wednesday, during door-to-door campaigning at Kharar, public reaction and love for Bhagwant Mann was phenomenal and the party top brass saw it firsthand,” he said.Mann, who was sitting with Kejriwal, endorsed this statement and said, “I am a loyal party worker and I will perform any duty entrusted to me by the party. I will even paste posters or wave the party symbol (jhadu) if the party so wants. For me it is more important that the CM trusts me,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-initiates-phone-number-asks-people-to-say-who-they-want-as-partys-cm-face-in-punjab-360918
13-01-2022||New York||'Shocked and angered' over assault, says Indian-origin Sikh taxi driver attacked in US||An Indian-origin Sikh taxi driver - whose turban was knocked off and told "turbaned people, go back to your country" by an unidentified man in the US - says he is "shocked and angered" to be assaulted and that no one should experience such hate.In a statement on January 3, community-based civil and human rights organisation The Sikh Coalition said that New York City resident Singh was physically attacked and berated near his cab at JFK International Airport here.Singh had parked his cab at the Terminal 4 taxi stand when another driver blocked his vehicle. When Singh picked up a customer, he stepped out of his car to ask the other driver to move. The other driver attempted to hit Singh with his own car door; he then began repeatedly punching Singh in the head, chest, and arms, knocking off his turban, it said in a statement.The other driver called Singh “turbaned people” and shouted at him to “go back to your country,” according to the statement."I was shocked and angered to be assaulted for doing nothing but minding my own business. While working, no one should experience such hate. I am hopeful that the police can identify, arrest, and charge the person who attacked me so that I can move forward,” the Sikh taxi driver, identified only as Mr Singh out of respect for his request for privacy, has told The Sikh Coalition.Singh filed a report with the Port Authority Police Department (PAPD) immediately after the incident. The Sikh Coalition said it is currently working to ensure that the report “paints an accurate picture of the attack given the language barrier during the initial conversations.”  The organisation's staff accompanied Singh to a meeting with a detective to provide language assistance and legal support."We have every expectation that bias will be considered as a factor in this outrageous attack, given the evidence of what the other driver said and did to Mr Singh,” said Amrith Kaur Aakre, Sikh Coalition Legal Director.“The Sikh Coalition is appreciative of all who have stepped forward to support Mr. Singh and called attention to his assault. As the investigation moves forward, we will work towards a just outcome that holds the attacker accountable for his actions, while also reiterating that the Sikh community remains an integral part of New York City,” Aakre said.Navjot Pal Kaur had posted the 26-second video of the attack on January 4 on Twitter and it soon went viral.Kaur tweeted, “This video was taken by a bystander at John F Kennedy international Airport. I do not own the rights to this video.But I just wanted to highlight the fact that hatred continues to remain in our society and unfortunately I've seen Sikh cab drivers get assaulted again and again.”  Simran Jeet Singh, author and Director for the Aspen Institute's Inclusive America Project, had tweeted: “Another Sikh cab driver assaulted. This one at JFK Airport in NYC. So upsetting to see. But it's crucial that we don't look away…What I am sure of is how painful it is to watch our fathers and elders get assaulted while they're just trying to live an honest life.”  “For those who aren't Sikh, I can't put into words what it means to have your turban knocked off — or to see someone else's turban knocked off. It's visceral and gut-wrenching and just so disheartening to witness,” Singh tweeted.India's Consulate General in New York had termed the assault on the Sikh taxi driver as "deeply disturbing” and said it had taken up the matter with the US authorities and urged them to investigate this violent incident.The US State Department also said it was “deeply disturbed” by reports of the attack on the Sikh cab driver at JFK International Airport, captured on video."Our diversity makes the US stronger, & we condemn any form of hate-based violence,” State Department's Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs (SCA) had tweeted.“We all have a responsibility to hold perpetrators of hate crimes accountable for their actions, no matter where such crimes occur,” it had tweeted.Singh has retained the Sikh Coalition to provide free legal guidance as the investigation into his attacker moves forward.The organisation said that out of respect for Singh's “privacy (given that his turban was knocked off) and in accordance with his request that he not be publicly identified, the Sikh Coalition is not further sharing that footage at this time.”  It voiced concern that Sikhs in the United States continue to experience bias and hate-driven attacks on account of their visually identifiable articles of faith (including turbans) as well as perceptions about their country of origin.According to the most recent FBI data, Sikhs remain in the top three most frequently targeted groups for religiously-motivated hate crimes and bias incidents nationwide.In the Sikh Coalition's experience, taxi and rideshare drivers in particular are at a heightened risk of these kinds of violent attacks, it said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/diaspora/shocked-and-angered-over-assault-says-indian-origin-sikh-taxi-driver-attacked-in-us-360902
13-01-2022||---||Apna Punjab Party merges with SSM||Ludhiana, January 12Apna Punjab Party and former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) members held a meeting here today and passed a resolution to extend their support to the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM). On this occasion, the members of the Apna Punjab Party announced the merger of their party with the SSM.In the general meeting of the Apna Punjab Party, the members passed a resolution to merge their party with the SSM. The meeting was held at the residence of party’s vice-president Jasbir Singh Dhaliwal.Notably, Apna Punjab Party was established in 2016 by former state convener of AAP Sucha Singh Chhotepur. In December 2021, Chhotepur joined the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in the presence of SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal.A party member, DS Grewal, said: “Members of Apna Punjab Party and former members of AAP were present in the meeting.”Dr Harjinder Singh Cheema of Apna Punjab Party said: “We merged our party, with the SSM without any condition. We are supporting the morcha.”Jasbir Singh Dhaliwal of Apna Punjab Party said they had extended support to the SSM, led by Balbir Singh Rajewal, without any condition for the upcoming Assembly elections.He said they would not seek ticket for contesting the elections this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/apna-punjab-party-merges-with-ssm-360864
13-01-2022||Ferozepur||Five killed in  car-bus crash on Moga-Kot Ise Khan road||Five persons, including a woman, were killed in a head-on collision between a bus and a car on Moga-Kot Ise Khan road near Mallu Bandian village in Zira sub-division on Wednesday.The deceased have been identified as Arvinder Singh (35), Amarjit Kaur (28), Pradeep Singh (42), Ranjit Singh (45) and Jashanpreet Singh (19), all residents of Tarn Taran district. The police reached the spot after being informed. The bodies were handed over to the victims’ family members after post-mortem. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/five-killed-in-car-bus-crash-on-moga-kot-ise-khan-road-360814
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||10 deaths, 6,481 new Covid cases in 24 hrs in Punjab||Punjab appears to be heading for the worst on the Covid front as the state reported 10 deaths and 6,481 new cases over the past 24 hours.According to the medical bulletin released on Wednesday, the state reported 6,481 cases, which were one of the highest in the recent past.In district-wise break-up, Patiala reported three deaths, Hoshiarpur two and Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka, Jalandhar and Ludhiana one each. Besides, 12 patients are critical. As many as 80 patients are receiving treatment in level-three of critical care and 290 are on oxygen support.SAS Nagar topped the chart with 974 new infections, followed by Patiala 906, Ludhiana 724, Jalandhar 654 and Hoshiarpur 571. Covid testing has also increased as the Health Department conducted 34,529 tests over the past 24 hours. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-deaths-6-481-new-covid-cases-in-24-hrs-in-punjab-360812
13-01-2022||Sangrur||'Gutka' pages found torn in Sangrur district||Torn pages of “Gutka Sahib” were found at a religious place in the fields of the district’s Bhattiwal Kalan village today, the police said.Locals said pages were found at “Shaheeda di Samadh” on the Naraingarh road. Harjinder Majhi, president, Darbar-e-Khalsa, said: “Sacrilege incidents are happening as there is no fear of police among criminals.”Bhawanigarh SHO Pardeep Bajwa said a case had been registered. “It is suspected that accused wanted to steal money as locks were found broken,” he said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gutka-pages-found-torn-in-sangrur-district-360810
13-01-2022||Avneet Kaur||Nawanshahr: Choked sewers a perennial problem||Choked sewers, broken roads and poor sanitation in this constituency have been the major issues faced by local residents for years, but no solution has been offered so far. They say some roads were re-carpeted recently but only to expose the use of substandard material and wastage of funds as they developed potholes after a brief spell of rain.Kavita Kishor, a resident of New Teacher Colony, said: “Life comes to a standstill as almost all streets and roads get inundated during rains. Localities such as Kothi Road, Raja Mohalla, Kulam Road, Balmiki Mohalla, Pandora Mohalla, Railway Road, Palm Road and Ravidass Mohalla are the worst-hit. They remain flooded with rainwater for several hours due to lack of proper drainage system in the town.”Locals say Rs 5 crore were recently spent on the Langroya-Mahalon bypass road, but within just 20 days it developed deep cracks and some patches caved in amid rain. Similarly, Rs 85 lakh were spent on the Railway road, which, too didn’t last for more than two months, they said.Amandeep Saini, another resident, said despite being one of oldest towns and an NRI hub, the city and its villages lacked civic amenities. He alleged whatever development had taken place in villages was due to NRIs’ support.Locals’ key demandsPast trendCM Charanjit Channi, son of late Congress veteran Dilbagh Singh, won from here in 1997 as an Independent. In 2002 and 2007, voters chose Congress’ Parkash Singh and SAD’s Jatinder Kariha, respectively. In 2012, Congress’ Guriqbal Kaur won from here.Electorate strengthTotal voters: 1,76,270Male: 90,287Female: 85,974Third gender: 9||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nawanshahr-choked-sewers-a-perennial-problem-360805
13-01-2022||GS Paul||Amritsar East: Bereft of basic amenities||Rural areas like Verka, Vallah, Maqboolpura, Rasoolpura are yet to get basic amenities on the lines of other urban areas like Amritsar. Ironically, residents resent being neglected and the scant visits of sitting MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu in their areas. Even his ‘missing’ posters too had surfaced a couple of times in the past.The much sought-after flyovers on rail tracks at Vallah Sabzi Mandi and Four ‘S’ chowk haven’t seen the light of the day. Residents have to travel several kilometres to fulfil their basic needs. Similarly, drug menace continues to grip the Maqboolpura area.Sarbjit Singh Verka, a resident of Verka, says: “Most of the areas are still devoid of adequate potable water. Batala road is in a dilapidated state and the sewerage system remains choked. No thought has ever been spared to set up proper healthcare facility.” Rajesh Sharma, a resident of Dashmesh Nagar, says: “They had high hopes of Sidhu couple in 2021. However, the constituency hasn’t seen much development since then.” Lately, Sidhu, his wife and their daughter have intensified their activities in the constituency.Locals’ key demandsPast trendCame into being in 2012 after delimitation, the constituency was first represented by Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu. In 2016, PCC chief Navjot Sidhu, three-time MP from Amritsar between 2004 and 2014, quit the SAD-BJP and joined the Congress. In 2017, Sidhu won the seat.Electorate strengthTotal voters: 1,59,835Male: 85,251Female: 74,583Third gender: 1||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-east-bereft-of-basic-amenities-360800
13-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||1,080 Division Bench appeals pending since 2013||Chandigarh, January 12In Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, it is a long way to justice for the accused in drug cases with the high pendency and low disposal of appeals. On an average, just over an appeal a month has been decided by the Division Benches since 2013. On the other hand, almost 214 appeals were decided by the Single Benches on an average every year for the same period.Information provided to a Division Bench of the High Court by its Registry reveals that 1,080 appeals in cases registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act have been pending before the Division Bench since 2013. Besides, 14,827 appeals are pending before the Single Benches for the same period.From 2013 to date, just 129 Division Bench appeals under the NDPS Act — where the sentence was 10 years or more — were decided. Of the total appeals, 65 were dismissed, 33 allowed and 31 disposed of. In case of Single Bench appeals under the NDPS Act — where the sentence was up to 10 years — 1,925 appeals were decided — 671 were dismissed, 594 allowed and 660 disposed of.The Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Pankaj Jain, vide order dated October 5, 2021, had directed the Registry to provide year-wise details of the pending appeals under the NDPS Act. The Bench was hearing a bunch of applications in criminal appeals filed against the Narcotic Control Bureau by Bhupender Singh and other appellant-convicts through counsel Navkiran Singh, Shaveta Sanghi, Aditya Sanghi and other advocates.The direction to the Registry to collate year-wise information on the pending appeals came after the Bench was told that appellants before it in drug cases had undergone a substantial part of the sentence. But their appeals were yet to be heard. The Bench had observed that the convicts were seeking suspension of sentence on the ground that they had undergone a substantial part of the sentence, but the appeals had not been heard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-080-division-bench-appeals-pending-since-2013-360796
13-01-2022||---||Two of gangster Kulbir Naruana's group shot dead in Bathinda||Bathinda, January 12Two members of late gangster Kulbir Naruana’s group were shot dead by unidentified assailants near a gurdwara in Lehra Khana village of Bathinda on Wednesday.The police suspect that the incident was an outcome of a gang rivalry. The deceased have been identified as Manpreet Singh Chala Sidhu (32) of Lehra Khana village and Manpreet Vicky (26) of Lehra Bega village.A case has been registered against unidentified persons.Bathinda SSP Ajay Maluja said car-borne unidentified persons shot dead Chala and Vicky. He said the police had launched a manhunt to nab the accused. The SSP said the police were scanning CCTV footage and 15 teams had been constituted to nab the accused. In July last year, gangster Kulbir Naruana was shot dead by his associates in Bathinda.Sukha Duneke of Davinder Bambiha group claimed the responsibility for the incident on the social media.Bambiha gang owns responsibility||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-of-naruana-group-shot-dead-in-bathinda-360793
13-01-2022||Ferozepur||Spike in drugs, arms seizure along border in Punjab||The state is witnessing a spike in number of drugs and arms being smuggled across the international border here.Pakistan-based drug operatives trying to push drugs and contraband across the fence, which usually see a spurt in demand during polls.After seizing 22-kg heroin, a pistol and ammunition on Tuesday, BSF sleuths today thwarted yet another attempt to push the narcotics and ammunition in the Indian territory. BSF sleuths recovered six packets of Rs 31.5-crore heroin weighing 6.36 kg, along with one pistol, a magazine and 50 live rounds near the New Mohammadi Wala border outpost. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/spike-in-drugs-arms-seizure-along-border-in-punjab-360790
13-01-2022||---||Punjab poll: List steps for drug-free poll, SEC told||Chandigarh, January 12The Punjab and Haryana High Court has taken cognisance of incidents of “drugs for vote” in the Punjab Assembly elections before issuing a notice to the State Election Commission (SEC) to solicit its response on ensuring drug-free poll.It has also made the Election Commission of India a party to the case and fixed January 20 as the next date of hearing. The Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Pankaj Jain asserted that a former Chief Election Commissioner had stated regarding the 2012 elections that around 55 kg of heroin and around 430 kg of poppy husk were recovered in a month alone in Punjab, and almost every psychotropic substance was found in circulation during the poll.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Jain asserted that a picture of mustard fields with prosperous farmers would showcase this land of five rivers, but Punjab of today was synonymous with a wailing mother holding her son’s corpse who died of drug overdose. The Bench asserted there were more than 16,000 convicts under the NDPS Act and a majority of them were in Punjab. “This makes out a case for the state to look beyond deterrent measure in the form of the NDPS Act and evolve reformative measures as well.”The Bench also directed the state to specify whether it had a roadmap in place to fight the drug menace, whether a state-sponsored scientific study by any government or non-government organisation had ever been conducted on the cause and effect of drug addiction and whether the state had ever mapped drug addiction and found out the most affected areas/districts.It was also asked to specify if further study was carried out to find out the reasons for the menace in the affected area. The Bench also asked for the timeframe to conduct the study in case it had not been carried out till now.“…This court is sure that there must be some individual efforts being made by public-spirited citizens on drugs issue, but the menace by now is beyond the individual efforts. These efforts need to be integrated to respond to this ailment. It is for the state to shoulder the responsibility to catalyse such a response,” the Bench added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-poll-list-steps-for-drug-free-poll-sec-told-360789
13-01-2022||The Assembly elections will be fought on the party manifesto and not the agenda of an individual. Barring 2017||Punjab Leaderspeak: Individual's agenda doesn't matter||No question of naming CM face nowWhen the chief ministerial face has not been declared, the question of caste or community doesn’t arise. The BJP has an established tradition of elected MLAs choosing their leader after poll result. — Gajendra singh Shekhawat, BJPPunjabis won’t accept outsiderThe Aam Aadmi Party is insulting Punjabis by asserting that they are not fit to govern themselves. They want to thrust outsiders on the state’s people, which will never be tolerated. — Prem Singh Chandumajra, SAD||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/leaderspeak-individuals-agenda-doesnt-matter-360788
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Poll nuggets: Punjab Congress screening panel meets virtually||Capt Amarinder tests positive for CovidChandigarh: Former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday tested positive for Covid. “I have tested positive for Covid with mild symptoms. Have isolated myself and request all those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested,” Capt tweeted. The 79-year-old leader had recently formed the Punjab Lok Congress. A few days ago, Singh’s wife and Congress MP from Patiala, Preneet Kaur, had tested positive for the infection.”Removing posters turns an ordealAbohar: Following directions from the State Election Commission, the Abohar Municipal Corporation has removed billboards, banners and posters put up by various political parties. Officials said employees of the civic body had a tough time removing multi-coloured posters pasted by ticket aspirants of the Aam Aadmi Party on walls and power and telephone poles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poll-nuggets-cong-screening-panel-meets-virtually-360787
13-01-2022||Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib: Slogans greet MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra's wife||The wife of MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra faced opposition from a section of villagers during her visit to the district’s Dubhali village to get the rainwater accumulated on 400 acres drained off.A large number of villagers also came in support of MLA’s wife Mandeep Kaur. There were slogans and counterslogans. Though she tried to pacify the protesters, they didn’t relent. She left amid sloganeering. The purported video of the incident has gone viral.Mandeep’s supporters claimed the villagers had approached several leaders over the rainwater accumulation, but to no avail. However, she coordinated with officials and ensured the job was done. The MLA’s wife said the opposition seemed politically motivated. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fatehgarh-sahib-slogans-greet-kuljit-nagras-wife-360785
13-01-2022||Jalandhar||Bikram Majithia's media adviser and Damdami Taksal spokesperson Prof Sarchand, 5 Akali leaders join BJP||SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia’s media adviser and Damdami Taksal spokesperson Prof Sarchand Singh and five other party leaders joined the BJP today in the presence of Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat here.This comes as a major setback for the SAD ahead of the elections. The leaders have joined the BJP days after Majithia was granted bail in the drugs case.The Damdami Taksal was one of the few Sikh organisations that welcomed PM Narendra Modi’s announcement of observing December 26 as “Veer Baal Diwas”.Other SAD leaders who joined the BJP were Didar Singh Bhatti, his son Gurvinder Singh Bhatti, Satwant Singh Mohi, Rajpal Chauhan and Amritpal Singh Dalli. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bikram-singh-majithias-media-adviser-5-akali-leaders-join-bjp-360783
13-01-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Punjab government sends forms to college students for Net allowance||Jalandhar, January 12Having faced college teachers’ ire over non-implementation of the 7th Pay Commission, the government seems to be trying to ensure that the anger does not descend to students.Since most college students are over 18 years and are eligible voters, the government has sent internet allowance forms, promising Rs 2,000, to all colleges. To ensure that the amount goes only to the students who are Punjab voters, the government has sought details such as the residence proof and Aadhaar card number for verification.As colleges are closed these days, students say the forms have been made available through Google forms.College authorities here said the scheme was getting good response. Dr GS Samra, Principal, Lyallpur Khalsa College, said: “Since students have to submit their proofs and need our attestation, they are preferring to come to the college to submit forms. The response is quite good.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-sends-forms-to-college-students-for-net-allowance-360781
13-01-2022||Aman Sood||Ban on rallies in Punjab elections hits small traders hard||Patiala, January 12These days, 46-year-old Naresh Kumar, who earned a living by renting out LED screens for functions and political rallies, is hard-pressed to make ends meet.The ban on rallies, roadshows and street meetings in view of the Covid pandemic till January 15 has hit small traders like him hard.Naresh now repairs LED screens at a makeshift shop to provide for his family. He hopes against hope that the ban would be lifted after January 15, but with cases rising, it seems unlikely.Paramjit Singh, who owns a tent shop near Fountain Chowk here, says: “The Assembly elections are usually the time to make money. A single rally by a state-level leader in Patiala would translate into a business of Rs 2-3 lakh. This time, however, things are not looking good.”Caterers, too, are incurring losses. Subhash Negi, who owns a shop at Sherawalan Gate, says: “In the previous elections, leaders usually hired caterers for a month and paid in advance. During the 2019 General Election, I made around Rs 10 lakh by covering three candidates in a month. Contrast this to today’s scenario. No candidate has approached me for the catering service till now.”Taxi business is also facing the heat. From renting out around 10 taxis per candidate every day in the previous elections, the number is down to zero, says Laljit Singh of Laali Taxi Service.Those in the business of supplying election material to parties have also been hit by the Election Commission (EC) guideline to ban rallies.“In 2017, I did brisk business. The daily sale was more than Rs 1 lakh. This time, it is not even Rs 10,000,” says Rajesh Kumar, who has been supplying election material for two decades.He and other traders are keeping their fingers crossed and waiting for the new EC guidelines post January 15.On the downswingThe orders for flags, stickers and caps have dried up. In 2017, I did brisk business. The daily sale was more than Rs1 lakh. This time, it is not even Rs10,000. — Rajesh Kumar, supplier of poll material||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ban-on-rallies-hits-small-traders-hard-360780
13-01-2022||MOGA||27 sarpanches vow support for Moga Congress MLA Dr Harjot Kamal||As many as 27 sarpanches of various villages falling under the Moga segment gathered at the residence of local MLA Dr Harjot Kamal and vowed their support to him even if the Congress denies the ticket to him.Ghal Kalan sarpanch Simranjit Singh, under whose leadership a show of strength was showcased by the MLA, claimed the MLA had the support of more than 35 sarpanches of the total 44 in the Moga constituency.The MLA is trying to keep his supporters together to present his case before the party high command for seeking the party ticket.The party high command has inducted Bollywood actor and Philanthropist Sonu Sood’s sister Malvika Sood into the party fold giving an indication that she will be contesting the assembly election from here. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/27-sarpanches-vow-support-for-moga-mla-360779
13-01-2022||Mohali||Punjab poll: Notice to AAP  for 'violating' poll norms||The Election Commission on Wednesday issued a notice to the AAP for allegedly violating the model code of conduct as its leaders and workers approached people in groups of more than five for door-to-door campaigning.The notice was issued by Kharar returning officer-cum-Sub-Divisional Magistrate Abhishek Gupta after party’s national convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal launched the campaign from the Kharar segment today.Kejriwal met residents, urging them to vote for his party in the February 14 state Assembly polls. In the notice, the Kharar returning officer said the model code was violated as the AAP volunteers approached people in groups of more than five. Seeking the reply of the notice in 24 hours, the returning officer said the failure to reply within stipulated time would invite action. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-poll-notice-to-aap-for-violating-poll-norms-360778
13-01-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Unlike 2017 Punjab elections, NRIs keeping low profile||Bathinda, January 12Unlike the previous Assembly elections when they were all over social media supporting their favourite candidates, NRIs’ interest this time is rather subdued. They are not active on social media. No politician has gone abroad and shared pictures with NRIs at fundraiser dinners. NRIs are not even making calls, sharing videos or sending WhatsApp messages to voters in Punjab to favour any party or candidate.Satnam Singh Chahal, executive chairman of the North American Punjabi Association, offers an explanation. “NRIs are disappointed with the Punjab leadership because it has failed to deliver on its promises,” he says.Harinder Sandhu, a university professor in Canada, says “NRIs see no meaningful solution to the political situation in Punjab. We have lost faith in politicians, who are corrupt, further their own interest and undermine constitutional institutions.”Meanwhile, nominees are leaving no stone unturned to garner support, even if it means calling their members of family from abroad and adding a personal touch to the campaign.AAP candidate from Bucho Jagsir Singh’s son Harsimran Singh is back from Australia to campaign for his father. Harsimran is a Punjabi singer and owns a few restaurants in Melbourne. “Good healthcare and education are the two most important indicators of social and human development. Unfortunately, these two sectors, which are linked to the people, are neglected in Punjab. While campaigning for my father, I urge the electorate to vote on these issues,” Harsimran told The Tribune.As for SAD’s Talwandi Sabo candidate Jeetmohinder Sidhu, his son Gurbaaz Singh Sidhu has returned from the US for the elections. Doon alumni Gurbaaz has competed engineering in solar and nuclear science from the US. These days, he is holding meetings and handling social media to garner support for his father.Gurbaaz says, “Apart from focussing on the SAD’s poll promises, I’m asking youth to acquire skills, work hard, venture into private enterprises and make a living for themselves.” Former MP Jagmeet Brar’s son Akal Arpan Singh, who returned from the UK after having completed his studies, has also hit the poll campaign, seeking votes for his father in Maur. Notwithstanding the enthusiasm of foreign-returned family members of nominees, NRIs are keeping a low profile.Disappointed with political classNRIs are disappointed with the leadership in Punjab because it has failed to deliver on its poll promises. — Satnam Singh Chahal, NRI assn head||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-poll-unlike-2017-elections-nris-keeping-low-profile-360777
13-01-2022||---||Balbir Singh Rajewal from Samrala, SSM out with first list for Punjab elections||Ludhiana, January 12Balbir Singh Rajewal, farmer leader and president of a faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, would contest the Assembly elections from Samrala in the district, his party Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) announced today.Releasing the first list of 10 candidates, SSM treasurer Bogh Singh said Prem Singh Bhangu had been fielded from Ghanaur (Patiala), Harjinder Singh Tanda from Khadoor Sahib and Ravneet Singh Brar from Mohali. Dr Sukhminder Singh Dhillon will be the SSM nominee from Tarn Taran, Rajesh Kumar from Kartarpur, Ramandeep Singh from Jaitu (Faridkot), Ajay Kumar from Phillaur, Balraj Singh Thakur from Qadian and Mandeep Sangha from Moga.Bogh Singh told the media the SSM would reach out to the people with the promise of creating a “new Punjab”. He said a campaign would be launched against social ills such as drug addiction, mafia raj and illegal sand mining.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-poll-rajewal-from-samrala-ssm-out-with-first-list-360774
13-01-2022||Vishav Bharti||Punjab poll: BJP's nominee selection via 'secret ballot' ends in chaos||Chandigarh, January 12Amid the allegation of rigging, chaos was witnessed during the BJP’s first meeting for selection of candidates for the Assembly elections held through secret ballot papers at Jalandhar.To start the process for selection of candidates, the BJP had called a meeting of its mandal-level office-bearers in Jalandhar.The party divided all 117 constituencies into 13 Lok Sabha seats and booked 13 marriage palaces in advance to ensure a smooth voting process.Sources said a mandal president, general secretary, morcha office-bearers, state-level leader, ex-MLA, ex-council president and a member of a civic body living in that particular constituency were given a ballot paper each, asking to mention their preference of candidates in order of merit.However, the allegations of fake votes marred the process. At some places, supporters of aspiring candidates clashed. Sources said in one of the constituencies in Amritsar Lok Sabha seat, where former Cabinet Minister Manoranjan Kalia was the incharge, the total number of votes were 15, but when the observers opened the ballot box, they were shocked to find 25 votes polled. Following that there were allegations of fake voting.Similar allegations were levelled at several other constituencies also. Kalia did not respond to calls or messages. All attempts to contact state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma also remained futile. Apart from the voting by office-bearers, the party will conduct interview of aspirants and a ground survey to make the final selection of candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-poll-bjps-nominee-selection-via-secret-ballot-ends-in-chaos-360771
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Arvind Kejriwal keeps door ajar for alliance with SSM in Punjab Assembly elections||A supremo Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said a poll alliance with the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM), a political outfit of farmers, could not be forged because of the disagreement on seat-sharing.Kejriwal, who was here to launch the party’s door-to-door campaign at Kharar, also said the party’s CM candidate would be announced next week. He said the alliance with the SSM did not fructify as it demanded 60 seats. “We had already announced candidates for 90 seats by then. We told them they could take 10-15 seats, but they did not agree,” he said. The aim of AAP and SSM was the same – the welfare of Punjab, he added. This statement is significant considering a speculation about the two sides looking at a post-poll alliance.Admitting farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal met him over the ticket sale charges, the Delhi CM said: “I request Rajewal if he has any solid proof of corrupt practices in AAP, he should take it to the public. If found true, I will hand over the guilty to the police. I will not allow party ticket to be sold.” He claimed nearly 25 Congress MLAs had approached him, requesting to be inducted into AAP. “But I refused to accept ‘Congress ka kuda’,” he quipped. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arvind-kejriwal-keeps-door-ajar-for-alliance-with-ssm-360767
13-01-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Doaba: Advantage Congress here||If the Shiromani Akali Dal chose to ally with the Bahujan Samaj Party to win over the Scheduled Caste (SC) community ahead of the Punjab Assembly poll, the Congress played a trump card by giving Punjab its first Chief Minister from the community.The decision to appoint an SC Chief Minister has the potential to swing the community’s votes in the ruling party’s favour, particularly in Dalit-dominated Doaba region, say analysts. Keeping up the momentum, the Congress is learnt to be considering fielding Channi from two seats — his home constituency Chamkaur Sahib and Adampur in Doaba.The Chief Minister had already dropped a hint at this during his rallies at Adampur, Banga and Jalandhar Cantonment when he said, “Doabites, adopt me.”Channi contesting from Adampur could impact the outcome in all 23 seats of Doaba, particularly the reserved eight segments of Adampur, Kartarpur, Phillaur, Jalandhar West, Phagwara, Banga, Sham Chaurasi and Chabbewal.“Not only Ravidassias, even Mazhabis could opt for Channi. Whether or not he’s declared a CM candidate, the Dalit community has been viewing him as their man. The Congress has scored a point over its rivals by doing something other parties had only been thinking of. In Punjab’s Jat-dominated politics, it gave the first Dalit CM,” asserts prominent Dalit writer Des Raj Kali.The “pro-farmer and pro-Punjab stance” adopted by the CM vis-à-vis the recent security lapse during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Ferozepur added to Channi’s stature, maintains Kali. Though leaders of various parties have been visiting Dera Sachkhand Ballan in Jalandhar, a rousing reception was accorded to Channi when he was elevated to the top post in September last, said a youth activist. For his part, Channi had chosen the dera premises to announce the setting up of Guru Ravidass Chair on 101 acres of land adjoining the dera for research on the Guru’s life.To balance out with other castes, Channi recently got set up a Punjab State General Caste Commission and made Jalandhar-based Dr Navjot Dahiya as its chairman. Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal too has not left any stone unturned when it comes to wooing the Dalits of Doaba. Though his initial decision to keep the reserved seats of Adampur, Banga and Phillaur with the SAD backfired as ally BSP protested, he managed to quell the resistance. On his insistence, his party’s cadres arranged massive rallies in favour of the BSP state chief, Jasvir Garhi, in Phagwara. The SAD leadership has been time and again attacking the Channi government for not being able to recover Rs 100 crore SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme grants from colleges.Eye on those chasing foreign dreams in the state’s NRI belt (as Doaba is known), the Akali Dal promised a ‘Student Education Card’, which will offer Rs 10 lakh interest-free loan for college studies, IELTS fee and admission in foreign colleges. To counter it, Channi announced free IELTS, TOEFL and PTE coaching.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) too has a “Dalit guarantee card” ready. AAP national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, at a recent event, announced if voted to power, his party would foot the coaching bill of SC students wanting to pursue engineering, medical or other courses or prepare for competitive examinations. “If any SC community child wishes to pursue graduation and post-graduation abroad, the expenses will be borne by the state government,” he had said.Kejriwal had chosen to launch his women guarantee card offering Rs 1,000 per month to all 18-plus women from Kartarpur reserved seat constituency. “All seemed going well for AAP till it erred in the distribution of ticket, as it did in 2017. The selection of candidates has created a major rift between the old and the new guard, something that spilled onto the streets recently during the visit of party’s Punjab affairs incharge Raghav Chadha,” says Sukhdeep Apra, a youth activist.The BJP, for its part, has set up its state office in Jalandhar and has been mobilising party cadre. Party leaders Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Meenakshi Lekhi have been camping here and are meeting people, trying to rope in prominent faces, especially Mazhabi Sikhs. The party workers have been sharing booklets and videos of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “pro-Sikh decisions”.The Doaba’s NRIs, who favoured AAP in the 2017 Assembly elections, haven’t revealed their cards yet, probably due to the Omicron scare. “If at all they get active in the coming weeks, they may side by the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha, a political outfit floated by farmers who led protests against the three central farm laws,” claims Jaswinder Sangha, a prominent potato grower.The farmers’ party is learnt to be consolidating support in Assembly segments such as Jalandhar Cantonment, Nakodar, Phagwara and Adampur in Doaba.People don’t want too many welfare schemes. Public funds must be used rationally. How can freebies like Rs2,000 monthly allowance for women work when the state doesn’t have adequate finances? — Capt IS Dhami (retd), JalandharParties must include a bailout package for the industry. The government rolled out the ‘Punjab Invest’ scheme, but setting up a new unit still remains much more complex here as compared to neighbouring states. — Rajiv Kumar, Kapurthala businessmanHow parties fared in 2017 electionsCongress 15AAP 2SAD 5BJP 1Total assembly seats 117Challenges they faceCong: Failure to handle post-matric scholarship schemeSAD: Ensuring proper support from ally Bahujan Samaj PartyBJP: Getting good candidates from rural seatsAAP: Rebellion from the old guard1 Bholath2 Kapurthala3 Sultanpur Lodhi4 Phagwara5 Phillaur6 Nakodar7 Shahkot8 Kartarpur9 Jalandhar West10 Jalandhar Central11 Jalandhar North12 Jalandhar Cantt13 Adampur14 Mukerian15 Dasuya16 Urmar17 Sham Chaurasi18 Hoshiarpur19 Chabbewal20 Garhshankar21 Banga22 Nawanshahr23 Balachaur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/voters-pulse-doaba-advantage-cong-here-360762
13-01-2022||Fatehgarh Sahib||Covid-19: Fatehgarh Sahib reports 145 cases, 1 death||The district reported 145 new Covid cases and one death in the past 24 hours. Presently, there are 631 active cases in the district and 8,860 patients have been cured, the Civil Surgeon said.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur held a meeting with officials of the Health Department and directed to intensify the vaccination drive. She stressed for 100 per cent vaccination in the district. The DC said that beneficiaries were being vaccinated at 59 health centers and the Civil Hospitals at Fatehgarh Sahib, Basi, Amloh and Mandi Gobindgarh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/covid-19-fatehgarh-sahib-reports-145-cases-1-death-360755
13-01-2022||Rajmeet Singh||Congress under pressure to name Punjab CM nominee||Chandigarh, January 12Pressure is mounting on the Congress high command to declare a CM face for the forthcoming Assembly elections. Raising the issue at different levels of the party forum over the past few days, several leaders, including some ministers, have been demanding that instead of giving the Opposition a chance to raise the issue, the party should clearly name the chief ministerial candidate.Charanjit Singh Channi and Navjot Singh Sidhu are two main contenders for the party’s CM face.A senior AICC leader said the Congress was waiting for AAP to declare its CM face before announcing its own decision. The names of former PPCC chiefs Sunil Jakhar and Partap Bajwa need to be kept in mind while analysing the scenario. A senior party leader said Rahul Gandhi had announced Capt Amarinder Singh as the CM face a week before the 2017 poll. “The party used the Punjabi (Capt Amarinder) versus non-Punjabi (Kejriwal) narrative to take the edge. This time, AAP is not likely to repeat the same mistake,” he said. CM Channi recently used the narrative of “custodian of Punjabiat” and “protector of farmers” to counter BJP’s charge of “security threat” to PM Modi. With over a month to go for the elections, it is to be seen as to how the Congress sustains the narrative in the elections that are likely to throw many surprises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-under-pressure-to-name-punjab-cm-nominee-360735
13-01-2022||---||Bikram Majithia quizzed for 2 hours in NDPS case, alleges plot||Chandigarh, January 12Senior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia today joined probe in the alleged drug smuggling case against him.A three-member special investigation team (SIT) led by AIG Balraj Singh questioned him for about two hours at the state crime branch police station. The questioning began around 11 am. Granting interim anticipatory bail to the Akali leader on Monday, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had asked him to appear before the SIT, barred him from leaving the country till the next date of hearing and to share with the SIT his live location through WhatsApp.‘Drugs for vote’: Notice to Punjab election panelTalking to the media later, Majithia alleged he was a victim of political vendetta. He reportedly told the SIT thata “conspiracy” had been hatched against him by Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu, former DGP Siddharth Chattopadhyaya and Home Minister SS Randhawa.Majithia was booked under the NDPS Act on December 20 last year. The 49-page FIR is largely based on a status report filed by STF chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/majithia-quizzed-for-2-hours-in-ndps-case-alleges-plot-360732
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Majithia questioned for over two hours by SIT in NDPS case||SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia was on Wednesday questioned for more than two hours by a special investigation team probing a drugs case registered against him.Majithia, who was granted anticipatory bail by the Punjab and Haryana High Court two days ago, appeared before the SIT at the state crime branch at 11 am.Talking to reporters after appearing before the SIT, he said he assured the investigating officers of his full cooperation in the case.Majithia said he asked the officers to take note of Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s statement on the appointment of Siddharth Chattopadhyaya to the post of director general of police and also the comments of Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa against him.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader again raised the issue of an alleged conspiracy hatched against him by Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Randhawa.Majithia’s counsel Damanbir Singh Sobti said the former state minister was ready to assist in every possible investigation.“He joined the probe today,” said Sobti.The high court on Monday had directed the SAD leader to join the investigation on Wednesday at 11 am, while granting him anticipatory bail in the matter.The ex-minister was asked not to leave the country till the next date of hearing and was also requested to share with the investigating agency his live location through WhatsApp.Majithia (46), who was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act last month, had moved the high court seeking anticipatory bail after a Mohali court dismissed his pre-arrest bail plea on December 24.Majithia is the brother-in-law of Sukhbir Badal and the brother of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal.Majithia, who made his first public appearance on Tuesday after registration of the case against him, had accused Channi and Randhawa of hatching a conspiracy against him.Majithia had also dubbed registration of the case against him a “political vendetta”.The former Punjab minister was booked on December 20 last year under the NDPS Act on the basis of a 2018 report of a probe into a drugs racket operating in the state.The report was filed by anti-drug special task force (STF) chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu in the Punjab and Haryana High Court in 2018.The 49-page FIR in the matter was registered by the state Crime Branch at its Mohali police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bikram-majithia-appears-before-sit-in-ndps-case-360632
13-01-2022||New Delhi||Manish Tewari targets Charanjit Channi, Navjot Sidhu; says Punjab needs serious people||Congress MP from Punjab's Anandpur Sahib has once again targeted Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state party president Navjot Singh Sidhu on reports that both are pushing to be named as the chief ministerial candidates.Tewari on Wednesday said, "Punjab needs serious people," and took potshots on both Channi and Sidhu and dubbed them as non-serious persons who are entertaining people.Tewari tweeted, "Punjab requires a CM who has solutions to Punjab's challenges, capacity to take tough decisions. Punjab needs serious people whose politics is Not Social Engineering, Entertainment, Freebies and NOT regime favourites rejected by people in successive elections."The Congress, so far, has not named anyone as the chief ministerial face for the upcoming Assembly elections as the party considers that this leads to infighting and internal rift.But state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday said it is the people who would choose the next chief minister of the state and not the high command. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/manish-tewari-targets-channi-sidhu-says-punjab-needs-serious-people-360609
13-01-2022||Ruchika M Khanna||AAP's chief ministerial face for Punjab polls to be announced next week: Arvind Kejriwal||Chandigarh, January 12Aam Aadmi Party leader Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said his party's chief ministerial face for the Punjab Assembly polls would be announced next week.Kejriwal said an electoral alliance with the political outfit of farmers - Sanyukt Samaj Morcha - could not be forged because of disagreement on seat-sharing.Punjab has 117 assembly segments that will go to polls on February 14.Kejriwal, who was here, said the alliance with the Morcha did not fructify as the farmers unions wanted 60 seats. “We had already announced candidates for 90 seats by then. We told them that they could take 10-15 seats, but they did not agree,” he said.“That is why the alliance could not take off,” he added, while admitting that it could harm the prospects of AAP in the elections.He, however, said the aim of AAP and SSM is the same - welfare of Punjab.The statement is significant considering a lot of speculation about the two sides looking at a post-poll alliance so as to ensure that the farmer votes remain consolidated.Asked about the charges levelled by Rajewal that tickets in the party were being sold and that he had given an audio clip to Kejriwal regarding this, the Delhi CM accepted this. “Rajewal met me at my residence and gave me a pen drive having a recording. But it was just two vague people talking about sale of tickets and accepting of graft by senior party leaders, including myself. There was no substantial proof. I request Rajewal ji that if he has any solid proof, he should take it to the public. If found true, I will hand over the person who accepted money to the police,” he said.The party supremo, in response to queries about similarallegations being made by rebels, said that if any person came up with proof of money for tickets, he himself would sack the culprits.Kejriwal derided the “poor law and order” situation in Punjab and said that the common man does not trust the Congress Government with their security, while referring to Ludhiana bomb blast and the sacrilege incidents.He said nearly 25 Congress MLAs had approached him, requesting him to induct them in the party. “But I have refused to accept ‘Congress ka kooda’, he reiterated.Later, Kejriwal, accompanied by Bhagwant Mann and Anmol Rattan Mann, the party candidate from Kharar, launched the door-to-door campaigning for the party in Kharar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aaps-chief-ministerial-face-for-punjab-polls-to-be-announced-next-week-kejriwal-360608
