14-01-2022||Chandigarh||7,642 fresh Covid cases, 21 more deaths in Punjab||Punjab’s coronavirus tally surged to 6,49,736 on Friday with 7,642 fresh cases, while the death toll climbed to 16,731 as 21 more people succumbed to the viral infection, according to a medical bulletin.Of the fresh cases, Ludhiana reported 1,808, Mohali 1,215, Jalandhar 695, Patiala 634 and Bathinda 469, the bulletin stated.Seven deaths were reported from Ludhiana, four from Jalandhar, two each from Hoshiarpur and Patiala and one each from Amritsar, Barnala, Gurdaspur, Moga, Sangrur and Tarn Taran, it said.The number of active coronavirus cases in Punjab increased to 34,303 from 30,384 on Thursday. The state’s positivity rate stands at 21.19 per cent, up from 17.02 per cent the previous day, the bulletin said.A total of 485 patients are on oxygen support, while 30 critical patients are on ventilator support, it said.As many as 3,612 more patients recuperated from the viral infection, taking the total number of recoveries to 5,98,702, it added.Chandigarh reported 1,834 fresh coronavirus cases that pushed its infection tally to 74,475, the bulletin said.With two more fatalities, the city’s death toll reached 1,086, it said.Chandigarh recorded a positivity rate of 25.21 per cent, according to the bulletin.The number of active cases in the city stands at 7,257, while 66,132 people have recovered from the infection so far, the bulletin said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-642-fresh-covid-cases-21-more-deaths-in-punjab-361285
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Arvind Kejriwal, Bhagwant Mann meet farmers in Punjab CM's constituency||Aam Aadmi Party convenor Arvind Kejriwal and party’s Punjab unit chief Bhagwant Mann met some farmers in Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi's constituency Chamkaur Sahib.In a short video of the meeting released by the party on Friday, Kejriwal and Mann are seen sitting on a cot placed in the mustard fields and interacting with some farmers.In the video, Mann asks the farmers if they have got payment for the cane crop and the peasants reply that it has not yet been cleared."Did you not get payment for your produce for two years?" Kejriwal then asks the farmers.Another farmer tells the AAP leaders that a number of youth of the area are unemployed."So, this time are you going to bring a change (bringing AAP to power)?" asks Kejriwal during the conversation with peasants."We are with you..," an elderly farmer tells Kejriwal, and the Delhi chief minister tells him that they only need their support.Punjab goes to polls on February 14 and the AAP is eyeing to wrest power from the ruling Congress.Kejriwal was on a two-day visit to the northern state which concluded on Thursday during which he also campaigned door-to-door, ruled himself out of the race as the party's CM face, as the AAP launched its ‘Janta Chunegi Apna CM’ drive a day earlier and said the name of the candidate for the top post will be announced after getting the feedback of people.Kejriwal, however, had said his own preference for the post is Bhagwant Mann.During the conversation with peasants at a village in Chamkaur Sahib, in the video, another farmer tells Kejriwal that they got all support and help from the AAP dispensation, including making arrangements of water, ration and providing other essentials which was made when the peasants were agitating against farm laws at Delhi borders."Did you come to know about our schools and hospitals in Delhi?" Kejriwal asks, to which the farmers reply they are aware of it.The Delhi chief minister then asks the peasants whether there is a government school in their area.The elderly farmer replies only five teachers are there where 12 teachers are needed. "What will the children do?" he asks.Kejriwal tells them if AAP comes to power, it will improve the condition of government schools like his government did in Delhi and also provide employment to youth."The way we brought about a change in Delhi, we will bring a change in Punjab too," he said.The Channi government has been under attack, especially from the Aam Aadmi Party, over the issues of schools.AAP leader and Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia had last month visited two government primary schools located in Chamkaur Sahib, alleging their pathetic condition.Sisodia had then alleged that the toilet there was stinking and classrooms were infested with spider webs and in one of the schools there was only one teacher, who was getting just Rs 6,000 per month.Sisodia, Kejriwal and Mann are not the only AAP leaders who have targeted Channi's constituency.Last month, senior AAP leader and Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha had paid a surprise visit to Jindapur village in Chamkaur Sahib and alleged that illegal sand mining was being carried out in Channi's constituency.However, the Punjab chief minister had trashed his claims and had given a strict warning to AAP leaders from Delhi that no "outsider" would be allowed to raise an "unfounded alarm" in the state. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arvind-kejriwal-bhagwant-mann-meet-farmers-in-punjab-cms-constituency-361219
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Cold weather conditions prevail in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions prevailed in many parts of Punjab and Haryana on Friday.Hisar in Haryana reeled under intense cold, recording a minimum temperature of 4.3 degrees Celsius, the meteorological department said.Sirsa also experienced a cold night, recording a low of 5.4 degrees Celsius, while Gurgaon's minimum temperature settled at 7.5 degrees Celsius.However, Ambala registered an above normal temperature at 10.3 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Bathinda reeled under intense cold and recorded a low of 4.2 degrees, while Amritsar recorded a minimum temperature of 7.8 degrees Celsius. Gurdaspur, too, experienced a cold night, recording a low of 5.2 degrees Celsius.Jalandhar recorded a low of 8.6 degrees, while Moga registered a low of 5.9 degrees. Ludhiana's minimum settled at 8.8 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 11 degrees Celsius.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cold-weather-conditions-prevail-in-punjab-haryana-361193
14-01-2022||Kottayam (Kerala)||Bishop Franco Mulakkal acquitted in nun rape case||A court in Kerala on Friday acquitted Roman Catholic Bishop Franco Mulakkal of the charges of raping a nun in a convent in the southern state.As the prosecution failed to produce evidence against the accused, the Additional District and Sessions Court II, Kottayam, acquitted the Bishop.Mulakkal, 57, was accused of raping the nun multiple times during his visit to a convent in this district when he was the Bishop of the Jalandhar diocese of the Roman Catholic church.A visibly relieved and emotional Mulakkal, who arrived in the court to hear the verdict, burst into tears, hugged his followers and lawyers, sharing his joy over the verdict."Daivathinu Sthuthi (praise the Lord)," Mulakkal said when reporters repeatedly sought his reaction.Some of his followers were even seen crying out of joy knowing the acquittal of the bishop.In a brief Malayalam statement issued soon after the verdict, the Jalandhar diocese thanked those who believed in the innocence of the Bishop till date and provided him with the necessary legal assistance."The prosecution has failed miserably in proving the charges against the Bishop", said a lawyer in the Bishop's legal team.However, senior IPS officer S Harishankar, who had led the special investigation team in the rape case against the bishop, said the verdict was not acceptable and an appeal should be moved against it."It is a very very unfortunate verdict. We had expected 100 per cent conviction in the case," Harishankar told reporters.Echoing the same sentiments, Public Prosecutor Jithesh J Babu said despite the victim's statement, the verdict came out like this."This could not be accepted", he said, adding that the verdict will be challenged in the higher court after getting the approval of the government.The rape case against the Bishop was registered by police in Kottayam district in June, 2018. In her complaint to the police, the nun had alleged that she was subjected to sexual abuse by Franco between 2014 and 2016.The Special Investigation Team which probed the case, arrested the Bishop in September 2018 and charged him with wrongful confinement, rape, unnatural sex and criminal intimidation.Trial in the case, started in November 2019, had concluded on January 10.The court had restrained the print and electronic media from publishing any matter relating to the trial in the case without its permission. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bishop-franco-mulakkal-accused-of-rape-of-nun-in-kerala-acquitted-361191
14-01-2022||Muktsar||On Maghi, people pay obeisance at gurdwaras in Punjab's Muktsar||On the occasion of Maghi, a large number of people are coming to pay obeisance at the historic gurdwaras here.The devotees had started arriving on Thursday, but the crowd is expected to surge in the afternoon on Friday.Due to the Election Commission’s ban on political gatherings, no political event is being organised this year. On the other hand, there is no ban on religious events.Maghi is observed every year on January 14. An annual mela is organised in Muktsar town to commemorate the 40 Muktas, who laid down their lives while fighting the last battle of Sikhs against the Mughals in 1705 here, earlier known as ‘Khidrane di dhab’.On this day, devotees come to pay obeisance at the historic gurdwaras and take a holy dip in the sarovar here.During a round of the town, it was observed that a majority of people were not wearing face masks.Earlier, Harpreet Singh Sudan, Deputy Commissioner, had said that the public would have to follow the Covid protocol and the health department teams would do random Covid sampling.                                     #Maghi                                     #Muktsar                                     #MuktsarGurdwara||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/people-pay-obeisance-at-muktsar-gurdwaras-on-maghi-361189
14-01-2022||Lohri||Of bonfire & new beginnings...||Dancing around the bonfire, singing Sundar mundriye, relishing on festive foods such as til bhugga, khajoor, gur gajjak, Lohri is the festival of happiness, warmth and abundance.In Punjab, Lohri is also celebrated as the harvest festival and marks the auspicious period of Uttarayan in northern India. Marking the onset of Rabi harvest season, Lohri festival holds significance due to several folkores and traditions associated with it. Ideally, Lohri is celebrated by lighting a bonfire and distributing festive savouries such as til bhugga, peanuts, gajjaks among loved ones. In an event of any recent marriage or birth of a baby in the family, Lohri festivities are grander in nature.In Amritsar, festive foods including khajoor are a favourite pick of the day. Kite-flying is another favourite Lohri activity and several kite-flying competitions are organised on the day. Since Lohri is followed by another winter festival Maghi or Makar Sankranti, every household prepares kheer made from sugarcane, jaggery, rice and nuts and dal-khichdi that is consumed on Maghi. Other festive food on Lohri include sarson ka saag and makki ki roti. Maghi or Makar Sankranti is celebrated as people visit shrines and take holy dip to pray for new beginnings. Kite-flying is another way of celebrating Makar Sankranti that also marks the New Year according to Hindu traditions.Another interesting aspect of Lohri is the folklore of Dulha Bhatti that is associated with the festival. According to the legend, during the reign of Akbar, Dulha Bhatti was a hero, a man who used to save young girls from being abducted and sold to men. He became a hero for villagers during the time and they used to sing his praises in a song dedicated to him. Till today, Lohri ritual that are performed include lighting the bonfire, singing popular folk song Sundar Mundriye… remembering Dulha Bhatti.Another interesting fact about Lohri is that earlier, lighting bonfire was considered as summoning Gods and offering festive foods including til (sesame), gur (jaggery) and gajjak, were considered as paying gratitude to them for a good harvest season. That’s why even today, festive food is offered to the bonfire and later distributed among people.As it’s a festival of positivity and change (as it marks change in season), Lohri has also been able to break certain stereotypes over the years. The celebration assumed grand scale with the birth of a male child in the family. But lately, the concept of dhiyan di lohri is being popularised, by celebrating the birth of a girl child in the family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/of-bonfire-new-beginnings-361176
14-01-2022||Archit Watts||Punjab poll 2022: At 94, Parkash Singh Badal relentless, goes door to door||Lambi (Muktsar), January 13The extreme cold weather conditions notwithstanding, the grand old man of Punjab politics, Parkash Singh Badal, has started door-to-door campaigning at his home turf Lambi. At 94, he is the oldest active politician of the state.Will be oldest in fray if he contestsThe former CM had been regularly holding public meetings before the imposition of poll code and subsequent ban on political gatherings.Though Badal has already covered most part of the Lambi constituency, he decided to go door to door to mobilise support for the SAD in the remaining around 15 villages.Badal today spent nearly four hours at Mann village. He remained seated in his car most of the time and met villagers from a distance.He asked everyone about their well being and appealed to them to support the SAD. Badal has been winning consecutively from Lambi since 1997. The Shiromani Akali Dal is yet to declare his nomination for the upcoming elections.One of his aides said, “Despite his age, Badal sahib is full of enthusiasm. He will complete a tour of the entire constituency. His visit remains low key with no use of loudspeakers. Area residents have brief interaction with him.”Badal has also been participating in party’s election meetings. He along with his son Sukhbir Badal, who is also the chief of the Shiromani Akali Dal, recently held a meeting with their relatives and supporters and assigned them election duties.“The electioneering has changed completely. We are solely relying on door-to-door canvassing. The culture of star campaigners has ended. The onus is on village leaders now,” said SAD vice president Tejinder Singh Middukhera.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-94-badal-relentless-goes-door-to-door-361036
14-01-2022||---||Sonia Gandhi headed Congress panel holds discussions on 70 Punjab seats||New Delhi, January 13The Congress president Sonia Gandhi-led central election committee (CEC) held a virtual meeting late Thursday evening and discussed 70 seats for the February 14 Punjab elections.Names clearedParty’s poll posters to carry pictures of Chief Minister CS Channi, Pradesh Congress chief Navjot Sidhu and former PCC president Sunil Jakhar for ‘inclusivity’Sources said Manmohan Singh could not attend the meeting because of frail health. The first list of candidates is expected on Friday.There was lack of consensus on about five seats on which Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had additional inputs. The CEC decided to ask the Punjab screening committee led by AICC general secretary Ajay Maken to review these seats on Friday morning and suggest potential candidates to the party high command.The candidature of actor Sonu Sood’s sister Malvika Sood from Moga and Sidhu Moosewala from Mansa was discussed. There was near unanimty on fielding them. The candidature of CM Channi, Pradesh Congress chief Navjot Sidhu and former PCC chief Partap Bajwa was reportedly cleared.The souces said the issue of dropping some sitting MLAs remained contentious with no final call on the matter.The CEC comprises former PM Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi, AK Antony, Ambika Soni, KC Venugopal, Girija Vyas, Janardan Dwivedi, Mukul Wasnik, Veerappa Moily and Mohsina Kidwai.Earlier in the day, sources said the issue of CM face in Punjab could figure at the CEC meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sonia-headed-panel-holds-discussions-on-70-punjab-seats-361029
14-01-2022||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab poll 2022: Youth Congress may get bigger ticket share||Chandigarh, January 13With the much-anticipated first list of around 70 Congress candidates for the Punjab Assembly elections to be released on the occasion of Makar Sankranti on Friday, all eyes are on candidates who are likely to be fielded from the youth quota.Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has already announced that youths will get one-and-half times more representation this time than in thelast Assembly elections and that he will honour merit, has been batting for a number of young leaderswho have been working in the organisational setup for a long time.Indian Youth Congress president Srinivas BV had recently demanded at least 10 per cent seats for youth. As many as 12 young leaders associated with the IYC have sought the party ticket. In the 2017 Assembly elections, the party had fielded 11 from the IYC state unit.Leading the charge, Barinder Dhillon, president, Punjab Youth Congress, is a front-runner from the Ropar segment, followed by Amarpreet Singh Lally from Garhshankar. Lally is the IYC general secretary and former Punjab Youth Congress chief. He was a front-runner for the Anandpur Sahib parliamentary seat in the 2019 General Election.A general secretary in the Punjab Youth Congress, Amit Bawa Saini is seeking ticket from Dera Bassi, besides Daman Bajwa from Sunam and Gurjot Dhindsa from Amargarh.Regarding the number of women being given representation, sources in the Congress said on the pattern of Uttar Pradesh, where the party has given 40 per cent seats to women candidate, the Punjab Congress wants to increase their number here this time. Citing winnability and merit, state Congress leaders, however, remain unclear on the subject.12 keen to contestAs many as 12 young leaders associated with the Idian Youth Congress (IYC) have sought ticket this time. They include Barinder Dhillon (from Ropar), Amarpreet Singh Lally (Garhshankar), Amit Bawa Saini (Dera Bassi), Daman Bajwa (Sunam) and Gurjot Dhindsa (Amargarh)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-congress-may-get-bigger-ticket-share-361005
14-01-2022||---||Arvind Kejriwal seeks public feedback on CM face, critics call it stunt||Chandigarh, January 13The Aam Aadmi Party seems to be uncertain on announcing Bhagwant Mann as its chief ministerial face, with party supremo Arvind Kejriwal “leaving it to the people” to decide while ruling himself out as the candidate for the top post. The party national convener today launched a number (7074870748), saying people of Punjab should call/message or WhatsApp and give their choice of party’s CM candidate.“We want to leave the choice to the people of Punjab, who can give us their choice by January 17. Following this, the candidate chosen by the public will be the CM face,” he said. Though Kejriwal said he had himself asked Mann to be the CM face, the latter wanted the CM face to be “chosen by public and not imposed on them”. “I told Mann I should clear his name, but he gave me this idea that we should not choose the CM face at a closed-door meeting,” said Kejriwal, adding “my personal choice is not important… public choice is supreme. But I will reiterate that I will myself not be the CM face”.Public supremeMy personal choice is not important… public choice is supreme. But I will reiterate that I will not be the CM face. —Arvind Kejriwal, AAP national convenerWill take any roleI will perform any duty assigned by party. I will even paste poster or wave party flag (broom) if it so wants. —Bhagwant Mann, State AAP chiefMann’s supporters, however, termed it a “political stunt” by the party to get public validation for their choice. “Mann’s candidature for the CM face of the party is almost certain,” said an associate.“Even yesterday, during the door-to-door campaigning at Kharar, public reaction and love for Mann was phenomenal and the party top brass saw it first hand,” he claimed.Some AAP leaders felt it was a strategy to delay the announcement of the CM face as no party had so far declared their CM candidate. Mann, with Kejriwal by his side, endorsed his party leader’s statement, saying: “I am a loyal party worker and will perform any duty entrusted to me by the party.... For me, it is more important that the CM trusts me.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arvind-kejriwal-seeks-public-feedback-on-cm-face-critics-call-it-stunt-360997
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Poll nuggets: AAP MLA Aman Arora tests positive for Covid||PCC secretary joins Akali DalChandigarh: Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee secretary, Zirakpur councillor and former sarpanch Jaspal Singh along with his supporters joined the SAD in the presence of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal. Welcoming Jaspal into the party fold, Sukhbir announced him as the party vice-president and said he would be assigned election duties. TNSPatiala ex-mayor Kohli in AAP foldChandigarh: Former Patiala mayor Ajitpal Singh Kohli joined the Aam Aadmi Party here on Thursday. The scion of the Taksali-Akali “Kohli family” announced his decision to quit the Shiromani Akali Dal and join the AAP. State unit chief and MP Bhagwant Mann formally inducted Kohli into the party at a programme. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poll-nuggets-mla-aman-arora-tests-positive-for-covid-361049
14-01-2022||A system which could not give justice to our Guru and punish the big fish involved in drug trade needs to be demolished. I’m not running for any post. Either this system will stay or Navjot Singh Sidhu. — Navjot Singh Sidhu||Punjab Leaderspeak: Not running for any post||SSM ignoring our outfitWe requested the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha that we should not fight separately. You are ignoring us… I will be forced to field candidates of my party (Sanyukt Sangharsh Party) on my own. — Gurnam Singh Charuni, farm leaderKejriwal eyeing cm’s postArvind Kejriwal himself wants to become CM of Punjab and he was resorting to drama to fool people. The AAP wants to project a dummy face. The hidden agenda is Kejriwal is eyeing the post of Punjab CM. — Sukhbir singh badal, sad president||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-leaderspeak-not-running-for-any-post-361044
14-01-2022||Abohar||2 held for killing juice vendor in Abohar||IELTS centre violates normsMoga: The owner of Victoria IELTS and Immigration Centre in Baghapurana has been booked on the complaint of an executive magistrate for violating prohibitory orders issued by the District Magistrate in the wake of the pandemic. The complainant alleged that owner of the IELTS centre had put lives of at least 12 students at risk as he was providing coaching to them in a small room without following safety measures. The police have registered a case under Section 188 of the IPC and Sections 51 and 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Cops said they would nab the accused at the earliest. OCLohri celebrated at ashramAbohar: Keeping the 25-year-old tradition alive, management committee of Geeta Mandir, celebrated Lohri with inmates of Malout-based Nav Jiwan Kusht Ashram on Thursday. The project was launched by a group of social activists and philanthropists, including Brahm Parkash Bhusari, Jagdish Nagpal, Ayodhya Prasad, Jagdish Rai Chuchra and vendor-turned millionaire Milakh Raj Angi, alias ‘topi wala’. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-held-for-killing-juice-vendor-in-abohar-361034
14-01-2022||Fazilka||Excise team attacked, two injured||Two constables of the Excise Department suffered injuries after some bootleggers allegedly assaulted the team, which went to a border village to seize illicit liquor.Investigating Officer Iqbal Singh said acting on a tip-off, the team led by Excise Inspector Harmit Singhconducted a raid at the resident of Pala Singh of Mahatam Nagar. After seeing the police, Harjinder Singh, son of Pala tried to flee, but was nabbed by the police. The Inspector alleged that some persons attacked his team. The injured constables have been as Pardeep and Arvind. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/excise-team-attacked-two-injured-361032
14-01-2022||Mansa||Mansa double murder case cracked, 5 held||The police have cracked a double-murder case in which a man and her mother were found brutally murdered at Musa village of Sardulgarh area in Mansa district last week. The police have arrested five persons, including the deceased woman’s son who allegedly hatched a conspiracy to kill his mother and brother over property dispute.Jagsir Singh and his mother Jaswinder Kaur were found murdered on January 6.Mansa SSP Deepak Pareek said, “We have cracked the double-murder case wherein a son and his mother were found dead under mysterious circumstances on January 6. As per initial investigation, it appears to be a case of contract killing. We have arrested five persons.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mansa-double-murder-case-cracked-5-held-361028
14-01-2022||Amritsar||Amritsar: No conspiracy behind ‘sacrilege' incident at Nanaksar Gurdwara in Jastarwal village, says SSP||Following a week-long investigation in the “sacrilege” incident at Nanaksar Gurdwara at Jastarwal village, falling under the Lopoke police station here, the Amritsar rural police today claimed “it was not a conspiracy” and that the accused was mentally unsound. “The investigations were carried involving an 11-member committee formed by Sikh organisations and they were satisfied with the probe,” said SSP Rakesh Kaushal on Thursday.The residents had caught a suspect — Zedrol, a resident of Malda in West Bangal — who was later booked by the police for hurting religious sentiments. The suspect, a Rohingya, apparently hailed from Bangladesh, the police suspected.“We have done the background check of the suspect, who was interrogated in the presence of the committee members,” he said.The suspect allegedly worked as a bonded labourer at the residence of Paramjit Singh Pamma of Kakkar village where he stayed for over a year. Later, he worked at the residences of Manpreet Singh of Bachiwind, Rashpal Singh of Jastarwal village, Rana of Umarpura village and Gurtej Singh of Jastarwal village.They confirmed the suspect was mentally unstable. The SSP said he had been admitted to a psychiatric hospital on the orders of the court. The doctors were running tests to ascertaining his state of mind and appropriate action would be taken. His dope test also came out negative, he said.Tension had gripped the village after the incident, which was captured in the CCTV cameras of the gurdwara. The accused was taken into police custody 12 hours after the incident. An 11-member committee of Sikh organisations was formed to unearth any “conspiracy” to create a law and order problem in Punjab. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-conspiracy-behind-jastarwal-incident-ssp-361027
14-01-2022||---||Ex-minister Joginder Singh Mann flays govt for no action in SC scholarship scam||Phagwara, January 13Former Minister and Chairman of Punjab Agro Industries Corporation Joginder Singh Mann on Thursday said the Cabinet’s recent decision to grant “clemency to the accused of the post-matric scholarship scheme scam was atrocious”.He said it was surprising that instead of taking a strict action against the erring educational institutes for embezzling the money meant for the scholarship to Scheduled Caste (SC) students, the Punjab Government had exempted them from a police case.He said a strict action against erring institutes would have acted as a deterrent for others aswell.He said the report submitted by Additional Chief Secretary Kirpa Shankar Saroj had clearly indicted the culprits, but for the reasons unknown the state government had turned a blind eye towards it and let the erring institutes offthe hook.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-minister-flays-govt-for-no-action-in-sc-scholarship-scam-361023
14-01-2022||---||Army aspirants block highway in Bathinda||Bathinda, January 13Scores of youngsters who had undergone the physical fitness test for recruitment in the Indian Army staged a protest and blocked the Bathinda national highway on Thursday. The agitators raised slogans against the Centre alleging that despite clearing the physical fitness test, further process was not being initiated.Mang Pal, an aspirant from Ludhiana, said, “I had participated in Army recruitment in 2020. Many aspirants had cleared the fitness test. We were told that written exam would be conducted soon. Now, citing Covid-19, the exam has been postponed.” He said, “Exams for recruitment in the Police Department and other sectors have been conducted. Thus, we decided to hold a protest here outside the Army cantonment in Bathinda.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/army-aspirants-block-highway-in-bathinda-361020
14-01-2022||---||Nun rape case verdict  today||Jalandhar, January 13An uneasy calm prevails across a majority of the churches linked with the Jalandhar Diocese as the Additional District and Sessions Court of Kottayam in Kerala is set to pronounce judgment in the alleged nun rape case against its Bishop Franco Mulakkal on Friday.Several priests from the bishop house and churches of Jalandhar district and nearby areas have left for Kerala to be with the Bishop when the judgment is delivered in court.Trial in KeralaThe accused had been in Kerala for a long time as he had to appear regularly in court and also wanted to “avoid travel” in Covid times, said sources.The Kuravilangad police had registered a case after the nun, who had served as mother general with the Jesus of Missionaries at Jalandhar, lodged a complaint on June 29, 2018.The nun had alleged the clergyman had raped her 13 times between 2014 and 2016 at Kuravilangad convent in Kottayam.It took 86 days of investigation and 81 witnesses to record their statements, before the Kerala police arrested the Bishop on September 21, 2018.Prior to this, the Kerala Police had interrogated Bishop for nine hours at the Bishop house between August 14 and 15.A 2,000-page chargesheet was submitted in the case and the trial began in November 2019.The trial was reportedly conducted in-camera and a cardinal and major archbishop of the Catholic Church were among 39 witnesses who were examined by the court.The nun who had filed the complaint was reportedly examined and cross-examined for 13 days.Franco Mulakkal became the first Catholic Bishop in the country to be arrested for alleged sexual assault on a nun.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nun-rape-case-verdict-today-361017
14-01-2022||---||Appointment on compassionate basis not a vested right, rules High Court||Chandigarh, January 13The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that appointment on compassionate basis was not an alternate source of recruitment. The Bench also made it clear that consideration for such employment was not a vested right, which could be exercised at any time in future.The direction by the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli came in a case of a 29-year-old youngster, who was just 4 when his father passed away. The Bench observed a significant question before it was whether the appellant-youngster possessed indefeasible or hereditary right to seek appointment upon attaining majority, even though he was a minor, being 4 years of age at the time of his father’s death. The answer, the Bench added, was “no”.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after Gagandeep Singh filed an appeal against the state of Punjab and others respondents following the dismissal of his plea by a Single Judge. Referring to a plethora of Supreme Court and High Court judgments, the Bench asserted neither any rule, nor any provision in the “Scheme for Compassionate Appointments-2002”, was referred to, which provided for consideration of a minor’s claim upon attaining majority.The Bench observed the void the appellant, and his mother, had to bear with upon his father’s death could never be filled. But, there were certain factors that assumed significance upon analysing the position from a limited standpoint of considering a claim for appointment on compassionate basis.Elaborating, the Bench asserted a quarter of a century had gone by post death of the appellant’s father. His mother was already employed as Punjabi Mistress at the time of her husband’s death. She retired from service in December 2020. Concededly, the appellant qualified matriculation from the Punjab State Education Board in 2008, and completed Diploma in Mechanical Engineering from the Punjab State Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training in December 2011. He even acquired a degree in Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering from Punjab Technical University, Jalandhar.“He was 4-year-old when his father died and is over 29 years of age today. The position of law is settled that appointment on compassionate basis is not an alternate source of recruitment. Nor does the consideration for such employment is a vested right, which can be exercised at any time in future. In the wake of the position, as sketched out above, we are dissuaded to interfere with the impugned order and judgment rendered by the Single Judge. The appeal being bereft of merit is accordingly dismissed,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/appointment-on-compassionate-basis-not-a-vested-right-rules-high-court-361016
14-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||High Court: Give seven-day notice to petitioners fearing vendetta||Chandigarh, January 13Just over a month before the Assembly elections, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered the issuance of seven-day advance notice to petitioners apprehending false implication in criminal cases due to political vendetta. The order would remain in operation till after the conclusion of elections.Justice Anoop Chitkara made it clear that the Code of Criminal Procedure did not provide for blanket bail, but the advance notice order was being passed in the interest of justice in view of the impending elections after taking into consideration the apprehensions of political vendetta.The matter was brought to Justice Chitkara’s notice after Lavpreet Singh and other petitioners filed a petition against the State of Punjab and other respondents. They were seeking directions for grant of blanket bail on the apprehension of registration of an FIR for non-bailable offences due to political reasons.Taking up the matter, Justice Chitkara asserted there was no provision for ordering blanket bail in the CrPC. “However, since the apprehension is due to political vendetta and the elections in the State of Punjab are around the corner, as such, in the interest of justice, this court disposes of the present petition…”Elaborating, Justice Chitkara asserted the investigator would afford an opportunity to the petitioner by sending a seven-day advance notice in case of registration of any FIR, where the maximum sentence was up to 10 years, and the investigator wanted to arrest him.Before parting with the matter, Justice Chitkara made it clear that the order would enable the petitioner to avail legal remedies. “It is also clarified that order shall remain in force for a period of 15 days after the elections are over,” Justice Chitkara added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-give-seven-day-notice-to-petitioners-fearing-vendetta-361015
14-01-2022||---||6K new Covid-19 cases in Punjab, positivity rate slips||Chandigarh, January 13The state has reported 6,083 cases, including six deaths, in the last 24 hours. In the district-wise break-up of deaths, Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Pathankot, Patiala and SAS Nagar reported one death each. As many as 19 patients are critical and are on ventilator support, while 130 are getting level three critical care treatment and 460 are on oxygen support.SAS Nagar topped the state with 914 fresh cases, followed by Patiala 776, Amritsar 731, Ludhiana 670, and Jalandhar 514 cases.The state’s Covid testing has also increased with the Health Department conducting 35,720 tests. At 17.03 per cent, the positivity rate has witnessed a slight drop.Meanwhile, the health authorities in Abohar tested passengers at the main bus stand on Thursday after the district administration instructed the Health Department to collect samples there and at railway station.Health inspector Mohinder Kumar said samples of 44 passengers were taken by a mobile team at the main bus stand. Health Inspector Sanjay Rajput said 73 cases had been reported in the last 13 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6k-new-cases-positivity-rate-slips-361014
14-01-2022||Moga||Follow norms or face action, Moga DEO tells parties||District Magistrate-cum-District Election Officer of Moga, Harish Nayyar, has appealed to all the political parties to strictly follow and abide by the model code of conduct in place ahead of the Assembly elections enforced by the Election Commission during the election campaign and warned that any violation would attract strict action against the respective political party or its candidate.Directing the enforcement authorities particularly the SDMs to keep a strict vigil, he cautioned the parties against making use of any private or government property for putting up posters, erecting flag staffs or writing election slogans without obtaining written permission from the owners of the property.He has also appealed to the stakeholders in the print, electronic and social media not to publish any advertisement issued by the state government without permission of the EC. No photograph, banner or poster of political parties or their leaders should be pasted on buses, ambulances and all other government vehicles. No grant should be issued by the MPs or MLAs from their discretionary funds. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/follow-norms-or-face-action-moga-deo-tells-parties-361013
14-01-2022||Encompassing the city’s most posh area||Jalandhar cantt: Bumpy ride to growth||The dairy complex of Jamsher is without roads and has a perpetually clogged sewer. Residents have to bear stinking sludge on roads all the time. The water treatment plant at Pholariwal remains non-functional. A waste treatment plant also remains a non-starter.Roads of the constituency are in a bad shape too. Deep Nagar road along the Cantonment area had been dug up to lay sewer and it remained muddy for almost a year till the work began recently. “Despite such a huge volume of traffic that it gets, the authorities did not bother to get it repaired,” said Sham Babbar, a local. Garha cremation ground has no boundary wall. Jamsher, Samrai and Jandiala hospitals do not have adequate infrastructure.Past trendThe electorate here has always gone with the Congress barring the two terms in 2007 and 2012. Former CM Beant Singh too was an MLA from the seat in 1992, followed by his son Tej Partap in 1997 and his daughter Gurkanwal Kaur in 2002.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,90,583Male 99,296Female 91,282Third gender 5||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bumpy-ride-to-growth-361012
14-01-2022||Gurbaxpuri||Khadoor Sahib: Overflowing sewage a bane||The World Bank-funded sewage system laid in Khadoor Sahib around 12 years ago has become the biggest bane for the residents. Ever since it has become non-functional, the waste has been overflowing into people’s homes due to the leaking pipes.Partap Singh of Pallian-Ki locality of the village said defecating in fields nearby in the past was much better as the area remained pollution-free and devoid of any foul smell, which has rendered the village non-livable at present.Gurdial Singh, another local, said all streets of the village were overflowing with polluted water. “The only solution is reinstalling the whole system,” he said. The sewage systems were also laid in Sri Goindwal Sahib and Chohla Sahib, which, too, fall under Khadoor Sahib Assembly constituency. These too, have become dysfunctional.Past trendThe constituency has been largely electing SAD candidates. Incumbent MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki gave Congress a shot in the arm when he defeated SAD stalwart Ranjit Singh Brahampura in 2012 and repeated the victory in 2017 as well.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,97,660Male 1,04,282Female 93,370Third gender 8||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/overflowing-sewage-a-bane-361010
14-01-2022||Mansa||Security along Haryana border up in wake of Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections||In the wake of the Vidhan Sabha elections, an inter-state meeting between senior police officials from Mansa and Sirsa district of Haryana was held to chalk out a strategy to keep law and order under control and keep a check on inter-state criminal activities. Mansa SSP Deepak Pareek, along with other police officials, visited Sirsa and held a meeting with his Sirsa counterpart Arpit Jain.“Mansa district shares the border with Haryana and it’s important to maintain an intensive vigil to check inter-state criminal activities on both sides in the wake of the Vidhan Sabha elections. Important aspects such as safety and security were discussed during the meeting.“Joint security teams would man sensitive areas sharing inter-state border with regard to criminal activities to keep a watch on drug peddlers and criminals so that elections can be conducted peacefully in the state. After the meeting, we also conducted checking at different areas,” the Mansa SSP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/security-along-haryana-border-up-361009
14-01-2022||Parvesh Sharma||Administration steps up vigil in 'sensitive' Sunam||Sangrur, January 13After being categorised as Expenditure Sensitive (ES) Assembly constituency, Sunam authorities have started initiatives to prevent the misuse of money and other allurements during the forthcoming elections.From Congress, halqa incharge Daman Bajwa, who had unsuccessfully contested the last Assembly elections, is the front-runner for the ticket, while AAP has given ticket to its MLA Aman Arora and SAD-BSP have fielded former SAD minister Baldev Singh Mann.“If the Election Commissioner has categorised our constituency as expenditure sensitive, it means there are chances of misuse of money to entice voters. Authorities must take strict action to ensure the compliance of EC directions for fair elections,” said Jatinder Jain, a local RTI activist. Bajwa and her husband Harman Bajwa said they had ensured overall development of the constituency.“We have got fulfilled all our poll promises, including construction of martyr Udham Singh memorial, which has been a long-pending demand of the residents for the past more than three decades. Besides, we have got free land worth hundreds of crores from the land mafia. We are confident of winning with huge margin and our development work will fetch votes. EC should ensure fair elections,” Bajwa said.MLA Arora could not be contacted for a comment. SAD’s Mann said he had never misused money during elections to fetch votes. “Neither I will misuse money nor allow any other candidate to do so. I request the EC to intensify supervision in the area,” he said.Sunam SDM Jaspreet Singh said their flying squad teams had been patrolling round the clock. “We will not allow anyone to misuse money during elections. I have directed officers to be vigilant not only in Sunam, but all constituencies,” said Sangrur Deputy Commissioner Ramvir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/administration-steps-up-vigil-in-sensitive-sunam-361007
14-01-2022||Moga||Notices to Moga MLA Dr Harjot Kamal, Sonu Sood’s sister Malvika, BJP leader for poll code violation||Sub-Divisional Magistrate and Returning Officer (RO) Satwant Singh has issued notices to actor Sonu Sood’s sister Malvika, Congress MLA Dr Harjot Kamal and district BJP president Vinay Sharma for violation of the model code and prohibitory orders issued in the wake of Covid.The Election Commission had ordered that no political rallies, road shows or street corner meets will be allowed till January 15, said Harish Nayyar, District Magistrate-cum-District Election Officer. The RO has sought a reply from Malvika Sood on the public gathering held at her brother’s residence on Monday. CM Charanjit Singh Channi and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu had come to Sood’s residence to induct her into the party. Several othe leaders and hundreds of local party workers and mediapersons were also present on the occasion. Satwant Singh said he had come to his notice through media reports that the gathering was in contravention of the EC orders. A similar notice has been issued to local MLA Dr Harjot Kamal who held a show of strength on Monday outside his residence. The march only stopped after a warning by the police. The SDM said he had also issued a notice to the BJP for holding a public event at Shaheedi Park. — TNSAAP village events under EC scannerRopar: Returning Officers of Ropar, Anandpur Sahib and Chamkaur Sahib served notices on AAP candidates Dinesh Chadha and Harjot Bains, and Moga MLA Harjot Kamal, respetviely, for alleged poll code violations. While AAP candidates were found holding large gatherings in villages, Kamal had taken a big delegation to CM’s residence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/notices-to-moga-mla-malvika-bjp-leader-361003
14-01-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Amid buzz, Punjab CM's principal secy Hussan Lal says won't contest from Banga||Jalandhar, January 13Brought in by way of a grand appearance by none other than the first Dalit Chief Minister of the state Charanjit Singh Channi, his principal secretary Hussan Lal has reportedly decided against contesting from Banga, a reserved constituency, in the upcoming elections.As per reports, Hussan Lal and his two brothers have not been visiting Banga for the past few days and have also vacated their house on the Mukandpur road.Was introduced at November rallyThis has come as a major shocker for constituency workers, especially since they saw a huge turmoil post the entry of the 59-year-old IAS officer into the fray. Almost all contenders from the party had stopped working and were either sitting at home or switched to other parties. Two-time MLA Mohan Lal Banga switched to the BJP. Constituency incharge Satvir Palli Jhikki joined the Punjab Lok Congress. Former MLA Tarlochan Soondh and other two ticket seekers Rajinder Thekedar and Dr Harpreet Kainth, too, had stopped all party activities.Hussan Lal, who is expected to retire in six months, confirmed to The Tribune he had no plans to contest from Banga but did not cite any reason. All party leaders who were helping Hussan Lal, including Zila Parishad member Kamaljit Banga, party incharge Gurdev Namdhari, Jhujar Rahipa and Rajinder S Kultham, said they too had been hearing that their candidate had withdrawn but had no idea as to what went wrong.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-buzz-cms-principal-secy-says-wont-contest-from-banga-361001
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa's party gets 'telephone' symbol||The Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) today got ‘telephone’ as the party symbol for the upcoming Assembly elections. Party’s office secretary and spokesperson Maninderpal Singh Brar said the Election Commission allotted the ‘telephone’ symbol to the SAD (S) on Friday. The leadership said people were seeing them as a “ray of hope” and they would live up to their expectations. The SAD (S) had recently entered into an election pact with the BJP and the Punjab Lok Congress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dhindsas-party-gets-telephone-symbol-361000
14-01-2022||Sukhmeet Bhasin||3 outsiders in Bathinda district, AAP leaders miffed||Bathinda, January 13The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) cadre here has been baffled over the party’s decision to field “turncoats” on three of the six Assembly segments in Bathinda district. They have been given ticket despite a stiff opposition against their nomination from several aspirants in the party.In Bathinda Rural, AAP has given ticket to Amit Rattan, who was expelled by the SAD over allegations of duping workers on the pretext of providing them business opportunities. Rattan, whose wife is an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, unsuccessfully contested on the SAD ticket in 2017 from Bathinda Rural. He was defeated by AAP’s Rupinder Ruby. Rattan said he had no FIR or complaint against him in politics as false allegations were raised against him due to political rivalry.Reconsider decisionThe party must reconsider its decision or I will contest as an Independent. —Baldev Singh, AAP ticket aspirantThe announcement of the party ticket to Amit Rattan has not gone down well with the AAP leaders. Baldev Singh, who was working for AAP in Bathinda Rural segment, is annoyed and upset with the party choice.Talking to The Tribune, Baldev Singh said he had been working hard for the party in the region and had contributed funds also. Further, he claimed talks were also held with senior party leaders for the ticket from Bathinda, but didn’t know an outsider would be fielded.In Bathinda Urban, six-time Congress MC councillor Jagroop Singh Gill has been fielded by the party. Gill was the chairman of the district planning board and had quit the post to contest the MC polls last year. He won the elections for the record seventh time and was a strong contender for the post of Bathinda Mayor, but he was overlooked, after which he joined AAP and has been given a ticket overlooking several AAP contenders, including Neel Garg, Amrit Aggarwal and Navdeep Singh Jeeda. Singer Balkar Sidhu, who joined the Congress ahead of the 2017 Assembly elections, has been given ticket from Rampura Phul. Sidhu joined AAP in May last year. Similarly, AAP has given tickets to around 30 turncoats in this election in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-outsiders-in-bathinda-district-leaders-miffed-360999
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa's party gets 'telephone' symbol||The Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) today got ‘telephone’ as the party symbol for the upcoming Assembly elections. Party’s office secretary and spokesperson Maninderpal Singh Brar said the Election Commission allotted the ‘telephone’ symbol to the SAD (S) on Friday. The leadership said people were seeing them as a “ray of hope” and they would live up to their expectations. The SAD (S) had recently entered into an election pact with the BJP and the Punjab Lok Congress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dhindsas-party-gets-telephone-symbol-361000
14-01-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Amid buzz, Punjab CM's principal secy Hussan Lal says won't contest from Banga||Jalandhar, January 13Brought in by way of a grand appearance by none other than the first Dalit Chief Minister of the state Charanjit Singh Channi, his principal secretary Hussan Lal has reportedly decided against contesting from Banga, a reserved constituency, in the upcoming elections.As per reports, Hussan Lal and his two brothers have not been visiting Banga for the past few days and have also vacated their house on the Mukandpur road.Was introduced at November rallyThis has come as a major shocker for constituency workers, especially since they saw a huge turmoil post the entry of the 59-year-old IAS officer into the fray. Almost all contenders from the party had stopped working and were either sitting at home or switched to other parties. Two-time MLA Mohan Lal Banga switched to the BJP. Constituency incharge Satvir Palli Jhikki joined the Punjab Lok Congress. Former MLA Tarlochan Soondh and other two ticket seekers Rajinder Thekedar and Dr Harpreet Kainth, too, had stopped all party activities.Hussan Lal, who is expected to retire in six months, confirmed to The Tribune he had no plans to contest from Banga but did not cite any reason. All party leaders who were helping Hussan Lal, including Zila Parishad member Kamaljit Banga, party incharge Gurdev Namdhari, Jhujar Rahipa and Rajinder S Kultham, said they too had been hearing that their candidate had withdrawn but had no idea as to what went wrong.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-buzz-cms-principal-secy-says-wont-contest-from-banga-361001
14-01-2022||Moga||Notices to Moga MLA Dr Harjot Kamal, Sonu Sood’s sister Malvika, BJP leader for poll code violation||Sub-Divisional Magistrate and Returning Officer (RO) Satwant Singh has issued notices to actor Sonu Sood’s sister Malvika, Congress MLA Dr Harjot Kamal and district BJP president Vinay Sharma for violation of the model code and prohibitory orders issued in the wake of Covid.The Election Commission had ordered that no political rallies, road shows or street corner meets will be allowed till January 15, said Harish Nayyar, District Magistrate-cum-District Election Officer. The RO has sought a reply from Malvika Sood on the public gathering held at her brother’s residence on Monday. CM Charanjit Singh Channi and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu had come to Sood’s residence to induct her into the party. Several othe leaders and hundreds of local party workers and mediapersons were also present on the occasion. Satwant Singh said he had come to his notice through media reports that the gathering was in contravention of the EC orders. A similar notice has been issued to local MLA Dr Harjot Kamal who held a show of strength on Monday outside his residence. The march only stopped after a warning by the police. The SDM said he had also issued a notice to the BJP for holding a public event at Shaheedi Park. — TNSAAP village events under EC scannerRopar: Returning Officers of Ropar, Anandpur Sahib and Chamkaur Sahib served notices on AAP candidates Dinesh Chadha and Harjot Bains, and Moga MLA Harjot Kamal, respetviely, for alleged poll code violations. While AAP candidates were found holding large gatherings in villages, Kamal had taken a big delegation to CM’s residence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/notices-to-moga-mla-malvika-bjp-leader-361003
