01-04-2021||As the vaccination drive opens for all above 45 today||Expand vax drive||Hassle-free vaccination camps planned in such places as the police lines, educational institutions, prisons, offices and industrial complexes and allowing people to register themselves with any photo ID proof should help the targeted groups shed hesitancy and improve the vaccination rate. So should taking mobile vaccination centres to densely crowded marketplaces, bus stands, railway stations, etc. With Covid-positivity rising among the younger population — which is up and about and no longer confined to their homes — the government would do well to include them for the shots. It must seriously consider allowing all above 18 who are willing to take the jab. For, crucial to tackling the pandemic is making the largest numbers immunogenic to the virus in the shortest possible time so as to break the chain of transmission.Simultaneously, the authorities need to stay focused on and constantly review the efforts to check the spread of the rapidly escalating cases of Covid-19 infections and deaths. Driven largely by the highly transmissible UK variant of the coronavirus that has struck the country, the surge has given rise to a grave situation. Any laxity or complacency in following the Covid-appropriate behaviour at both the individual and institutional (both government and private) levels is fraught with serious repercussions. Irresponsible actions have the potential to spin our hard-pressed health system out of control. Ramping up sampling and testing of random people in crowded places and contacts of Covid patients is urgently needed to contain the virus. Only then can we avoid another lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/expand-vax-drive-232896
01-04-2021||The Reserve Bank of India’s new guidelines may not take effect from today as mandated||Securing e-transactions||Bolstering the safety of card transactions has been high on the RBI’s agenda. Citing cyber and server security risks, in March last year it said that no merchants, including payment gateways and aggregators that process payments, should be able to store customers’ card details; only banks can. This could signal an end to single-click checkouts. Even as banks have begun notifying customers about the changes in processing any standing instruction for recurring payments, the user data of a mobile payment and digital wallet company allegedly being dumped on the Internet only proves how the banking regulator’s concerns are not misplaced.The total number of real-time transactions worldwide in 2020, the year of the pandemic, was 70.3 billion, up 41 per cent from the previous year. India retained the top spot with a figure of 25.5 billion. If that’s considered a positive aspect, the worrying one is that globally, card-related fraud remains highest in terms of reported incidents from consumers. As governments promote digital transactions, securing the medium and upholding the rights of consumers become all the more important.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/securing-e-transactions-232912
