02-04-2021||New York has become the 15th American state to legalise the use of marijuana by adults||The American way||With drug abuse being a major social evil, politicians in general prefer to tread warily rather than address the root cause of the problem. Among the exceptions are former MP Dr Dharamvira Gandhi, who wants poppy husk, opium and marijuana to be made legally available in order to rein in the drug mafia, while claiming that the NDPS Act has largely failed to achieve its UN-mandated goals. His argument: in view of the prohibition of the common man’s ‘recreational’ substances, addictive and potentially lethal synthetic drugs are swamping the market, wreaking havoc on users and their families.Legalising cannabis production has benefited not only farmers but also the pharma industry in Uttarakhand and UP. Such experience should spur other states to create conditions conducive for cultivators and investors. The procedure of granting licences to the stakeholders should be eased, but there is also a need for a foolproof mechanism to deter unscrupulous elements. Such moves, if properly monitored and regulated, are worth a try. Above all, it’s imperative to build social and political consensus on amending the law so as to decriminalise weed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-american-way-233449
02-04-2021||Trade ties||Pakistan U-turn in 24 hrs||The sequence of events that led to this U-turn was alluring in its potential for a grand attempt at a new beginning in India-Pakistan affairs. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan, who wanted to wage a religious war against India in 2019, had early this week sought to create ‘an enabling environment for a constructive and result-oriented dialogue’. He made this proposal in his response to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s letter of goodwill on Pakistan Day on March 23. In fact, the first sign of a breakthrough was the joint statement by the Directors General of Military Operations of both the armies announcing a ceasefire along the LoC and all other sectors, which was hailed as the biggest push for peace in 18 years. Then came the jaw-dropping peace declaration on March 18 at the first edition of the Islamabad Security Dialogue, where Pakistan Army Chief Qamar Javed Bajwa promised ‘non-interference of any kind in the internal affairs of our neighbouring and regional countries’.All is not lost with just one U-turn; after all, the history of India-Pakistan relationship is one of talks, treachery, terrorism, and again talks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/pakistan-u-turn-in-24-hrs-233429
