03-04-2021||Casting aside the Panjab University Vice-Chancellor’s decision to indefinitely defer the Senate elections||HC for PU Senate poll||One of the oldest and most prestigious universities of the country that enjoys international fame, the functioning of the Chandigarh-based PU has come under a cloud as it has remained without its supreme authority — the Senate — since October 31, 2020, when the previous body’s four-year term expired. The term of the Syndicate — PU’s executive body comprising members elected from among the Senators — ended on December 31. The excuse of the pandemic does not hold water, given that there has been no disruption in the schedule of various Assembly polls. However, the Covid norms must be followed during the poll process. The PU Senate constituencies are spread over Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan.Incidentally, 2020 has also seen Punjabi University, Patiala, teeter on the precipice. Facing an acute financial slump, it is swamped by a plethora of problems. While the beleaguered VC resigned in November, the staff has been deprived of regular salaries for several months and research work has been impacted. The officiating VC appointed by the Punjab Government is struggling to resolve the deadlock with the faculty. Senior functionaries have quit various posts in the past few days over pending promotions. This bleak scenario was evident on March 30 when the Syndicate meeting to discuss the budget was postponed again. Even as a fiscal stimulus by the government is essential to keep the rocky boat afloat, the university also needs to inspect why things have come to such a pass.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/hc-for-pu-senate-poll-233778
03-04-2021||Small savings schemes are a lifeline for the middle class||Flip-flop on rate cut||The Centre’s lightning-quick response to the backlash left no room for doubt that the ruling party didn’t want to antagonise voters of the poll-bound states. However, the government owes an explanation as to why it took the mindless, inconsiderate step in the first place. It is a matter of common sense that the interest rates should have been left unchanged, considering that the country is in the throes of the second wave of the pandemic and needless disruptions are best avoided.In the past year, the Centre has unveiled a series of relief packages to bring the lockdown-battered economy back on track, reaching out to the poorest of the poor on the one hand and the big businesses on the other. Such measures have helped to turn the tide after a crippling recession. But the middle class, taken for granted as always, has been left to fend for itself. The least that the government can do is to pay attention to this section of society that is contributing significantly to the economic recovery — against all odds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/flip-flop-on-rate-cut-233779
