05-04-2021||DAYS before the IPL kicks off in Chennai||IPL in the times of Covid||The IPL has not been a stranger to Covid - in the previous season of the tournament in the UAE last year, a few players and support staff had tested positive for the virus. The organisers had managed to nip the virus in the bud then and the tournament was not affected, climaxing with an entertaining final in November. Organising 60 matches — involving over 150 players and hundreds of staff members — in 50-odd days during the first wave of the pandemic was a Herculean task. For this year’s IPL, the challenge is bigger as India is experiencing the second wave and the new variants of the virus are more infectious and deadly.The economic imperatives of the IPL are very strong, for the tournament is the cash cow of the Indian cricket board (BCCI) and fills up its coffers; it also provides a livelihood to thousands of staff/workers in the supporting sectors, apart from enriching the players themselves. BCCI must do its utmost to ensure that the players and staff are protected from the virus. The safety protocol must be enforced stringently; those who transgress it should be penalised heavily. Covid cases are mounting by the day, and BCCI must spare no effort or expense to ensure that the bio-secure bubble for the players and staff is impregnable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ipl-in-the-times-of-covid-234643
05-04-2021||THE stage is set for the third phase of polling in West Bengal tomorrow. The state election has recorded a high turnout in the first two phases and the trend is expected to continue. Long after she ousted the Left Front||Bengal’s battle for ballot||While the outcome of the eight-phase election will only be known on May 2, it will definitely mean poriborton or change for both major parties. For the TMC, it will mean having a relook at its priorities, as it faces allegations of crony capitalism, corruption and lack of development, coupled with reliance on doles. It will mean introspection for the BJP with its insistence on implementing the law on citizenship and its implications. Shorn of coalition partners nationally, the party has been facing resistance as it tries to make electoral inroads into states. The long election period may also give time to the inductees in the BJP to assess their prospects in the new dispensation with the party also deciding to field its sitting MPs in state polls.Post elections, both the TMC and the BJP will have to figure out ways to work in a spirit of constructive cooperation for at stake are the concerns of the common man who votes parties to power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bengals-battle-for-ballot-234627
