08-04-2021||From less than 9||Curfew no solution||But what do state governments do as part of ‘stricter’ measures to check the sudden and steep spike in cases? In a copycat manner, one after the other, Maharashtra, Punjab, Chandigarh, Delhi, Odisha, Rajasthan, Gujarat, have in the past few days been imposing night curfew or partial lockdowns and other mobility and travel restrictions. While it does give the impression of ‘action taken’, there is little evidence of such steps preventing the insidious coronavirus from halting its strike. But what it definitely does lead to is utter confusion as the Covid-weary public struggles to keep track of the who, where and when of the movement of goods, services and categories of people. That the curbs necessitate a dense list of dos and don’ts — marked by many exceptions and exemptions and a review of the evolving scenario — makes a further mockery of the exercise. Add to that the economic cost that a lockdown entails, the disaster just worsens.Instead, the authorities would do well to concentrate their energies on tackling the virus with a potent tool: the vaccine. The inoculation drive must be ramped up to cover more people in a shorter time. More mobile camps must be taken to clusters of people like workplaces, marketplaces and community centres. Double it up with motivation drives to help overcome hesitancy for the immunity-boosting shots as also decrease vax wastage even as there is no relaxation in the test-trace-treat regime. At the same time, it is incumbent upon the people to avoid crowds and not be complacent about the mask-hygiene-distancing routine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/curfew-no-solution-236047
08-04-2021||The Centre and the Punjab Government are at loggerheads over implementing the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) system for making payments directly to the farmers for their produce. The state fears that the switchover would herald the end of its time-tested arhtiya system and impact its agriculture-based economy. For decades||DBT ensures transparency||The DBT system was launched by the Congress-led UPA in 2013 with the aim of ensuring accurate targeting of beneficiaries of welfare schemes, besides minimising duplication and curbing fraud. The NDA not only retained it but also expanded its ambit to initiate direct payment of the minimum support price (MSP) to farmers. The ultimate reform objective — transparency and accountability in the procurement process — has to be lauded.Punjab and Haryana, which spearheaded the Green Revolution, have a robust and reliable procurement system that benefits farmers as well as arhtiyas. Such a framework is not in place in states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, where farmers are constrained to sell their harvest well below the MSP. These disparities embolden unscrupulous elements to make a killing by smuggling the crop from one state and selling it in another. Their estimated profit is a staggering Rs 700 crore for every 10 lakh tonnes of the crop sold. The DBT, if implemented in letter and spirit, can plug such loopholes and weed out fake beneficiaries. Considering the wide range of services provided by the arhtiyas, they are in no danger of becoming redundant even if the growers get direct payment. Political and electoral considerations should not be allowed to derail a reform measure that seeks to protect farmers and bring in greater transparency in procurement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/dbt-ensures-transparency-236046
