09-04-2021||With the daily Covid caseload crossing the 1.25-lakh mark||Open vaccination for all||The rate of vaccination needs to be improved drastically. The slanging match between the Centre and non-BJP-ruled states over alleged irregularities in vaccination and vaccine supply is deplorable. Political one-upmanship amid a health emergency will only worsen the situation. Enhancing the production of approved vaccines is the need of the hour. The Serum Institute of India, the world’s biggest vaccine manufacturer, has sought a grant of around Rs 3,000 crore to ramp up Covishield production capacity. The Centre should have no hesitation in opening its coffers for this life-saving venture. It’s also imperative to fast-track emergency use authorisation for other vaccines, such as Sputnik V. The Russian Direct Investment Fund has tied up with Indian firms to manufacture 700-750 million doses of this vaccine. Timely go-ahead to Sputnik V can give a fillip to India’s inoculation programme.The importance of Covid-appropriate behaviour can’t be overemphasised. Even as five phases of the eight-phase West Bengal elections are still left, political parties should be penalised for holding ‘superspreader’ congregations in states that are not poll-bound. Punjab has imposed a ban on such gatherings now, almost a month after top politicians started holding rallies across the state. Social and religious assemblies should also be a strict no-no for the time being.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/open-vaccination-for-all-236482
09-04-2021||Within a month of coming up with a law — in early March — that mandates as much as 75 per cent reservation for local domiciles in jobs paying up to Rs 50||Job quota for locals||There has been widespread opposition from industry that has flagged concerns of adverse economic ramifications, especially in the booming IT-BPM hub of Gurugram and Manesar. Plus, the compliance of this norm raises the spectre of the dreaded inspector raj. If Haryana bulldozes its new quota into companies looking to hire staff largely on considerations of merit, it risks losing its golden goose. With almost 70 per cent of the state’s annual economic investments, Gurugram accounts for a major chunk of the revenue. Haryana cannot ignore any policy that is regressive or has the potential to rock its fiscal boat. The new legislation may force some industries to relocate and discourage the existing ones from expanding and growing and new ones from setting shop. The ominous boding of a shrinking of private jobs that such a scenario entails cannot be overlooked.The policy is thus self-defeating and merits a relook. It was enacted in view of the fact that Haryana has one of the highest unemployment rates in the country and public sector jobs are on the wane. While keeping the reservation in government jobs to the constitutional limit of 50 per cent, focus needs to be on addressing the challenge of job creation as also the unemployability of the youth. Even as migrants vie for jobs in their area, it needs to be ensured that the Haryanvis get access to quality education that enables them to have the competitive edge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/job-quota-for-locals-236483
