10-04-2021||Unfortunately||Unprecedented job crisis||The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy study reveals volatile month-wise data of India’s unemployment rate. From September 2020 to February 2021, the unemployment rate has swung between a high of 9.1 per cent and a low of 6.5 per cent, with the average being around 7.4 per cent. (Notably, Haryana fared the worst, with the highest rate of 26.4 per cent). Indeed, the country is witnessing a full-blown, unprecedented job crisis. It exceeds the earlier high figure of joblessness. The Periodic Labour Force Survey by the National Sample Survey Office in January 2019 had revealed that the country’s unemployment rate had hit a 45-year-high of 6.1 per cent in 2017-18. Incidentally, the report was embroiled in a political slugfest over GDP statistics. Two members of the National Statistical Commission had resigned, alleging that the government had withheld the release of the report despite the commission’s clearance.The government must not repeat the mistake of trying to sweep the facts under the carpet. It is incumbent upon both the states and the Centre to generate an atmosphere and economic policies that are conducive to creating jobs. The youth in Punjab, in particular, face a bleak future. Even as it has been witnessing widespread de-industrialisation for over a decade, the state has failed to remedy the situation. Its ‘Progressive Punjab’ conferences have not yielded any substantial investments on the ground. Meanwhile, the traditional engine of growth — farming — too has plateaued. Parents are selling their lands to finance children who are emigrating abroad in droves in search of better job opportunities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/unprecedented-job-crisis-237021
10-04-2021||World Bank president David Malpass has named India among the three nations — the others being the US and China — which are setting the pace for faster global growth on the back of strong rebounds. This is an acknowledgment of India’s encouraging economic recovery||Sustain economic recovery||The biggest challenge for India is to intensify the vaccination campaign and at the same time ensure that the restrictions that hamper economic activity are kept to a minimum and done away with once the situation improves. Already, the stringent curbs imposed by some states have started disrupting businesses, taking a toll on inter-state as well as intra-state movement. The lockdowns of 2020 demonstrated bitterly that preventing millions of people from plying their trade was a self-defeating exercise with far-reaching ramifications. The focus should be on enforcing compliance with Covid safety protocols rather than forcing business establishments to suspend or scale down operations.According to the International Monetary Fund, India’s debt-to-GDP ratio rose from 74 per cent to 90 per cent during the pandemic, but it is expected to drop to 80 per cent gradually. This is another validation of the country’s fightback on the economic front. With the worldwide debt-to-GDP ratio nearing 100 per cent, India must consolidate its position with judicious moves and vindicate the confidence reposed in it by global financial bodies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/sustain-economic-recovery-237020
