12-04-2021||Junking a public interest litigation (PIL) against religious conversions||Matter of faith||Pertinently, the Supreme Court is examining the constitutional validity of a spate of ‘anti-conversion’ laws enacted recently by states such as Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Flagging the bogey of ‘love jihad’ in inter-faith marriages, these legislations are based on assumptions that all conversions take place under duress. A slew of petitions challenging these laws were filed as mixed couples intending to tie the nuptial knot and their families faced harassment.India’s secular image has taken a beating as political weaponisation of religion is bound to deal a severe blow to our multi-religious and diverse society. These disconcerting developments undermine the constitutional safeguard that there should be no discrimination on the basis of religion. Such a trend also militates against an exponentially increasing number of independent women who are exercising their agency and choosing their partners without any constraint. The right to freedom of religion is inviolable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/matter-of-faith-237969
12-04-2021||Forgotten and uncared for||Migrants’ exodus||The dynamics may be different this time — packed trains instead of the long walk home, mostly men since many chose to leave families behind in villages — but shutdown anxieties and work restrictions amid the coronavirus surge are leading to panic reverse migration. Railway authorities claim it’s the ‘summer rush’ when workers return home for the harvest season, but the sheer numbers involved, accounts of those boarding trains and reports from the ground point to a different story. The miserable experience of 2020, the reduced wages amid fresh restrictions and the fears of being caught unawares once more are resulting in the exodus of labourers and daily-wagers from not just Punjab, but also Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi.A severely disrupted financial cycle, both of the worker and the employer, is being put to further test by the latest diktats on timings. Its negative impact on business and industrial activity, in the face of already low consumer confidence and diminishing earnings, can be catastrophic. The stakeholders have again not been taken into confidence, nor involved in making better decisions. Expecting the workforce and the employers to be ideal citizens and adhere to every new direction, while offering blanket immunity to those who can go about organising political or religious events that enjoy official patronage, is sheer hypocrisy. The migrants’ anxieties are real, not made up. Addressing their concerns ought to be accorded top priority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/migrants-exodus-237964
