13-04-2021||The unrelenting resurgence of Covid-19 in the worst-affected states||Managing Covid surge||While the Central team has done well to point out these loopholes in the Covid management strategy of Punjab, it needs to address the concerns of the state that is struggling to meet the demand arising from the surge. As the positivity rate rises steeply, taking both the old and young down, the burden entailed on health infrastructure is overwhelming. Already, the occupancy of ICU beds in hospitals earmarked for Covid patients in Amritsar, Ludhiana and Mohali is nearly full. Notably, the hospitalised patients comprise just about 25 per cent of the total caseload. The remaining are under home isolation, but equally in need of constant monitoring by doctors. Not surprisingly, this crippling load has taken a toll on the staff strength, compounding the patients’ woes as they encounter shortage of medical staff for providing aid with oxygen cylinders, ventilators and medicines.While ramping up corrective efforts, the CM must weigh the advice proffered on hiring additional medical and paramedical workers. Plus, the focus on vaccinating the masses and motivating them to take the jabs must not waver. In this context, the Centre must ensure that Punjab does not run dry — as it fears — of the immunity-boosting shots. Like banning the export of Remdesivir medicine for the time being, the Centre should revise its vaccination policy and okay the inoculation of all categories of people so that the desired herd immunity level is achieved faster and the chain of infections controlled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/managing-covid-surge-238283
13-04-2021||The death of five persons||Bengal bloodshed||With four phases of the elections still left, it will be an uphill task for the Election Commission (EC) to ensure that peace prevails in the state over the next three weeks or so. The EC’s decision to debar politicians from entering trouble-torn Cooch Behar district for 72 hours is expected to help in defusing the tense situation. More such stern steps are needed to send the message that the EC is firmly in charge on the ground. A high-level, time-bound inquiry is a must to fix responsibility for the firing incident.Mud-slinging is par for the course on the campaign trail, but things quickly spin out of control when political leaders incite their supporters to indulge in wrongful acts. The BJP has accused Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of instigating TMC workers to gherao Central forces and prevent them from doing their duty, while she claims that security personnel opened fire without any provocation at voters standing in a queue. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh has warned that more Cooch Behar-like killings may happen in the next phase of the Assembly elections on April 17 if ‘naughty boys like the ones who died’ try to take the law into their hands. Such irresponsible statements that add fuel to the fire must neither be condoned nor ignored by the party top brass as well as the EC. Leaders of both the TMC and the BJP should exercise restraint in their words and deeds so that the electoral process can be conducted in a free, fair and peaceful manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bengal-bloodshed-238282
