15-04-2021||Maharashtra||Maharashtra lockdown||The fortnight-long partial shutdown will impact not only Maharashtra but the nation as a whole because this state accounts for nearly 15 per cent of India’s gross domestic product. Maharashtra has been at the forefront of a strong economic recovery after the country slipped into recession last year. Mumbai, India’s financial capital and home to the Hindi film world, will undoubtedly bear the brunt of the disruptions. The authorities have rightly made some concessions to soften the blow. The Mumbai administration has allowed domestic helps to go to work during this period. Work at construction sites with residential facility and industrial activities where accommodation or transportation of personnel is available will remain unaffected. However, the suspension of shooting of films and advertisements will adversely affect tens of thousands of workers who are part of the entertainment industry.The state government, which has cited ‘breaking the chain of transmissions’ as the objective of the lockdown, needs to ensure that economic activity is not stopped completely but is only scaled down. It will require day-to-day assessment to ascertain whether the curbs are achieving the desired purpose or proving to be counter-productive. At any rate, the vaccination programme should not face impediments due to the restrictions. It is laudable that the state has imposed a ban on religious, social, cultural and political functions till May 1. This much-needed step should be replicated by other states, especially those where the situation is deteriorating fast.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/maharashtra-lockdown-239211
15-04-2021||The slew of measures taken by the government to contain the ever-spiralling count of daily Covid cases reek of an outrageous selectiveness over managing the madding crowds. While certain activities on which careers||The madding crowds||The authorities have conveniently overlooked the brazen defiance of Covid-appropriateness during massive political rallies held for the Assembly polls in the past couple of months, even after the second wave began rising alarmingly in March. A similar attitude is evident at the ongoing Maha Kumbh Mela in Hardwar. The signal for the mela remains green despite all signs of it becoming a coronavirus super-spreader as lakhs of devotees throng the holy city to take a dip in the Ganga, tossing Covid norms on the wayside. The Delhi High Court on Tuesday rapped the Centre for its discriminatory stand as it heard the Delhi Waqf Board’s appeal for easing the cap of 20 devotees allowed in the Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi during Ramzan. Incidentally, at the onset of the pandemic last March, a mosque in the area was shut down following the registration of a case over a Tablighi Jamaat sect gathering. The Centre, as the court directed, must make its position on religious, political, social, academic and sports gatherings clear.In this context, the ruling on CBSE exams — which other boards are likely to broadly copy in quick succession — holds significance. The Class X students are likely to sail through merrily as with the exams cancelled, they are to be assessed on the basis of internal exams by their respective schools. The Class XII exams that were scheduled for May 4 to June 14 have been deferred. A decision will be taken on June 1. This is a crucial exam as the students’ entry to higher institutes of their choice hinges on its results. As many aspire for colleges abroad, the new date sheet must be declared soon, keeping everybody’s interests in mind.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-madding-crowds-239221
