16-04-2021||Riding on more potent mutants and variants that are finding easy prey as people let go of Covid protocols||Rural Covid surge||In the event of an emergency, the beleaguered folk have no choice but to head to the nearest town — at times many kilometres away. Two-third of the hospitals and dispensaries are located in urban areas that are inhabited by just one-third of the population. But, in the current scenario of most Covid care facilities wilting under the burden of the rising patient load, they are often having to take heartbreaking decisions about who they can admit. The Kangra health authorities in Himachal Pradesh have the onerous job of tackling the sudden rise in Covid infections in the rural belt after some folks returned from a pilgrimage. As Dhakoli village in Mohali district of Punjab became a Covid hotspot recently, the local administration declared it a containment zone so as to test everyone and vaccinate the eligible categories in a bid to check the alarming situation. This devastating trajectory of the coronavirus — that largely spanned the cities earlier — is now evident across rural India.The state governments are marshalling their scarce resources to provide medical aid to the rural folk and motivate them to abide by the Covid rules. The onus of battling the virus lies equally on the people. Their own safety lies in taking the vaccine and following the mask-hygiene-distancing norms. They must shed the defiance and scepticism towards these preventive steps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/rural-covid-surge-239708
16-04-2021||The prolonged standoff between Indian and Chinese troops was confined to the Line of Actual Control||Quad cooperation||In an impressive show of strength and synergy, the Quad navies had carried out the Malabar exercise in the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea in November last year. The four nations have repeatedly pledged to ensure an open and inclusive Indo-Pacific and a rules-based international order. While China has every reason to be wary of the grouping, India’s old ally Russia is far from enthused by it, with Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov referring to it as an ‘Asian NATO’ with apparently militaristic designs.Despite the time-tested ties with Moscow, New Delhi has been quick to counter criticism of the Quad. During the India-Australia-France trilateral dialogue on Wednesday, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar made it clear that the purpose of coming together was to find ways of working for national, regional and global benefit. India is rightly banking on the Quad to safeguard its strategic and economic interests. As long as the arrangement is mutually beneficial, it seems to be a win-win situation for all members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/quad-cooperation-239707
