17-04-2021||Trouble is brewing for tea growers||Climate change challenges||This distressing situation calls for an urgent assessment of the losses suffered by the farming community. The government must look into their specific problems and weigh the horticulturists’ demand for declaration of drought and compensate them accordingly. The Kangra tea planters, who are prohibited from shifting to other crops under the law of the land, have once again raised the issue of the viability of their estates. They want subsidy for installing tubewells and drip irrigation systems to protect their plantations and a separate government policy to promote their product so as to regain the lost glory of the internationally famous Kangra tea.At the same time, the erratic weather pattern seen in the Himalayas for some years underscores the significance of climate change. The importance of ramping up water harvesting structures and forestation drives to check the rising temperatures cannot be emphasised enough. It is a matter of concern that the state faces a tough summer as low rainfall has exacerbated the water crisis. The recharging of water bodies has been adversely affected and hundreds of water supply sources are on the brink of drying up. These alarm bells cannot be ignored.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/climate-change-challenges-240184
17-04-2021||Many an eyebrow had been raised when it was announced on February 26 that the West Bengal Assembly elections would be held in eight phases from March 27 to April 29 — just five days short of the duration of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC)||Bengal elections||The Covid situation in West Bengal, which has witnessed a succession of crowded election rallies and road shows over the past three weeks, has gone from bad to worse — primarily due to large-scale violations of the safety protocols. The state’s caseload, which was only 800-plus on March 26, a day before the first phase, shot up to nearly 6,800 on April 15. During the first wave last year, the highest number of single-day infections was around 4,100, recorded in October.The firing by CISF personnel outside a polling booth at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar during the fourth phase and other incidents of violence have prompted the ECI to enhance the deployment of security forces so as to ensure that the remaining phases pass off peacefully. However, it’s a Herculean task as the majority of the booths in 114 poll-bound constituencies have been categorised as sensitive. It will be a huge challenge in terms of logistics to hold three phases together, but the exceptional circumstances necessitate that such an exercise should be undertaken in the best interests of all stakeholders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bengal-elections-240185
