19-04-2021||WHEN UK Home Secretary Priti Patel gave the nod to extradite fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi||Extraditing fugitives||In most cases, the blame lies here. A British couple escaped extradition because the case was pending for 25 years. The extradition request against former IPL chief Lalit Modi was filed after a decade. Karamjit Singh Chahal (charges of separatism), Sanjeev Chawla (illegal betting) and Kim Davy (terrorism) won reprieves because of poor prison conditions. After the government violated Abu Salem’s extradition condition by slapping additional cases, India may have foreclosed the possibility of more such extraditions from the EU. India needs to sign the UN Convention against Torture as also improve the capacity and efficiency of investigating agencies to conduct speedy investigations. The Centre has already repaired some of the lacunae with the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act.Extradition, however, is also a political process like it is a judicial one. Many of the financial fugitives are in Western countries which have double standards with regard to the moneybags. Also, white-collar criminals rarely get their just deserts. That is why Jan Marsalek of the Wirecard scandal and former Renault CEO Carlos Ghosn feel safe in Russia and Lebanon, respectively. Political imperatives also stalled the extradition of late Warren Anderson and David Headley. Nevertheless, India should strive to continue firming up the external processes for speedy extradition. Its extradition treaties with 43 countries compares poorly with 100 each by the US and the UK. One Nirav should not lead to complacency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/extraditing-fugitives-241013
19-04-2021||Shortages all around have made the battle against the second wave of the pandemic an onerously uphill one. Whether it is essential pharma products like medical oxygen||Shortages all around||The available resources are bursting at the seams as demand for them is skyrocketing amid a spike in the caseload. With the virus attacking more viciously, the country has been, unfortunately, caught on the back foot. Particularly so in the rural areas. The already strained healthcare structure is facing the heat from all possible corners. As the system scrambles to cope with the pressure, poor patients and their families’ struggles present heart-rending scenes as they attempt to draw urgently needed attention. Nothing depicts the gravity and horror of the prevailing situation more than fights for beds at almost every facility or the bodies of Covid-19 victims piling up in hospitals and crematoriums, as was reported in Chhattisgarh.Hopefully, the string of measures to remedy the situation, though taken belatedly, will soon help control the devastation unleashed by the coronavirus. Even as the production and import of oxygen have been scaled up, the supply chain has been strengthened by roping in the Railways. Similarly, with the makers of remdesivir working overtime and the government banning its export, people will not have to buy the anti-viral drug on the black market at prohibitive costs. Equally important is to streamline the vaccination drive so as to ensure a steady flow of the doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/shortages-all-around-241014
