20-04-2021||Marking the latest chapter in the ugly history of hate crimes against American-Asians is the senseless massacre of four Sikhs in a mass shooting at their workplace in Indianapolis||Asian lives matter||The land of dreams and opportunities that draws thousands of immigrants from Punjab every year has, unfortunately, failed to address their concerns of safety. Awareness campaigns regarding Sikh men who are at times confused with Muslims because of their turbans and unshorn hair since 9/11 are needed to improve their image. Though every heartbreaking incident prompts an outcry and some soul-searching, the US has not made effective changes to its policies that contribute to such insane behaviour. The country’s lax gun ownership laws have not been tightened. Neither has hate crime been made more stringently deterrent by upgrading it from a mere misdemeanour to a felony.Vitriol and violence against Asian-Americans — fuelled by bias against gender, race, orientation and religion — has skyrocketed since the pandemic began. A California State University report has found that anti-Asian hate crimes surged nearly 150 per cent in 2020, while overall hate crimes fell by 7 per cent. The spread of the hate virus that is striking the Asian communities is partly attributed to former President Trump’s xenophobic and Covid-related anti-China rhetoric. The inflammatory and scapegoating atmosphere must be contained. Hope shines from President Joe Biden’s acknowledgement of the racially motivated hate crimes and promise of exploring opportunities to combat them. Asian lives matter. Their maltreatment — beating, insulting, spitting and yelling at, and killing — infringes upon their rights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/asian-lives-matter-241417
20-04-2021||Caught off guard yet again||Delhi’s Covid crisis||It would be naïve to expect that the lockdown would break the chain of transmission and give the authorities breathing space to get their act together. Even the CM has admitted that the lockdown is no solution. What’s worse, the restrictions may hamper the movement of people who wish to get themselves tested or vaccinated. Past experience should have spurred the state government to be well prepared for the worst by making adequate provision for hospital beds, medical equipment and oxygen. The blame game between the AAP dispensation and the BJP-ruled civic bodies is a pointless exercise that is rubbing salt into the wounds of Delhi’s hapless residents.It’s been almost a year since Delhi Police constable Amit Kumar, hailing from Haryana, succumbed to Covid-19 after a couple of hospitals failed to give him timely treatment. Unfortunately, nothing has changed on the ground after his untimely death as frontline workers as well as ordinary people continue to fall prey to official apathy and mismanagement in the Capital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/delhis-covid-crisis-241418
