21-04-2021||No doubt||Stop migrants’ exodus 2.0||Unless the pleas are backed by solid facilities, the labourers, mostly daily-wage earners, are not likely to revisit their decision to leave. For, they are still singed by last year’s terrible experience when millions of migrants endured extreme misery, as following job losses and food insecurity, they trudged/cycled thousands of kilometres from all corners of the country during the draconian Lockdown 1.0, when public transport came to a grinding halt, to reach the safety of their homes. It is accentuated by the trust deficit regarding the governments’ decisions and flip-flops on the clamping of stricter lockdowns or curfews. The declarations of saving both lives and livelihoods, though well-meaning, are hollow as the welfare schemes announced for the poor are inadequate.At the same time, the situation necessitates that the home states of the workers — largely Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal — should be prepared to receive the thousands of daily arrivals with provisions of quarantine facilities, food and medical aid, besides Covid testing, before they are found safe to go home. However, the authorities have been found appallingly wanting as chaos reigns at the workers’ destinations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/stop-migrants-exodus-2-0-241786
21-04-2021||INDIA has taken a decisive step forward in its battle against Covid-19 by liberalising the vaccination drive that has been progressing in fits and starts ever since its launch in mid-January. All citizens above 18 years of age will be eligible for the jab from May 1. Several Opposition parties and state governments had been demanding the opening of the vaccination programme for all adults in view of the spiralling caseload||Vaccine for all adults||India has followed in America’s footsteps by deciding to make the vaccine available for all adults, but the two nations are poles apart in terms of their vaccination trajectory. In the US, 40 per cent of the population has received at least one shot, while 25 per cent people have been fully inoculated. The corresponding figures for India are a dismal 8 per cent and 1.3 per cent, respectively.The government has reportedly approved a payment of about Rs 4,500 crore as advance to vaccine makers Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech for future supplies. This grant will help both of them ramp up their production capacity in anticipation of the imminent rise in demand. Along with the fast-tracking of emergency approvals for foreign-produced coronavirus jabs, the Centre is said to be keen on waiving 10 per cent customs duty levied on imported vaccines. Such moves can facilitate the availability of a variety of safe and affordable vaccines in India shortly. With greater decentralisation, the vaccination drive is expected to gain much-needed momentum, provided the authorities are able to minimise vaccine wastage and prevent hoarding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/vaccine-for-all-adults-241785
