22-04-2021||Nine minutes and 29 seconds — that’s how long Derek Chauvin||The Floyd verdict||With Chauvin set to be imprisoned for a long term, justice appears to have been done in the Floyd case, and that too within one year of the incident. But is it the beginning of a new dawn in America, which has a long history of racial inequality and injustice? The House of Representatives has passed the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act, which is aimed at bringing about police reforms in the US, but it is yet to be adopted by the Senate. The biggest challenge is to catalyse a transformation in the hearts and minds of the law enforcers as well as the ordinary people. The recent massacre of Asian-Americans in Indianapolis is a grim reminder of the enormity of the task of changing mindsets.The US case has lessons for India, which is no stranger to police excesses and sectarian intolerance. All the custodial deaths, fake encounters and mob lynchings demonstrate blatant disregard for the rule of law. The frequent cases of instant justice point to the dwindling trust in the judicial system. The police-politician-criminal nexus is taking its toll on the dispensation of justice. What’s needed is earnest introspection, followed by course correction, so as to create an environment in which every Floyd can breathe freely and fearlessly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-floyd-verdict-242454
22-04-2021||European football has just witnessed the rise and fall of a multi-billion sporting empire — in less than three days. The plans to form the breakaway 20-team European Super League (ESL) are in disarray as English and Italian clubs have pulled out of the proposed league. Football leagues in Europe have a rich and cherished history||Euro football intact, for now||Fans of football were shocked. Football being the people’s sport, heads of government got involved. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson threatened legislation to thwart the breakaway league, while France’s Emmanuel Macron spoke against ESL’s threat to “principles of solidarity and sporting merit”. The pressure bore fruit, and ESL seems to be a stillborn project — for now. ESL’s plans were grounded on a solid financial argument: It would have replaced the elite UEFA Champions League — for which the clubs must qualify — and have inherited its massive TV and digital rights revenues. The ESL clubs would have simply pocketed that money rather than sharing it across Europe, as is done in the Champions League structure.Right from the 1990s, ideas have been floated by individuals or entities for a separate league in order to get a share of the massive pie of football revenues. Falling revenues in the times of the Covid pandemic have made the clubs desperate — player salaries have spiralled out of control and top clubs are more business entities than football institutions. Many European clubs are owned by oligarchs from abroad — Russian, Arab or American — who are chasing money and glory. Pressure from fans, football associations and governments has thwarted ESL, but it could only be a tactical retreat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/euro-football-intact-for-now-242443
