23-04-2021||The fast-deteriorating Covid situation in the country has prompted the Supreme Court to demand a national plan from the Centre on the supply of oxygen and essential drugs||A national plan||The government’s commitment to providing an affordable vaccine to all is also coming a cropper. As India prepares to vaccinate citizens in the 18-44 age group, accounting for around 40 per cent of the population, an unsavoury controversy has erupted over the differential pricing for the life-saving vaccines. The Serum Institute of India (SII), the maker of Covishield, has stated that the vaccine would cost private hospitals Rs 600 per dose and state governments Rs 400; the lower rate would also apply to Central government procurement once the existing contract for Rs 150 a dose ends. The SII has cited the Centre’s liberalised policy that gives vaccine manufacturers flexibility in fixing prices. This means that a substantial number of people will now have second thoughts about paying a hefty price for the shot. The new rates are likely to increase vaccine hesitancy, which has been a stumbling block for the inoculation programme so far. The Centre needs to intervene quickly to cap the prices within reasonable limits so that profiteering can be curbed and the common person is able to afford the jab.Be it oxygen, medicines or vaccine, the Centre can’t afford to let disruptions or irregularities derail India’s battle against the virus. There has to be an action plan that can deal with any eventuality, assuming that the worst is yet to come.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/a-national-plan-242795
23-04-2021||Along with the Punjab Government scaling up efforts to combat the health crisis||Virus ravaging Punjab||Cries for resources essential for critically affected patients — hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, ventilators, medicines, medical staff and nurses, as also sanitation workers and cremation spaces — are being heard from almost every nook and corner of the state. Even the far-flung and remote rural belts equipped with little healthcare facilities, unlike the first wave last year, have not been spared by the pathogen in this second wave. The clamour for urgent aid has, unfortunately, led to some unscrupulous elements making a quick buck with hoarding and black-marketing of drugs such as remdesivir. Hospital beds and oxygen too are disturbingly commanding a premium. Incidentally, patients must take remdesivir judiciously and only under the physician’s advice, for its therapeutic window is very narrow.The grave scenario also calls for sterner steps to control gatherings and crowds. In this context, the attempt to strengthen the farmers’ protest seeking the repeal of the farm laws enacted in September assumes importance. Even as the authorities are facilitating inoculation centres at Singhu and Tikri, the main sites of the dharna, the participating peasants need to shed defiance and take the immunising jabs. Their leaders must insist on allowing only those tested negative for coronavirus every few days to the sit-ins. Not only will this responsible behaviour prevent a flare-up among their community, it will also give a fillip to the public support that is of import to their cause. Covid protocol compliance will additionally help them on the other front that they are battling these days: the allegation that they are blocking oxygen supply vehicles on the Delhi border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/virus-ravaging-punjab-242797
