24-04-2021||The political bickering and confusion prevailing over the distribution of essential medical resources — particularly hospital beds||Gasping for oxygen||It would be yet another shining beacon of hope amid this gloom. Along with scientific breakthroughs and government policies initiated or suitably modified, humanitarian acts are equally important in cushioning the devastating and traumatic impact of the virus. Big and small, as per one’s capacity, they are heartwarmingly visible everywhere. Hitech Industries of Mohali has been filling cylinders of patients in home treatment with oxygen free of cost. The Rail Coach Factory of Kapurthala supplied oxygen to a hospital in Amritsar facing an increased demand. Friends and families of Covid patients are pitching in with contacts, food and transport; doctors are working overtime, both online and physically; so are nurses and sanitation staff; crematorium/burial workers are rising to the occasion to help the grieving families.At the same time, there is a need to address the public health loopholes laid bare by expediting the long-term measures. Maharashtra’s plan to set up Covid hospitals near oxygen plants is worth emulating, even as the Centre pushes to import the life-saving gas or install oxygen plants in more far-flung hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/gasping-for-oxygen-243185
24-04-2021||It has taken the Election Commission of India (ECI) a whole month after campaigning began in West Bengal to ‘note with anguish’ that many political parties/candidates are still not adhering to the prescribed Covid safety norms during public gatherings. The blatant flouting of the pandemic protocols was all too evident at the congregations organised by the Trinamool Congress (TMC)||Too little, too late||West Bengal’s daily caseload has been rising relentlessly — from 1,274 on April 1 to 6,769 on April 15 and 11,948 on April 22 — but political leaders have had no scruples about exposing large crowds to the virus. At long last, it has dawned on them to cancel their rallies and reach out to the people virtually — a classic case of shutting the stable door after the horse has bolted.Amid the irresponsible behaviour of certain elected representatives, the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) in Odisha has taken a welcome step in public interest at the right time. Party president and Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik has announced that the BJD will not hold public rallies or campaign meetings ahead of the Pipili Assembly byelection on May 13 in the wake of the exponential rise in Covid-19 cases in the state. He has also appealed to political parties and the ECI to reconsider both the duration and the method of campaigning in the context of the worrisome situation. One hopes that Patnaik’s firm stand would pave the way for a show of sanity, not strength, at the hustings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/too-little-too-late-243184
