26-04-2021||Maharashtra hospitals seem to be ticking tinderboxes. One tragic incident can be condoned as an accident||Tinderbox hospitals||Fifteen Covid-19 patients were charred to death after a fire broke out in the intensive care unit of a private hospital in Palghar district on Friday. Two days earlier, a glitch in the oxygen supply system at a Nashik hospital proved fatal for 22 Covid patients. Nine lives — again Covid-infected — were snuffed out in the last week of March when a blaze broke out in a Covid-designated hospital in Mumbai. That it took 40 hours to douse the flames laid bare the shortage of fire extinguishers. Happening at a mall that housed the hospital, the mishap raised doubts about the standard of hospitals hurriedly improvised to deal with the pandemic since last year. Then, in the January 10 mind-numbing inferno, 10 infants succumbed in the burning ICU of the Bhandara Government Hospital in Vidarbha.These instances show that human lives continue to be cheap in our country. The uproar after each such accident evokes the standard compensation of a few lakh rupees to the victims’ kin. The leaders parrot words of condolence and seek to quell the din with promises of a probe into the incident and penalty to the guilty. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had called for a fire audit of all government hospitals in the state in January. What is the progress in this direction? Sadly, no one knows. Or, sadder, we know: not much.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/tinderbox-hospitals-244112
26-04-2021||FOLLOWING criticism from a section of the Bar||Address trust deficit||Noting that High Courts were exercising jurisdiction ‘in the best interest’, the top court pointed out their orders were creating confusion and diversion of resources. It said the orders passed by them ‘may have the effect of accelerating and prioritising the services to a certain set of people and slowing down the availability of these resources to certain other groups… local, regional or otherwise.’During the migrant workers' crisis caused by the nationwide lockdown last year, the Supreme Court was criticised for its delayed intervention. In this background, its direction to the Centre to place before it a national plan with regard to the supply of oxygen and essential drugs, the method and manner of vaccination and the declaration of the lockdown is understandable. Also, it has clarified that it didn’t want the High Courts to stop dealing with issues arising in the states. It simply boils down to a trust deficit in the Supreme Court as an institution meant to protect the fundamental rights of citizens. Why is it that senior members of the Bar and civil society leaders prefer High Courts over the top court in times of crises? Given its vital role in preserving democracy in India, the Supreme Court needs to address this trust deficit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/address-trust-deficit-244103
