27-04-2021||Even though Punjab’s Covid positivity rate of over 10 per cent is among the highest in the country||Punjab’s reckless netas||On April 7, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had announced a ban on political gatherings in the state till April 30 in view of the surge in coronavirus cases. He had warned that violators, including political leaders, would be booked under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act. However, just five days later, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu was spotted without a mask at an event where newly elected councillors of the Mohali Municipal Corporation took oath. Social distancing was conspicuous by its absence when he posed for photographs with his brother — the new Mayor — and other local politicians.The Assembly elections are not due in Punjab before January 2022, yet political leaders seem to be already in the poll mode amid the raging pandemic. Delhi Chief Minister and AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal and Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal addressed rallies in the state last month, exposing large crowds to the risk of contracting the virus. Unfortunately, such irresponsible behaviour is continuing unabated, albeit on a smaller scale, even after the imposition of the so-called ban on political events. The onus is on the law enforcement agencies to take the offenders to task, irrespective of their party affiliations, while the politicians themselves need to mend their ways. Unless there is zero tolerance to the violations at all levels, the situation will only worsen in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/punjabs-reckless-netas-244666
27-04-2021||There is no end to the nation’s misery as citizens are left lamenting their losses||Death by apathy||Our politicians do a lot of forward planning to get elected. They spend months or even years mobilising people, conducting several rounds of surveys understanding the choices of the voters, deploying artificial intelligence to airbrush their image and finally, reaching out to the electorate through innovative means like panna pramukh or page-in-charge of the voters’ list for every booth. Such meticulous planning and execution make them wonder-men of our democracy. But, that democracy appears to have become seriously sick like a Covid patient as it doesn’t perform any function other than electioneering. After getting elected, these same super-efficient men and women cannot even install 162 Pressure Swing Adsorption oxygen plants worth a meagre Rs 200 crore in a whole year — apparently the tendering process itself took about seven months. This Sunday, the Prime Minster announced 551 more such plants — one in almost every district. Better late than never.Kerala is also ruled by politicians accused of being vile and corrupt, but if that state could become oxygen-surplus in no time, there ought to have been nothing stopping the Centre or the other states. All those responsible for not ramping up oxygen production, creating transportation facilities and installing oxygen plants, despite being tasked to do so, should be punished. Also, the bureaucratic and political bosses who failed to prepare for the second surge should be made answerable. What separates a failed State from a successful one is the latter’s ability to enforce accountability.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/death-by-apathy-244660
