28-04-2021||Adequate supply of oxygen for critically ill Covid patients||Suffocating delay||The precious time squandered after the Centre’s declaration of installing plants in 162 government hospitals across the country, for which around Rs 202 crore was allocated last year, has, sadly, come at a dear cost. The authorities concerned have blood on their hands as victims rapidly succumb to the virus at heartbreaking rates for want of the life-saving gas. Punjab, reeling under one of the highest fatality rates, has been able to set up only one of the three plants sanctioned for the three government medical colleges. Even in that lone consolation spot — Faridkot — it is more of a better-late-than-never scene as it became functional just last month. Utter apathy is to the fore in Haryana as none of its six plants planned have seen the light of day. Nationwide, only 33 of the 162 hospitals promised to be equipped with the inhouse oxygen generation were successful in the attempt to be ready to deal with the imminent second wave. While Assam boasts of preparing eight plants, Delhi’s tally is just one out of the eight sanctioned.That a lackadaisical attitude and red tape should have besieged a plant that requires just around a month to be established and costs merely Rs 1.25 crore, is criminal. In fact, if there is a will, it can be made running in as little as 72 hours. This is exemplarily shown by a dairy cooperative at Banaskantha in Gujarat. Not only did Banas Dairy quickly marshal resources to set up a plant, but also it is working on two more for the district to be fully self-reliant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/suffocating-delay-245047
28-04-2021||The Madras High Court has pulled no punches in holding the Election Commission of India (ECI) ‘singularly’ responsible for the spread of the second wave of Covid-19 in the country. The court has even said that ECI officials may be booked on murder charges. This is a scathing indictment of the poll panel’s conduct of the elections in four states and a UT over the past month amid the devastating pandemic. Sadly||Election Commission of India in the dock||There is no doubt that polls are a constitutional obligation that the ECI has to fulfil, come what may, but the sheer chaos they unleashed could have been avoided with foresight and planning. The poll schedule for West Bengal — eight phases spread over 34 days — had come under fire from the outset. Such a long-drawn-out exercise was a recipe for disaster as the virus was getting uncontrollable by the day. Even as Covid cases kept rising in recent weeks, the ECI refused to club the remaining phases, citing logistic challenges and legal constraints. Though the spectre of large gatherings becoming superspreaders of infection loomed large, the commission allowed crowded roadshows and rallies. It was as late as April 22, with only two phases of polling left, that the ECI imposed a ban on roadshows and vehicle rallies in the state.The poll panel has now prohibited all victory processions and celebrations after the counting of votes on May 2. The move is welcome, but it will all boil down to enforcement. It remains to be seen what action, if any, would be taken against the offenders. There is a growing perception that the ECI is reluctant to act against certain big fish. The credibility of this constitutional body has repeatedly come under a cloud as doubts have been raised about its neutrality. The ECI needs to go the extra mile to dispel such notions and reaffirm its commitment to remain Indian democracy’s watchdog.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/election-commission-of-india-in-the-dock-245034
