29-04-2021||It’s arguably the country’s worst public healthcare crisis in living memory. India is on the edge||Time for leadership||A united, bipartisan approach to tide over the crisis seems like an alien concept, be it the Centre or the states; coronavirus will only be fought on party symbols. In Punjab, with elections less than a year away, forget the possibility of the Opposition joining hands with the ruling party to forge efforts to secure lives, the Congress’ top leaders could not resist the opportunity to bring each other down. The 2015 sacrilege case undoubtedly scores high on the state’s political agenda, but the ugly to-and-fro between Navjot Singh Sidhu and Capt Amarinder Singh is both bad timing and misplaced priorities.The unprecedented healthcare emergency demands a combined war-like effort; much of the energy and thought, however, is being spent on politicking. Missing is the voice of reassurance — acknowledging and indicating a sense of urgency, and also calming nerves, ramping up institutional facilities, filling glaring gaps in the delivery in real time. Talking less and doing more. Something the Haryana Chief Minister too could take note of. ‘The dead won’t come back, no point debating death data’ is a remark that smacks of insensitivity. Now is the time for leadership, not brinkmanship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/time-for-leadership-245549
29-04-2021||The Union government’s decision to keep the Central Vista project on track amid a pandemic that is claiming 3||Central Vista can wait||It’s not rocket science to separate what’s essential from what isn’t in these turbulent times. The mega redevelopment plan, under which a new Parliament building will be raised at a cost of around Rs 1,000 crore, is certainly a luxury right now. What people urgently need are oxygen cylinders and vaccines, not a new skyline or a post-colonial showpiece in Lutyens’ Delhi.It’s hard to fathom that the government is bent on sticking to the November 30, 2021, deadline for the new-look Central Vista, considering that the country is facing a health emergency and must optimally use every penny as well as all hands on deck to cope with the unprecedented crisis. The irony is not lost on anyone: hundreds of crores of rupees will be spent on the new building for parliamentarians, expected to be ready next year ahead of India’s 75th Independence Day, even as the MP local area development (MPLAD) scheme under which they disburse funds to their constituencies has been frozen for two years, citing Covid-induced exigencies. Such blatant double standards are eroding the government’s credibility. It’s high time the powers that be see reason and put all inessential projects on hold. As and when the virus is tamed, work can be resumed to fulfil the grand dream of making the Central Vista a world-class tourist attraction. For now, criminal extravagance amid adversity must stop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/central-vista-can-wait-245546
