30-04-2021||INDIA sees record 3.79 lakh new cases and 3||Under-counting the dead||Devastating scenes of mass cremations amid queues of bodies piling up for their turn to be lit as hearse vans arrive non-stop in places like Delhi/NCR in the past couple of weeks present a denial of dignity in death and last rites. In the hotspots, it is even difficult to keep track or count as crematorium/burial ground staffers are overworked or wary of the virus infecting them too. Chaos prevails even as the authorities suppressing factual accounts to ‘prevent panic’ or showing things as being ‘under control’ fly in the face of the heartbreaking visuals going viral. Contributing to the under-reporting of the Covid tally is the fact that deaths, especially occurring at homes in rural areas, routinely go without the cause being certified.Data discrepancies are disturbing as underplaying the statistics affects the government’s response to the emerging scenario. Reliable numbers are crucial to gauging the gaps, for example, in hospital beds, oxygen and medicines and planning for future-preparedness. Incidentally, in 2019, the Modi government was rocked by the fudging of the unemployment rate as it tried to under-report the figures.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/under-counting-the-dead-246087
30-04-2021||INDIA’S Covid vaccination programme will enter a make-or-break phase tomorrow as all adults will become eligible for the jab. The second wave of the pandemic has adversely affected the young population in particular||Make or break||Unfortunately, the slanging match between the Centre and Opposition-ruled states over vaccines is set to cast its shadow on the upcoming vaccination of all citizens above 18 years. Countering reports of vaccine shortage, the Union Health Ministry has said that more than 1 crore doses are still available with states and UTs and they would receive over 20 lakh more doses within the next three days. But this reassurance may not be enough to improve the situation on the ground unless the Centre and the states work in close coordination in public interest.It is heartening to know that more than one crore people got themselves registered online, despite some technical glitches, for the third phase of vaccination within eight hours of the start of the process on Wednesday. This clearly shows that vaccine optimism is eclipsing hesitancy. As the infections are predicted to peak in May, it’s imperative that the inoculation should proceed at full throttle during the critical month. All gaps related to production, supply and distribution need to be plugged quickly so that maximum number of lives can be saved through vaccines. How the authorities perform under extreme pressure over the next few weeks will decisively shape the course of India’s grim battle against Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/make-or-break-246086
