01-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP seeks Bengal govt permission for rath yatra||The Bengal BJP has sought permission from the state government for its month-long 'rath yatra' across the state ahead of the assembly polls. BJP state vice-president Pratap Banerjee, in a letter to Chief Secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay, said the saffron camp, beginning February, intends to take out five rallies, as part of the 'rath yatra', crisscrossing the entire state. "West Bengal State Bharatiya Janata Party has decided to carry out a peaceful political programme throughout West Bengal in the form of 'yatra' in the months of February and March 2021. "There will be five segments -- covering all the assembly constituencies of West Bengal. Each yatra will include a 'rath' and will run simultaneously in different segments/territories of the state," the letter said. The duration of each yatra would be of approximately 20 to 25 days, it stated. Several top BJP leaders are scheduled to arrive in Bengal during the month-long campaign, set to take off from Nabadwip, Coochbehar, Kakdwip, Jhargram and Tarapith on February 6, 8 and 9. According to sources, the state secretariat has received the letter. "The broader purpose of this communication is to appraise you about the gamut of the program so that the administration may prepare the modalities of relevant support system for the peaceful conduct of the programme. "We want to seek an appointment with you..." Banerjee said in his letter to the chief secretary. Earlier, in 2018, the BJP had planned a similar rath yatras across the state, but the programme was called off at the very last moment as the state government refused to give permission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-213
01-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee slams Union Budget as ‘anti-people’||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Monday slammed the union budget as "anti-people" aimed at deceiving the masses and said the BJP talks about nationalism, but in practice, they are the ones who are selling resources of the nation to the private players. Iterating the demand for withdrawal of the new farm laws, Banerjee wondered if the Centre can waive off NPAs running into crores of rupees then why is it hesitant to write-off farm loans. "They (BJP) lectures others on nationalism, but in practice, they are the ones who are selling the nation. They are selling everything from PSUs, Insurance, Railways and Ports. "This is a budget to deceive the masses. It's an anti- farmer, anti-people and anti-country budget," Banerjee said while addressing the inaugural ceremony of Uttar Banga Utsav here. Referring to the BJP sending a chartered plane to fly TMC leaders to Delhi for induction into the saffron camp, Banerjee mockingly said they don't have money to pay for the travel of migrant workers but have money to fly corrupt leaders in chartered planes. "During COVID period we paid for the transportation of migrant workers. But, they (BJP) have money for using chartered planes to fly corrupt leaders to New Delhi. This only shows their true colour," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-213
01-02-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah targets Mamata over farm dole||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday accused Mamata Banerjee of coming in the way of the Centre’s attempt to ensure a minimum income for farmers in Bengal. Shah’s comments came against the backdrop of the farm protest at Delhi’s borders that has made an invigorating turnout after the Republic Day setback. In a virtual address to BJP supporters who had gathered at Dumurjola stadium in Howrah, Shah tried to turn the tables on the Bengal chief minister who has vowed support to the protesting farmers. Shah said the Centre was unable to send money to farmers in the state because the Bengal government had not shared the names and account details of farmers who qualified for the Centre’s PM Kisan scheme. “She was opposing the scheme…. A few days ago, Mamatadidi wrote to us that her government was willing to implement the scheme. But whom are you fooling Didi? We need a list of farmers and their bank account details with the letter. You’ve sent nothing. You are again trying to fool the farmers by sending only a letter. If Modiji wants to send money, how will he do it?” Shah asked while addressing the crowd from New Delhi. The Union home minister was supposed to be physically present at Sunday’s rally, but could only join virtually since he had to cancel his tour in the aftermath of a blast near the Israel embassy in Delhi. Union minister of textiles Smriti Irani replaced Shah at the venue, a day after the BJP had inducted several Trimanul leaders to its fold. A chartered plane had been sent to fly Trinamul turncoats Rajib Banerjee, Baishali Dalmia, Prabir Ghoshal, Rathin Chakraborty and Parthasarathi Chattopadhyay to Delhi on Saturday afternoon. All the five former Trinamul members and actor Rudranil Ghosh, who also switched to the BJP, were present at Sunday’s rally, which the party had hyped as a mega joining rally. Former Trinamul minister Suvendu Adhikari, who had earlier joined the BJP, was also present at the rally. BJP sources, however, said Shah’s physical absence took the sheen off the rally, which according to the party was attended by barely 15,000 people. The Union home minister tried his best to enthuse the crowd by attacking the Mamata government. “The BJP workers of Bengal will visit the houses of the farmers in the state and make them understand that Mamata Banerjee is not allowing them to receive money sent by Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he said.Sources in the state government said the allegation by Shah didn’t hold ground, referring to the communication between Nabanna and New Delhi that the state government would verify the details of the farmers who had applied for the central scheme online. Under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, all farmers, except those paying income tax, are supposed to get an annual sum of Rs 6,000 from the union government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-213
01-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal’s Covid-19 recovery rate up for 100 days ||Bengal on Sunday reported a rising Covid-19 recovery rate for 100 days stra­i­g­ht to tou­ch 97.24 per cent. The national average is 96.97. The state also logged 338 Co­vid-19 recoveries, 229 new cases and nine deaths, including one from Calcutta, on the la­st day of the first month of 2021. In January, the state saw so­me 24,000 recoveries, 18,000 cases, and 461 deaths, the lowest in months. The state also saw a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 97th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26 last year, when there were 37,190 cases across the state, to 5,553 now. Bengal now has 3.33 per cent of India’s total Covid-19 active cases, around half of what it was last month. “January 2021 has been as good to us as the last two months of 2020. We are confident of keeping up this momentum and ending February with even better figure,” said a minister. “The daily toll has come down drastically from the 50-60 till about six weeks ago to single-digit figures. Calcutta alone used to report 20-30, which has come down to one or two now,” the minister pointed out. However, Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate also was unchanged at 1.43 per cent. The state government attributed 8,541 deaths or 84 per cent of the total toll to comorbidities. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.13 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27, 72 days ago. On Sunday, the state reported 25,046 tests, taking the total past 79.95 lakh, at 88,843 tests per million people. The state’s total of Covid-19 cases is nearly 5.7 lakh now, including over 5.54 lakh recoveries and 10,173 deaths. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. A similar set of instructions came from the high court, to ensure the outbreak did not worsen over the New Year celebrations. The number of infections between October and January has shown that the court’s instructions were effective.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-213
01-02-2021||West Bengal||Modi to inaugurate road, fuel projects in Haldia on February 7||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate multi-crore infrastructure projects in oil and gas and road sectors in poll-bound Bengal at an event in Haldia on February 7. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been invited to the event for which Union petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Sunday oversaw the preparations at the venue. Modi is scheduled to dedicate a 347km Dobhi-Durgapur natural gas pipeline, built at a cost of Rs 2,433 crore by GAIL, and an LPG import terminal built by Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) at an investment of Rs 1,100 crore to cater to the growing demand of LPG in the east. Modi will also inaugurate a four-lane ROB (road over bridge)-cum-flyover at Ranichak, Haldia, on NH41, and lay the foundation stone for Haldia Refinery’s second catalytic de-waxing unit. Pradhan took a tour of the BPCL refinery before surveying the Helipad Maidan. Speaking to journalists after exiting the BPCL refinery, Pradhan said Mamata would be expected to attend the event, which is being perceived as a high-profile show of industrial strength by the Centre ahead of the Bengal polls. A local BJP leader, quoting Pradhan, said at least one lakh supporters would have to be accommodated during the Prime Minister’s speech on February 7. At the news meet, Pradhan said: “The state government has certainly helped us in organising this visit.” “The second phase of the Durgapur-Haldia pipeline is held up over land acquisition issues. We hope the state government cooperates so that the project is over by 2022,” he added. Pradhan said the new oil field find in North 24-Parganas’ Ashoknagar was “good news for Bengal’s economy”. “Conducted an oil industry meet at Haldia ahead of PM @narendramodi ji’s visit where he will dedicate to the nation oil, gas & road projects worth Rs 4742 cr. I invited family members of our oil industry to be a part of this momentous occasion in the developmental journey of Bengal,” Pradhan tweeted. Dibyendu at news meet Trinamul’s Tamluk MP Dibyendu Adhikari, brother of Suvendu Adhikari, was seen at the news meet in conversation with Pradhan. Dibyendu, not seen at Trinamul events since November, including Mamata’s January 18 mega rally in Nandigram, insisted his presence at the news meet was “apolitical”. “I did not come to Tekhali (Nandigram) for the rally because there was a family puja that day,” he added. BJP sources admitted Pradhan had invited Dibyendu to the news meet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
01-02-2021||West Bengal||Sikkim chief minister promises two new districts by 2022  ||Sikkim chief minister P.S. Tamang (Golay) declared on Sunday that two new districts — Soreng and Pakyong — would be created by carving out the existing West and East districts, respectively, by next year. Speaking at the foundation stone-laying of a community health centre (CHC) at Soreng, Golay said the upgrade of Soreng and Pakyong subdivisions to districts could have happened this year itself, but couldn’t because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We will upgrade Pakyong subdivision and Soreng subdivion to districts by 2022,” he said. Sikkim now has four districts. The chief minister, who was born in Soreng and had represented the Chakung Assembly constituency from the area for three terms, said he was in favour of upgrading the subdivision not because it is his birthplace, but because both in terms of its geographical area and population, the place deserved to be a district. “Even before the formation of our government, we had declared it in our election manifesto,” he said. The Sikkim Krantikari Morcha, of which Golay is the president, had promised to upgrade Soreng and Pakyong to districts in its manifesto for the 2019 Assembly elections. A year before the election, Pawan Chamling, then the chief minister and president of the Sikkim Democratic Front, had also promised to consider the demand for upgrading the two places, but had failed to deliver. The creation of the districts is a poll promise of the SKM. “The SKM had made a host of political promises, including providing Assembly quota for Limbu and Tamang communities, tribal status to be left out Nepali communities and regularisation of jobs of temporary employees, among others, but has nothing to show as yet. If it creates the two districts, Golay and his party can justifiably take credit,” said one of analysts. Soreng is the largest among the four subdivisions of West Sikkim consisting of 34 gram panchayat units and 52 revenue blocks. It has four primary health centres, four police stations and five block administrative centres. In terms of geographical area, Pakyong, too, is the largest in East Sikkim. However, it has fewer administrative units than Soreng. The demand for upgrading Pakyong was raised afresh earlier in the programme by P.K. Pradhan, the former chief secretary of Sikkim, who had donated almost six acres of his ancestral land for the construction of the community health centre. Pradhan also offered the use of his house in Soreng to set up offices till physical infrastructure for the new district was set up. The Indian Army evacuated five persons, including drivers of three trucks, after their vehicles had been stuck on a snow-covered road between Samdong and Lachen in the North district of Sikkim on Friday. Two feet of ice had accumulated on the road because of heavy snowfall from Friday afternoon. The army carried out the rescue operation (in picture) from 9pm to 11pm. The trucks were returning from Samdong to Siliguri. The rescued people were taken to a nearby army post where they were provided with medicines, food and warm clothes for the night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
01-02-2021||West Bengal||Joint forum of tribal communities to skip mass marriage event on February 2||A joint forum of five tribal communities in north Bengal has decided to skip the February 2 mass marriage organised by the Alipurduar district police to press for their demand for a separate development council. On February 2, marriages of 450 couples of Rajbanshi and tribal communities are scheduled at Falakata. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, due in Siliguri on Monday, is supposed to attend the event. Ravi Rava, convener of the joint forum, explained why they were staying away from the event. “Time and again, we have demanded a separate development council for five tribes (Mech, Rava, Boro, Garo and Toto). The state has come up with many development boards but our demand has not been met. That is why we have decided not to attend the mass marriage ceremony and we would discourage any couple from any of these communities from joining the event,” Rava said. The five tribes form a vote bank of five lakh in the Dooars. Forum members said they had sent many letters to the chief minister and other members of her cabinet for the development council. “If our demand is not met, we may think whether or not to vote in the Bengal polls,” added Rava. The forum’s stand is a fresh poser for Trinamul that is largely banking on the tribal population to win the Assembly seats of Dooars and Terai. District Trinamul leaders declined to comment and were waiting for Mamata’s arrival, sources said. In North Dinajpur, trains were disrupted for over three hours on Sunday afternoon as hundreds of tribal people reached the tracks at Dalkhola station to demand the recognition of Sarna as a religious code by the Centre. Additional reporting by Kousik Sen in Raiganj||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
01-02-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling MLA claims Ajit Doval held two meetings during hill agitation||Darjeeling MLA Neeraj Zimba on Sunday claimed that national security adviser Ajit Doval had held two meetings with Gorkha National Liberation Front president Mann Ghisingh during the 2017 statehood agitation, as a result of which the party had written to chief minister Mamata Banerjee “for a high-level intervention”. Soon after the 104-day violent Gorkhaland movement had ended in 2017, Mamata has pointed to the GNLF letter, which was unknown to the public until then, to call an all-party meeting to discuss the Darjeeling issue. Addressing a public meeting in Darjeeling on Sunday, Zimba said: “I got a call from a big man, well let me name him, Ajit Doval, national security adviser…. He said, call your president, there was a meeting in Dehradun.” During the agitation, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha was an ally of the BJP that was in power at the Centre. However, Morcha general secretary Roshan Giri said he was not aware of the meeting between Ghisingh and Doval. “I had not heard about the meeting.” Zimba’s claim has raised questions among many in the hills on whether the BJP government had bypassed its ally Morcha. The context of the speech by the GNLF leader — who had won the Darjeeling bypoll on a BJP ticket — was to defend an allegation that Ghisingh’s party was responsible for derailing the Gorkhaland agitation by writing to the chief minister seeking a dialogue when the hills were in the middle of the movement. The letter was written when the strike had just crossed two months. Zimba, however, said the GNLF had intervened in “national interest” and cited the standoff on the India-China border at Doklam in Sikkim. “The Doklam standoff was a threat to national security,” said Zimba, suggesting that the boundary issue was the trigger for the Doval-Ghisingh talks. Ghisingh was present when the Darjeeling MLA spoke. While speaking to this correspondent on the sidelines of the meeting, Zimba refused to name Doval but said a meeting “with a very senior high intelligence officer” had been held in Dehradun followed by another in Delhi. “As a result, we had to write a letter to the state government to invite all parties (for a meeting).” Asked if the GNLF had been directed to write to the government, Zimba said: “It was advised to us, he talked to us about the national interest and we thought it was wise enough to write.” The GNLF leader also said the Centre or the BJP had not uttered a word during the 2017 movement for fear that “the agitation would flare up” which would be detrimental to national interests. Mann Ghisingh declined comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
01-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul’s central leadership places faith in Gautam Deb ||Trinamul’s central leadership has tasked state tourism minister Gautam Deb with monitoring the party’s activities in five districts of north Bengal ahead of the Bengal polls. The decision at a party meeting in Calcutta on Friday indicates that chief minister and party chief Mamata Banerjee — who will reach north Bengal on Monday on a four-day trip — has retained her faith in Deb, a trusted lieutenant since Trinamul’s inception in 1998. “I have been assigned by the leadership to look after party activities in five districts of north Bengal, Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling (plains), North and South Dinajpur. I will be in Calcutta to attend a special session of the Assembly on February 5 and 6. After that, I will start visiting all these districts and meet leaders and party workers,” said Deb. These past few months, Trinamul has been steadily working in north Bengal where the BJP — winning seven of eight parliamentary seats of the region in 2019 — has set a target of 50 of 54 seats. Party insiders said Deb had his work cut out. “In 2019, the BJP won in all these five districts… this is the primary challenge. Also, in districts like South Dinajpur and Alipurduar, Trinamul has internal differences. Earlier, Deb acted as a crisis manager and succeeded…. It will be interesting to see if he delivers this time,” said a party leader in Raiganj. On Sunday, Jalpaiguri district Trinamul chief K.K. Kalyani also said while they were mulling new candidates in four of six Assembly seats in the district, they never had second thoughts about Deb for the Dabgram-Fulbari. The party is also pushing the development agenda that yielded results for it in earlier elections. On Monday, Mamata will reach north Bengal on a four-day visit and is scheduled to attend a number of government events. Among these include the inauguration of Uttarbanga Utsav and a mass marriage in Falakata of Alipurduar. She will also visit Alipurduar town on Wednesday to speak at a public meeting organised by her party at Parade Ground of the town, said sources. “In course of her visit, the chief minister will inaugurate a number of infrastructure projects. She will attend a social event (the mass marriage) and a public meeting. The itinerary shows that in north Bengal, Trinamul wants to play the development card on one hand and launch the poll campaign on the other,” said an observer. Additional inputs by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
01-02-2021||West Bengal||Three held from Kaliachak with 2,000 tablets consumed by addicts||Three persons, including one from Assam, were arrested from Kaliachak on Saturday night with 2,000 tablets consumed by addicts. The tablets known as Yaba or “madness drug”, are a mix of methamphetamine and caffeine. Malda SP Alok Rajotia said the trio were nabbed on a tip-off and the tablets were possibly being smuggled to Bangladesh. “Cases have been registered against the trio under Narcotics, Drugs & Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act,” he said. According to police sources, Safiqul Islam of Nagarjhar under Howly police station of Barpeta district in Assam reached Malda to deliver the tablets. “He was supposed to deliver the illegal consignment to Samiul Sheikh and Muktezam Sheikh Shershahi when all three were nabbed,” said a source. TMC worker beaten up Ambar Ali, a Trinamul leader in Rampur under Harishchandrapur police station of Malda district, was assaulted by some suspected BJP supporters on Saturday evening. Sources said Ali was campaigning in the locality when he was attacked. Among the attackers include some of his relatives who have fled, police sources said. Ali is hospitalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
01-02-2021||West Bengal||Hundreds of dead fish in Kurti stream, poison suspected||Hundreds of dead fish of different varieties were found floating in Kurti, a stream in Matialli block of the Dooars region of Jalpaiguri district on Sunday. Block administrative official who visited the site suspect that unscrupulous fishermen might have poisoned the stream. An inquiry has been initiated into the fish deaths, officials said. Dead fish were spotted first by morning bathers who carried them home. “It seems some people have put poison in the water. There had been similar incidents earlier in rivers like Teesta and Karala that move through Jalpaiguri town. But in recent years, this is the first time that such an incident has been witnessed in Kurti,” said Jugal Chandra Roy, a member of Matialli panchayat samiti. Later in the day, officials from the state fisheries department who visited the spot, cautioned people not to consume the dead fish. “Samples of water and dead fish have been collected for testing. People should abstain from consuming the dead fish,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
