02-02-2021||West Bengal||Assembly polls: Voting centres may stretch into roads||The city and neighbouring Howrah may witness a unique site this Assembly polls as the Election Commission guideline of setting up polling booths only on ground floors have prompted the poll officials to consider the option of erecting temporary structures blocking roads or lanes. “Many of the polling stations across the state are set up on the first floor of schools, civic bodies or other government buildings. Now, as all polling stations need to be set up on the ground level, the authorities are finding it difficult to arrange additional space to relocate the booths. The problem is acute in Calcutta and Howrah where available space is limited,” said a senior government official. Though it is yet to be finalised how many temporary booths need to be set up by blocking roads in the state, primary estimate by officials suggests that such 50-odd polling booths in South Calcutta, 400-odd in North Calcutta and 200-odd in Howrah would be temporary structures. “The problem is so acute that we might be forced to set up temporary structures to set up additional booths by blocking roads in Calcutta and Howrah. But we are not sure how the requirements of polling officials and security forces like toilets and lodging would be arranged in case of temporary structures,” said a senior officials. According to sources, in case of setting up of booths in school and government buildings, the officials don’t have to arrange lodging and toilet facilities for the polling officials and security forces as the facilities are available at these premises. Setting up of temporary structures by blocking roads would have other problems too. For example, if booths are set up by blocking roads, there could be problems in  case of any law and order situation and fire incidents. The issue was raised before the full bench of the EC last week when it had held discussions with the government officials. The EC said that they would not mind if some roads are blocked to set up booths as roads in Calcutta are often blocked to hold Durga Puja,” said an official. A section of the officials said that in case of temporary booths, requirement of security forces would be high as intimading voters in a temporary structure is likely to be easier compared to a school building or any permanent structure. Sources said that the trouble has turned more critical after the EC made it clear that no booth would have more than 1,050 voters. “We have to set up 22,887 auxiliary booths due to the maximum limit of voters in a booth. It is always difficult to set up so many additional booths in existing polling premises. Now, the problem has been compounded as all the booths located on the first floor have to be brought down to the ground level,” said a source. Another official said that it would be real trouble to set up 1.01 lakh booth in ground floor only. In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the state had 78,903 booths while booths in the first floor was allowed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-212
02-02-2021||West Bengal||Nepali band finally gets hometown’s recognition after 22 years||Mantra is easily Darjeeling’s most globally recognised rock band in the Nepali music world, but locally, they were only recognised on Saturday, 22 years after it had been formed. Mantra bagged the Music Darjeeling Award in the category of most popular song of 2020 and band members said it was the first such recognition from Darjeeling, a place known for singers and musicians. Bhaskar Dewan, vocalist, of the band said: “I would like to thank Baisnaavi Production for instituting this award. Just a month ago, we were talking that while we had received numerous awards at other places, we were yet to receive any award from Darjeeling.” The band has criss-crossed continents — from South Korea to England to Australia —  for performance and bagged seven awards from Nepal and one from Sikkim. “So far, we have cut four albums (all of which are hits),” said Pragya Lama, lead guitarists, Mantra. They have come up with some of the most famous Nepali rock songs but the lack of recognition at their hometown, many believe, is a sad commentary on the state of affairs in Darjeeling. “We wanted to start this music award in 2013 but the situation was not conducive (there was a general strike for over a month as part of Gorkhaland agitation), local channels were closed for a year and we could not go ahead with our plans,” said Binay Shankar, general secretary of the award organising committee. There were four categories in the Music Darjeeling Award and the winners in their respective categories are celebrities in their own rights in the Nepali music world. Anmol Gurung, 31-year old director of Nepali film Appa, a movie which took the Nepali industry by storm in 2019, bagged the best music video award, while Bimochana Lomzel, who shot to fame with her exploits in reality shows in India and Nepal, was recognised as the best newcomer singer of 2020. “We also posthumously conferred the lifetime achievement award on Late Vikram Subba, who was among the first from the region to set up a recording studio and a band, Diamonds,” said Aditya Raya, director, Baisnaavi Productions. Anmol, who has worked with superstars from Nepal like Daya Hang Subba, said: “Any award is special but to receive an award from Darjeeling is even more special given its standing and contribution to the industry.” The significance of the award ceremony in Darjeeling on Saturday found reflection in Anmol’s speech at the award function. “We are determined to organise the Music Darjeeling Award every year,” said Raya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-212
02-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP puts a stop to mass inductions from Trinamul||The BJP has decided to stop the entry of large groups of Trinamul Congress leaders and workers in West Bengal amid growing resentment within the saffron party over rampant inductions without scrutiny, senior leaders said on Tuesday.

"Selective" inductions would be made henceforth, that too after consultation with the local leadership, the leaders said.

"We don't want the BJP to turn into the B-team of the TMC by inducting leaders who don't have a clean image. We don't want people, facing allegations or who are involved in immoral or illegal activities, to join our party," BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said.

"So, henceforth, mass joinings would not take place. From now on, the joinings would be very selective and that too after scrutiny," he added.

The decision has been taken amid rising infighting within the party's West Bengal unit, often snowballing into the open, a senior state BJP leader said. "In many cases, the district leadership is not happy with the mass inductions. It has led to infighting and the matter has not gone down well with the central leadership," he said.

The BJP is working on a mechanism for leaders and cadres of other parties who want to switch over, he said. The idea was to ascertain whether they have a good image in the public, the state party leader said.

"Although the central and state leaderships would take the final call regarding inductions, but those who wish to join also need to get a no-objection certificate from the local or district leadership of the party," he said.

Several former TMC leaders who are being probed for corruption have switched over to the BJP in the last few years.

Since the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP has inducted 18 MLAs and an MP of the Trinamool Congress, three MLAs each from the CPI(M) and the Congress, and one MLA from the CPI.

Except for former ministers Suvendu Adhikari and Rajib Banerjee, none of the MLAs has resigned from the Assembly.

Reacting to the development, the Trinamool Congress said the BJP's decision reflects that it has lost the plot in Bengal. "The BJP neither has leaders nor has a face in Bengal. So, it was poaching leaders from other parties," TMC spokesperson Sougata Roy said.

"It has led to infighting within the party, so it has nothing to do other than shutting its doors. It has lost the plot ahead of the elections," he added.

Elections to the 294-member West Bengal Assembly are likely to be held in April-May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-212
02-02-2021||West Bengal||Union Budget 2021-22: Tea sector hails cash for health||The tea industry in north Bengal said announcements in the Union budget would help workers at large but rued that the cess on petroleum products would push up the manufacturing cost. “It is good the central government has floated a new scheme to improve health infrastructure across the country as we believe it would provide medical succour to the tea garden population also,” said Prabir Bhattacharjee, secretary general, Tea Association of India. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman also announced Rs 1,000 crore for the tea population, especially women and children, in Bengal and Assam. A tea planter in Siliguri said Agricultural Infrastructure & Development Cess on petro fuels would add to the production cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-212
02-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s three bridges and a poll plea||Mamata Banerjee on Monday urged north Bengal voters to “compensate” her party’s drubbing at the Lok Sabha polls while underlining her government’s work in the region. “Ami Lok Sabhay gohara herechi...ebar pushiye deben to… (I lost Lok Sabha polls hands down...will you compensate the loss this time)?” she appealed to people at the Uttarbanga Utsav launch in Siliguri. Mamata inaugurated three major bridges in north Bengal along with youth hostels, power substations and a fire station. “We are dedicating the bridges to people. Our government has taken up a slew of projects for north Bengal...we don’t make hollow promises,” said Mamata. Scoffing at the Union budget allocation of Rs 25,000 crore for Bengal’s road infrastructure, she said the money should go to farmers. The bridges include a 3km Joyee bridge over the Teesta to link Haldibari with Mekhliganj in Cooch Behar, Devi Kamteshwari Bridge over Mansai river to link Dinhata and Sitai also in Cooch Behar and a flyover to cut short the distance between Siliguri and the Bhorer Alo tourism hub at Gajoldoba in Jalpaiguri. On the Centre’s package of Rs 25,000 crore for road infrastructure between Calcutta and Siliguri, Mamata said work on expansion of the existing road that connects these regions was already on. “They are speaking of new road infrastructure now... work is already in progress in the state and we have cleared all possible hurdles...Also, construction of a second parallel road from Panskura via Rampurhat to connect north Bengal is in progress… we don’t know what new project they are talking about,” said Mamata. She also asked the Centre to spend the funds for farmers protesting near Delhi. “The Centre is telling us that it will build rural roads in Bengal…we ourselves will make it. You better pay the money to the farmers who are protesting for days now,” she said. She announced a fresh private investment for the region to counter a charge levelled by the BJP that the Trinamul government had failed to bring major industrial investments. “Star Cement has come up with a plant at Mohitnagar in Jalpaiguri district and invested to the tune of Rs 450 crore. The plant will create jobs for around 7,000 people.” she said. Speaking on air connectivity, she alleged the Centre’s bias against Bengal. “If they can run flights from Dhubri in Assam (a BJP-ruled state), why can’t they run it from Cooch Behar? We have readied infrastructure at the airports in Cooch Behar, Balurghat and Malda and yet no initiative was taken. Let me be clear that if required, we will start running flights from these places,” she said. In 2019, Trinamul drew a blank in all eight parliamentary seats, seven going to the saffron camp and one to Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-213
02-02-2021||West Bengal||Union Budget 2021-22: Road upgrade funds ‘too little’||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday allocated Rs 25,000 crore to develop 675km of highways in Bengal, the lowest allotment among the four poll-bound states. Sitharaman allotted Rs 1.03 lakh crore for 3,500km roads in Tamil Nadu, Rs 65,000 crore for 1,100km in Kerala and Rs 34,000 crore for Assam’s 1,300km. Senior state government officials said they were surprised at the announcement. “Even if the Centre is trying to develop the state’s road network to serve its political purpose, it should have allotted more funds to Bengal,” said a senior government official, adding that the Centre could have considered their many representations to the transport ministry for road development funds “before allotting the lowest amount among four states”. Sources said funds had been allotted to develop 675km roads in the state that includes the Calcutta-Siliguri stretch. The NH12, which links Kakdwip in South 24-Parganas and Dalkhola in North Dinajpur, is 625km long. “Expansion of NH12 (formerly NH34) is on. So, it can be assumed that a big part of the funds will be invested on the 130km stretch of the existing NH27 that links Dalkhola and Siliguri,” said an official. According to PWD engineers, the cost of repairing and developing the 130km stretch of NH27 would come to around Rs 10,000 crore. “So, only some Rs 15,000 crore will be left to develop state highways, which should have been the Centre’s prime focus if it wanted to develop road connectivity,” said a senior government official. Bengal has some 4,000km of state highways, of which some 1,000km are 10-metre (two-lane) wide. The rest are narrower, and a bottleneck in road connectivity. The Mamata Banerjee government had floated tenders inviting private partners to widen state highways, said a source. As private firms kept away, the state repeatedly urged the Centre to allot funds to take up widening jobs on its own. “With the funds, a maximum of 400km of state highways can be widened,” the source said. A National Highways Authority of India official said Bengal’s biggest problem was lack of land for road projects, which possibly made the Centre wary about allotting funds. Another NHAI official said as projects didn’t get completed in Bengal on time, original project cost got increased in the state often. “The widening of NH-12 had started in 2009 and after 12 years the project could not be completed yet due to the state government’s hands-off land policy. The project cost has now almost gone up by 300 per cent in the past 12 years,” the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-213
02-02-2021||West Bengal||CM Mamata Banerjee flays ‘anti-people budget’||Mamata Banerjee dubbed the Narendra Modi government’s Union budget  “anti-people” and accused the Centre of trying to “sell out” public sector undertakings (PSUs). Mamata, here to inaugurate the Uttarbanga Utsav — coined the term “Bhek Sarkarer Fake Budget (fake budget of a posturing government)”. She explained that state finance minister Amit Mitra had said the Union budget is “disguised and camouflaged to deceive the people,” which helped her coin the phrase. “The budget is anti-farmer and anti-people. They are trying to sell everything, including 23 PSUs. The new cess on petrol and diesel will only add to the woes of common people….whether it is insurance or jobs of employees in central-run PSUs, nothing is secure these days,” she said. Mamata dubbed the allocations for Bengal’s road infrastructure and tea population as motivated by the upcoming elections. “Construction of roads is in progress and our government has taken every initiative to clear pending (land) issues. Now that elections are ahead, BJP has again come up with some so-called sops...all these are empty promises... earlier, they had promised to open seven tea gardens but did nothing. They have not yet revoked the farm laws and are handing over most businesses to a couple of people,” she said. Taking a dig at the BJP’s initiative to fly a group of Trinamul turncoats to Delhi on Saturday, she said “they could not arrange transport for migrant workers” but could arrange a chartered flight for some corrupt people. The turncoats, including Mamata’s former minister Rajib Banerjee, joined the BJP at Union home minister Amit Shah’s house. Mamata, who has time and again accused the Centre of not releasing funds to Bengal under various schemes, also alleged that for past few months, her government was not receiving subsidy for food grains. “They are flagging the one nation, one ration card concept. We started working on it but the project got delayed because of the pandemic situation. That is why they have stopped subsidies on food grains for seven-eight months.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-213
02-02-2021||West Bengal||Union Budget 2021-22: Rs 25,000cr for Bengal economic corridor||An economic corridor linking Calcutta to Siliguri with an investment of Rs 25,000 crore was among several projects announced for the poll-bound Bengal by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the budget on Monday. The Rs 25,000 crore investment will be used to upgrade the existing 675km road between the two major urban centre in the state. This was one of the four economic road corridors announced in the budget. Sitharaman’s own state Tamil Nadu, which is also heading for  Assembly polls along with Bengal, bagged the largest pie of Rs 1.03 lakh crore under the allocation for the road corridors. The budget document shows that two more dedicated railway freight corridors will connect Bengal, apart from the ongoing eastern dedicated freight corridor project which will be commissioned by June 2022. “We will undertake future dedicated freight corridor projects namely East Coast corridor from Kharagpur to Vijayawada, East-West Corridor from Bhusaval to Kharagpur to Dankuni and North-South corridor from Itarsi to Vijayawada. Detailed Project Reports will be undertaken in the first phase,” Sitharaman said in her speech. She also announced that a fishing harbour would come up at Petuaghat in East Midnapore. It will be among the five such infrastructure projects announced in the budget for the development of modern fishing harbours in India. The budget also proposed a welfare scheme of Rs 1,000 crore for tea garden workers, especially women, in Bengal and Assam, which will also go to the polls in the summer. While Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh hailed the budget announcements, especially the Siliguri-Calcutta economic corridor, state finance minister Amit Mitra accused the Centre of doing too little too late. Describing the budget as “confused and directionless”, Mitra reeled off the Mamata Banerjee government’s achievements in building rural and state roads over the past 10 years. “The BJP just woke up from the slumber and announced a road project of 675km. However, we have built and expanded 88,841 kilometres of rural roads and 5,111 kilometres of state roads in the last decade. Another 1,165 kilometres of state roads are under construction,” Mitra said. He said the Centre didn’t do enough to stimulate the demand by leaving extra money at the hands of taxpayers. “The budget had nothing to offer to revive the (Covid-19) pandemic-hit small and medium scale industries, which are the backbone of the economy,” said Mitra. He also explained how the Centre had held back financial allocation for states under various heads. Bengal has received only Rs 27,943 crore under central tax devolution to the states, instead of Rs 37,904 crore, up to December. The estimate for Bengal is Rs 58,962 crore for the full financial year. With the introduction of the agri infra cess, the states’ share of the gross tax collection by the Centre is set to go down further as the Union government keeps levies received under this head. In contrast, duties amassed under direct and indirect taxes are shared with the states according to the Finance Commission formula of devolution of funds. At present, 41 per cent of the central tax goes to the states. Mitra also lashed out at the BJP-led Centre for allegedly providing Bengal with “a pittance” to combat the Covid-19 pandemic and the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. Dilip Ghosh said the budget reflected the government’s will to include the marginal people — tribals, farmers — in the sphere of development. “Rs 25000 Crore will be spent for a highway between Calcutta and Siliguri. Bengal will also benefit from the Vijayawada-Kharagpur and Bombay-Dankuni frieght corridors. Additionally, the government has also kept in mind the tea workers and allocated Rs 1,000 crore for them,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-213
