03-02-2021||West Bengal||College, university campuses not to reopen immediately: Partha ||Colleges and universities in West Bengal, closed since mid-March due to the Covid-19 outbreak, will not reopen campuses immediately, Education Minister Partha Chatterjee said on Wednesday. The vice chancellors urged the state government to allow institutions to conduct classes and exams of odd- semesters on online mode till March, Chatterjee told reporters after a meeting with the VCs. "The VCs said, since a month's time is left (for completion of exams) for odd-semesters (like 1, 3, 5, 7) let us continue with the online mode. The government agreed to their proposal. "The varsities also communicated to the government about their inability to reopen hostels immediately due to the pandemic situation," the minister said. About the request by guardians and other stakeholders to take a quick decision about the modalities of 'even semester' academic activities, he said, "The possibility of elections being held in April and the poll schedule clashing with semester classes and exams also figured in the discussion with the VCs. "They said a decision based on mutual discussion, considering all aspects, will be taken up by them. The government left the decision to them, saying students should not be inconvenienced," he said. With online classes in vogue, students and faculty in all higher educational institutions are gradually getting used to it and some varsities have also helped students so that they can participate in the classes without any difficulty, Chatterjee said. It was also decided that laboratories will be kept ready for use by PhD researchers on case-by-case basis, the minister said. To another question about reopening of state-run and state-aided schools for beginning classes in higher grades from February 12, Chatterjee said, "We will issue specific notification about reopening of schools for higher classes at the appropriate time." "That notification will give every details - about the measures and how many students will be allowed at a time," he added. Earlier, spokesperson of the West Bengal Vice- Chancellors' Council (WBVCC) said after meeting the minister that laboratories of the institutions will be opened for the benefit of research scholars. "Several VCs told the minister that with the Covid-19 pandemic still raging, and students from outside Bengal and abroad studying in many universities and colleges here, it will not be feasible to either reopen the hostels or campuses just yet. The minister concurred with our views. "Therefore, it was decided that classes and semester exams should continue to be held through virtual mode at present," the spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-211
03-02-2021||West Bengal||Irregularities in recruitment during Rajib’s tenure, alleges Mamata||Irregularities have been detected in the recruitment of forest department personnel during turncoat minister Rajib Banerjee’s tenure, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee alleged on Wednesday, without naming him. Banerjee, who was a forest minister in the state cabinet, had quit Mamata’s party last week to join BJP. The TMC supremo, training her guns at all deserters, said they would be defeated in the upcoming assembly polls and "their shops will be closed after the elections". "A person who was responsible for the recruitment of 'Bana Sahayaks' in the forest department indulged in corrupt methods. We will investigate it. Everything will be investigated. The person after indulging in corruption has now joined the BJP. He is now lecturing others," she said. Slamming turncoats, who left the TMC to cross over to the BJP, Mamata claimed that only the "greedy ones" are joining the saffron party. "Those who want to leave the party should do so. The doors are open. But if you are in the party you have to work like a disciplined soldier. Let me tell you, those who have switched political allegiance will be defeated in the assembly polls, their shops will be closed after the polls," she said. The BJP can buy some corrupt leaders but it can never buy a dedicated member or cadre of the TMC, she asserted, while addressing a party meeting here. The chief minister, raking up the "insider versus outsider" debate, also said that people of Bengal state will rule this state, and not those coming from Gujarat. Taking a dig at the BJP for sending a chartered plane to fly TMC turncoats to Delhi for induction in the saffron camp, Mamata said they don't have funds to bear the travel expenditure of migrant workers, but would not mind shelling out money to transport corrupt leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-212
03-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal elections 2021: Come and see what BJP did in Tripura, warns Manik Sarkar||Take a train to Tripura, talk to rickshaw pullers and grocers and learn from them what a blunder they committed by voting the BJP to power in the state. The extraordinary appeal to Bengal was made on Tuesday by Manik Sarkar, the former chief minister of Tripura and one of the most respected Left leaders in the country. “Don’t even think of bringing the BJP here merely because they did not rule Bengal. You can understand from the experience of Tripura and the entire country. You saw the government’s role against farmers, minorities and others,” Sarkar told an impressive rally on the Town Hall ground in Burdwan. The CPM politburo member was unsparing of the Trinamul Congress also, criticising the party’s 10-year rule and referring to “cut money”. But what stood out was the 72-year-old leader’s narration of the events in Tripura during the 34-month rule of the BJP that had ousted the Left from its one-time bastion. “This BJP is now trying to grab power in West Bengal. They will tell you about your experiences of the governments of the Congress, the Left and Trinamul here in Bengal and request you to see the BJP once,” Sarkar told the rally that drew 10,000 people. Sarkar added: “They will convince you with several assurances and request you to vote for them…. But don’t ruin the state by inviting that force. “Take a train and visit Tripura.… You don’t need to talk to CPM leaders but you talk to common people like rickshaw pullers, grocers… to know the reality. They will surely tell you what a blunder they committed by voting for the BJP. They are now waiting for the next poll to repair their mistake.” He urged the people of Bengal not to vote for the BJP in the name of “paribartan (change)”, underscoring how the BJP was replicating in Bengal the strategy it had adopted in the run-up to the polls in Tripura in March 2018. “They had started visiting Tripura in chartered planes in the months ahead of the elections, and they are doing the same thing here in Bengal.… The Prime Minister and Amit Shah have started visiting Bengal,” said Sarkar. “They lured the people of Tripura by assuring guaranteed jobs for 200 days.… They told government employees that they would set up a pay commission for them like (the one for) central government employees. They assured the people that jobs would be provided for each household,” he said, recalling the pre-poll narrative that was spun in one of the most backward states in the country. “People are hardly getting jobs for 45-56 days. The pay commission hasn’t been set up and the jobs for each household have not been delivered upon,” the CPM leader added. With 43 per cent of the votes, the BJP secured 36 seats in the Assembly elections held in 2018 in Tripura and formed the government with Biplab Kumar Deb as the chief minister. The Left Front, after ruling the state for 25 years in a row, bagged a little over 42 per cent votes, but its tally did not cross 18 seats. Sarkar took care to explain how things have changed in Tripura. “Some teachers who have been protesting for months went to meet the chief minister and were attacked by masked goons.… The people are not getting justice by going to police stations,” he said, referring to a lack of democratic space in Tripura. Sarkar also criticised the 10-year rule of the Mamata Banerjee government. “You are seeing the culture of ‘cut money’ here. The same culture the BJP has launched in Tripura and now the RSS-BJP leaders are extorting money there,” he said. CPM leaders said they witnessed such a big gathering in the area for the first time after they lost power “We could not accommodate all our supporters on the ground and so they assembled on different roads of Burdwan. It was so encouraging for us,” said Amal Haldar, the East Burdwan district committee secretary of the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-212
03-02-2021||West Bengal||Tibetan youths walk 2,000km to spread awareness of Chinese activities against India ||Two Tibetan youths reached Gangtok on Tuesday after trekking for over 2,000km from Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh in their mission to spread awareness of Chinese activities in Tibet and against India. Tenzin Dhondup, 28, and Tenzin Nima, 24, had entered the Himalayan state on Monday morning through Rangpo, about 40km from Gangtok, where they were given a rousing welcome by Tibetan activists and local people. They were offered khadas (traditional scarves) and feted at a small programme where speakers hailed their mission. Dhondup started the trek, ‘Dharamsala to Nathu La’, from the Himachal Pradesh town, where the Tibetan government-in-exile is headquartered, on November 2. Nima joined him later from Chandigarh. They then jointly traversed through seven states before entering Sikkim. Dhondup said three objectives of his mission were to spread awareness of China’s continuing degradation of Tibet’s environment, urge the global community to recognise Tibet as an occupied country, and boycott goods made in China in view of the country’s recent attacks against India on the Indo-Tibet border. “I chose to hike because I felt I would be able to meet and interact with more people and spread my message. I managed to achieve that during my journey till here,” said Dhondup. Asked if he encountered any problem during his long walk, Dhondup said it was not worth talking about them since the mission was more important. During his and Nima’s onward trek from Rangpo, scores of members of six Tibetan associations based in Sikkim gave them company. They plan to resume their walk to Nathu-la on the Indo-Tibetan border, provided the state government gave them permission. Visitors are barred from travelling to Nathu-la. Nima said he chose to join his namesake Tenzing on his walk from Chandigarh in order to support him. “Environment is a global responsibility. Human rights, too, is everybody’s responsibility. I did this (walk) to spread awareness (of those issues),” he said Uden Aukartsang, a member of the Tibetan parliament-in-exile, said any initiative and activism that aided the overall freedom struggle was essential. “Most importantly, we want India to have a very clear policy on Tibet, and recognise Tibet is an occupied country. It is in India’s interest to really support, you know, Tibetan freedom struggle. I think it is very crucial,” she said. R. P. Poudyal of the Bharat-Tibet Sahyog Manch lauded the Tibetan youths on their mission and urged all the people to extend support to them. “The larger message of these youths is freedom for Tibet, halt to the continued oppression of Tibetans and protection of the Himalayan environment. We the Sikkimese people congratulate them,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-212
03-02-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri MLA seeks improvement in sports infrastructure||Asok Bhattacharya, the MLA of Siliguri, has sent letters to state and central ministers of sports and youth affairs, seeking improvement in sports infrastructure of the city. While one of the letters has been sent to Kiren Rijiju, the Union minister of state for sports and youth affairs, the second letter has been sent to Aroop Biswas, the state minister of sports. In his letter to Rijiju, Bhattacharya urged him to take necessary steps and shift the campus of the Sports Authority of India to Siliguri from Jalpaiguri. In 2015, the campus was shifted to Jalpaiguri. As of now, it runs at the Biswabangla Krirangan in Jalpaiguri. “When the SAI campus was operational here, many budding talents benefited. But for some unknown reasons, it was shifted to some other place. It is a major demand of Siliguri residents and hence, I have written to the Union minister, seeking his intervention to re-establish the sports facility in Siliguri. We are ready to extend all necessary help,” said Bhattacharya, who is also chairperson of the board of administrators of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation. On the other hand, he has requested Biswas to take necessary steps for the renovation of the Kanchenjungha Stadium and the construction of a cricket stadium. “The stadium is in a dilapidated state and that is why, no major soccer tourney has been organised here these years. It is time that the state government carries out a comprehensive renovation of the facility,” said Bhattacharya. It was a longstanding demand of Siliguri residents that a cricket stadium be developed in the city. In the past few weeks, the demand has again gained ground at different quarters. “The state has a major role in this regard,” added the MLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-212
03-02-2021||West Bengal||Over 100 ‘land-losers’ demonstrate for jobs in Siliguri||Over 100 people held a demonstration in front of the office of Bengal irrigation department in Siliguri on Tuesday, demanding jobs and more compensation for plots they had purportedly parted with for the Teesta Barrage Project. The Teesta Barrage is the largest irrigation project in north Bengal and was initiated in 1976. The demonstration was held at Tinbatti More, barely a kilometre from Uttarkanya, the north Bengal branch secretariat in Siliguri. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had stayed at Uttarkanya before leaving for Alipurduar on Tuesday morning during her ongoing north Bengal tour. The demonstrators also  tried to raise a blockade on Asian Highway 2 and stopped the entry of officials to the irrigation department office. The protest was held under the banner of the Jalpaiguri Land Losers Committee. They said they had provided land for the project between 1984 and 2006 — the Left Front was in power then — and were assured of a job for each family and adequate compensation. “Many years have passed since then, but till date, we have not yet received anything from the state government. When we came to know that the chief minister would be here, we wanted to draw her attention through our demonstration,” said Debasish Adhikary, a protester hailing from Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri. Another resident of the same block said they had attended a number of meetings convened by government officials, ministers and MLAs to discuss the demands. “But there has been no change in the situation. This is why we organised the agitation,” he said. Irrigation department officials said they couldn’t immediately verify the demonstrators’ allegations as the purported land acquisition had taken place several years back. A demonstration was held by the committee at the same spot on Saturday also. New Jalpaiguri police asked the protesters to disperse on Tuesday, but they refused. They were whisked away to the New Jalpaiguri police station around 2pm. Then, the employees could enter the office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-212
03-02-2021||West Bengal||Taxi owners start indefinite strike at Bagdogra airport over revision of fares and waiver on taxes  ||The car parking area at the Bagdogra airport wore a deserted look on Tuesday as taxi owners and drivers started an indefinite strike. As 13,00 cabs kept off road, hundreds of passengers faced inconveniences. While some of them could travel by NBSTC buses, others had to walk with their luggage out of the airport and scout for vehicles. Last month, representatives of taxi owners and drivers' associations had announced an indefinite strike over a series of demands, including immediate revision of fares and waiver on taxes for the lockdown period. Since 2008, there has been no change in the fares they charge from passengers, the owners and drivers had said. The authorities intervened and promised to look into their demands soon. Based on the assurances, the cab owners had postponed their strike for a fortnight. “We waited till January 29, that is, for 15 days but there was no change in the situation. That is why we decided to stop running our vehicles from February 2. Accordingly, taxis are not running from Bagdogra from today. We will not resume the services unless the government comes up with a concrete assurance,” said Siraj Bhowmik, the president of the Bagdogra Taxi Owners’ Welfare Association. There were 44 flights at Bagdogra and altogether, 5,971 passengers moved through the airport on Tuesday, said an official of the Airports Authority of India. A hotel owner in Siliguri said: “A three-day tourism carnival will start in another three-four days to promote the region. The taxi strike at the airport now will send a wrong message. We hope the administration will take necessary steps to end the impasse.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-212
03-02-2021||West Bengal||Push for Biswa Bangla University in Santiniketan||Administrative operations and physical classes will start within three months on the Santiniketan campus of Biswa Bangla University, a brainchild of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The varsity authorities headed by vice-chancellor Swapan Kumar Datta, along with state government officials led by Hidco chairman and managing director Debashis Sen, on Monday held a meeting on the under-construction campus to speed up the infrastructure work. The officials said infrastructure, including furniture, required for the varsity would be in place at the earliest. The state government has already allocated Rs 30 crore to set up the infrastructure. The Biswa Bangla University is being built close to the Visva-Bharati campus. “Six rooms are ready for use and the main administrative block will be equipped with proper infrastructure very soon. We are hopeful of starting activities on the campus in the next three months,” said Datta. Sources said the state government wanted to make the campus functional before the Assembly polls and showcase it as an achievement of the ruling party. The varsity has already started online classes for Bengali, English and history. The varsity officials said they would soon launch the departments of music and fine arts as soon as possible. “The varsity will carry forward the ideas of Rabindranath Tagore and be a replica of Visva-Bharati. The state government wants to make the varsity an example at a time allegations of saffronisation have gripped Visva-Bharati,” said a government official. State government  sources said once the university became fully functional, 14 colleges of Birbhum district would be affiliated to it. These 14 colleges are now affiliated to the Burdwan University. The university is coming up at Shibpur, around 4km from Santiniketan. The university’s appointed day is December 10, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-212
03-02-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee to hold pre-poll meeting in Suvendu Adhikari's home turf||Trinamul Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee will hold a pre-election meeting in East Midnapore’s Contai, the home turf of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, on Saturday, more than six years after he last visited the district for a rally in the same town. Mega rallies have been organised in the district by chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Trinamul Congress turncoat Suvendu, whose recent defection to the BJP has reportedly triggered the plan for Abhishek’s return to the district. During his rally in Chandipur on January 4, 2015, Abhishek had been slapped by a purported Trinamul supporter, an incident that was believed to have widened the Diamond Harbour MP’s rift with the Adhikaris. “Now that Suvendu has left the party, Abhishek is willing to return to campaign in this district,” a Trinamul leader said on condition of anonymity. On Tuesday morning, contractors began constructing the dais on a paddy field adjacent to NH116B. Trinamul sources said the rally would attract “over 2 lakh people”. Superintendent of police, East Midnapore, Praween Prakash and senior police officers also made an inspection of the site along with party leaders. Later in the day, district leaders organised a preparation meeting for Saturday’s rally. The meeting was attended by Contai coordinator Akhil Giri, panchayat samity deputy chief Abu Taher and district core committee member Mahmood Hossain. “Suvendu has repeatedly levelled baseless allegations against Abhishek at his recent rallies and has disrespected him by name. It is Abhishek’s turn to respond,” said Hossain. Starting mid-December, Suvendu has repeatedly levelled the moniker of “extortionist nephew” against Abhishek at his BJP rallies and even named the Diamond Harbour MP on some occasions. Hossain added that the Contai Trinamul leadership had petitioned Abhishek to speak on their turf ahead of the Assembly polls to respond to Suvendu’s slurs. “He agreed especially because the chief minister is set to contest from Nandigram,” added a senior leader. Sources said state Trinamul president Subrata Bakshi would also hold a district-level meeting in Contai on Wednesday to finalise preparations for the rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-212
