04-02-2021||West Bengal||Teacher found dead at rented home in Burdwan||The body of a college teacher with minor head injuries was recovered from the rented home of the deceased in Burdwan on Wednesday morning. Police sources said Akhtar Hasinur Rahaman, 40, used to teach geography at Maharajadhiraj Uday Chand Women’s College in Burdwan. He got married for the second time in June last year and started to stay at a rented house in the Krishnapur area of Burdwan town. Mujibar Rahaman, father of the deceased teacher, said his daughter-in-law informed him over the phone on Wednesday morning that Hasinur had slumped to the ground and died due to a heart attack. “After we rushed to our son’s rented home, we found his body lying in a pool of blood on the floor and my daughter-in-law was missing. I tried to communicate with her over phone but her mobile phone was switched off,” said Mujibar, a farmer in Birbhum’s Ekdalia village. Mujibar has lodged a murder complaint against his daughter-in-law at Burdwan police station. A police officer said based on the complaint the police have started a probe against the teacher’s wife. Asked whether it was a case of murder, the police officer said they were waiting for the post-mortem report. “There were minor injuries on the body and those are unlikely to be the cause of anyone’s death. However, we are waiting for the post-mortem report,” he said. Villagers said Hasinur was a bright student and had cleared the College Service Commission a decade ago to join the college as a teacher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-211
04-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt asks BJP to seek yatra nod locally||The Bengal government has asked the BJP to approach local authorities regarding arrangements for “Parivartan Rathyatras (chariot rallies for change)” that the party wanted to take out from five different places in the state with the first one set to roll out from Nadia’s Nabadwip on February 6. The BJP had on Monday sought an appointment with chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to discuss the modalities for those processions. However, the government asked the BJP on Tuesday to take up the matter with “the appropriate authorities at local levels”. “Necessary permission regarding maintenance of law and order during assemblies and processions are issued by the district administration concerned. A blanket permission is never issued,” a state government official said on condition of anonymity. BJP leader Sayantan Basu acknowledged the party had received the state government’s letter late on Tuesday and added that applications would be sent to all the district authorities concerned. “We will send letters to the SPs and DMs of the districts about the route our rathyatras will cover,” he said. Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said if permission for the rallies was denied, his party would move court against it. The BJP in its application to the chief secretary said the party would be organising “peaceful political programmes” between February and March this year. The BJP had also stated five raths or chariots would crisscross the state for over 20-25 days. The first rathyatra will start from Nabadwip on February 6 and is scheduled to be inaugurated by BJP national president J.P. Nadda. Over the next few days, similar processions will roll out from Cooch Behar, Kakdwip, Jhargram and Tarapith. Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah will inaugurate the rallies. “The idea is to bring out five different processions, one for each of our organisational districts. The rallies will cover all the 294 Assembly constituencies of the state,” a BJP source said. The party had planned similar rallies before the Lok Sabha polls but the state government had denied permission for the programmes. The BJP had moved Calcutta High Court which had denied BJP permission for the rathyatras. The party had then moved the Supreme Court that upheld the high court’s order. According to a section of the BJP, the party wants the state government to deny permission this time, too. The party leaders believe this would help them create ruckus and reap political gains ahead of the polls. “If we are not allowed to go ahead with the rathyatras, we will be able to tell the people that the Trinamul government is trying to gag Opposition voices,” a BJP leader said. A BJP leader said the party had its Plan B ready in case permission was denied to the rathyatras. On Wednesday, a PIL was filed at Calcutta High Court to deny permission to the yatras. The application said that the processions could lead to disruption in law and order. The court will hear the matter on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-211
04-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal completes 100 days of drop in active cases||Bengal on Wednesday completed 100 days of a drop in active Covid-19 cases as the number of patients under treatment fell to 5,196 from 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami on October 26. The total of active cases is now back almost to where it was 222 days ago, on June 26 last year. On Wednesday, the state recorded 303 recoveries, 201 infections and seven deaths, including two in Calcutta. The recovery rate rose for 103 consecutive days to touch 97.3 per cent, still leading the national rate by 0.2 per cent. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.08 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 75 days. On Wednesday, the state reported 21,812 tests, taking the total number of swab samples examined past 80.58 lakh. The tests per million people are 89,535. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases is over 5.7 lakh, including more than 5.55 lakh recoveries and 10,195 deaths. The state attributed 8,562 (84 per cent) of the total deaths to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate also was unchanged at 1.43 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-211
04-02-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly election: CPM to hit campaign trail with Manik Sarkar video||The Bengal CPM will use former Tripura chief minister Manik Sarkar’s Burdwan speech on Tuesday as a campaign tool in the coming Assembly polls to alert people to the situation in the north eastern state after the BJP came to power in 2018. The party took the decision after Sarkar’s elaborate explanation of the situation in Tripura drew a lot of interest within the CPM and beyond. “We have already asked our youth leaders to prepare a compact video clip of the party’s politburo member Manik Sarkar on what he told about Tripura and how he warned the people of Bengal about the danger of bringing the BJP to power. We will hold small meetings at villages and play the video,” said Amal Haldar, state secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha. “We will start the campaign from East Burdwan first and later in the entire state,” said Haldar. While addressing over 10,000 people in Burdwan town, the politburo member had urged them to take a train to Tripura and interact with rickshaw pullers and grocers to learn from them “what a blunder they committed by voting the BJP to power”. He also alerted people that the BJP was following the Tripura model in Bengal. “After his speech, many of our common supporters told us that his words touched their hearts. We also think people should know about the BJP from the horse’s mouth like Sarkar. We believe his words will be an advantage as he is from Tripura,” said a CPM state committee member. CPM sources said a group of youth leaders had already started working on audiovisual campaign material with Sarkar’s speech on how the BJP lured the people of Tripura with false assurances. The party has a plan to show the video at remote villages where BJP is luring people with “false assurance” and polarising the society. “We have formed three groups in Burdwan and they will move to different places and install projectors to show Sarkar’s speech,” said Binod Ghosh, a CPM district committee member in Burdwan. We will prepare an audio file also but our goal will be to campaign by using the video of his speech as its impact is better. We will start such campaigns this week.” “As the entire speech is in Bengali, it would help us communicate with the common people on the ground,” he added. Singur CPM leader Sujan on Wednesday symbolically laid the foundation stone of industry at Singur where the Left Front government had invited Tata Motors to set up a small car factory. Chakrabarty, who attended a rally in Singur, also said if the LeftCongress alliance won power in Bengal, the first cabinet meeting would be held on the Singur land.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-211
04-02-2021||West Bengal||Student dies in motorcycle crash in Nadia, sand on road blamed||An engineering student died after his motorcycle skidded over sand dumped on the road in Nadia’s Tehatta while returning home from a wedding on Tuesday night. Two persons, including the student’s elder brother, have been critically injured. The deceased student is Sagar Das, 21, who was a resident of Givindapur Purba Daspara in Santipur town. The incident occurred near the victim’s home about 11pm on Tuesday. Police and family sources said Sagar, a student of a Krishnagar-based private engineering college, had gone to a wedding in the neighbouring area on Tuesday evening with his elder brother Tamal. Around 10.45 pm, the siblings’ common friend Nayan Sarkar, a BSF employee, offered them to drop home on his motorcycle. Local sources said Nayan lost control over the two-wheeler when he sped over sand dumped on the roadside. “The bike skidded and hit a wall and a brick stack. Sagar died on the spot,” said a local source. An investigating officer of Santipur police said reckless riding on a deserted lane had prima facie led to the accident. “Careless dumping of construction materials on the carriage way is a major problem in many parts of our state. We have nothing to do unless local administration takes action against such dumping.” The police have started a case of unnatural death in the absence of any specific complaint against sand dumping. Tapas Das, father of the deceased youth, said: "I hope that people will act responsibly as such dumping could take more innocent lives like my son's.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-211
04-02-2021||West Bengal||CAA delay a blow to BJP's Matua outreach||The decision of a parliamentary committee on subordinate legislation to grant the ministry of home affairs extension till April 9 to frame the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019, rules has put the BJP in a fix as the party tries hard to assuage the sentiments of the Matuas who have been showing signs of restlessness over the delay in rolling out the citizenship matrix. To contain the adverse political consequences of further delay that the extension will cause, the BJP-aligned All India Matua Mahasangh has written to the Union home ministry seeking its view on the delay while increasing its coordination with at least 36 refugee organisations to decide the future course of action. “It is true that certain doubts and questions have arisen in the minds of the Matuas and we cannot ignore their concern. The extension to frame rules has only added to the confusion. We are trying to clarify that nothing could be finalised before the Assembly polls but there is nothing to despair. We have sent a number of queries to the home ministry that Matuas have raised. We are hopeful that confusion will end when Amit Shah speaks at Thakurnagar next week,” a top leader of the Mahasangh said. He added the Union home minister was expected to address the rally at Thakurnagar in North 24-ganas on February 11. The Mahasangh leadership is banking on the “patience” of the community members and hopes that Shah will be able to end the confusion among the Matuas. A Mahasangh leader said that they would meet after February 11 to decide on the what to do next. Subrata Thakur, who heads the Mahasangh jointly with his brother and BJP MP Santanu Thakur, told The Telegraph: “It is true that the government has been taking time for framing the rules. We are hopeful that the delay will be good for us eventually.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-211
04-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s graft finger at former minister||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said there were complaints that her former cabinet colleague Rajib Banerjee had manipulated the recruitment of “ban sahayaks (forest workers)” and a probe was on into the enrolment. Mamata didn’t name the former forest minister who had quit the Trinamul Congress and joined the BJP last month. Banerjee denied the charge and said he had rejected certain Trinamul leaders’ recommendations in the selection process. The state forest department headed by Banerjee had last year launched a drive to engage around 2,000 “ban sahayaks” on contract. They would be deployed for conservation and protection of forests across the state and for other activities of the department. Addressing a public meeting at the Parade Ground in Alipurduar, Mamata trained guns at her former cabinet colleague. “Somebody who was with us and has joined the BJP recently …. I have received complaints that he has done some manipulations in the recent recruitment of Ban Sahayaks. We are conducting an investigation,” said the chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-211
04-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee likely to skip Narendra Modi’s event at Haldia||Mamata Banerjee is unlikely to attend Narendra Modi’s Sunday event at Haldia, despite being invited to it, as there are apprehensions of the central government programme being used to “humiliate” her, said sources close to her. “They seem to have this plan of inviting her and then doing things to insult her and the state government. Why should she go and facilitate that gross discourtesy?” asked the source. The Bengal chief minister, said the source, is wary of a repeat of the January 23 event at Victoria Memorial — supposed to be an apolitical event of the BJP-led Centre meant to honour Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose — where she went as an invitee but was heckled by sections in the audience. “They did not even spare an event in honour of Netaji. Why should this be any different?” asked the source, referring to Sunday’s event where Modi would inaugurate infrastructure projects in oil and gas, and road sectors. “Not only is she unlikely to go, but she also expects other elected representatives from the party (such as Ghatal MP Dev, the actor-politician) to give it a miss,” said a Trinamul Congress MP. Earlier in the day, Saumitra Khan, the BJP’s Bishnupur MP and the party’s state youth wing chief, tweeted that Dev and Contai MP Sisir Adhikari — the father of BJP’s catch of the season Suvendu Adhikari, who is yet to defect from Trinamul — would share the dais with Modi. ‘When she found out, she called Dev, asking him if he was planning to go even if she might not. He said he was certainly not going and had already issued a statement on Twitter clarifying that Khan was mistaken…. That put her at ease,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-211
04-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata draws Tripura parallel as part of strategy to revive TMC in north Bengal||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday referred to the problems that tribal and Rajbanshi people were allegedly facing in the BJP-ruled states of Assam and Tripura as part of her strategy to revive the Trinamul Congress in north Bengal, a region where the two communities together hold the key in 30 out of 54 Assembly segments. “Please visit Assam and Tripura and speak to rickshaw pullers, grocers, common people... You will come to know about the condition of tribal and the Rajbanshi people there,” the chief minister said while addressing a rally at the Alipurduar parade ground. Former Tripura chief minister and CPM leader Manik Sarkar had made a similar statement at a Burdwan rally on Tuesday. He had said: “Take a train to Tripura, talk to rickshaw pullers and grocers and learn from them what a blunder they committed by voting the BJP to power in the state.” Addressing over 50,000 people on Wednesday afternoon, Mamata also said: “Here, we have made laws to protect tribal land. I have written letters to the Centre so that Sarna, the religious code of the tribal people, is given recognition. Go and see what they have done in Assam and Tripura.” In the past few months, the Bengal government took a slew of measures, ranging from hiking wages for workers in tea gardens to legitimising refugee colonies, to win over the adivasis and the Rajbanshis. A Trinamul source said the fact that the party had tasted some success in its mission became clear as two major opinion makers in the two communities — Rajesh Lakra, a former leader of the Akhil Bharatiya Adivasi Vikash Parishad and Bangshibadan Burman, general secretary of the Greater Cooch Behar People’s Association — were present at Mamata’s rally. In the last Lok Sabha polls, Lakra had campaigned for the BJP in the tribal-dominated areas, while Burman, whom Mamata had made the chairman of Rajbanshi Development and Cultural Board in 2017, had distanced himself from Trinamul. On Wednesday, Lakra went all guns blazing at the Narendra Modi government. “In the Terai-Dooars region, we will remove even the traces of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Our Didi has done so much for the tribal and Rajbanshi communities... She has delivered on her promises for people. We want her to return to power with 200-plus seats,” said Lakra, a tribal leader. “I am a priest and a pastor... Mark my words, Didi will come to power,” he added. When Mamata rose to deliver her address immediately after Lakra had finished his speech, she thanked the young tribal leader before rolling out a long list of what her government had done for all communities in the region. “We believe in taking everyone along... We believe in standing by people and our schemes bear the proof of what we have done,” she said. “We want peace, they (the BJP) want riots, we want development, they want immersion, we want to create employment, they want retrenchment,” the chief minister summed up in her attempt to differentiate between Trinamul and the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-211
