05-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata: BJP finished ‘Golden India’||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday urged the Bengal electorate to heed the advice of one former CPM chief minister and borrowed from the lexicon of another, accusing the BJP of finishing Sonar Bharotborsho (Golden India) and mocked it for promising Sonar Bangla (Golden Bengal). Speaking at a Trinamul Congress event in the city on Thursday evening, she first appealed to the people to learn the lesson CPM’s former Tripura chief minister Manik Sarkar was trying to teach here on Tuesday. Then, Mamata converted former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee’s 2001 campaign slogan into her own. “In this situation, the Trinamul Congress’s alternative is the Trinamul Congress. There is none other…. From Trinamul to an improved Trinamul,” the Bengal chief minister said at the event aimed at wooing the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The line was virtually an echo of Bhattacharjee’s clarion call from exactly two decades ago — while he was trying to ward off then his challenger-in-chief, Mamata — that the only alternative to the Left Front was an improved Left Front. Shortly before that, Mamata had brought up “Manikbabu”. “How well do you know the BJP? Tripura’s former chief minister, Manikbabu, he has said here… that go, see for yourselves in Tripura, what they have reduced the people to. Down to the last rickshaw-puller, a cart-puller… government employees, teachers… none has been spared,” said the Trinamul chief, who had alluded to Sarkar’s counsel, but not with such stress. Mamata seems to have latched on to Sarkar’s message, especially with an eye on Left voters swinging away towards the BJP, which had purportedly handed the saffron camp 18 seats in the Lok Sabha polls in Bengal in 2019. At a Burdwan rally on Tuesday, Sarkar, a CPM politburo member, had cautioned against bringing the BJP to power in Bengal. “Take a train and visit Tripura.… you talk to common people like rickshaw pullers, grocers… to know the reality. They will surely tell you what a blunder they committed by voting for the BJP,” said Sarkar. On Thursday, Mamata advised the BJP to first see their own faces in the mirror. “Charity begins at home. What is happening in your Gujarat, your Uttar Pradesh, your Madhya Pradesh, your Bihar… from Tripura to Assam?” she asked. “Just go and ask Bengalis in Tripura today, my dear sisters and brothers. Most of them common people, who used to shout slogans once that ‘CPM ashiya, Tripura dilo bhashaiya (The CPM came and sent Tripura floating)”. Those same people, today they say: ‘BJP ashiya, Tripura dilo bhashaiya (The BJP came and sent Tripura floating),” she added. “Go (to Tripura) once, you will see for yourself. So many have run away and have come to live here now.” On March 3, 2018, the evening of the Tripura Assembly polls results, a visibly displeased Mamata had blamed the Tripura results on the Left’s “avoidable and abject surrender” and the Congress’s failure to accept her offer of a seat adjustment. On Thursday, she said: “Even now, I feel so sad. Defections from the Congress made the BJP strong there (in Tripura), brought it to power. The BJP thinks it can use the same formula here, with some traitors from Trinamul…. Shameless.” Mamata then went on to mock the BJP over its Bengal campaign promise. “Sonar Bangla? Is it that easy, BJP-babus? Do you even know what real gold is?” she asked. “Big lectures? Sonar Bangla? They finished my Sonar Bharotborsho…. Street-fights, in every corner of the nation. Farmers don’t get justice, workers don’t either. Mothers and sisters are dishonoured. Journalists get beaten up. I feel shame for what they do,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
05-02-2021||West Bengal||PM nod for underground Metro averts eviction||The Centre has primarily agreed to a proposal by the Bengal government to construct the Metro stretch between New Barrackpore and Barasat underground, giving respite to the Trinamul Congress dispensation as the project will not lead to the eviction of a few hundred refugee families. According to sources at Nabanna, the proposal was presented before Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a recent “Pragati” meeting, where he holds virtual discussions with top officials of state governments on several issues. “PM heard the state’s proposal and put the ball in the railway board’s court. The board agreed to conduct a survey. Most important outcome of the meeting is that the Centre accepted the proposal even if construction of Metro stretch underground costs three times higher than laying tracks overhead,” said a senior state government official. Earlier, it was planned that the New Barrackpore-Barasat stretch of Metro would be constructed overhead to cut down the expenditure, sources said. Sources in the state administration said if the railway board started the survey soon, the state government would be benefited in two ways. First, it would not have to relocate a few hundred refugee families residing on government land beside the Jessore Road. The land would come under the project area if overhead tracks are laid as planned initially. “The state has started giving free-hold land rights to the refugee families to the plots on which they have been residing over the years. In such a situation, evicting the families would be an embarrassment for the government. Moreover, no government would like to evict people ahead of the Assembly polls,” said an official. Second, once the railway board starts the survey for the underground stretch, it would strengthen the state’s stand on giving freehold land rights to refugee families living on government land for years in the backdrop of objections from some central agencies, including railways, to the move. “The Bengal government would be able to say if a plan for a Metro can be changed so that refugee families are not evicted, the state is not doing any wrong by giving freehold rights to refugee colonies on the land owned by central and state governments,” said an official. A section of official said the Centre was forced to accept the state’s proposal as the Narendra Modi government did not want to take steps that could affect refugee colonies. Once the stretch gets operational, the furthest southern point of Metro — Garia — will get connected to the furthest northern end, Barasat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
05-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid cases: Bengal logs 301 recoveries, 206 new infections||Bengal on Thursday logged 301 Covid-19 recoveries, 206 new infections and four deaths, including one in Calcutta. The state’s total active cases dropped — from 37,190 on October 26, Vijaya Dashami, to 5,097 on Thursday — for 101 days on the trot. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for 104 consecutive days to touch 97.32 per cent, still leading the national rate by 0.18 per cent. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.06 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 76 days. On Thursday, the state reported 23,031 tests, taking the total past 80.81 lakh, at 89,791 tests per million people. The state’s total of Covid-19 cases is nearly 5.71 lakh, including over 5.55 lakh recoveries and 10,199 deaths. Of the total toll, 8,566 deaths (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate was also unchanged at 1.43 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
05-02-2021||West Bengal||Dry port vandalised, CM orders action||Around 300 supporters of the INTTUC, the trade union of the Trinamul Congress, went on the rampage at the recently opened Inland Container Depot (ICD) near the New Jalpaiguri railway station here on Thursday, ransacking the offices of the private logistics company that runs the dry port and the Customs and vandalising cars, two-wheelers and equipment. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has purportedly instructed police and the local Trinamul leadership to act against the vandals. The attackers included truck owners, drivers and workers who load and unload goods at the NJP station. They had been holding demonstrations near the dry port, demanding that they be engaged in cargo handling. The depot was set up on a 29-acre-plot that had been taken on lease from the railways by the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority. “The company that is running the facility is hiring dump-trucks and workers from outside. There are around 400 local trucks at the NJP and hundreds of drivers and workers are dependent on these vehicles. The company should engage local trucks and drivers in cargo operations,” said Prasenjit Roy, an INTTUC leader at the NJP. While operations were going on at the ICD on Thursday, hundreds of INTTUC supporters joined the protesters who had been holding demonstrations and shouting slogans for the past three days. Roy, who was at the spot, alleged that some of the employees at the dry port had suddenly fired a few rounds in air to scare away the protesters. “The demonstrators were also pelted with stones and a number of our men suffered injuries,” the INTTUC leader said. Within minutes, hundreds of protesters barged into the depot and vandalised whatever they found on the premises. They damaged furniture, computers and window panes in the offices of the company and the Customs which handles the overseas cargo. The vandals didn’t spare flower pots on the premises either. Cars, two-wheelers and equipment like excavators and hydra machines were wrecked. NJP police reached the spot and reinforcements were brought in to disperse the attackers. The police arrested five of them. The vandalism brought the operations at the ICD to a grinding halt. Officials of the company that invested around Rs 40 crore on the first private freight terminal in the region expressed concern over the security of their men and machines. “We had communicated to police earlier that such an incident might happen and our apprehension turned out to be right.,” said Aviral Jain, a director of Pristine Hindustan Infraprojects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
05-02-2021||West Bengal||Huge haul of explosives seized near Birbhum, one held||Police recovered around 25,000 detonators from an SUV near the Jharkhand border of Birbhum’s Rampurhat early on Thursday and arrested the driver. Police sources said Thursday’s haul was the biggest in recent memory. “Following a tip-off, we stopped the vehicle and seized the detonators. Primarily we suspect these detonators had been stolen for use in illegal mines. We made inquiries on where the consignment was to go,” said Shayan Ahmed, the subdivisional police officer of Rampurhat who led the raid. Sources said vehicle driver Jashpal Singh of Punjab revealed he was carrying the detonators from Jamuria in West Burdwan to Birbhum’s Radipur village with a detour through Jharkhand’s Dumka. “We collected names of the vehicle owner and the person supposed to receive the consignment in Birbhum,” said a senior police officer. Police sources said explosives of this kind were mainly supplied to illegal stone miners but Maoist involvement could also not be ruled out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-210
05-02-2021||West Bengal||Song and dance aimed at courting Matua voters||Trinamul MLA Samir Kumar Poddar is dancing to the tune of kirtans on the streets of his constituency in Nadia’s Ranaghat, ostensibly to win the hearts of the influential Matua community ahead of Bengal polls. A two-time Trinamul MLA from Ranaghat North-East (SC) constituency and a decorator by profession, Poddar launched a door-to-door campaign with his troupe of kirtanias last week to reach out to the Matuas — a bulk of whose votes shifted to the BJP in the 2019 parliamentary elections. From one home to another, Poddar dances to the beats of dongkas (drums) as his team chants “Hari bol”. “I have begun interacting with people of my community to understand their problems and know their expectations from the Matua Development Board, which the state government has recently formed. I often call on Matua community members when they invite me and take part in religious gatherings. There is nothing unusual in it,” Poddar said. A Trinamul leader said Ranaghat North-East (SC) segment had 65 per cent Matua voters — Hindu immigrants from Bangladesh who recently swung towards the BJP largely because of the party’s promise to implement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019. Amid kirtans, Poddar also explains to the Matuas the “futility” of the BJP’s promise on the citizenship issue and the delay in implementing the act. The BJP scoffed at the MLA’s efforts at “song and dance” and said he had made himself a “laughing stock”. “Samir Poddar has made himself a laughing stock among the Matuas,” BJP’s Nadia south president Bipul Ukil said. “He has been an MLA for the last 10 years but the community members have never seen him sing and dance to woo them...This is pure political compulsion.” Poddar refused to acknowledge his door-to-door interaction with his team of kirtanias was pre-poll campaigning. “It is an attempt to understand the sentiments of community members, a section of whom got swayed by communal forces in 2019,” he said. Former Trinamul MP and Matua leader Mamatabala Thakur accused the BJP of fooling the community with the citizenship offer. “I have seen the impact of CAA in Assam. Bengalis in Assam are now fighting for their existence. The BJP is trying to rob Matuas of their citizenship,” she told the media on Thursday while refuting rumours of her joining the BJP. Located close to Indo-Bangladesh border, the Ranaghat North East (SC) Assembly segment, a part of Ranaghat (SC) Lok Sabha constituency, is dominated by Matua voters. During the 34 years of Left rule, the CPM had a strong presence among them. In 2011, the support of the Matuas shifted towards Trinamul. Poddar, helped by Matua votes, won the Assembly seat in 2011. In the 2016 Bengal polls, Poddar retained his seat but his winning margin shrunk significantly. Trinamul’s worst performance, however, was in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The BJP managed to dangle the bait of the CAA, and it triggered a massive erosion in Trinamul’s support base among the Matuas. The BJP made huge gains and Trinamul trailed in the Ranaghat North East (SC) Assembly segment by 43,226 votes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-210
05-02-2021||West Bengal||Fresh plan for 100 jabs a day in Darjeeling district ||Darjeeling district health department has come up with a new plan to vaccinate health workers against Covid-19 and fulfil the 100-jabs-a-day target. Vaccination in the district started on January 16 and 100 health workers are supposed to get the shot daily. Sources in the health department said it was found that on a number of days those supposed to get the shot are not turning up. In such cases, other health workers who are yet to get the jab can approach the centres and take the vaccine, said health officials. Sandeep Sengupta, the dean of student affairs and a gynaecologist at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) on Siliguri outskirts, said the district health department had asked for names of all the health workers for vaccination that have been collected and uploaded on a portal. “The names have been uploaded randomly. If all 100 supposed to get the shot on a given day do not turn up, others registered with the portal can approach the centre and take the vaccine in empty slots,” he said. Initially, when vaccination started, there had been some demonstrations at NBMCH that a number of doctors were out of the list. However, NBMCH principal Prabir Deb clarified that they had sent names of all the professors and doctors to the district health department. “All of them will be vaccinated in due course,” Deb said. “So far, around 600 people have been enlisted and a handful of names need to be included,” said a health official. Apart from senior and junior doctors, interns, house staff, paramedics, conservancy workers and office staff needs to be vaccinated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-210
05-02-2021||West Bengal||Teacher under fire for bribe voice clip||The Darjeeling District School Board on Thursday filed a police complaint against Kamal Thapa, teacher-in-charge of Rohini Tea Primary School, after an audio clip purportedly of the teacher seeking money in exchange of a certificate and job surfaced on social media. The incident took on political colour as Thapa belongs to the Bimal Gurung camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. In the voice clip allegedly between Thapa and an aspirant looking to sit for the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) teacher’s eligibility test (TET), Thapa claims he can obtain the diploma certificate in elementary education (D.EL.Ed) for Rs 1.15 lakh and a primary teacher’s job for Rs 3 lakh. Contacted by The Telegraph, Thapa was a bundle of contradictions. Thapa told this paper that the conversation had been in jest “with a distant relative,” but at one point also claimed he had not spoken. “They are trying to victimise me politically and I have not taken any money from anyone till date,” Thapa said. In the clip, however, Thapa purportedly suggests that the candidate fill up the TET (teacher’s eligibility test) form stating that his (the candidate’s) D.El.Ed course was completed between 2015 and 2017. “While filling up the form write 2015 to 2017 (of the D.El.Ed course). It (the certificate) will cost you (Rs) 1.15 lakhs and you will get all your certificates within one-and-a-half months,” Thapa purportedly instructed the aspirant. The voice allegedly of Thapa’s instructs the money be deposited in his bank account and suggests the candidate keep a receipt. The GTA’s TET is scheduled to be held on February 14, 2021, and forms are to be filled by February 5. Only TET dates have been announced and not any teacher’s vacancy as of now. But Thapa allegedly states in the clip: “Just sit for the examination and I will make you a teacher. It will cost you three (lakhs).” The voice claims that some teachers in the hills have obtained their diploma certificates through him and some 20 new aspirants were in touch with him. The district school board filed a police complaint based on the voice clip. “Such a conversation on social media casts a shadow upon the clean and pristine environment of the education department of the hills, and those indulging in such crimes should be booked immediately,” the complaint reads. The Bimal Gurung camp on Thursday issued a media statement suspending Thapa from the central committee of the party’s primary teachers’ organisation. Binay Tamang of the rival Morcha camp demanded a judicial inquiry on the issue and protection for the aspirant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-210
05-02-2021||West Bengal||Wife kills man with plank, surrenders||A carpenter from a village in Tufanganj subdivision of Cooch Behar was beaten to death by his wife on Thursday morning. The wife then went to the police station and surrendered while admitting to her crime. Police recovered the man’s body and started a probe. Sources said Ratan Sutradhar, 45, a resident of Battala in Andraran-Fulbari area of Tufanganj, had problems with his wife Fulkumari for some time. On Wednesday night, the neighbours heard the couple fighting among themselves. “On Thursday morning, some residents came to know that Ratan was dead at home. Later, we came to know that his wife killed him with a wooden plank and surrendered before the police,” said Shibu Das, a panchayat member. According to villagers, Fulmari, in her mid-30s, was Ratan’s second wife, and his first wife had died some years ago of burn injuries. This was a cause of speculation among villagers and also created discord between Ratan and Fulkumari. Ratan and Fulkumari have two children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-210
05-02-2021||West Bengal||Malda cop alert against fake posts before polls||The district police in Malda have started a campaign to discourage residents of the district from making and sharing morphed videos and provocative messages on social media ahead of Bengal polls. People have been asked not to post provocative and unverified items that could trigger law and order problems. A number of senior police officers have pointed that the demography and geographical location of Malda made this alert to residents necessary. They also said that the cybercrime police station had come across a number of provocative videos, a number of which were eventually found to be fake. “Many social media users, who post and share those videos out of enthusiasm, can invite legal steps (against them). That is why we are reaching out to them through social media to make them aware of the probable legal consequences they might face. It is not only the person who posts it (provocative and fake videos) for the first time but anybody sharing it can also face such (legal) steps,” said Alok Rajoria, the Malda district police chief. He said that the district police were using popular social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp for regular alerts to make people aware of the consequences. A police officer pointed out that circulating morphed videos and messages that can lead to social tension was a common menace. “There is apprehension that such practices may intensify in the district before polls. The caution is thus being issued in advance,” he said. The cybercrime police station has been instructed to keep watch on social networking platforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-210
05-02-2021||West Bengal||CISF cop held for lewd remarks||A constable of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) was arrested by the Government Railway Police (GRP) in Malda Town station late on Wednesday night after a number of women passengers on board a Howrah-bound train alleged that he had been passing lewd comments at them. The women passengers also alleged that the CISF constable — whose name is being withheld — was drunk. Sources said two Calcutta-based families were returning home by train from a vacation in Darjeeling, and were on the same sleeper coach as the CISF constable. “The constable drank liquor on board and eventually started passing obscene remarks at the woman members of these families,” said a source. This went on for some time, the source added, and discomfort grew. “Around 11.30pm, when the train reached Malda Town station, these passengers burst into protests. An uproar ensued. Then, the GRP rushed to the spot and detained the constable, which was converted into an arrest,” the source said. Sources said that the arrest — for creating nuisance — was a non-bailable offence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-210
05-02-2021||West Bengal||Birds die in hill tea garden, no hint of avian flu||Fowls and other species of birds were found dead in a tea garden near Mirik on Wednesday, but authorities said preliminary investigation suggested that chronic respiratory disease had killed them and ruled out avian influenza (HSN1) virus as the cause. Bird flu was reported in many parts of India recently. No such case has been detected in Bengal till now. Rohit Singh Rathore, the manager of the Phuguri tea estate, confirmed the deaths of fowls, pigeons and birds. “There have been reports of deaths of fowls and pigeon throughout the garden. I saw a dead bird with a long tail at my bungalow though I don’t know its name,” said Rathore. The plantation employs around 570 permanent workers and has a population of over 3,000. Rathore said the incident had come to his notice on Wednesday and he had immediately informed the authorities concerned. Sources in the Mirik subdivision said a team led by two veterinary doctors had visited the Phuguri garden, about 10km from the tourist town, and conducted post-mortem on the dead avian. “The signs and symptoms of the dead fowls are not of bird flu. Post-mortem report suggests that the birds died of chronic respiratory disease,” said an administrative source. The official added that chronic respiratory disease was common among birds in the Darjeeling hills during winters. Bengal is the third meat producing state in India after Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. Bengal produces around 2.5 crore kg of chicken every week and consumes around 2 crore kg. The rest is exported to neighbouring states. Around 5 lakh farmers are directly involved in the poultry business and another 10 lakh are indirectly dependent, according to officials of the West Bengal Poultry Federation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-210
