06-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata deprived farmers of PM Kisan scheme to satisfy ego, alleges Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda ate the humble khichdi seated on the floor with farmers as he reached out to peasants on Saturday in election-bound Bengal, and excoriated the Mamata Banerjee government for depriving them of the benefits of the PM Kisan Scheme to "satisfy her ego". On a day when farmer unions have called a 'chakka jam' against three contentious agricultural laws, Nadda reaffirmed the BJP and the Narendra Modi government's commitment to the welfare of the farming community. Mocking Mamata for agreeing to implement the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana only after realising that her party is fast losing ground among the farmers in the state, Nadda vowed justice for them once the BJP is voted to power in Bengal. "What Mamatadi did to the farmers of Bengal by depriving them of PM Kisan Scheme was an injustice. Due to her whims and to satisfy her ego, Mamata Ji did not allow the scheme to be implemented. This has affected over 70 lakh farmers who for the last two years have been deprived of annual aid of Rs 6,000," he said. Nadda was addressing a rally of farmers during the last phase of the month-long 'Krishak Suraksha Abhiyan' and 'Ek Mutthi Chawal' campaign which he had flagged off in order to mobilise the farming community in the state in favour of the BJP. The programmes were also a part of BJP's outreach to farmers to blunt the opposition's charge that the ruling party and the Modi government were "anti-farmer" following farm protests at Delhi's border points. Nadda said the prime minister recently inaugurated the 100th Kisan Rail, an initiative that will help farmers transport their produce anywhere in the country with great ease. Lauding the Modi government for its pro-farmer policies, the BJP leader said, it ensured that they got 1.5 times more than the input cost for their produce. "Today, when about 25 lakh farmers of Bengal sent applications for securing the benefits of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme to the central government, Mamata Ji is saying she will implement it. Mamata ji, elections are round the corner. Now, it's too late," he said, castigating the chief minister. Nadda said the state's people have made up their mind to bid "namaste and tata" to Banerjee and her party after the assembly polls. Nadda taunted the chief minister for losing her cool after hearing "Jai Shri Ram" slogans. "When I was coming here I was greeted with 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans. But I don't understand why Mamata ji gets angry after hearing it. Had you served the farmers well, you wouldn't have lost your cool," he said, while referring to the January 23 incident at Victoria Memorial Hall in Kolkata. Mamata had declined to speak at the event to celebrate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's birth anniversary where "Jai Shri Ram" slogans were raised in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Nadda, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh and other party leaders later had a community feast where they ate a humble lunch of khichdi and vegetable curry while seated on floor with farmers. Amid chants of "Jai Shri Ram", Nadda also led a road show in Malda. Standing atop a decorated lorry with Dilip Ghosh and others, he showered jubilant supporters with marigold petals and waved to enthusiastic crowds that gathered along the 1 km stretch between Foara More and Guru Rabindranath Tagore's statue. People watched the procession from rooftops and balconies and were seen shooting videos with their mobile phones. The streets were lined with BJP's flags and buntings as the cavalcade inched its way through the narrow and crowded streets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-208
06-02-2021||West Bengal||Docudrama on life of Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina screened at Nandan||Hasina: A Daughter’s Tale, a 2018 docudrama on the life of Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, was screened at Nandan-I during the inauguration of Third Bangladesh Film Festival in Calcutta on Friday. The film festival is part of a bouquet of programmes that the country’s information ministry and the deputy high commission in Calcutta are hosting in the city to commemorate Father of the Nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahaman’s birth centenary and the 50th year of Bangladesh’s independence. Bengal minister Bratya Basu and indian foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan were present at the inauguration (in picture by Bishwarup Dutta) of the film festival. The film — directed by Piplu Khan and produced by the Centre for Research and Information and Applebox Films — on Hasina has won international acclaim not only because of its narrative, but also because it has shown untold stories from Hasina’s life. In an attempt to get a peak into her life, the camera has followed her inside her kitchen and library. “Sheikh Hasina’s life with all the twists and turns and her journey as the daughter of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman has come alive on screen and we think all of you will like it,” said Muhammad Hasan Mahmud, who inaugurated the film festival. Thirty-two Bangaldeshi films would be screened at the festival. On account of popular demand, the film on Hasina would be screened again at Nandan-II on Sunday evening, said the organisers. It took around five years to make the one-hour-ten minute film, which captures through Hasina’s eyes the heyday of freedom struggle in Bangladesh, the capturing of her father by the Pakistani forces and finally, the assassination of Bangabandhu and his entire family. Several commentators have called the film, narrated in her voice, a brief history of Bangladesh as Bangabandhu is at the centre of the neighbouring country’s history. “Bangabandhu is an asset of both the Bengal on two sides of the border as well as that of the world… People involved in the world of art and culture on two sides of the border should come forward and collaborate in making films on Bangabandhu and the Liberation War and that would be a befitting tribute to this great man,” said Bratya Basu, science, technology and biotechnology minister in the Mamata Banerjee cabinet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-208
06-02-2021||West Bengal||Railway officials cite plans for north Bengal||Senior officials of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) elaborated on rail projects and plans for north Bengal in the wake of the Union budget tabled by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman earlier this week. According to NFR officials, around Rs 1,100 crore has been allotted for the Sevoke-Rangpo rail project taken up in 2009 to include the Himalayan state of Sikkim on the railway map of India. The project is likely to end next year. “Along with the Northeast, funds have been allocated to develop railway infrastructure in north Bengal. It includes Rs 110 crore for doubling the tracks between New Maynaguri and Gumanihat,” said a railway official. The NFR, sources said, has also decided to renovate a goods shed in Raninagar-Jalpaiguri and built a new goods shed at Mohitanagar. Both these stations are on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town. “A sum of Rs 26.44 crore would be spent for these projects to be taken up on PPP mode and we have floated the tenders. Once goods sheds become operational, there will be job opportunities for hundreds,” said S. Chanda, the NFR chief public relations officer. He said that at goods sheds, new facilities like improved signalling system, drinking water and sewerage facilities, restrooms for workers and toilets would be built. “Also, rail tracks would be laid and approach roads built in some stretches to connect the sheds,” Chanda added. K.S. Jain, the divisional railway manager of Alipurduar division of NFR, said they were coming up with a new attraction — two vista-dome coaches — for tourists to the Dooars. “These are air-conditioned chair car coaches with large windows and glass roofs. They will be tagged with local trains plying between Siliguri and Alipurduar to help tourists enjoy a great view along the Dooars route,” said Jain. From March, electric-driven locos will chug trains between New Cooch Behar and New Jalpaiguri, he added. “Initially, we will start running goods grains with electric locos and then passenger trains will also start plying,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-208
06-02-2021||West Bengal||Violence can prove hurdle to attract investments in Bengal: Trade outfits||Thursday’s vandalism at the inland container depot (ICD) near New Jalpaiguri station by INTTUC supporters prompted many trade outfits on Friday to point out that violence could prove a hurdle for the Mamata Banerjee government to attract investments in Bengal. The attack, which brought activities at the ICD to a grinding halt, has led to loss of face for ruling Trinamul, particularly as it occurred when chief minister Mamata Banerjee was at state branch secretariat Uttarkanya barely 3km away. On Friday, representatives of a number of trade bodies visited the site. They spoke with representatives of Pristine Hindustan Infraprojects Private Limited, the Delhi-based company running the ICD. “At a time the chief minister and her government are trying to get new investments, such an incident can discourage entrepreneurs,” said Nishant Mittal, chairman of the Indian Chamber of Commerce in north Bengal. Sanjay Tibrewal, vice-chairman of the NB zonal council of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), pointed out new investments were needed to create jobs. “Those involved in the attack should face legal steps,” added Tibrewal. On Thursday, around 300 INTTUC supporters led by a New Jalpalguri based leader, Prasenjit Roy, entered the ICD and indiscriminately ransacked the company’s office, vehicles and equipment. The attackers alleged the company did not hire New Jalpalguri trucks and workers. Police dispersed attackers, and later arrested five. As of now, altogether nine persons have been arrested, including Sushanta Das, an office bearer of a taxi union and Roy’s associate, said a source. On why the ICD was closed, Sanjay Mawar, one of the directors of Pristine Hindustan Infraprojects, said they needed time for repairs and wanted evidence to stay intact for the police probe. He said the attack hurt their confidence. Amid a storm of criticism, INTTUC leader Roy has been show-caused. INTTUC and Trinamul leaders alike have criticised the vandalism. Arup Ratan Ghosh, the Darjeeling district INTTUC president, called the vandalism “irresponsible”. “It should never have happened. We should consider workers' interests but refrain from acts that can affect private investments,” Ghosh said. Ranjan Sarkar, Darjeeling (plains) Trinamul president, was equally critical. “The police have managed to bring the situation under control but they should take stern steps as instructed by the chief minister. Nobody is above the law,” said Sarkar. Party insiders said a decision on Roy would be taken after Gautam Deb, state tourism minister and MLA of Dabgram-Fulbari — the ICD is located under his constituency — returns from Calcutta. New Jalpaiguri station premises and surrounding areas wore a deserted look on Friday. All shops were closed and vehicles stayed parked. Residents said some INTTUC supporters had "imposed a strike" to protest the arrests of some of their colleagues. Hundreds of passengers who reached the station on Friday faced inconveniences till policemen and some Trinamul leaders urged shop owners and transporters to restore normality. Some vehicles plied in the area but most shops stayed shut.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-208
06-02-2021||West Bengal||28-year-old mother, kid found dead in Nadia, neighbour suspect||A 28-year-old homemaker and her two-year-old daughter from Nadia’s Chapra were found dead near their neighbour’s courtyard early on Friday, a day after they went missing from home. Police sources said prima facie it appeared that Mamtaj Mandal and her daughter Muskan had been murdered for the latter’s gold chain. “The bodies bore strangulation marks. We have sent the bodies for post-mortem," said an officer from Chapra police station. The discovery of the two bodies sparked tension in Chapra’s Gachha locality during the day, with neighbours ransacking accused Tahara Mondal’s home. Tahara and her family have reportedly absconded. “Residents refused to hand over the body to the police, accusing them of negligence despite a formal police complaint lodged by Mamtaj’s husband, Najmul Mandal, against Tahara, late on Thursday itself (when the bodies had not been found),” said an eyewitness. Najmul, a farmer, had begun searching for his wife and daughter on Thursday evening after he returned home from work and found them missing. “I came to know that my wife went to our neighbour Tahara’s home after I had left for work (in the morning),” he said, adding that Tahara had been “visibly interested” in the gold chain that Najmul had recently bought for his daughter. “She had been eyeing it and asking about it for weeks, which has convinced me that they were trapped and killed for the gold chain,” Najmul added. Residents of the area said Najmul was “ridiculed” when he went to the local police station citing his suspicion about the involvement of his neighbour behind his wife and daughter going missing. “The police should have begun their investigations much earlier. Instead, they initially ignored our pleas to start a probe,” added Saheb, Mamtaj’s brother. A police team had interrogated Tahara late on Thursday, and residents sustained a night-long search in the area for the missing Mamtaj and Muskan. Early on Friday, both their bodies were recovered from a bush adjacent to Tahara's courtyard. Asked, local police sources denied any negligence on their part in investigating the case. “We had begun our interrogations immediately to ascertain the cause of the disappearance of the woman and child,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-208
06-02-2021||West Bengal||CID sleuths start probe into coal smuggling in West Burdwan||A dozen sleuths of the Criminal Investigation Department led by deputy inspector general Ajay Thakur on Friday started a probe into complaints of coal smuggling lodged by Eastern Coalfields Limited with various police stations in West Burdwan. The CID team on Friday reached the office of the general manager of ECL’s Kajora mining area in West Burdwan’s Andal and interacted with the officials. Later, they visited some open cast mines at Andal and some other places where illegal mining allegedly takes place. “We have come here to probe the complaints lodged by ECL regarding coal smuggling and pilferage of national property. We have just begun our work,” Thakur said after speaking to the ECL officials in Kajora. Sources said the CID had initially started investigating three complaints in the Kajora area in Andal police station limit out of the 33 lodged at various police stations in the coal belt. “The complaints that we are now looking into had been pending for investigations for a long time. We will visit some more places, including the ECL headquarters, in phases during our investigations,” said a CID official. However, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has been carrying out investigations into coal smuggling for the past two months in which an alleged coal kingpin Anup Maji alias Lala has been named as accused. The CBI has issued lookout notices for the two who are reportedly absconding. Trinamul sources in West Burdwan said sending the CID team to investigate coal smuggling complaints was an attempt of the Mamata Banerjee government to turn the heat on the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls. The BJP has accused Trinamul of promoting illegal coal trade in the area. “BJP leaders, including Suvendu Adhikari, are constantly blaming our party for shielding those involved in the coal smuggling racket in Bengal. The CBI is probing the racket but sending the CID to probe the same charges is an initiative to keep pressure on the central investigative agency,” said a Trinamul leader in Asansol. Speaking in Calcutta on Friday, BJP leader Samik Bhattacharya said: “Coal smuggling has been going on for years. The state government did not bother to investigate the complaints in all these years. When the CBI is investigating the case, the decision of the state government to send its own investigating agency smacks of an attempt to shield the culprits. The move will create a constitutional crisis.” Trinamul spokesperson Kunal Ghosh had on Thursday spoken about the CID probe into coal smuggling and claimed that none involved in the crime would be spared. Sources said the recent induction of a businessman Rajesh Jha alias Raju, who is facing charges of coal smuggling, and Sankha Biswas, a former police officer considered close to Jha, into the BJP had led Trinamul leaders in Durgapur to accuse the saffron camp of patronising those involved in pilferage of coal. “Several complaints of coal smuggling, possessing illegal firearms, carrying fake currencies and cannabis are lodged at various police stations in the district against Raju Jha. He was inducted into the BJP recently and aspiring to contest the polls banking on his money and muscle power. The CID will obviously investigate the complaints against him and the truth will come out who is backing the criminals,” said Uttam Mukherjee, Trinamul leader in Durgapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
06-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee brings people above 60 and widows under pension plans||Mamata Banerjee on Friday brought people aged above 60 and all widows under pension plans, raised annual dole for farmers to Rs 6,000 per acre and announced a series of infrastructure projects in an apparent attempt to outdo the schemes and proposals in the central budget. “I propose to bring all people over 60 years of age irrespective of caste, creed and religion under old age pension scheme. Similarly, all widows over 18 years of age would be brought under the widow pension scheme. There are people who are in need but can’t say anything to anybody. This will help them,” said the chief minister while tabling the vote-on-account for the 2021-22 financial year. Sources said the initiative by the chief minister could be considered as a smart move as it would benefit nearly 2 crore aged people in the state and at least 15 to 20 lakh widows. “The Union budget did not offer much to these sections of people. The chief minister has sensed an opportunity and played a smart stroke,” said a senior government official. As of now, 60 lakh aged people, who comprise those in  SC and ST communities and economically weaker section, fishermen and farmers, get Rs 1,000 every month under the old-age pension scheme. Opening up the scheme for all sections of people is considered to be significant as no other state has dared to do so. “Under the Krishak Bandhu scheme, financial aid will be enhanced from the existing amount of Rs 5,000 and acre to Rs 6,000 annually,” said Mamata while allotting Rs 500 crore for this purpose. The Krishak Bandhu scheme is a direct benefit transfer mechanism of state government for farmers. The sources said the move was initiated clearly to match the Centre’s PM-Kisan scheme that offers Rs 6,000 annually to all farmers, except those who pay income tax. The chief minister put pressure on the Centre by demanding that all bargadars (sharecroppers) be included in the Centre’s scheme. BJP leaders had claimed the farmers in the state were being deprived of the Centre’s assistance as the Bengal government did not implement the scheme. “In Bengal, 47 lakh farmers and more than 5 lakh bargadars have been registered under the scheme. Of them, 23 lakh have already applied for the central scheme online even after the state did not agree to accept the scheme here. This put the chief minister under pressure and she has put the ball on the Centre’s court by raising the demand to include bargadars in the scheme. As the bargadar or sharecropper concept is prevalent extensively in Bengal, it would be tough for the Centre to include them,” said an official. Mamata also announced that the state government would construct 46,000km of rural roads in the next five years and announced a series of infrastructure projects, including a flyover over B.T. Road connecting Tala and Dunlop. “This is also to counter the Union government’s allotment of Rs 25,000 crore to develop a 675km economic corridor between Calcutta and Siliguri. The chief minister made it clear that the state could develop the roads on its own,” said another official. The Opposition, however, raised questions on the intention of the state government to carry out the projects announced in the state vote-on-account. “The government announced 46,000km of new rural roads in the next five years and allotted only Rs 500 crore for next financial year. If it is assumed the state will construct 9,000km this year, the funds are too meagre to achieve the target,” said Manoj Chakraborty, a Congress MLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
06-02-2021||West Bengal||Active Covid-19 cases drop below 5,000 in Bengal||Bengal on Friday achieved the Covid-19 goal of below-5,000 total active cases. The state now has 4,992 active cases, back almost to where it was on June 9 last year. On Friday, Bengal logged 297 Covid-19 recoveries, 194 new infections and two deaths, including one from Calcutta, aiding the fall in total active cases for 102 days straight since Vijaya Dashami, October 26 last year. The state had 37,190 active cases then. Bengal’s Covid-19 recovery rate rose for 105 consecutive days to touch 97.34 per cent, leading the national rate by 0.17 per cent. Its positive confirmation rate is 7.05 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 77 days. On Friday, the state reported 23,167 tests, taking the total past 81.04 lakh, at 90,048 tests per million people. The state’s total of Covid-19 cases is nearly 5.71 lakh, including around 5.56 lakh recoveries and 10,201 deaths. Of the total toll, 8,568 deaths (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate also was unchanged at 1.43 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
06-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee announces financial incentives for tea, tourism and education sectors in north Bengal||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced financial incentives for tea and tourism sectors, which are the major employment generators in north Bengal, and reached out to different communities in the region by augmenting educational infrastructure in the budget. Mamata said the state government would set up 200 new schools in the next five years, where students would be taught in languages like Nepali, Hindi, Urdu, Kamtapuri, Kurmali and Sadri languages. For these proposed educational institutions, she announced an allotment of Rs 100 crore in the next fiscal (2021-22). “There are many people in the state who speak Nepali, Hindi, Kamtapuri, Urdu and Kurmali language. We will open 100 new schools in these languages in the next five years and 300 para-teachers will be engaged…. also, in the tea gardens, 100 schools will be opened where students would be taught in Sadri…. another 300 para-teachers would be engaged in these schools,” Mamata said. Added to it, the chief minister also announced that the state would grant recognition to 200 Rajbanshi-medium schools and allotted another Rs 50 crore. A political analyst said it was an attempt to reach out to different communities of north Bengal by ensuring elementary education in different regional languages. In the budget, she has also proposed opening 100 new English medium schools in areas having higher concentration of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and another 500 Ol Chiki-medium schools in the state, some of which are also expected to come up in north Bengal. “Cha Sundari,” or the free housing scheme launched by the state for tea workers, also found a place in the budget with Mamata announcing Rs 150 crore for the scheme in the next financial year. For the tourism sector, the chief minister announced a scheme to support the industry that has taken a beating because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Under the scheme, loans ranging from Rs 50,000 to Rs 10 lakh will be provided to those who are associated with the sector and in the first year, the state will bear half of the interest. A sum of 10 crores has be-en allocated for the scheme,” Mamata said. She also announced the introduction of a new incentive scheme for a period of five years for the tourism industry with effect from the next financial year as the previous scheme expired on December 31, 2020. “It is a great step that the state government has taken to help the industry. This will largely benefit the homestays, guest houses and the government’s thrust is on development of rural tourism and smaller places. From the association, we are very happy that the state government has looked up to tourism whereas the Centre has completely ignored us,” said Sudesh Poddar, president, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Eastern India. Laying stress on augmenting physical infrastructure to improve connectivity, the chief minister announced a 9.5km-long two-lane bridge over the Raidak 1 river on the Baxirhat-Jorai Road in Cooch Behar district. She also announced that another bridge would be constructed over the Balason river along SH12 along the Siliguri-Mirik route. Also, the Changrabandha-Jamaldaha-Mathabhanga-Cooch Behar road on SH16 will be extended by 75km, while a 60km stretch that connects Botolbari and Dhantala (both in North Dinajpur) will be widened to a two lane road, she mentioned in the budget. For the north Bengal development department that she had formed in 2011, Mamata announced an allocation of 776.51 crores for 2021-22. The allocation for the tourism department, on the other hand, was 457.38 crore for the next fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
06-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP lawmakers raise Ram slogans in Assembly||Chaotic scenes dubbed “unprecedented” by some veterans in the treasury benches unfolded in the Assembly on Friday as chief minister Mamata Banerjee tried placing the vote-on-account for poll-bound Bengal. BJP lawmakers rushed to the well of the House with “Jai Shri Ram” slogans to protest state finance minister Amit Mitra’s absence. Mitra has been unwell, sources said. As Mamata rose to read the vote-on-account speech, BJP members led by their legislature party leader Manoj Tigga came to the well and started  sloganeering, demanding answers on why the chief minister was replacing Mitra. Mamata paused amid the commotion. A visibly displeased Speaker Biman Banerjee took charge, repeatedly asking the BJP members to return to their seats or leave the House. The Speaker said due process had been followed and that Tigga shouldn’t complain as he — being part of the Assembly’s business advisory committee — was aware of it. “...This is grossly disorderly behaviour. I have to be very harsh, I tell you…I don’t want to take any harsh action. Please, please… return to your seats,” said Speaker Banerjee. “The honourable governor (Jagdeep Dhankhar) has authorised the chief minister (to place the vote-on-account), you have heard. I don’t get this. You will not know the laws and rules, you will choose not to learn, and you are shouting meaninglessly…Please go to your seats or leave the House.” After a hullabaloo of about five minutes, the BJP staged a walkout, aggressively shouting “Jai Shri Ram”. The Left and the Congress staged walkouts before Mamata rose to speak. Resuming her address, Mamata said: “Sorry, Speaker Sir, even you had to take a lot of trouble...I have placed many a (railway) budget...I attended many general budgets in Parliament. Nobody does this during a budget speech. It is customary courtesy in parliamentary processes within the democratic system.” “…These BJP members, they know nothing, can do nothing...Listen to it (the vote-on-account), participate in the discussions. Instead, a handful of members doing this… ki obostha (what a situation),” she added. A senior cabinet member said the behaviour of the BJP legislature party was “unprecedented”. Tigga and other BJP MLAs such as Swadhin Sarkar, Joyel Murmu, Ashis Biswas and Dulal Bar claimed they were protesting Mamata’s alleged ploy to project herself and misuse the vote-on-account platform for a poll pitch. “Not only did they do away with the governor’s address, they kept the finance minister away...a clear disregard of parliamentary democracy,” said Tigga. Later in the day, the BJP lambasted Mamata over the budget. “Given the current state of the economy, the slew of announcements that she made, where the money for them will come from, nobody knows…. She mainly renamed central schemes and projects to stake claim on the credit ahead of the polls…We firmly believe the people of Bengal will summarily dismiss this joke of a budget, laden with nothing but meaningless promises that will not be kept,” said BJP state chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya. Congress state president and its leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury accused Mamata of replacing Mitra to cover up possible questions on the source of funds for the promises made in the budget and the credibility of claims made therein. Left legislature party leader Sujan Chakraborty, a CPM central committee member, also demanded answers on Mitra’s absence. “This government has not done any work over the past 10 years. Now she says everything will be completed in three months. Three months later, she won’t even be in power anymore. What do these promises mean?” asked Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
06-02-2021||West Bengal||Manish Shukla murder case: CID officers arrest ‘shooter’ in Tamil Nadu||A key accused in the murder of BJP leader Manish Shukla has been arrested in Tamil Nadu in a different case, prompting a team of officers of Bengal’s Criminal Investigation Department (CID) to leave for the southern state on Friday to interrogate him. CID officers said that the arrested Anish Thakur had been allegedly one of the shooters present near the BJP party office at Titagarh in North 24-Parganas, some 18km from Calcutta, on the evening of October 4, 2020, when Shukla was gunned down. Anish had been eluding the police net for months since his name surfaced following interrogation of those arrested so far in connection with the murder of the BJP leader and former councillor of Titagarh who was also close to BJP’s Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh. On Friday, the Tamil Nadu police informed Bengal CID that they had arrested Anish in connection with a robbery at the office of a gold loan company a few days back. Anish’s photograph matched the one that the Bengal CID had given out to other state police departments in its search for the fugitive. “We have been on the lookout for Anish for some time. He was one of the shooters who killed Manish Shukla,” said a senior officer of the CID. “The Tamil Nadu police have informed us they arrested him in a separate case. We will now try and interrogate him before pleading for his custody,” the officer said. The CID while scanning through the CCTV camera  footage of the murder had zeroed in on Anish. Originally from Bihar, he is known to be a close associate of Subodh Kant Singh, a ganglord of the state. CID officers also said Sanjay Roy, a resident of Vishali in Bihar who had been arrested from Patna Station Road within days of the BJP leader’s murder in Titagarh, had identified Anish from the footage and later admitted his involvement in the crime. The gang that was allegedly involved in this murder case was also the one accused of robbing 30kg of gold ornaments worth Rs`15 crore from a gold loan company office close to the police and administrative district headquarters in Burdwan town on July 17, CID officers said. Excluding Anish, 10 persons have been arrested in the Shukla murder so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
06-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee promises to create 1.5 crore jobs in five years||On February 25, 2011, Mamata Banerjee presented her last budget as the railway minister — that was largely billed as a Bengal budget — with the hope of unseating the Left Front government in the Assembly polls scheduled to be held in another two months. Ten years later, she rose on Friday afternoon to present a vote-on-account — filling in for ailing Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra after obtaining permission from governor Jagdeep Dhankhar — barely two months before another Assembly election, but this time with the hope of remaining in the seat of power of Bengal. Like what she had done as railway minister by not raising passenger fares, the Rs 2,99,688-crore vote-on-account she read out on Friday didn’t include any proposal to raise taxes. “Today, I shall speak about hope and not about despair,” said Mamata, defining the theme of the vote-on-account. The statement of intent that Mamata laid before the House, which the Opposition parties had boycotted, had elements of a Trinamul poll manifesto, expected anytime after the Nirvachan Sadan announces the election dates, as the focus was on pension scheme for all, job creation, welfare schemes for the weaker sections, promise of industrialisation and creation of infrastructure. Expansion of educational opportunities for religious and linguistic minorities was a special feature in the vote-on-account as she announced 100 new English medium schools for SC, ST communities, besides promising to set up schools in Alchiki, Nepali, Hindi, Urdu, Kamtapuri, Kurmali, Sadri and Rajbanshi languages across the state. The proposals indicated a 20 per cent hike in outlays for education, sports, art and culture. The most-talked about claim in the vote-on-account, however, was about the Trinamul government’s performance and plans in creating employment opportunities in the state. “With the planned development of huge industrial centres and infrastructure, we will be able to create 1.5 crore new employment opportunities in the next 5 years at the government, semi-government and non-government levels and through self employment,” said the chief minister, who also claimed that her government had created 1.12 crore jobs in the last 10 years. The promise of creation of job opportunities — with special emphasis on filling up 50,000 posts lying vacant in the government and over 60,000 posts in the police set-up — was clearly an attempt to woo the voters at a time the BJP has started attacking her government on the issue of employment. Sources close to her said the recent Bihar elections, where employment became a key issue, was another reason why she had instructed Mitra, who had drafted the proposals, to punctuate the vote-on-account documents with job promises. The Opposition questioned the past and projected employment figures, besides accusing her government of not doing enough for development of large-scale industries in Bengal. Several BJP leaders said the theme of their campaign would be lack of employment — and irregularities in recruitment in government and government-aided schools — would be the mainstay of their campaign. “We have created jobs, we have made huge capital investments in the state and also improved the state’s fiscal health,” said Mitra, in a post-vote-on-account news conference that he held virtually. Unlike other budget speeches, where macro-economic situation is discussed in details before placing the proposals, Mamata’s one-hour-address revolved around welfare schemes and she took care to read out each one of them. As the government has almost doubled the outlay under the head of social welfare and nutrition — from around Rs 19,000 crore to little over Rs 35,000 crore — Trinamul insiders said that the chief minister’s proposals were backed with sound arithmetic. There was, however, lack of clarity on the vote-on-account’s projection of a tax revenue collection exceeding Rs 75,000 crore for the next fiscal, around 32 per cent more than the revised estimate of 2020-21. While neither Mamata nor Mitra explained the basis of this projection, sources in the government said that the forecast was based on expectation that the vote-on-account proposals would trigger heightened economic activity in the state, which, in turn, would result in tax buoyancy. After laying a set of proposals with the theme of hope, Mamata drew inspiration from Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose’s famous call of “give me blood, I shall give you freedom” to lay her demand before the people of Bengal. Seeking another term at the helm, she said: “Keep faith in me, I shall give you unconditional and selfless service with utmost dedication.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
06-02-2021||West Bengal||Dhunseri Ventures and Berger Paints seek land to set up two manufacturing units in Burdwan||Homegrown industry majors Dhunseri Ventures and Berger Paints have sought land from the Bengal government to set up two manufacturing units at Panagarh industrial park in Burdwan, documents presented in the state Assembly revealed. The two projects will stand apart as the state has not been the recipient of many large manufacturing units in recent years, though several small and medium scale industries have come up in Bengal. Promoted by Chandra Kumar Dhanuka, Dhunseri plans to put up a packaging material unit primarily targeting food processing, cosmetics, personal care and pharmaceuticals. It has applied for 38 acres at the industrial park. Stock market listed Berger Paints, India’s second-largest paints company, is seeking 22 acres at the park to build a construction chemicals and putty manufacturing unit. This would be its third unit in Bengal, the other two located in Shibpur and Rishra. Speaking to The Telegraph, Dhanuka said the Dhunseri unit would be ready for production by March 2023. “It will entail an investment of Rs 400 crore. We have ordered plants and machinery from Germany,” Dhanuka said. The Panagarh plant will be a downstream unit of Dhunseri’s Haldia unit where it makes PET that goes into making plastic material. “There are no manufacturers of such polyester packaging material in the east,” Dhanuka explained. The unit will create close to 200 permanent jobs in the first phase, sources said. Berger’s proposed plant at full capacity is expected to manufacture 120,000 tpa of construction chemicals and putty and the company will explore manufacturing additional products as well. “Our existing factories in Bengal are old and there is no land to build anymore. So, we applied for around 22 acres at Panagarh industrial park. We are yet to get the land,” said Abhijit Roy, managing director and CEO of Berger Paints. “As of now the plan is in the drawing board stage. Once we get the land transferred, we will start thinking about investment. We will make some construction chemical products. We were originally thinking of Rishra but once we will have this land, we will set up the entire construction chemical range at this location (Panagarh),” said Roy. According to sources, its proximity to Durgapur expressway and approved clearances for red category industries were among the reasons Berger chose Panagarh. These two projects apart, the vote-on-account disclosed a Rs 150 crore investment to upgrade Andal airport to international standards in two years and a Rs 100 crore allocation to develop an industrial park in Raghunathpur, Purulia. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee again iterated the state’s focus to develop the Tajpur port, Deocha Pachami coal block, Silicon Valley hub and financial hub at Rajarhat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-209
