07-02-2021||West Bengal||Ahead of Bengal polls, PM Modi warns Mamata of ‘Ram Card’||On Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while addressing his first public rally ahead of West Bengal’s assembly polls, accused Mamata Banerjee government, of “criminalised politics, institutionalised corruption and politicised the police”. He maintained that instead of ‘mamta’ (affection) people suffered ‘nirmamta’ (cruelty) under her rule. Confident about forming the next Bengal government, he said “Bengal loves football. Speaking in that language TMC has committed several fouls in the last 10 years and the time has come to show it the ‘Ram Card’ in the assembly elections”. Cautioning people about “match-fixing” between the TMC, Congress and the Left, Modi said only a BJP government can free the state of “misgovernance” and bring about a “real change” in their lives as was being experienced in Tripura. He assailed the West Bengal government for not implementing central schemes like Ayushman Bharat and PM Kisan Samman Nidhi in the state, and asserted that once the BJP formed its government it will take a decision at the very first cabinet meeting to execute all such stalled programmes. “Bengal expected ‘mamta’ (affection) from Mamata Banerjee but got ‘nirmamta’ (cruelty) in the last 10 years. The TMC government is just a rebirth of the misrule of the Left Front government in the state, rebirth of corruption, of crime and criminals, of violence and attack on democracy,: he alleged. Mocking Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for getting angry over slogans of ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’, Modi wondered why she remained silent when conspiracies were hatched to malign the country. “She gets angry when she hears slogans hailing the motherland. She gets angry when you demand your rights. But she remains silent when conspiracies are hatched to malign the nation,” he said. Modi was referring to Banerjee’s refusal to deliver her speech at a function to mark the 125th birthday of West Bengal's legendary freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at Kolkata's Victoria Memorial after Jai Shri Ram slogans greeted her. “There are some conspirators who're trying to destroy India’s image associated with tea and yoga-- made famous by iconic Indians-- across the world. Has Didi spoken anything about these conspirators? The country will respond to such conspiracies with all the force at its command,” he said. He was apparently referring to Swedish environmentalist Greta Thunberg’s controversial ‘toolkit’, which she tweeted and then deleted, outlining ways in which people can participate in the farmers protest. One of the points reportedly mentioned there was to “disrupt yoga and chai image of India in general”. Referring to the game of football, a hugely popular sport in Bengal, Modi said that the people of the state are ready to show “Ram Card” to TMC now. “Bengal is a state that loves football. In football parlance, I want to say that the TMC government has committed many fouls. From corruption, misgovernance, extortion, to attack on opposition workers. The people are ready to show them the Ram card,” he said. “The people of Bengal will bid Ram-Ram to TMC and chant Jai Shri Ram to welcome the BJP,” he said, adding Trinamool Congress leaders and workers wanting to work for the country were quitting the state's ruling party and joining the saffron camp. Lashing out at “dynasty politics” in the TMC, Modi said the people of Bengal have decided to end “Bua-Bhatijawad” rule in the state, without naming TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee and nephew Abhishek. Modi assailed the TMC government for not implementing various central schemes in the state. “Under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, over 10 crore small farmers have received Rs 1.15 lakh crore in their accounts. But farmers of Bengal could not because the state did not implement it. Now that the farmers have made up their mind to teach Mamata Didi a lesson, the state government has grudgingly agreed to join the scheme,” he said. He claimed while more than 25 lakh farmers in the state applied online to join the scheme, the names of only 6,000 were forwarded to the Centre. “Are farmers enemies of Mamata Didi?” he asked. Accusing the TMC government of siphoning off central funds and aid sent by the Centre in the aftermath of the destruction caused by cyclone Amphan, he alleged it found “avenues for corruption even during tragedy. There cannot be a bigger crime than this”. The prime minister claimed foodgrains and other aid sent by the Centre during the COVID-induced lockdown did not reach the beneficiaries. He recalled how the Calcutta High Court had to intervene and order an audit of relief funds by the CAG. Modi alleged the Left Front, Congress and Trinamool Congress were playing a fixed political match in the state. “You should be wary of the hidden friends of the TMC. The Left Front, Congress and the TMC are together in Delhi to fix their political agenda and are engaging in a shadow fight in Bengal. In Kerala, the Left and the Congress are doing the same thing having decided to loot people alternately for five years,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-207
07-02-2021||West Bengal||TMC calls out BJP over claims of boosting rail projects in Bengal ||The TMC on Sunday lashed out at the BJP over its assertion that it has allocated the highest-ever funds for railway works in Bengal, and claimed the state has been deprived of funds for years and multiple rail projects shelved. The allocation of Rs 6,636 crore to poll-bound Bengal is the highest-ever funds earmarked for the state in the history of Indian Railways, minister Piyush Goyal had said soon after the Union Budget was announced, blaming successive state governments for the delay in rail projects in the state. Taking to Twitter, TMC MP and national spokesperson Derek O'Brien said, "In election season, BJP's tourist gang are touting 'record Railway allocation' for Bengal. The truth is, multiple rail projects have been shelved in Bengal and funding choked all these years." Posting two documents, O'Brien has highlighted "How Bengal has been deprived of Railways funds for years." In the document, the Rajya Sabha MP has highlighted how over one dozen rail factories across Bengal, initiated by Mamata Banerjee when she was the Minister of Railways, have received only a token financial allocation this year. "The new rail coach manufacturing unit at Kanchrapara had been allocated Rs 74 lakh in the last budget. This year the allocation is just Rs 1,000. (One thousand rupees, not a typo!)," he said. He further said in Budget 2020 the Centre shelved 20 new connectivity ventures and 10 upgradation projects launched by Banerjee as Minister of Railways, especially in rural Bengal. "In Budget 2019 the Sealdah Coach Repair Factory - One thousand rupees Rail Museum in Bolpur - One thousand rupees! Coach Washing Workshop in Howrah - One thousand rupees!The list goes on," he said. Accusing the BJP of only focussing on states in the election year, he said that from 2016-17 to 2020-21, no new lines in Railways were announced in South-Eastern Railways, let alone Bengal. In 2020-21, four new projects were announced for SER but all of them went to Odisha and not Bengal. Banerjee had inaugurated the East-West metro corridor as the Rail Minister. "The BJP government has allocated funds very slowly for it since 2014. Kolkata Metro received an outlay of Rs 850 crore for 2019-20 which came down to Rs 750 crore in 2020-21. Come election year and this outlay is Rs 1330 crore, " he said. O'Brien also alleged that BJP states benefitted at the expense of the rest of India, citing two examples of the bullet train project and the broad gauge like in Surendranagar in Rajkot. He also highlighted how in Budget 2020-21, Rs 980 crore was sanctioned for the National Railway University in Gujarat. The Railway minister has said that there is no shortage of funds for the state and blamed the political dispensations for the delay in execution of works. Bengal has 53 ongoing projects including new lines, gauge conversion, doubling projects costing Rs 48,275 crore for 4,463 km. "The allocation for Bengal is the highest-ever in the history of Indian Railways. It is 2.5 times the average amount allocated between Budget 2009-2014 and 26 per cent more than last year," he had said while addressing a press briefing recently. "Projects there remain incomplete or are delayed because the state governments - first it was the Left front government and now the TMC-- have been unable to provide land to us. Projects which are 45 year old are pending in the state. I appeal to Mamata didi to expedite the process and give us land," he had said. Goyal said that due to non-availability of land, as many as 34 projects in the state have received only token allotment in the budget 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-207
07-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata likely to skip Modi’s event at Haldia to inaugurate projects||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is unlikely to attend Prime Minister Narendra Modi's scheduled programme at Haldia in Purba Medinipore district on Sunday evening, a top official at the state secretariat said. The exact reason for this uncertainty has not been specified, but the "insult meted out to her" on January 23, when Jai Shri Ram' slogans were raised at an event just before her speech, could be the cause, he said. Modi is set to inaugurate four projects in Haldia in oil, gas, and infrastructure sectors. “Tomorrow evening, I will be in Haldia, West Bengal. At a programme there, will dedicate to the nation the LPG import terminal built by BPCL. Will also dedicate to the .nation Dobhi–Durgapur Natural Gas Pipeline section of the Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga project,” Modi said in a tweet on Saturday "Madam (CM) is unlikely to attend this evening's programme at Haldia where PM Modi will be inaugurating projects," the official told PTI. The TMC boss has also asked her party members to skip the programme, he added. Mamata had on January 23 refused to deliver her speech at an event on the occasion of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's 125th birth anniversary, after a section of the audience raised 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans in the presence of the prime minister. She had said that such "insult was unacceptable". Sources in the Raj Bhavan said Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar is scheduled to attend Sunday's event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-207
07-02-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee levels charges against turncoat Suvendu ||Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee levelled a volley of charges against party turncoat-turned BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari at a well-attended rally in East Midnapore’s Contai on Saturday. In a scathing attack, Abhishek suggested that the “answers to the Saradha and Rose Valley” deposit collection scams lay at Shanti Kunj, which is the family residence of the Adhikaris. Abhishek’s 29-minute tirade was aimed almost solely at Suvendu, reviving the sensitive deposit-collection discourse at a time the district is set to witness a keen contest between Trinamul and the BJP with chief minister Mamata Banerjee deciding to contest from Nandigram. Suvendu, before his resignation, had been the Nandigram MLA. “The Enforcement Directorate cannot be relied upon. The court cases (in deposit collection cases) are still ongoing, and they will continue for a long time,” said Abhishek, rallying the crowd at Doisai village near Contai. “If those of you who were wronged ever want to see your money again, you must surround that traitor’s home so that he cannot leave,” the Diamond Harbour MP added. Abhishek held the rally in Contai more than six years since his last meeting in the district when on January 4, 2015, he was slapped in the face by a purported supporter of the Adhikari clan. Starting mid-December, Suvendu’s rallies have also been rife with monikers of “extortionist nephew”. “I reiterate that Sudipta Sen (chief of the Saradha group of companies) testified in a letter from prison that he had given Suvendu Rs 6 crore... The day Sen absconded to Kashmir, Suvendu had gone to his office the previous night... Now he wants to be with the central powers so he can steal more easily,” Abhishek said. Towards the end of his speech, Abhishek exhorted the 25,000-strong crowd with rhetoric aimed against Suvendu. “Just like we gave birth to the land agitations in 2007, so we must evict the traitor from the same land. Will or will you not beat him out with a broom,” he urged the crowd to reply, adding “louder, so that Shanti Kunj trembles”. As an aside, he said Trinamul would win by “over 150 seats” and “Mamata Banerjee will be chief minister again”. BJP district president Anup Chakraborty said “people would respond” to “Abhishek’s insults aimed at their leader”. “Trinamul’s downfall is imminent,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-207
07-02-2021||West Bengal||Assembly elections: Kurmis set up poll test for BJP ||The Kurmi community, which makes up a big part of the Jungle Mahal population, has thrown a dare at the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls, asking the party to ensure that the Centre approves the community’s re-inclusion in the Scheduled Tribe (ST) category. Leaders of the community have pointed out that the Trinamul-led state government had sent its proposal to that effect to the Narendra Modi government last month. Leaders of the community said that the Kurmis, who account for around 50 lakh of Bengal’s population and play a decisive role in the outcome of some 35 Assembly constituencies in the four Jungle Mahal districts, had been registered under the Scheduled Tribe category till 1931, but dropped from the list after Independence for “unknown reasons”. The community was later included in the list of Other Backward Classes, but has long been demanding its re-inclusion in the ST category. Addressing this emotive issue, chief minister Mamata Banerjee met a top leader of the community during her visit to Purulia on January 20 and said that the state government would soon send a letter to fulfil their demand. Shortly afterwards, the state government had sent a written request to the Centre. “Our chief minister did what she promised. Now, we want to see if the BJP-run Centre approves the proposal and takes necessary steps in Parliament. They should not forget that the Kurmis played a major role in the victory of the BJP in Jungle Mahal in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. We are not a political organisation but we have the right to support the party that will help fulfil our demand,” said Ajit Prasad Mahato, chief advisor of the Adivasi Kurmi Samaj. A Trinamul insider said in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls most Kurmi votes had shifted from Trinamul to help the BJP bag five of six Lok Sabha seats in the Jungle Mahal districts of Purulia, Jhargram, Bankura and West Midnapore. Any shift in Kurmi votes now will impact the BJP’s chances to win in Bengal and Mamata’s letter to the Centre “has turned the tables on us”, admitted a tribal leader of the saffron camp in Bankura. BJP MP from Purulia Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato, who is a member of the Kurmi community, called Mamata’s role a “political gimmick”. “Interestingly, she did not pass the proposal in the Assembly and has only sent a letter to the Centre. The Centre can approve it only if the proposal is passed in the Assembly,” he said. However, chief advisor of the Adivasi Kurmi Samaj Ajit Prasad did not agree. “There is no need for the Assembly to adopt the proposal as it is for Parliament to pass it. We want to see what our MP does to get us re-included under the ST category.” The Kurmis, however, are wary about the outcome of the state government’s efforts. A similar bid to re-include them in the ST category had failed in 2017 when Mamata had written to then Union minister for tribal affairs Jual Oram, but the Centre had asked the state to resend the application with further comments and had said the office of the registrar of general of India did not support the proposal. The Kurmi community on Saturday sent a warning signal to the BJP about their discontent with the saffron camp when its members blocked roads at many places demanding the repeal of the three contentious farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-207
07-02-2021||West Bengal||Chakka jam: Farmers block national and state highways at 213 points in Bengal ||Farmers affiliated to the CPM-backed All India Kisan Sabha, along with Congress workers, blocked national and state highways at 213 points in Bengal on Saturday in solidarity with the nationwide chakka jam call given by peasant unions protesting against the three contentious farm laws on Delhi borders. “We staged road blockades at 73 points on national highways and at 140 points on state highways across Bengal. The road blockades continued for an hour across the state. The farmers want repeal of the three farm laws but the Narendra Modi government has remained insensitive,” said Amal Haldar, state secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha. In East Burdwan’s Nawabhat, farmers, led by Haldar, blocked the NH-2 (Durgapur Expressway) for over an hour with senior leaders of the Kisan Sabha speaking on how the farm laws would benefit corporates at the cost of farmers and the farm sector. “In East Burdwan, we had blocked around a dozen points and farmers had gathered in large numbers at Nawabhat to extend their support,” said Apurba Chatterjee, a CPM district secretariat member in East Burdwan. Trinamul leaders and ministers Sujit Bose and Swapan Debnath, who were on their way to a government event in East Burdwan, were briefly stranded in the blockade at Nawabhat. Kisan Sabha members blocked vehicles of the ministers and raised slogans against farm laws. Bose told reporters that they also wanted a repeal of the farm laws but the movement must go beyond road blockades. In Birbhum, supporters of the Left and Congress blocked roads at 22 points. Many farmers gathered in Rampurhat, Suri and Bolpur. In Bolpur’s Shibpur, where the state government is setting up Biswa Bangla University and Gitabitan housing project, farmers blocked the state highway demanding the return of their land that had been originally acquired for industrialisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-207
07-02-2021||West Bengal||Adhir slams TMC for failing to harness tourism potential of Darjeeling and north Bengal||Congress leaders of Darjeeling tested waters in and around Siliguri with a rally to protest Centre’s new farm laws and held a public meeting at Baghajatin Park on Saturday. The Congress, which allied with the Left for the state polls, could bring in around 5,000 supporters to the rally led by PCC president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, district chief Sankar Malakar and others. Adhir slammed the Trinamul-led state government for failing to harness the tourism potential of Darjeeling and north Bengal and create jobs for residents. He also questioned Morcha leader Bimal Gurung’s recent U-turn from the BJP to Trinamul. “He (Gurung) was earlier hounded by the state government and accused of perpetrating violence. But now, things have changed and he has bowed down before the chief minister. This politics is unacceptable,” said Adhir. It was during the Congress tenure at the Centre that the issue of Darjeeling was resolved through talks both in the 1980s and in 2012 (when the DGHC and the GTA were formed), he pointed out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-208
07-02-2021||West Bengal||State forest department officials seize 1,500 softshell turtles||State forest department officials seized 1,500 softshell turtles from a van on Saturday morning. Four persons suspected of smuggling the turtles — brought from Uttar Pradesh in sacks and hidden under vegetables  — were arrested. Held with lakhs Dilip Agarwal, a prominent  businessman of Siliguri, was intercepted  by CISF personnel  at Bagdogra Airport on Saturday, with Rs 40 lakh in cash. The CISF informed income tax  officers who also went to the airport. Sources said Agarwal could not clarify why he was carrying the cash.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-208
07-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal logs 197 new infections and one death||Bengal on Saturday logged 293 Covid-19 recoveries, 197 new infections and one death, resulting in a dip in total active cases for the 103rd day on the trot since Vijaya Dashami on October 26 last year. A minister said this was the first instance after April 2020 of not a single Covid death being reported from Calcutta in the 24-hour window. “From a daily toll of 50-plus barely two months ago, including 20-plus in Calcutta, it is now lowered to less than five daily, with just one or two from the city. But Saturday’s figure of just one, with none from Calcutta, is quite an achievement,” said the minister. The state’s total active cases, which were 37,190 on Dashami, now number 4,895. Bengal’s recovery rate has risen for 106 consecutive days to touch 97.36 per cent now. The national figure is 97.19. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.03 per cent, having fallen steadily for 78 days. On Saturday, the state reported 24,011 tests, taking the total past 81.28 lakh, at 90,315 tests per million people. Of the total Covid-19 toll of 10,202, the state attributed 8,569 deaths (84 per cent) to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate stayed at 1.78, while the national rate remained 1.43 per cent. “With the drastic fall in deaths, mortality rate would have come down sharply, but it hasn’t happened as the daily number of infections has nosedived...We aren’t complaining as both are huge positives,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-208
07-02-2021||West Bengal||Event to commemorate 50th year of Sheikh Mujibur Rahaman’s historic address at Brigade Parade Grounds ||The information ministry in Bangladesh and its deputy high commission in Calcutta organised an event on Saturday to commemorate the 50th year of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahaman’s historic address at the Brigade Parade Grounds on February 6, 1972. That event, immediately after Bangladesh’s independence, had also been attended by then Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. Hasan Mahmud, information minister in the Bangladesh government, presided over the event in the afternoon. “As far as I know, the rally was attended by over 15 lakh people... Their cheer for our leader Bangabandhu marked the country’s victory celebrations,” he said. Subrata Mukherjee, the panchayat minister in the Mamata Banerjee cabinet, in his speech, recalled his memories of that meeting. “Bangabandhu was very dear to the people of Bengal...That day, the Brigade was full (packed with crowds) by 1pm. Bangabandhu turned up at the venue around 3pm with Mrs Indira Gandhi. I think it was the biggest rally ever at the venue,” Mukherjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-208
07-02-2021||West Bengal||Assembly polls: J.P. Nadda promises to bring change in Bengal||BJP national president J.P. Nadda kicked off the first leg of his party’s ambitious Parivartan Yatra from Nabadwip in Nadia district on Saturday with the promise of bringing a change in Bengal in the upcoming Assembly polls. At a rally in the Vaishnab hub of Nabadwip at the launch of the yatra, which in five phases will cover all 294 Assembly segments, Nadda said change was imminent as people had suffered under Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamul regime. “Ten years ago Mamatadi formed a government promising change and to protect Maa Mati Manush. But eventually, Maa was looted, Mati was disrespected and people suffered heavily,” he added. Nadda said people of Bengal were deprived of the benefits from central schemes because of the “chief minister’s ego”. “Nearly 23 lakh farmers have submitted applications to avail the benefits of the PM Kisan Samman (Nidhi) scheme. But Mamata didi stopped the verification of their applications only because of her ego...” he alleged. “Prime Minister Modiji has been trying to provide everything to the people of Bengal. But she does not want it...She has renamed the Nirmal Bharat Abhiyan as Nirmal Bangla, launched the Bangla Gram Sadak Yojana renaming the Pradhan Mantri Sadak Yojana,” Nadda said, accusing Mamata of preferring politics over development. Claiming that the BJP would form the next government in Bengal, Nadda said all the central schemes would be implemented after May this year. “Nothing can prevent the BJP from forming the next government... I can see people in Bengal have made up their minds to end the rule of Mamata and her bhaipo (nephew Abhishek),” he said. Stopping at Malda, the BJP national president tried to reach out to farmers and mango growers of the district and played the polarisation card. He attended a public meeting in Old Malda, joined in a group-lunch with farmers, and later in the day, participated in a roadshow in Malda town. Throughout his visit, Nadda tried to drive home the point that if his party was voted to power in Bengal, farmers and mango growers of the district would get more benefits from both central and state governments. At the road show, Nadda played the polarisation card and referred to the chief minister’s protests over the “Jai Shri Ram” slogan on Victoria Memorial premises in Calcutta on January 23. “As I moved through Malda, I heard the chant time and again. It is difficult to understand why Mamata Banerjee has a problem with it,” he said. Amit Shah visit Bongaon MP and chief of the All India Matua Mahasangha Shantanu Thakur on Saturday said Union home minister Amit Shah would visit Thakurnagar, the headquarters of the Mahasangha, on February 11. Shah’s visit assumes importance as the parliamentary committee on subordinate legislation has recently granted the ministry of home affairs an extension till April 9 to frame CAA rules. The development has caused heartburn among a section of the Matuas — Hindu immigrants from Bangladesh — who had been demanding immediate implementation of CAA in Bengal. “Amit Shah will address a public rally on February 11. He will hold the rally on the same stage set up for the meeting that was cancelled last time,” Thakur told the media. On December 19, Shah replaced Thakurnagar with Midnapore in his itinerary as Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari switched to BJP. On January 30, Shah cancelled a trip to Thakurnagar in the wake of the explosions near the Israelo embassy in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-208
