08-02-2021||West Bengal||Soumen Mitra takes charge as new Calcutta police commissioner||Describing the Calcutta Police as one of the best forces in India, Soumen Mitra, after taking over as the city's new commissioner said on Monday that he was hopeful the law enforcers, with their "professionalism", will be able to ensure assembly polls are conducted smoothly. The 1988-batch IPS officer said that he will do "everything possible to ensure the city is safe and its citizens are able to exercise their franchise safely". "All elections are challenging... With the kind of professionalism the Calcutta Police has always shown, we will be able to conduct (the elections) well. "I have joined today, and will do everything to keep our city safe so that citizens are able to exercise their franchise without fear," Mitra told reporters at the Calcutta Police headquarters in Lalbazar. He was greeted by the outgoing commissioner Anuj Sharma, who has been shifted to the state CID as the new additional director-general of police. Incidentally, this is Mitra's second stint as the city's commissioner of police (CP). In 2016, he was appointed to the post by the Election Commission, replacing the then top cop Rajeev Kumar. Mitra, however, was removed from the post by the TMC government after the assembly elections, and Kumar was reinstated. "(We have) a team of very good officers. I am happy to be here again for the second time. The Calcutta Police is one of the best forces in the country," he said. Asked which areas are in need of immediate focus, Mitra said, "I will work to empower the force further through training. Better service will be provided to our citizens, to the elderly, to the weaker sections, to women, to children. Preserving the environment is also a priority. We will see to it that charge sheets are filed quickly." The top officer also stressed the need to pay attention to the "changing nature of the crime", and said unlawful activities on cyberspace are on the rise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-205
08-02-2021||India||2.5 lakh Bengal farmer names sent to Centre for PM Kisan scheme: Mamata||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi slammed the TMC dispensation for not implementing central schemes in West Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday told the Assembly that her government has sent to the Centre names of 2.5 lakh farmers who are eligible for benefits under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. She sought to know why the Union government has not disbursed any cash benefit to the beneficiaries as yet. Banerjee told the House that the state government had received a list of six lakh applicants from the Centre for verification, of which 2.5 lakh names have been sent to the Centre for financial assistance under the central welfare programme. She also said that her government would float 19 industrial projects in the state, entailing an investment of Rs 72,200 crore, and create 3.29 lakh employment opportunities. The CM was responding to questions raised by the members of the House during a debate on a vote-on-account that she had presented on February 5. With state elections round the corner, Banerjee had presented a vote-on-account for Rs 2.99 lakh crore in the Assembly and made a slew of announcements, including a hike in the annual aid of farmers. The chief minister has increased the annual financial assistance, under the state government's 'Krishak Bandhu' scheme, to Rs 6,000 from Rs 5,000, keeping in mind the interest of farmers. She said that benefits of the central scheme should be made available to the sharecroppers, along with support provided by the state to all cultivators, irrespective of their landholdings. Under the PM Kisan scheme, Rs 6,000 per year in three equal instalments is provided to small and marginal farmer families having a combined landholding of up to two hectares. Addressing a rally in Haldia on Sunday, the prime minister had assailed the state government for not implementing central schemes like Ayushman Bharat and PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. He asserted that once the BJP forms its government in the state, it will take steps to implement all such stalled programmes at the very first cabinet meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-206
08-02-2021||West Bengal||Modi lists agenda of BJP’s first cabinet meeting in Bengal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday listed the agenda of the BJP government’s first cabinet meeting in Bengal after the Assembly elections. “You (the people of Bengal) have decided to bring the BJP to power after these polls…. We will implement all farmer-related central projects in our first cabinet meeting,” Modi said. He said a resolution would be adopted to execute all central schemes that people of Bengal had been deprived of allegedly because of the Mamata Banerjee government’s unwillingness to implement them in the state. Sticking to the BJP narrative set by Union home minister Amit Shah that the saffron party would sweep Bengal polls with over 200 seats, Modi promised that the Centre would ensure arrears of the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, a minimum income support for farmers, were paid to the state’s farmers. This announcement holds political significance at a time the Centre is in a bind on how to end the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three contentious farm laws supported by the Opposition, including Trinamul. In a bid to turn the tables on Mamata, who pledged her support to the farmers’ movement, Modi tried to project her as anti-farmer. “Over 25 lakh farmers from Bengal have applied for the PM Kisan Nidhi. After declining to be part of the scheme for months, the government sent a letter informing its decision to be part of the project... But, the Bengal government has been able to identify only 6,000 farmers in so many years,” Modi said, accusing the state government of not cooperating with the Centre. “The Union government is not being able to pay even these 6,000 farmers either, as the state has not sent the bank details of the state agency. This is how they are delaying (the process),” he added. The Prime Minister also referred to the state government's unwillingness to be part of the Ayushman Bharat scheme, a Rs 5 lakh medical insurance scheme of the Centre. Multiple BJP sources said that the reference to the central insurance scheme was to try and to prevent the Mamata government from deriving brownie points from the state’s Swasthya Sathi health scheme that has created excitement in Bengal. Modi accused the state government of not implementing the Centre’s one nation, one ration card system. The state government has not implemented the seventh pay commission either, said Modi. After holding forth on how the Mamata government denied people their rightful entitlements, Modi launched a new angle of attack. “In Bengal, if you ask Didi about your rights she gets frustrated. She even gets angry if slogans of Bharat Mata ki Jai are raised. But she never gets angry with people who speak against the country and spew poison,” he said. “You must have seen the news of international conspiracies to defame India...The conspirators are so keen to defame India that they are even attacking India’s identity as a tea-producing country. This is a conspiracy to attack the hard work of tea workers. Yoga, which is an Indian tradition...given to the world by stalwarts like (Sri) Aurobindo and (Swami) Vivekananda, is also under attack...But have you ever heard Didi utter a sentence against these conspiracies and conspirators?” he added. The Bengal polls, likely to be held in multiple phases, are still around two months away as the Election Commission of India is yet to announce the poll schedule, and around 35 days are mandatory to allow political parties to campaign for the hustings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-206
08-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul says Modi is in the dark ||The Trinamul Congress returned fire on Sunday evening, responding sternly to Narendra Modi’s political attacks against Mamata Banerjee and her government, while the Left and the Congress asked him to produce proof to buttress his allegation that they had a secret understanding with the ruling party in Bengal. “First of all, Narendra Modi knows nothing, he is awgyo (uninformed). Second, he is calling Mamata nirmawm (cruel)? He is a nawradhawm (sub-human)…. Farmers have been peacefully agitating for over 70 days under the open sky in harsh winter conditions. He never even bothered to speak to them. Who is nirmawm here?” asked Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy. Roy called the Prime Minister out on the “lie” of Mamata supposedly losing her cool at “Bharat Mata Ki Jai (Victory to Mother India)” slogans.  In his speech, Modi tried to attack Mamata over her alleged anti-national leanings, launching into an abstruse conspiracy theory on the alleged mega international ploy to defame India. “Again, an outright lie. Mamata does not lose her temper at Bharat Mata slogans,” said Roy. “But if somebody raises a politico-religious slogan — “Jai Shri Ram” — at a central government event to honour Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose (at Victoria Memorial on January 23), her anger at that is justified.” “About that conspiracy theory… it is typical of communal forces. Whenever they feel cornered, they claim the entire nation is being conspired against, targeted…. There is no conspiracy at play,” he added. The Left and the Congress took umbrage at the “fixing” accusation. “They say that the Left is non-existent…. Then why is he worried about the Left,” said Left legislature party leader Sujan Chakraborty before adding that the “real fixing” was between the BJP and Trinamul. “I am challenging him.... He is the Prime MInister and is not expected to say what any common man sitting in a tea stall would say. I challenge him to produce proof of what he accused,” he said. Leader of the Opposition Abdul Mannan, a Congress veteran, said: “It is common knowledge that Trinamul was birthed and raised by the BJP.” “What the Prime Minister alleged only exposed the reality of the Congress-Left alliance becoming the real, credible alternative here,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-206
08-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal blamed for hurdle to Calcutta rally||Tribal community members from Purulia and Bankura districts on Sunday blocked roads in at least half a dozen locations to allege that the state transport department had not given them the required number of buses to reach a rally in Calcutta. Protesters slated to reach the rally to demand the codification of a tribal religion — Sari Dharam — for the 2021 census claimed that less than half the 795 buses they had requisitioned in advance for the event were given to them from Saturday night onwards. “State government sources claimed that most buses had to be sent for the Prime Minister’s Haldia rally, but we do not believe them. This was sheer negligence (on their part),” said one protester. Sunday’s rally was organised by the Sari Dharam Code Committee, a congregation of more than 17 tribal forums, and coincided with Modi’s visit to Haldia. “We started waiting for the buses from Saturday night, but after more than half a day of waiting and sleeping in the cold, only 350 buses came,” said Shib Shankar Soren, a member of the code committee. “There was major miscommunication on the part of the transport department, which did not inform us about their inability (to provide the required number of buses). Else, we would have arranged alternative transportation.” Protesters blocked roads across Bankura and Purulia, the largest ones being at Raipur and Raniband, till Sunday evening to protest this “neglect” and “harassment”. “It was sheer harassment for our supporters,” said Sangiri Hembram, a tribal leader from Bankura. State transport department officials, however, said they were not aware of “advance requisitions” claimed by tribal leaders. “We have no such record,” said a senior transport department official. An official looking into the booking of buses for the North Bengal State Transport Corporation denied having knowledge of any such communication. State education minister Partha Chatterjee, who attended the Calcutta rally, assured the attendees of “being with the tribal community”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-206
08-02-2021||West Bengal||Five Covid deaths in Bengal, one from Calcutta||Bengal on Sunday logged 289 Covid-19 recoveries, 193 new infections and five deaths, including one from Calcutta. With this, the state’s streak of falling total active cases stayed unbroken for the 104th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, 2020. From 37,190 active cases then, the number is 4,794 now, back almost to where it was on June 8 last year, 244 days ago. “Bengal now has 3.28 per cent of the national total of active cases. It was nearly 8 per cent even a couple of months ago,” said a minister. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for 107 consecutive days to touch 97.37 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.17. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.01 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 79 days. On Sunday, the state reported 22,365 tests, taking the total past 81.5 lakh, at 90,564 tests per million people. Of Bengal’s total Covid toll of 10,207, the state attributed 8,572 deaths or 84 per cent to comorbidities. The state’s mortality rate stayed at 1.78 per cent while the national rate remained 1.43 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-206
08-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul expels union leader for dry port violence||Trinamul leaders of Darjeeling district on Sunday expelled Prasenjit Roy, the INTTUC leader accused of leading the vandalism at the dry port or the inland container depot (ICD) in New Jalpaiguri last week, from the party and its trade union. Speaking in the presence of state tourism minister Ranjan Sarkar, the Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul president, said: “It was an undesirable incident. The chief minister has taken serious exception to it and our party has decided to expel him. From now on, Prasenjit Roy won’t have any connection with Trinamul.” Arup Ratan Ghosh, the Darjeeling district INTTUC president, added that Roy — who was the INTTUC president of the New Jalpaiguri unit — was expelled. An eight-member committee has been formed to look into the affairs of the party’s trade union in the area, Ghosh added. “Senior district leaders will monitor the trade union’s activities in NJP. We always work for the interests of workers but there is no place for violence,” added minister Deb. The ICD is located in the Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly constituency of which Deb is the MLA. Last Thursday, a group of around 300 supporters of Trinamul’s trade union front INTTUC, led by Roy, had barged into the ICD — a one-of-its-kind facility in north Bengal — and indiscriminately ransacked the offices of a private company that runs the ICD, along with vehicles and equipment, and damaged an office of the customs department on the premises. INTTUC supporters were apparently angry that the Delhi firm running the ICD was not hiring local truck owners, drivers and workers. The vandalism occurred when chief minister Mamata Banerjee was in Siliguri. Many among the business community, including trade outfit members, pointed out that such incidents would discourage fresh investments in Bengal. Acting promptly, the state government instructed the police to take all necessary steps against perpetrators of the violence. So far, 13 persons have been arrested. Roy is still at large. A Trinamul leader said that the party has decided on a strict stand against troublemakers, including decisions like expulsion. “This is necessary as elections are ahead and there is always a chance that our political rivals will try to rake up the issue.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-206
08-02-2021||West Bengal||Modi seeks to avert split in anti-Trinamul votes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the Trinamul Congress had a secret understanding with the Left Front and the Congress and urged voters to be aware of their match-fixing. Modi raised the allegation at a public meeting in Haldia, his first rally in Bengal before the Assembly polls. “You will have to fight against Trinamul, but also will have to be aware of their secret friends…. People of Bengal enjoy football and so I am using a term often used in the game to make you understand the match fixing among Trinamul and the Left and the Congress,” said Modi, who attended a government programme later and inaugurated four projects in oil, gas and infrastructure sectors in Haldia. In an attempt to connect with the audience — BJP sources said more than two lakh people had turned up for the programme — he started his speech in Bengali and hailed the contribution of icons from Midnapore in the progress of the state and the country. Although he spoke about local heroes and the BJP’s respect for them in detail, the focus of the Prime Minister’s speech was political as he went on to explain that Trinamul, Left and Congress leaders were having meetings behind closed-doors in Delhi and added that their fight in Bengal was a fake one. “In Kerala, the Left and the Congress have a deal, wherein they allow each other to carry out loot for five years…. If you vote for them, remember that you’ll be falling for the trap they have laid,” said Modi in his 53-minute address that was clearly aimed at spinning the campaign narrative for the BJP. For the BJP, which got over 40 per cent votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, consolidation of the anti-Trinamul votes is a necessary condition to fulfil its objective of wresting the seat of power in Bengal. A poll strategist in the BJP said the mention of the secret understanding among the anti-BJP forces had become a need of the hour in view of the changing political landscape in the state because of the induction of several Trinamul leaders into the saffron camp. “A large section of people who had voted for us in the Lok Sabha polls were anti-Trinamul voters, especially from the Left… Now, with so many Trinamul leaders coming to our side, some of these votes may go back to the Left. We have to prevent that split in anti-Trinamul votes and that’s why the PM referred to their secret understanding,” he said. Aware that there were questions on why Trinamul turncoats were getting inducted into the BJP, Modi also created a narrative for state Bengal leaders. “A lot of people in Trinamul are fed up with the Bua-Bhatija-bad (regime of the aunt and nephew, meaning Mamata Banerjee and Abhishek Banerjee) and coming to us… They are welcome because they want to work for the poor people of Bengal and ensure the progress of the state,” he said. Modi narrated Bengal’s political history since Independence and tried to explain how the Congress, then the Left and finally Trinamul were responsible for the state remaining “laggard”. “People voted Didi with the hope of a change, but what Bengal got was not change, but a reincarnation of the Left along with interest,” said Modi, who repeatedly stressed that Bengal couldn’t develop because of the “nature of politics” pursued by the three forces that ruled Bengal. “When people grab property under government patronage, when killings take place openly on roads, when government vacancies are filled by party cadres, how would the ordinary youths get their livelihood?” asked Modi. In his first appearance in campaign mode, the Prime Minister said a double engine — with BJP governments both in Delhi and Calcutta — would set the state again on the path of development. “Only the BJP can bring the real change in Bengal,” said Modi as he tried to project the differences between the saffron party and the other political forces in Bengal. In an attempt to sell the BJP’s development track record, Modi cited Tripura, where the party had come to power in 2018 unseating the Left Front. “Look at your neighbour Tripura to understand what parivartan truly means,” Modi said. The present state of Tripura has become a topic of discussion in the state after former Tripura chief minister Manik Sarkar asked people of Bengal to visit his state to see for themselves how the BJP had ruined the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-206
08-02-2021||West Bengal||Popular Haldibari-NJP train back, but fare higher||Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) has decided to resume the services of the passenger train between Haldibari and New Jalpaiguri (NJP) from Monday for the first time after the lockdown, evoking mixed response among thousands who commute daily between Siliguri and Jalpaiguri. From Monday, the railways have decided to charge a flat fare of Rs 35 for any destination on the 70km route. Earlier, the fare between Haldibari and NJP stations was Rs 15. The fare between Jalpaiguri and NJP was Rs 10. Reservation has been made mandatory for passengers, Earlier, the Haldibari-NJP passenger ran four times a day from both ends daily. Now, it will run twice from both ends (NJP and Haldibari) in a day as a special train. The railways had stopped the train in the wake of the  pandemic but the clamour for resumption of the service had grown louder in recent days. The railways agreed, but with new terms. Bikash Das, working president of Jalpaiguri District Chamber of Commerce, pointed out the difference in fares. “From Jalpaiguri to NJP, the old fare was Rs 10, and now it will be Rs  35 which we believe is an extra burden for many poor passengers. Also, reservation is now mandatory. Those who can’t get a confirmed reservation can’t board the train,” Das said. He added they wanted “the train to run like a local train”. “Why should a passenger have to pay flat and high fares? Also, it is illogical to make reservations mandatory for short trips. If the railway does not revoke the decision, we will be forced to launch a movement,” added Das. An official of NFR said the fare was hiked because of the reservation charge. “Reservation is compulsory because of the Covid-19 situation. Chair car coaches would be provided in the train,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-206
08-02-2021||West Bengal||New clinic for post-Covid ailments in Siliguri||The patient welfare committee of Siliguri District Hospital has drawn up a plan to open a clinic at the hospital soon to provide services to those afflicted with post-Covid-19 complications. Rudranath Bhattacharya, the chairperson of the committee, said they decided at a meeting on Friday to open the clinic to provide “prompt services” to all those who contracted the infection and were now suffering from various post-Covid complications. “It will be an outdoor facility where patients can turn up and consult specialist doctors. The hospital superintendent has been asked to expedite the process of setting up the clinic,” Bhattacharya said. Over 18,000 residents of Darjeeling district have contracted Covid, most from Siliguri and its surroundings, since the onset of the pandemic. Post-Covid complications may include prolonged weakness, cardiopulmonary complications, loss of smell, among others. At the meeting, a number of other issues were discussed in detail, said sources. “At times, patients requiring tests for diagnosis, including biopsy and others, are asked to visit private labs particularly during emergencies. It was decided that this practice should stop as it is not a healthy sign in a government-run health establishment,” said a source. Some doctors at the hospital have said that the pathology department of North Bengal Medical College and Hospital did not receive samples sent after 2pm. “Authorities should look into it because at the time of surgery or other emergency, tests need to be done immediately. The hospital needs more technicians and at least one pathologist at the component separation unit of the blood bank,” a doctor said. Issues such as renovation of the superintendent’s office, postnatal ward and nursing hostel were also taken up at the committee meeting, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-206
08-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul courts Malda with stars and Didi||Trinamul has set its sights on Malda — north Bengal’s largest district in terms of the number of Assembly seats, 12 — and is desperate to recover from the debacle of past two major elections in five years. The state’s ruling party has started bringing in Bengali film and TV stars  in Malda and has drawn up a strategy to bring in party supremo Mamata Banerjee many times to campaign for the state polls. On Sunday, they brought in Ronita Das — known to television audiences as “Baha” (a character she had played) in a roadshow in Old Malda. On Saturday, BJP national president J.P. Nadda had held a roadshow in Malda town. Ronita, along with youth Trinamul leaders, participated in the roadshow held in the same area where Nadda had addressed his public meeting and joined in a community lunch with farmers. “We all are foot soldiers of Mamata Banerjee. I was here to tell people that they should refrain from backing a political party that has been buying leaders from other parties. I have been supporting Didi for the last 10 years and have recently joined the party,” said Ronita. Earlier, the party had organised a public meeting and a roadshow with actor Soham. Asked about these activities, a Trinamul leader said these were to counter the BJP that he said had managed to consolidate its vote bank in the district by playing the polarisation card. “Our performance, on the other hand, has remained low-key since 2016. We need to work hard to revive our support base. Our leaders in different tiers have been assigned with different responsibilities to drum up support,” he said. Both in the 2016 Assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul drew a blank in Malda. “Till date, Malda and Darjeeling are the two districts in north Bengal where Trinamul has never won a Lok Sabha seat. Also, the debacle it faced at the last Assembly elections, coupled with BJP’s emergence, seems to have made the party leaders desperate to put in every effort to grab maximum possible seats in Malda,” said a political observer. He said unlike other minority-dominated belts where Trinamul has consistently won in elections, victory eluded Mamata Banerjee’s party in Malda that has a minority population of around 55 per cent . Trinamul leaders are also busy in making arrangements for the upcoming visit of Mamata — the main crowd-puller for the party. “On February 10, our chief minister will address a public meeting in Malda town. We will prove our strength on that date as thousands of supporters will spontaneously participate in the event,” said a district Trinamul leader. “There are indications that she will pay some more visits in the district ahead of the elections,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-206
08-02-2021||West Bengal||Horse drives sweet seller’s trade and dream||A sweet seller who resides at an otherwise nondescript village near here and hawks around in different areas is equally known for his lip-smacking items as well as the “mode of transport”. Ranjit Pal, a sexagenarian from Maharajpur, reaches his customers while riding “Laltu,” his pet horse. “Since my childhood, I had longed for a horse and eventually, bought one. It might sound a little extraordinary for a person like me who runs his family on his daily earnings. But I went ahead and got it around six years back. I had to part with Rs 20,000. Since then, whenever I go out to sell the sweets and snacks which I make or even to marketplaces to make purchases, I ride my horse,” said Ranjit. His movement on the horseback draws many buyers, particularly children, as he rides through hamlets, offering a variety of sweets and dry snacks. “Many people love the food I sell but some come to see the horse. In earlier years, I used to walk around villages and would shout like other hawkers to draw customers. But ever since I started riding Laltu, I no longer need to shout as people come out hearing the trotting,” said Ranjit. Back home, Ranjit lives with his wife, son and daughter-in-law. He is the sole earner of the family and others help him make the sweets and snacks. Last year, as the Covid-19 pandemic hit the nation, the hawker’s earnings had depleted. On one hand, he could not go out because of the lockdown. On the other hand, even after the lockdown was eased, a major section of people did not turn up to buy sweets from him, fearing infection. Many neighbours had suggested then that he sell the horse. “They told us that we could make some money during distress. However, we decided not to part with it and somehow managed to arrange for fodder for it like the way we managed two square meals for us. He is like a family member for us,” Shilpi, Ranjit’s wife said. The horse, Ranjit said, also provides him with a “cheap mode of transport”. “It is not possible for me to buy a motorcycle. At this age, I cannot cover the area that I move around in on a bicycle. All Laltu needs is some fodder……. I want to continue riding with him as long as possible,” said Pal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-207
08-02-2021||West Bengal||Small tea sector outperforms tea estates||The annual tea production in the small tea sector surpassed the contribution of tea estates in the pandemic year 2020, recent data released by the Tea Board has revealed. The data, with comprehensive details of India’s tea production, auction prices and exports, also indicates the country’s brew belt in 2020 suffered a loss of around 135 million kilos in production vis-à-vis the annual production of 2019. In 2019, total production was 1390.08 million kilos. In 2020, 1255.60 million kilos were produced in the country. Bijoygopal Chakraborty, president of the Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations (Cista), an apex body of growers in the country, said that of the total tea production in the country in 2020, the small tea sector has produced 630.79 million kilos, edging ahead of tea estates that produced 624.81 million kilos. He said that for past few years, production in the small tea sector was higher than that of the tea estates in Bengal. “However,  even in 2019, at the national level, our (small tea growers) contribution was marginally less than the organised sector (tea estates). This year, however, our share is more than the estates and we hope the trend continues in the coming years. Many growers are first-generation rural entrepreneurs and it is indeed an achievement,” said Chakraborty. The tea board data says Bengal and Assam, the two major tea growing states of the country, have borne a loss of over 110 million kilos in production. The loss, stakeholders said, is because of the sudden closure of tea gardens during the pandemic-induced lockdown in 2020 and also inclement weather. “But on the other hand, there has been a steady surge in prices after many years. It is definitely a positive development for the industry,” said a tea planter in Siliguri. Small tea growers, who have underscored that they have been contributing more than 50 per cent of the total production, however, are unhappy with the BJP-led Centre and the ruling Trinamul in the state. The Centre, they pointed out, allocated Rs 1,000 crore on development of the workforce in the tea estates of Bengal and Assam, but did not make any announcement for the small tea sector. Small tea growers believe this announcement is motivated by electoral compulsions as both Bengal and Assam go to polls in a couple of months. “Thousands of workers are serving in our sector but nothing was there in the Union budget for them. This left us disappointed,” said a small tea grower in Islampur of North Dinajpur. The state government has also not announced any extension of the waiver of a cess that the industry needs to pay against each kilo of green tea leaves, Cista president Chakraborty said. “For each kilo, a cess of 12 paisa is chargeable for rural employment and education. In earlier budgets, the state waived this cess. This time, there is no extension. This means we can enjoy the waiver only till March 31, 2021. When the (state) government is focusing on the tea population and coming up with major schemes like the free housing project, it should also give a thought to this issue and extend the waiver,” he said. The only hope, small tea growers said, is the increase in annual allocation of the Tea Board for various schemes by the Centre. Unlike 2020-21, when the allocation was Rs 200 crore, it is now Rs 375 crore in the upcoming fiscal. “We hope the Board channelises a part of this fund for development of the small tea sector through schemes,” added Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-207
