09-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata says she is like Royal Bengal Tiger, cannot be intimidated by BJP||West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday likened herself to a Royal Bengal Tiger, saying that she is not a weak person who can be intimidated by the BJP. Addressing a rally in Murshidabad, the capital of Nawab Siraj-ud-Daullah's empire, she also compared those who left the TMC to join the saffron party to Mir Jafar, a commander of his army who betrayed him in the Battle of Plassey against the British in 1757. "There is no reason to think I am weak, I am not a person to be afraid of anything. I am a strong person and will keep my head high as long as I live and till then I will live like a Royal Bengal Tiger," Banerjee said. Accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of wrongly claiming at a BJP meeting in Haldia on Sunday that government employees in West Bengal do not get salaries properly, she alleged that it is the Centre which is selling off BSNL, SAIL and privatising the Railways and insurance companies. Banerjee also claimed that the Centre did not give any assistance to West Bengal for dealing with the devastation caused by cyclone Amphan last year, nor did it do anything to support the state to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. Raking up the outsider issue, the TMC supremo claimed that the BJP is a party of Gujarat and Delhi, which is bringing in National Register of Citizens (NRC) and National Population Register (NPR). The state chief minister asserted that she will not allow these in West Bengal. "People from Gujarat will not rule Bengal, the Trinamool Congress will rule Bengal," Banerjee said at the rally held ahead of the assembly elections in the state due in April-May. Claiming that corrupt people sell themselves off, she said that those who want to leave the TMC and join the BJP are free to go. Alleging that some people are joining the saffron party out of fear that they could be implicated in cases related to smuggling of cattle or coal, Banerjee said, "The BJP seems to be a washing machine, those having dirty hands emerge clean after joining it." She also attacked the Congress and the Left which will contest the assembly polls jointly in the state. "The Congress cannot fight the BJP and does not want to do it. The CPI(M) is the BJP's big friend," she said, claiming that it is only the TMC which can take on the might of the saffron party in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-204
09-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal farmers didn’t receive funds under PM-Kisan scheme, alleges Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday alleged that the BJP-led government at the Centre was not disbursing funds under the PM-Kisan scheme to peasants in the state despite the TMC administration having sent the verified names of farmers to it. Accusing the BJP of falsely claiming that she is denying funds to the farmers, she said that the Trinamul Congress government in the state is giving Rs 5,000 each to peasants and has also arranged for free crop insurance. The chief minister had on Monday informed the Assembly that out of 6 lakh applications of farmers sent by the Centre for verification for payment of monetary assistance under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, the state government has returned 2.5 lakh names following necessary work. The TMC supremo claimed at a public rally at Kalna in Purba Barddhaman district that peasants are facing atrocities during their agitation outside Delhi against the new farm laws. Accusing the BJP of resorting to lies about Hinduism, Banerjee said that her party does not preach division among people on the basis of religion. "The BJP has turned the country into a crematorium, but we will not allow the same to happen in Bengal," she said, asserting that the TMC will win the assembly elections for the third consecutive term. Humayun Kabir, an IPS officer who resigned from his job a few days back, joined the TMC at the rally in the presence of the party supremo. Elections to the 294-member assembly are due in April-May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-205
09-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal records unroken 105-day drop in active Covid cases||Bengal on Monday logged 279 Covid-19 recoveries, 119 infections and two deaths, with none from Calcutta. The numbers helped the state achieve an unroken 105-day drop in its total active cases since Vijaya Dashami. The state has 4,632 total active cases — 3.26 per cent of India’s total — down from 37,190 on Dashami (October 26). The state's over 5.71 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first infection was reported on March 17 last year, includes over 5.56 lakh recoveries and 10,209 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for 108 consecutive days to touch 97.4 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.21. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78 and the national rate 1.43 per cent. Of the total death toll, 8,574 (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 80 days. On Monday, the state reported 17,113 tests, taking the total past 81.67 lakh, at 90,754 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-205
09-02-2021||West Bengal||5 Bengal migrant workers missing in Chamoli avalanche||Five migrant workers, three from East Midnapore and two from Purulia, are missing in the aftermath of Sunday’s avalanche in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district. East Midnapore’s Lalu Jana, 30 and Bulu Jana, 28, from Lokkha village, and Sudip Guria, 27, from Dariberia in Mahisadal, were contract workers at a dam construction site on Rishi Ganga river. His colleagues, many from Mahisadal, on Monday said Sudip had been at the site of the tragedy on Sunday, his elder brother Baidyanath said. Missing Purulia residents Ashwini Tantubai, 26, and his cousin Subhankar Tantubai, 19, had left home four months ago to work at the hydropower project in Uttarakhand’s Tapovan as contract workers. Their relatives said that Chamoli officials told them on Monday that the cousins were missing along with 150 others. “My son Ashwini spoke to me and his wife on Saturday morning and said he would return home in four days, he was waiting for a confirmed train ticket. Now he is missing,” wept Chaitanya Tantubai, a marginal farmer. Officials from both the districts said that they were in touch with the families of the missing young men and authorities at Uttarakhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-205
09-02-2021||West Bengal||NJP train fare hike sparks protests||Hundreds of daily commuters protested in at least two stations of Jalpaiguri district on Monday as the popular Haldibari-New Jalpaiguri (NJP) passenger train resumed services after the pandemic-induced lockdown with higher fares and a mandatory reservation fiat. Protests and sloganeering were witnessed at Jalpaiguri Town and Belakoba stations. The decision of Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) to introduce a flat rate of Rs 35 between any two stations along the NJP-Haldibari route and mandatory booking created trouble for many daily passengers, including office-goers, domestic helps and farmers. Nitai Das, a government employee and daily commuter on the Siliguri-Jalpaiguri route, said many could not board the train on Tuesday as they could not buy tickets in advance. “Some stood at the counter at Jalpaiguri Town station with booking slips but none could board the train. Railway authorities clarified that tickets had to be bought at least four hours before the train’s departure as once the reservation chart is ready no more tickets would be issued,” Das said. Vegetable vendors were among many who found it tough to fill up reservation forms. A daily commuter said it was surprising that even for an hour-long journey, reservation was mandatory. “Local train services have also started in Calcutta and Mumbai but as far as we know there is no such reservation system in metro cities. Why here? This is discrimination. Here, fares have also been hiked in the name of reservation charge. We want the railways to run this train like before,” he said. As the train from Haldibari chugged into Jalpaiguri station, passengers who had not been able to buy tickets started a demonstration in front of the ticket counter and the entrance. Some even confined a couple of railway employees and shouted slogans. Later, similar protests were witnessed in Belakoba, a station between NJP and Jalpaiguri, said sources. Salil Acharya, the Jalpaiguri district CPM secretary, said the train between NJP and Haldibari was the principal mode of transport for hundreds of farmers of Haldibari, a prominent agricultural belt of north Bengal. “During the past 10 months or so, they had to hire smaller vehicles to ferry their produce at extra cost. The announcement that this train service would resume had brought them some relief. But the new decisions imposed by the railways have only added to their problems. We doubt how many of them can book tickets in advance. It is high time that the railways revoke the decision,” said Acharya. A railway official in Jalpaiguri sounded helpless. “We can’t do anything unless there is a specific instruction from our seniors,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-205
09-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata accuses Modi of lying about beneficiary numbers sent by state||Mamata Banerjee on Monday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of lying when he said on Sunday that her government had sent names of only 6,000 farmers, that too without their bank account details, for the Centre’s PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. “Narendra Modi has picked up a habit of telling lies…We have already verified 2.5 lakh farmers of 6 lakh farmers (applications) sent to us for verification. The Centre should send money to these 2.5 lakh farmers immediately,” said the chief minister while replying to budget discussions that she had tabled in the Assembly last Friday. Sources in the administration said that the chief minister decided to react as the Prime Minister had alleged during his political rally in Haldia on Sunday that Bengal had sent names of 6,000 farmers when 25 lakh farmers had applied for benefits under the central scheme. Modi had also said that the Centre could not send money to even the 6,000 farmers, whose names the state had forwarded, as the state government did not send their bank account details. The Centre’s minimum income support scheme that ensures an annual aid of Rs 6,000 to each eligible farmer is a thorn in New Delhi-Nabanna relations. Initially, the state government had declined to be part of the project. More recently, the Mamata Banerjee administration changed its decision and informed the Centre that it wanted to be a part of the scheme, for which it had to validate the farmer applications. Sources in the know said that Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar  had requested the Bengal state government to verify 22 lakh applicants under the Centre’s scheme last November. Mamata, who earlier rejected the scheme saying the state has a much better farmer scheme (Krishak Bandhu), agreed to verify applicants after Opposition parties, especially the BJP, started mounting pressure on the state government to join the scheme. “The chief minister realised that Bengal’s farmers were willing to get the benefits of the central scheme after 22 lakh farmers applied for the scheme through a portal launched by the Centre. The chief minister wrote a letter to Tomar making it clear that the state was ready to verify the farmers as she does not want to deprive any of the farmers,” said an official. In December, the Centre asked the state to depute a nodal officer who would be given details of applicants to verify the farmers who applied for the central scheme. “The agriculture department had held a meeting in December to finalise how the verification process would be carried out and it was decided that the state would match the farmers’ details with its database of Krishak Bandhu where 50,000 farmers have already registered,” said an official, and added that the verification could be hastened by matching the details with the Krishak Bandhu database. “But it seems that the issue is being politicised ahead of the polls,” the official added. Sources said a meeting would be held this week to expedite the verification process. “We have to find out a way on how the details of an applicant, whose name is not registered with Krishak Bandhu, can be verified. It would require physical verification of the applicant’s details by sending officials to his or her address. It would be a tough ask ahead of elections,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-205
09-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata hands out dole worth Rs 83cr to clubs||Mamata Banerjee on Monday distributed financial aid to the tune of Rs 83 crore to 8,000-odd clubs in the poll-bound state at an event to felicitate sports personalities, the move prompting Opposition parties to accuse the ruling Trinamul of trying to buy votes using state coffers. “We have given assistance to 26,000 clubs in the past few years. Some people often raise questions on why the clubs would get these funds...We think clubs play an important role in society as members of clubs stand by people throughout the year...I must say they played a crucial role during Amphan,” said the chief minister at the event at the Netaji Indoor Stadium. Since the Trinamul-led government came to power in 2011, the state government started giving financial assistance to clubs for the purpose of developing infrastructure required for sporting events. Though Opposition parties attacked the government on this largesse and the matter reached courtrooms, the state continued to support clubs. A senior government official said it couldn’t be denied that the clubs played an important role in the ruling party’s success in 2014 Lok Sabha polls and 2016 Assembly polls. “But at the same time, it is also widely accepted in administrative circles that the aid to clubs improved sporting infrastructure in the districts,” he said, adding that it helped many young players to come up from remote parts. “From Birbhum, two players were included in Bengal Under-19 cricket team last year. This happened only because infrastructure of the clubs improved,” he pointed out. At Monday’s event, Mamata also announced a monthly pension of Rs 1,000 for sports personalities above 60 years of age. “The sum is meagre...But this is to respect the players who have given so much to society,” she said, adding that some 2,000 veterans would get the pension. She also inaugurated and proposed 72 industrial parks or hubs across the state with the promise that these would create jobs for youths. “There is a possibility of drawing investment of Rs 72,200 crore in these parks and a total of 3.29 lakh employment opportunities will be created,” Mamata said. Opposition parties, however, questioned if the state had investment proposals in these parks that include the industrial township in Purulia’s Raghunathpur, the industrial park at Budge Budge and the hosiery park in Howrah’s Jagadishpur. “The state should make it clear how many investment proposals it received. Without a concrete proposal, how can the state say there is a possibility of investment worth Rs 72,200 crore when many industrial parks have vacant plots owing to disinterest from investors,” said Shamik Bhattacharya, a former BJP MLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-205
09-02-2021||West Bengal||Boarder poser for hill schools as classes set to resume||Hill institutions with mostly day scholars have decided to start classes in a staggered way from this month for the first time since the pandemic, though many with boarding facilities are still indecisive. The state government has allowed classes for Class IX and above to start from February 12. A source said heads of ICSE and ISC schools in Kalimpong district held a meeting on Friday and decided to start classes from February 15 onwards. ICSE and ISC schools in Darjeeling and Kurseong subdivisions have decided to reopen schools between February 18 and 22. “We will start with half days of classes for a week and then plan and make decisions depending on how things shape up,” said an ICSE school principal from Kalimpong. Many hill schools with boarding facilities are, however, yet to take any decision. “The government directive is not very clear on whether boarders can be kept in school. We will hold a meeting (among boarding schools and probably with the district administration) this week before deciding on starting classes,” a head of an institution with both boarders and day scholars said. Students come to hill boarding schools not only from different states but also abroad. Many boarding school heads fear that if anything went wrong the institution might come under scanner. Some schools with boarding facilities that have decided to start classes are weighing options. “To start with, we have to look into the number of boarders who turn up,” a school head said. Depending on the number, some schools are planning to host students in paying guest facilities so that all children do not stay in the same premises. However, the head of a school with boarders and day scholars said they were confident of handling the situation. “Our boarder strength is 260 but the number of boarders above Class IX would not be more than 60, and we think social distance can be maintained in hostels,” the school head said. However, schools with day scholars are also clear that they would first take written consent from guardians. “We will not force any guardian to send his or her ward to school. Even though we will follow all laid down protocols, we are thinking of getting a written consent from parents about sending their wards to school,” said a school head. There are over 50 ICSE schools in Darjeeling hills of which nearly 15 have boarding facilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-205
09-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul turncoats hint at ghar-wapsi||Two MLAs who had left the Trinamul Congress and joined the BJP caused ripples in Bengal’s power corridors on Monday as word on their meeting with Mamata Banerjee got out, fuelling speculation about the possibility of their ghar-wapsi (homecoming) and later claims by the BJP that the duo were firmly in the party. Noapara MLA Sunil Singh and Bongaon North legislator Biswajit Das met the chief minister twice on Monday. Several political observers said the development indicated that the infamous Aaya Ram Gaya Ram phenomenon had arrived in Bengal with the BJP’s desperation to grow inorganically in the state. “It is true Trinamul started the trend of getting legislators from other parties since it came to power in Bengal in 2011. But there is little doubt that with the BJP’s aggressive poaching strategy, the phenomenon that was alien to Bengal politics is now very much part of it,” said an observer. On Monday, the final day of the 16th Assembly of poll-bound Bengal, Singh and Das met Mamata, first in the corridors of the Assembly. While Singh greeted her, Das touched her feet. Mamata was overheard asking Das: “Ki rey, decision nili (Hello there, were you able to decide yet)?” About a half-an-hour later, the two MLAs entered the chief minister’s chamber in the Assembly, where a 20-minute closed-door meeting took place in the presence of senior ministers Firhad Hakim and Jyotipriya Mullick, and Naihati MLA Partha Bhowmick. While Hakim was placed in charge of engineering a slew of ghar-wapsis in North 24-Parganas since the second half of 2019, Mullick has been the district chief of the party for years. Bhowmick is one of the co-coordinator of Trinamul in the district. Since the Lok Sabha polls of 2019, the ruling party has been working hard to regain ground lost to the BJP in North 24-Parganas, which has 33 Assembly seats, the highest in Bengal. In the Assembly elections of 2016, Trinamul had won 27 of them, and the BJP had won none. But in the general election, the BJP secured leads in 21 of those Assembly segments and since then, it engineered a slew of defections in the district. After the meeting, Trinamul kept mum on the developments. But a source close to the chief minister said “very interesting” events were to be expected in North 24-Parganas over the next few days. MLAs Singh and Das faced a volley of questions from journalists in the Assembly. The Noapara MLA declined comment, flashed the victory sign with his fingers and left. The Bongaon North MLA said he had spoken to Mamata regarding some stalled development activities and the local area development fund he was entitled to as a lawmaker. He insisted that his touching her feet was not out of the ordinary, as she is a senior leader. Asked about Mamata’s question regarding his “decision”, Das said: “I never heard that.” Shortly after, Barrackpore BJP MP Arjun Singh, the Noapara MLA’s brother-in-law, said he couldn’t explain the reason for the meeting and if Sunil Singh returned to Trinamul, their current party would take “appropriate action”. Sources in the BJP said alarm bells started ringing in the saffron camp after the two turncoats had met the chief minister. “We have plans to engineer more defections from Trinamul.If some people return to Trinamul, that would surely be a blow to us,” said a source. Shankudeb Panda, another Trinamul turncoat who is now a vice-president of the BJP’s state youth wing, called up the duo and urged them to visit the party office. Panda made the intervention at the behest of BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya. Das met Mukul Roy, yet another Trinamul turncoat from North 24-Parganas who is now a national vice-president of the BJP, in the party’s Hastings office. Noapara MLA Singh also arrived later. Visibly upset, when journalists tried to speak to him, Singh declined comment. Both the MLAs were asked to join a felicitation ceremony for Rajib Banerjee, a former member of Mamata’s cabinet now in the BJP. The duo were also felicitated. BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh claimed both the MLAs had informed the party ahead of meeting Mamata and there was nothing wrong in the meeting. Later, Vijayvargiya spoke to the duo separately amid murmurs that Das had been unhappy with the “upper hand” his new party had given to Bongaon MP Santanu Thakur. The factors responsible for the Noapara MLA’s purported discontent remained unclear. “One thing is for certain. Das and Singh wanted word on the meeting with the chief minister to get out in order to extract some leverage in the BJP. That reached the BJP bosses who addressed their concerns. The two MLAs are part of the BJP,” said an insider.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-205
09-02-2021||West Bengal||Police divert BJP Parivartan Yatra||The ongoing Parivartan Yatra by the BJP ran into a hurdle on Monday morning when police in Murshidabad’s Beldanga did not allow a 500-strong crowd to proceed to Behrampore via Hariharpara, a 60km route. The incident prompted a three-hour-long blockade on the Beldanga-Amtala road by those taking part in the rally and prompted the police to provide an escort along the highway at noon, after which the rally eventually reached Behrampore. The yatra had been flagged off by BJP national president J.P. Nadda in Nabadwip on Saturday. Beldanga police stopped the troupe when it left their night-halt, the local Bharat Seva Ashram, around 9.30am and insisted they take the shorter route along NH12. “The rally crossed into Murshidabad from Nadia’s Palashi on Sunday night and proceeded to Beldanga via Rejinagar,” said a BJP leader, referring to the float-parade aimed at sending “a message of change” throughout poll-bound Bengal. Sources said the rally was being handled on a district-wise basis by the local party leadership. On Monday morning, when the police stopped the yatra from taking its desired route, BJP district president (south) Gouri Shankar Ghosh led a blockade on the Beldanga-Amtala road, chanting slogans. Refusing to heed the advice of the police to take the NH12 to reach Berhampore to avoid a “law and order problem”, Ghosh said they would only take the Hariharpara route and nothing else. “For three days, we have been in touch with the BJP district leadership saying they must not take the longer Hariharpara route. In any case, it is not possible to provide police escort on such a long route,” said district superintendent of police, K. Sabari Rajkumar. After three hours of persuasion, the BJP leaders finally agreed to take the road proposed by the police and the rally moved on. “We eventually got to Behrampore afternoon with the police’s help, but we were greatly delayed even though we had informed Rejinagar station in advance,” said Ghosh who oversaw preparations for a BJP meeting at the Dashamundu Kalibari grounds in Behrampore after reaching there. Police sources denied Ghosh’s claim of prior intimation. Nadda will flag off a similar Parivartan rally from Birbhum’s Tarapith Tuesday. The yatra will travel through several parts of Birbhum and will culminate in Purulia. The BJP national president will later in the day travel to Jhargram to flag off another rally that will move through a few districts to reach Belur in Howrah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-205
09-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP levels extortion charge at TMC||The BJP leadership on Monday dubbed the decision made by Trinamul to expel Prasenjit Roy, a leader of the party and INTTUC, an “eyewash to cover up illegal activities like extortion”. On Sunday, Trinamul leaders of Darjeeling district expelled Roy, accused of leading a group of INTTUC supporters to vandalised the dry port in New Jalpaiguri last Thursday. Roy went into hiding while 13 of his aides were arrested. Joydip Nandi, a vice-president of the Siliguri district committee of BJP, who was earlier with Trinamul, alleged that INTTUC supporters ransacked the dry port as they didn’t get extortion money from the authorities. Ranjan Sarkar, Darjeeling district Trinamul (plains) chief, called these charges baseless.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-205
09-02-2021||West Bengal||Buxa Tiger Reserve villagers protest ‘assault’ by forester||Residents of many forest villages of the Buxa Tiger Reserve (BTR) resorted to protests and locked up at least six range offices of the forest department on Monday after a villager was allegedly assaulted by some foresters. Demonstrators, many with Trinamul flags, demanded stringent steps against foresters who had on Saturday afternoon allegedly beaten up the villager after accusing him of “illegal activities”. Sources said Dhiren Rava, a 55-year-old resident of Gadadhar forest village, along with others had gone to the Cheko stream for fishing. Foresters patrolling the area intercepted Dhiren, a former Trinamul member of Rajabhatkhawa village panchayat, and allegedly beat him up. Others with him did not dare stop the armed foresters, sources said. Later, foresters left Dhiren at his home, but he had to be taken to a private nursing home in Alipurduar. He is still admitted there. As the news spread, hundreds of villagers, many with Trinamul flags, on Monday marched to forest range offices of Jainti, Santalabari, Damanpur east and west, Gadadhar and Rajabhatkhawa, and locked them up. Banikanta Marak, chairman of the panchayat level committee of Trinamul in Rajabhatkhawa, said villagers were routinely harassed and assaulted by some forest staff without concrete reasons. “We fail to see what wrong a villager has done by fishing in a local stream. Those who beat up Dhiren should face legal steps,” he said, adding that the range offices would stay shut till senior forest officials sat with them for talks. Asked about the protests under the banner of the ruling party of the state,  BTR field director Subhankar Sengupta said: “We do not have any such information.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-206
