10-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata flags Centre’s paddy bias||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday came down heavily on the Narendra Modi government for procuring a paltry quantum of paddy from Bengal compared to other states. Mamata also explained how the three farm laws introduced by the Centre would hurt the farmers in East Burdwan, a district known as Bengal’s rice bowl. “You know Bengal is the highest paddy producing state with an annual production of 2.5 crore tonnes. The government of India procured 71 lakh tonnes of paddy from Uttar Pradesh, 64 lakh tonnes from Haryana, 82 lakh tonnes from Andhra Pradesh, 111 lakh tonnes from Telangana and 162 lakh tonnes from Punjab. Despite our farmers producing 2.5 crore tonnes paddy, the Centre procured less than one lakh tonne,” said Mamata in Burdwan town’s Mati Utsab. Bengal has over 70 lakh farmers. Sources in Nabanna said Mamata hit the nail on the head, with state farmers deprived of minimum support price of paddy for years as the Centre’s procurement target from Bengal is among the lowest. “The figures provided by the chief minister might be incorrect in some cases, but the issue does not get diluted. For example, the state produces 165 lakh tonnes of paddy annually but only about 80,000 tonnes of paddy are procured by the central agencies,” said a senior government official. Raising the issue of procurement in farm-dependent East Burdwan holds significance as farmers in Bengal face trouble in selling their produce at government-determined minimum support price. “The state procures 43 lakh tonnes of paddy on an average every year to run the Khadya Sathi scheme. This means only about 25 per cent of produce is procured at minimum support price and most farmers are forced to sell off their produce at a much lower rate in the open market,” said an official. Though the BJP is stung by the farmer protests against the three farm laws near Delhi borders, its leaders have been trying to turn the tables on Mamata by referring to Bengal’s delay in joining the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, a minimum income support scheme for farmers. It was apparent that Mamata tried to counter the BJP’s campaign by saying the saffron party had been giving a raw deal to farmers for years. “BJP will come before the polls and ask farmers to vote for them…Why will farmers vote for them?” she said at another rally at Kalna in the same district. Mamata said the state government procured 49 lakh tonnes of paddy last year. “You don’t have to worry at all as we are procuring paddy from you. We will continue it in future also,” she said. She said the three farm laws would create trouble for farmers. “The central government has passed three farm laws to help the corporate companies, who will forcibly take away all of your produce. You will have no freedom to keep your produce for the livelihood of your family. The farmers of Haryana and other states have understood this and are protesting. So, be united to stop the party in Bengal,” she said in Kalna. “See what Modibabu is doing against farmers protesting against the laws in Delhi. They are putting up nails on the road to stop farmers,” she said. Mamata spoke of steps by her government such as free crop insurance and issuance of Kisan Credit cards to nearly 80 per cent of the farmers. Former IPS officer Humayun Kabir joined Trinamul during Mamata’s rally in Kalna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-203
10-02-2021||West Bengal||Burglars wear PPE to up their game||Burglars wearing PPE, the protective kit worn by healthcare workers during the pandemic, struck a shop in Jalpaiguri town on Tuesday. Town resident Kanan Sarkar, who owns a fertiliser shop in Gomostapara area, found on Tuesday morning that his shop was burgled. His CCTV camera footage showed two men wearing PPE had broken in around 2am. “The thieves knew I have CCTV cameras installed in my shop and wore PPE to prevent their identification,” a bemused Sarkar, who discovered Rs 70,000 in cash and costly fertiliser bottles missing, said. Arghya Sarkar, the inspector-in-charge of Kotwali police station, under which the area of the shop falls, confirmed this was a new strategy adopted by criminals. “We have come across cases when criminals have covered their faces with gamchas, monkey caps and even balaclavas. But this seems to be the first incident when they have used PPE kits to prevent identification,” the police officer said. According to police sources, thefts were reported from three other shops of Pandapara, another locality of the town, on Monday night. The police are trying to ascertain if the same “PPE duo” or some other gang is involved in these other crimes. A police source said that many people, apart from healthcare workers, bought PPE kits from pharmacies at the peak of the pandemic. “This makes tracing the criminals more difficult, but investigations are on,” the policeman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-203
10-02-2021||West Bengal||PM comes to Bengal with projects: Nadda||BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Tuesday said Narendra Modi would make several trips to Bengal to bring development projects to the state and criticised chief minister Mamata Banerjee for objecting to the Prime Minister’s visits. “Mamata Banerjee always objects to the visits of the Prime Minister and the home minister. But why will the Prime Minister not come here? The Prime Minister came on February 7 and inaugurated a refinery worth Rs 4,700 crore. He never comes with empty hands. He brings projects to Bengal. It will not be a one-time affair, but our Prime Minister will visit Bengal several times with development projects for the state,” said Nadda before flagging off its second Parivartan Yatra from Tarapith in Birbhum. Sources said Nadda speaking about the Prime Minister making frequent visits to the state showed that in the absence of a credible local leader in the BJP, Modi would be the party’s bet to counter Mamata. “Nadda proved the BJP has no face in Bengal to counter our chief minister. So, they are depending on Modi,” said Anubrata Mondal, Trinamul’s Birbhum president. Although Nadda made a pitched cry for change and coined a new slogan — “Onek hoyechhe Mamata (di), parivartan chaichche janata (It has been enough, Mamata, people want change)”, the not-so-impressive gathering at Tarapith will surely have reason for the BJP leader to be worried about the outcome of the 2021 polls. Nadda had to leave a meeting with representatives of tribal cultural activists in Jhargram as the attendance was very low. Sources said he had reached Jhargram around 5.30pm to attend the programme but he found only a few persons were sitting and most of the chairs were empty. “Naddaji went to local party office and waited for half an our for the cultural representatives. But they were stuck in traffic jam and could not reach in time. As Naddaji had a busy schedule he could not wait more,” said Raju Banerjee, a BJP state vice-president.. Trinamul leaders, however, said the low attendance was a result of how people were rejecting BJP. “People understood what is BJP. People did not attend the programme to send them a message that they will not allow them more in our area," Dulal Murmu, Trinamul president in Jhargram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-204
10-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata mum on Congress and Left||Mamata Banerjee, in a conspicuous departure from her campaign speeches this season, on Tuesday was silent on Congress spearhead Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury while delivering an address in his backyard Behrampore, and relatively muted on the Left. Sources in Trinamul attributed this to her growing understanding that the better the Congress-Left alliance performs in the state polls the worse it will be for the BJP. Sources said she had also been receiving “back channel communication” that support from the Congress might be readily available, should the results yield a hung House. The chief minister, in her 35-minute address at Murshidabad’s Behrampore Stadium grounds, did not pull punches in her attack on the BJP before the audience of over a lakh. “The Congress and the CPM cannot act against (cannot defeat) the BJP any longer,” said Mamata towards the beginning without elaboration. Arriving by chopper around 2.30pm, Mamata focused on Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP’s catch of the season, referring obliquely to him as a modern Mir Jafar, a sobriquet commonly used to describe a traitor in Bengal. She also slammed AIMIM’s Asaduddin Owaisi, without naming him, for allegedly being a BJP paid agent to erode her minority support base. But a bulk of her speech was directed against Narendra Modi, his government at the Centre, and his party. “Have you ever heard of a Prime Minister who speaks lies? He alleged our state does not pay its employees their salaries. Modiji, please tell me whom you were referring to. Rather, it is you who is selling off everything the Centre owns,” she said, stirring a supportive crowd of largely migrant workers who returned home in the pandemic. The 22-seat district of Murshidabad is important to Mamata as there is scope for her party to grow there. In the 2016 state polls, Trinamul won four seats in the district with over 67 per cent minority voters. The Congress, under Chowdhury, won 14, and the Left four. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul gained decisive leads in 16 Assembly segments, while the Congress was reduced to five. The BJP had a lead in the Murshidabad Assembly segment. This time, Mamata will reach out to migrant workers with the Modi government’s “lockdown mega blunder”, a Trinamul MP said. Last year, at the peak of the pandemic, the plight of migrant workers took centrestage, with questions on why Modi announced a nationwide lockdown with a four-hour notice minus steps to cushion the vulnerable. “Four-hour notice to pack up and move our lives,” scoffed Arabinda Mondal, who used to work in Kerala and has since returned, at the rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-204
10-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 276 cured, six more die in Bengal||Bengal on Tuesday logged 276 Covid-19 recoveries, 146 infections and six deaths, including two in Calcutta, as a drop in total active cases continued for the 106th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. The total of active cases, which was 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), has improved to 4,496, back almost where it was on June 7 last year, 247 days ago. “In 106 days, we have undone over eight months of damage. Ours has been a near-miraculous success story,” said a Bengal minister. The state now has 3.22 per cent of total active cases in the country, less than half of its share even two months ago. The recovery rate rose for 109 consecutive days to touch 97.43 per cent. The national rate now is 97.24. The state’s positive confirmation rate fell to less than 7 per cent, to 6.98 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 81 days. Of the total death toll of 10,215, 8,580 (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate remained 1.43 per cent. On Tuesday, the state reported 20,456 tests, taking the total past 81.88 lakh, at 90,981 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-204
10-02-2021||West Bengal||Raju Bista plays up central aid to Bengal||Darjeeling MP Raju Bista and Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur have underscored central assistance to Bengal during the Covid-19 lockdown period, indicating that the BJP is trying to play the dole card in the poll-bound state. In his statement, Bista revealed Union minister Thakur's response to the MP’s question on the quantum of central financial aid to Bengal under direct benefit transfer schemes (DBT). “Rs. 14,971.87 crores in cash and another Rs. 8,117.63 crores in kind have been disbursed to West Bengal under various DBT schemes in FY (2020-21) till 01.02.2021,” Thakur had replied to Bista. Direct benefit transfer schemes would include 100-day work, housing schemes and various subsides in which money is directly transferred to beneficiary accounts. In a written release issued by Bista, the BJP MP has also quoted from Thakur’s reply: “…For the year 2020-21, all states have been allowed borrowings up to 2% of GSDP over and above normal borrowing limit of 3% of GSDP. Borrowings of 1% of GSDP amounting to Rs. 13,574 crores have already been issued to West Bengal. This will provide another Rs. 27,149 crores to the State of West Bengal.” The Centre has also claimed that Bengal has been allocated Rs 630 crore out of which Rs 315 crore “has been released to the state,” under the scheme of special assistance to states for capital expenditure. The intent of Bista’s decision to release the figures seem evident. “The response by the Finance Ministry debunks the repeated attempts being made by the TMC Government to project that the Central Government has not helped West Bengal during the COVID-19 pandemic situation,” went Bista’s written statement. Addressing his hill constituency directly, Bista stated: “Responding to my query, Hon’ble MoS Finance Anurag Thakur ji has responded that a total of Rs 267.98 crores have been disbursed through Direct Benefit Transfer to the people from Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts in the past 10 months.” Many observers feel Bista’s decision to make public the finance figures is to counter chief minister and Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee’s spate of dole announcements, including pension for all over 60 years of age and widows over 18 years of age, financial aid to clubs, among others. Mamata had on Tuesday alleged that the BJP-led government at the Centre was not disbursing funds under the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme to Bengal peasants despite the state having sent verified names of farmers to it. She had informed the Assembly that out of 6 lakh applications of farmers sent by the Centre for verification for payment of monetary assistance under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, the state government sent 2.5 lakh names following necessary verification. Accusing the BJP of falsely claiming that she was denying funds to farmers, she said her government was paying Rs 5,000 each to peasants and had arranged free crop insurance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-204
10-02-2021||West Bengal||Malda AIMIM leaders join Trinamul Congress||The “principal organiser” of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) in Malda and about 200 supporters joined the Trinamul Congress on Tuesday, a day ahead of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s visit to the district where Muslims constitute around 55 per cent of the population. The AIMIM, however, termed the induction as a “fake show”. Sabir Ahmed and the supporters joined Bengal’s ruling party at a programme attended by Malda district Trinamul president Mausam Benazir Noor and senior leader Krishnendu Narayan Choudhury. “Sabir Ahmed, who is the AIMIM’s key functionary in Malda, and one associate each from 10 blocks in the district joined Trinamul,” said Noor. The Hyderabad-based AIMIM headed by Asaduddin Owaisi had already declared that the party would contest the coming Assembly elections and field candidates in districts dominated by the minority community. Ahmed said he didn’t have any “official designation” in the AIMIM. “I and my associates were, however, the principal organisers of the AIMIM in Malda and worked for months to develop our party. Around 200 followers of us also switched to Trinamul today,” he said. Imran Solanki, a spokesperson for the AIMIM, said Ahmed and the associates had no connection with the party. “Trinamul is trying to deceive people. We suspect Trinamul is bringing in some of its less known workers into public and presenting them as AIMIM leaders.” “Such tactics to win support of the minority community will not work,” Solanki said over the phone. It was only 24 hours back that Trinamul inducted Bechu Sarkar who, the party claimed, was the district president of the BJP’s minority wing. BJP district vice-president Ajay Ganguly, however, said Sarkar was a leader of the Minority Morcha in 1996 and had been inactive for years. “We have a new committee of the Minority Morcha with a different person as the district president,” said Ganguly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-204
10-02-2021||West Bengal||Honey-trap duo held from highway near Ranaghat||Two dacoits, posing as female sex workers for three months to “honey-trap” night motorists on the NH12 near Nadia’s Ranaghat, were arrested early on Tuesday. The police found two firearms, live ammunition, wigs and women’s clothing from Ranajit Patra and Dulal Sarkar, who cops said were part of a larger gang of dacoits. Ranajit is a resident of Amdanga in North 24-Parganas, and Dulal of Kalyani in Nadia. The duo were produced before a court in Ranaghat that remanded them in six days of police custody. Sources said the team from Ranaghat police sprang into action late on Monday after a fresh case of dacoity was reported at Ghatigacha area, and spotted the culprits near a wooded area off the highway. Dulal and Ranajit were nabbed and some others fled. A police said that as part of the gang’s modus operandi one member dressed up as a woman to stop truck drivers and chat, and then the gang attacked and looted the victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-204
10-02-2021||West Bengal|| Cracks at homes after ONGC blasts in North 24Parganas’s Badurai ||Cracks appeared at over 100 houses, a school and a mosque and in an agricultural field on Monday night at Bagjola-Roypur village in North 24-Parganas’s Badurai where the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation has been carrying out explorations for crude oil for the past two months. Villagers have alleged that the cracks developed at their houses following a spate of blasts that the ONGC undertook in search of crude oil and gas in the area on Monday night. Baduria block development officer Suparna Biswas, who led the team of district administration and ONGC officials to the area on Tuesday, said: “I visited the area today and saw cracks at several houses. I also visited a school building that suffered damage. It appears the cracks have developed because of the blasts carried out by the ONGC. The matter, however, needs further investigation. I have asked the ONGC authorities to suspend work in public interest till further order.” The villagers demonstrated in front of the ONGC site on Tuesday. They alleged they had not been alerted by the ONGC before the blasts. “The repeated underground blasts unleashed panic among villagers and cracks emerged at nearly 100 houses. We have asked the district administration and ONGC authorities to compensate for the damage,” said a villager. “I have apprised the higher authorities of the incident and told owners of damaged houses to submit applications to the local panchayat so that their demand for compensation could be considered,” Biswas said. In December last year, the ONGC had begun commercial production of crude oil at Ashok Nagar and the Centre decided to conduct further explorations for crude oil and gas in the area. Local sources said an ONGC team had begun fresh explorations in the area last month but the villagers claimed they had not been cautioned about the blasts. “Last year, an ONGC team had undertaken search for oil, but it was far away from the residential area. But they began drilling last night to carry out the underground blasts within 50100 metres of residential blocks,” said villager Sahanur Rahaman. “We heard around 200 deafening sounds of underground blasts on Monday night,” Rahaman added. Elderly homemaker Mira Biwi said: “We are poor and had built houses using our hardearned money. But the blasts shattered our lives.” “Roofs and walls have suffered serious cracks. One of my rooms has been seriously damaged. We hope the Centre will help repair the damage.” Biman Pal, an ONGC supervisor who checked the damaged houses, said: “We saw several houses with cracks and villagers alleged that it happened because of the exploration. I have apprised my higher authorities of the incident.” District magistrate of North 24Parganas Sumit Gupta told The Telegraph that the matter would be taken up with the ONGC soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-204
10-02-2021||West Bengal||Tea protest with Trinamul flag in Alipurduar||Around 300 jobless workers of the closed Madhu tea estate in Alipurduar district on Tuesday blocked the Kalchini-Hasimara road demanding immediate reopening of the garden. Carrying Trinamul flags, protesters were led by Mrinalini Oraon, a Trinamul member of the Kalchini panchayat samiti from the garden. In all, the garden has around 1,000 workers. “The tea garden is closed for seven years now and \no proper initiative has been taken by the state so that it reopens. Workers are sitting jobless, some of them have migrated to other places. Being elected representatives of the ruling party, we have to face their questions time and again. That is why we thought of organising the road blockade so that the administration finally makes a move,” said Oraon. Around 10am, the workers and their family members blocked the road that brought traffic on the route that connects to Phuentsholing of Bhutan to a screeching halt. Demonstrators started shouting slogans and waved placards in support of their demand, prompting the police and Kalchini block administration officials to the spot. BDO Prashanta Burman spoke to protesters who demanded an immediate meeting with the district administration. Finally, around 1pm, Burman told protesters that within the next three days, the district magistrate would hold a meeting with a delegation of tea workers on the issue. The workers agreed to clear the road. Around 1.15pm, traffic resumed along the route as agitators headed home. “We want to make it clear that if nothing positive comes out of the meeting, we will resume our movement,” Oraon said. The blockade with the party’s flag has not gone down well with district Trinamul leaders. Mohan Sharma, chairman, Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union, called it “irresponsible”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-204
10-02-2021||West Bengal||Three Haldibari-NJP stops withdrawn: Northeast Frontier Railway||The Northeast Frontier Railway on Tuesday withdrew three stops along the route of the Haldibari-New Jalpaiguri (NJP) passenger train. The NFR had earned passenger ire on Monday — when the train started after the lockdown — for introducing reservations and a higher fare. On Tuesday, the NFR went a step ahead and withdrew stops from three of the 10 stations that lack the facility to sell reserved tickets. The train did not stop at Kadobari, Kashiabari and Mohitnagar. The Congress and Trinamul are gearing up for protests. “From Wednesday, we will launch an agitation. Railway authorities have to revoke these decisions....” said Saikat Chatterjee, Jalpaiguri district youth Trinamul chief. The Congress will host events on this issue, said Pinaki Sengupta, district party chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-204
