11-02-2021||West Bengal||Left activists clash with police in Calcutta during march over jobs||Left and Congress activists demanding jobs clashed with the police in central Kolkata's Esplanade area Thursday as they tried to break barricades on their way to state secretariat Nabanna, resulting in injuries to several participants and also the police.  Condemning the brutal attacks on students and young men and women by the "police force of the Trinamool Congress government", Left Front Chairman Biman Bose announced a 12- hour West Bengal bandh by the Left and associate parties from 6 am on Friday in protest.  "The way police unleashed atrocities on the participants in the march to Nabanna, it created a situation somewhat akin to the historic Jallianwala Bagh incident," Bose said in a statement.  The Left Front chairman claimed that more than 150 students and young men and women were injured in the police action while participating in the 'Nabanna abhiyan' programme of the student and youth wings of the Left and Congress demanding jobs and better education facilities.  Bose said that the bandh call has been discussed with the Left Front constituents and the Congress party, with which it has formed an electoral alliance for the coming assembly elections in West Bengal.  The Left-Congress alliance has come up to make the Bengal polls a triangular fight with the TMC and the BJP.  The march to Nabanna started at College Street but was stopped by the police on SN Banerjee Road in the Esplanade area.  As the activists tried to head further by breaking the heavy metal barricades, police used water cannons.  Amid slogans against the Mamata Banerjee government, the Left-wing youths and students tried to climb up the barricades, following which police began a baton-charge and also fired tear-gas shells.  Some police officials were also reported to be injured in the clashes.  CPI(M) politburo member Mohammad Salim alleged that the Mamata Banerjee government is totally dependent on the police force to suppress protests and demands by the people.  "Why is she afraid of receiving a memorandum from jobless youths," he asked in a press conference at the CPI(M) headquarters here after the incident.  Condemning the attacks on the agitators, Congress Rajya Sabha MP Pradip Bhattacharya said that the Trinamool Congress government has lost the people's faith and violent suppression of protests is an indication of that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-202
11-02-2021||West Bengal||Shah pitches for Modi’s 'vikas model’ against Didi’s ‘vinash model’ in Bengal||The upcoming Assembly elections in Bengal will be a contest between Narendra Modi’s “development model” and the ruling TMC’s “destruction model”, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Thursday, while terming Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee as a “failed administrator”. He said the BJP's ‘Parivartan Yatra’ is not for changing a chief minister, MLA or minister but ending infiltration and transforming the condition of Bengal. Addressing a rally in Coochbehar, he said the yatra is also aimed at ending corruption patronised by Bua-Bhatija combine. The BJP has been accusing Mamata and her nephew Abhishek, the Lok Sabha MP from Diamond Harbour, of “institutionalising corruption”. He also spoke about the political killing of BJP workers and warned that the perpetrators will be thrown behind bars. “This ‘Parivartan Yatra’ is not for changing a CM, MLA or a minister. It is for ending infiltration, it’s for the transformation of Bengal. “You vote the BJP to power in Bengal. Leave alone illegal immigrants, not even a bird from across the border will be allowed to enter the state,” Shah said addressing a rally before flagging off the fourth of the five ‘Parivartan Yatras’ planned by the BJP ahead of the assembly polls. The union minister said the BJP is ready to take on the “goons” of the ruling TMC. “You think that we can get intimidated by the TMC goons? They cannot stall BJP’s march to power. Once we are in power, each and every perpetrator of violence that led to the killing of BJP workers will be thrown behind bars,” he asserted. He alleged that Mamata Banerjee gets angry at ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogan, but will herself begin chanting it by the time assembly polls are over. “If ‘Jai Shri Ram’ is not chanted in India, will it be chanted in Pakistan? You get angry over it because you want to appease a particular section of people for vote bank politics,” he said. Shah said the upcoming assembly poll will be a contest between the “vikas (development) model” of the Narendra Modi government and Mamata Banerjee's “vinash (destruction) model”. The home minister said while the Modi government works for “jan kalyan” (public welfare), the Mamata Banerjee dispensation is bothered only about “bhatija kalyan” (nephew’s welfare).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-202
11-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP MP Raju Bista seeks national law on workers' land rights||BJP MP Raju Bista of Darjeeling in Parliament on Tuesday raised the demand to develop a national legislation for granting land rights to tea and cinchona plantation workers. The demand for workers’ land rights is a key issue of both factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, now allies of Trinamul. Though Bista has been talking about land rights, the issue is not stated in the BJP manifesto unlike that of the Binay Tamang camp of the Morcha. “Yesterday (Tuesday), under Rule 377 of the Parliament, which permits us to raise the matters of urgent public importance, I raised the issue of developing a national legislation for granting Parja Patta land rights to tea and cinchona garden workers,” Bista said in a written statement. The Darjeeling legislator seems to be looking at a provision similar to the one prescribed in The Schedule Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forests Rights) Act, 2006. “It has become apparent to me that the only way to ensure justice for them is through the intervention of the Union Govt. Just as how the Union Govt has enacted the Forest Rights Act (2006) to provide land rights to the forest dwellers, I believe the workers from our region will get justice with the Union Govt enacting a law which will guarantee Parja Patta rights for our tea and cinchona garden workers (sic),” Bista’s statement reads. The state government can grant land rights to tea gardens and cinchona plantations. Bista’s decision to seek central intervention could put the Trinamul and its hill allies in a spot, observers feel. Over 3 lakh people work in the tea gardens of north Bengal and can influence some 15 of 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal. Even in Darjeeling hills land rights is a major issue as more than 70 per cent of the hill population do not have it. The Binay Tamang camp of the Morcha had made land rights a major poll issue in the last Lok Sabha polls and Darjeeling Assembly bypolls, both in 2019. The first part of the Lok Sabha budget session will end on February 13 but the second part of the session will start from March 8 and is likely to carry on till April 8. Bengal is likely to go for elections from April as the tenure of the present state government ends in May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-202
11-02-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah to launch yatra in Cooch Behar||Union home minister Amit Shah will flag off the fourth leg of the BJP’s Parivartan Yatra here on Thursday. The saffron camp has lined up a public meeting at the Rashmela Ground in the town where Shah will be present. In December 2018, the BJP had planned a similar yatra that was supposed to start from Cooch Behar. However, the campaign was eventually cancelled. “The Union home minister will be here and will offer puja at the Madanmohan temple. He will then speak at the public meeting and will flag off the yatra. We will prove our strength at the Rashmela Ground,” said Sanjoy Chakraborty, a district general secretary of the BJP. Shah will also pay homage to Panchanan Burma, a social reformer revered by the Rajbanshi community. In Cooch Behar, Rajbanshis are in majority and their support decides the fate of political parties in the elections. While the BJP is putting all efforts to show its strength in the district, Trinamul has decided to organise protests against the Centre’s farm law in all blocks of Cooch Behar. “There will be protests in all blocks against the law that is anti-farmer. Also, farmers will wear black badges and work tomorrow in protest. Our leaders and workers will gather at specific venues to join the demonstrations,” said Partha Pratim Roy, the Cooch Behar district Trinamul president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-202
11-02-2021||West Bengal||Bird-watch, jungle trails for north Bengal tourists||The state tourism department in association with industry stakeholders and NGOs has drawn up a plan to work together and promote new attractions and activities in north Bengal to attract more tourists. Tourism minister Gautam Deb on Wednesday revealed the contents of the plan drawn to help revive the sector that took a beating in last year’s pandemic. Under the plan, it was decided to promote new tourism circuits and introduce activities such as bird watching, water sports and jungle trail at Bhorer Alo, the mega tourism hub developed by the state government at Gajoldoba in Jalpaiguri. “The sector that suffered the most during the pandemic is tourism. Now that things are getting back to normal, we have chalked out a plan to help revive the industry. The plan, we believe, can help bring in more tourists to north Bengal,” Deb said. He added that his department along with the stakeholders intended to promote a religious circuit covering Jalpaiguri and Cooch Behar. “Under the circuit, A tourist can start from Jalpaiguri palace, visit prominent temples of the district like Debi Choudhurani, Bhramri Devi and Jalpesh and then head for Cooch Behar. In Cooch Behar, one can visit the famous Madan Mohan temple, Kamteswari temple, the historical relics in Gosanimari, the Cooch Behar palace and other heritage buildings of the district,” the minister said. For Gajoldoba, the department plans to train 300 local residents who can take tourists for bird-watching. Gajoldoba and Baikunthapur forest host many migratory birds. “This will create an alternative earning option for villagers and help tourists enjoy their trip more. There are plans to start bicycle trails to the forest from Bhorer Alo and water sports next to the Teesta river,” said Raj Basu, convener of the Association for Conservation and Tourism. According to him, a two-day training programme for boatmen of Gajoldoba and local youths will be held at the site from February 11. “They will be trained to identify birds and on safety measures. Later, similar training would be held for youths before cycle rides and jungle trails start. Members of eight NGOs in Jalpaiguri will conduct the training,” added Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-203
11-02-2021||West Bengal||Centre plans 3-day Cooch Behar palace gala ||The Union ministry of culture and tourism will host a three-day cultural extravaganza on the premises of the Cooch Behar palace next week, a move that is being seen as an attempt by the saffron brigade to use the event to attract voters ahead of polls. Dubbed the Rashtriya Ekta Mahotsav, the cultural fest will be held from February 14 to 16 wherein playback singer Kailash Kher, artistes from other states as well as cultural troupes from the district will perform. “It will be a gala event where local artistes as well as those from other states will be present. The idea is to celebrate the birth anniversary of Panchanan Barma (the revered Rajbanshi leader and reformer, February 14) and showcase the Cooch Behar palace. The local Rajbanshi culture will be portrayed through the fest,” said Nisith Pramanik, the BJP MP of Cooch Behar. The Centre’s plan to host the cultural event at a time like this has drawn flak from other political parties, particularly Trinamul. The ruling party has said that the BJP wanted through this event to counter the Mamata Banerjee government’s yearly cultural event Uttarbanga Utsav. “Never ever has the BJP government come up with a cultural event,” said north Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh. “It is clear that as the Assembly elections are drawing near, the BJP is using all possible tools to attract voters, and this time, it is a cultural fest. However, people can understand their intentions,” the minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-203
11-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata uses mango metaphors to seek support from Malda||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee sought refuge in mango metaphors to seek support from the people of Malda, a district famed for the fruit, where Trinamul drew a blank in recent Assembly and Lok Sabha polls. Mamata, who addressed a public meeting at the DSA Ground of Malda on Wednesday, said: “Malda made us return empty-handed election after election though we have executed many development projects in the district...” “I would like to ask the Malda residents...will you hand over ‘fajli (a popular mango variety)’ and ‘amsatwa’ (a traditional mango candy) to me this time,” she said, drawing large rounds of applause from the audience. Mamata also spoke about neighbouring Murshidabad, a district with minority population of 67 per cent, and said her party could win in two of three Lok Sabha seats there, unlike in Malda. “Even the BJP grabbed a seat here,” she said. “Now that you have elected a BJP MP, I would like to know what the party has done for you so far.” In north Bengal, Malda has the highest number (12) Assembly seats. Back in 2011, when Trinamul had allied with Congress, the party could win in one seat and got a second seat at a bypoll in 2013. In the 2016 polls, Trinamul drew a blank. It was the same in the Lok Sabha polls of 2014 and 2019. Mamata, who has largely banked on the minority vote bank here, pointed out that despite such defeats, she chose Mausam Benazir Noor, Malda district Trinamul chief, as a candidate for the Rajya Sabha. “She is an MP in the Rajya Sabha now. As far as development is concerned, we have carried out a series of jobs, including the bridge over Ganga to connect the Bhutni islet,” she said. Earlier in Raiganj, she took on the turncoats and said their desertion will not impact her party. “I had assigned some people with responsibilities but they fled for their own interest... it is good that they have gone away. We will continue to work for the people and their absence will not matter to the party in any way,” said Mamata at Raiganj stadium. She alerted the minority community about the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) that plans to contest in some minority dominated districts. “The BJP is trying to bring in a party from Hyderabad to divide votes. We should be alert about them,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-203
11-02-2021||West Bengal||‘Rath’ highlights BJP’s Bengal disconnect||Barely 200 people turned up to catch a glimpse of the BJP’s Parivartan Yatra in Rampurhat on Wednesday with questions being raised on the party’s ability to strike a chord with Bengal where the “chariot” used for the procession generally denotes devotion and not the muscle power that the saffron camp seeks to highlight through the ride. The second leg of the procession — the BJP had initially called it rathyatra — had been flagged off on Tuesday by BJP national president J.N. Nadda in Birbhum’s Tarapith, a holy place for Hindus, in the presence of over 4,000 people. After covering 90km, the decorated air-conditioned bus — billed as the rath that will usher in change in Bengal — reached Rampurhat’s Kusumba village, where the home of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s maternal uncle is located. Hardly 200 people waited at Kusumba Netaji Milan Mandir Club to welcome the cavalcade that included the chariot and some vehicles. The man who flagged off the yatra was missing. So were prominent Bengal BJP leaders, who were seen pushing and shoving each other barely 24 hours ago to be in the same frame with Nadda at Tarapith. “I inaugurated the first yatra (on February 6) from Nadia’s Nabadwip and it is the second. This will bring about a change in Bengal by removing the Mamata Banerjee government,” Nadda boasted as he flagged off the second yatra from Tarapith. Around 5,000 people were present when he launched the third leg of the yatra at Jhargram on Tuesday evening. In the absence of the leaders at the Rampurhat village in Birbhum district, the foot-soldiers also kept away, robbing the yatra of the excitement with which it had rolled out. The low turnout has raised questions on whether the decision to hold the rathyatra was right. More importantly, some BJP insiders are asking whether the party has the organisational capability to pull off such a show in Bengal. The questions have become more pertinent as Union home minister Amit Shah is scheduled to flag off the north Bengal leg of the yatra from Cooch Behar on Thursday. The rath culture has been an integral part of the BJP’s politics since its patriarch L.K. Advani took out a rathayatra in 1990 demanding Ram temple at Ayodhya and the spectacle resulted in electoral gains for the party as its vote share went up to 20.1 per cent in 1991 from 11.4 per cent in 1989. The BJP polled around 9.5 per cent votes — up from 1.5 per cent in 1989 — in 1991 in Bengal. Following the Advani model, some BJP insiders said, poll strategists in Delhi planned the ongoing rathyatra ahead of the Assembly polls. “The presence of senior leaders is creating excitement at the launch of the yatra and then, it’s dissipating,” said a BJP insider. Some social scientists this correspondent spoke to said the expectation that the rathyatra would evoke excitement in Bengal might have been misplaced because of the cultural gap with northern India. “Advani’s rathyatra might have been successful in other parts of the country, but as far as I can recall the discourse those days, it symbolised the muscle power of patriarchy, whereas people of Bengal have mostly been devoted to the goddess or the power of a mother,” said Apurba Mukhopadhyay, a retired professor of political science at Burdwan University and Netaji Institute for Asian Studies, Calcutta. “I think there is a basic difference of culture between rathayatra in northern India and Bengal. In north India, a chariot represents wars or valour of the fighters, whereas in Bengal and some parts of eastern India, a rath is devotional as deities used to ride on it. It’s unlikely people of Bengal will relate to a rath carrying political leaders.” Taramoy Mukherjee, president of Tarapith temple committee, explained the concept further and said for most Bengalis, a rath means the rath of Mahesh, on which Lord Jagannath (also known as the lord of the universe), Lord Blabhadra and Maha Devi Subhadra take a ride or the rath that goddess Tara of Tarapith takes once every year. “Hardly a few people from our temple went to participate in the ongoing rathyatra. For most of us, rath is for the deities,” he said Surajit Mukhopadhyay, a professor of sociology at Amity university, said while an attempt to reach out to voters through a state-wide road show couldn’t be faulted, calling it the rathyatra didn’t fit with the psyche of people in Bengal. “The BJPs failure to understand Bengal’s culture is exposed. If they had any idea, they wouldn’t have drawn up such a plan,” he said. A BJP insider said the discourse might have prompted the party to call it a Parivartan Yatra, but most supporters are calling it rathyatra. “Whenever party workers call us up to know the location of the decorated bus, they refer to it as a rath. That’s why ordinary people also think it’s a rath.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-203
11-02-2021||West Bengal||No Covid death in Calcutta in 24 hours||Bengal on Wednesday logged 283 Covid-19 recoveries, 179 new cases and five deaths, but none from the city. The numbers helped to lower the state’s total active cases for the 107th day straight since Vijaya Dashami. Bengal, with 37,190 active cases on Dashami (October 26), now has 4,387. The state now has 3.14 per cent of the national total of active cases, less than half its share a couple of months ago. “We are looking to get our share of active cases to less than 2 per cent and a recovery rate of over 98 over the next few weeks,” said a minister. Bengal’s recovery rate, rising for 110 consecutive days, is 97.45 per cent now, ahead of the national rate of 97.24. The state’s positive confirmation rate — the percentage of infections found in relation to the number of tests done — is 6.96 per cent now, a steady fall for 82 days. On Wednesday, the state reported 21,608 tests, taking the total past 82.09 lakh, at 91,221 tests per million people. Of the toll of 10,220, 8,584 (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate stayed at 1.78 and the national rate at 1.43 per cent. “Unlike all other key indicators, our mortality rate has remained more or less stagnant, despite major improvement in our daily toll, because the number of new infections detected daily has dropped sharply,” explained the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-203
11-02-2021||West Bengal||29-year jail for Khagragarh blast convict||A court here on Wednesday sentenced Jamat-ul-Mujhahideen Bangladesh leader and main accused in the 2014 Khagragarh explosion, Jaidul Islam Iliad Kauser, to 29 years of rigorous imprisonment. The verdict was pronounced by chief judge of a city session court, Subhendu Samanta. Thirty people had been sentenced to life in 2019 in the same case. Since Kauser had been absconding and was arrested in 2018, his trial was held later. He was also an accused in Bihar’s Bodhgaya blast in 2005. The blast at a flat in Burdwan’s Khagragarh had claimed two lives and blown the lid off the JMB module in Bengal. National Investigation Agency had been conducting the inquiry into the Khagragarh case. The NIA investigators had seized 55 improvised devices and a huge quantity of RDX from the blast site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-203
11-02-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly elections 2021: Matuas plan to ask BJP for 30 seats||Centre’s delay in rolling out the Citizenship Amendment Act has given the All India Matua Mahasangh, which is led by BJP MP Santanu Thakur, an opportunity to pile pressure on the BJP and ask Union home minister Amit Shah to field at least 30 Matua candidates in the districts of North 24-Parganas and Nadia in the Assembly polls. Shah will be in Thakurnagar on Thursday. “We will ask Amit Shah to field Matua candidates in Assembly segments where our community dominates the electorate. There are almost 80 Assembly seats that have a large Matua presence but in at least 30 of those seats in North 24-Parganas and Nadia, we constitute over 60 per cent of the electorate. In these 30 seats ,we will demand that the BJP nominate candidates from the Matua community,” said a senior leader of the Mahasangh. The Mahasangh leadership will place the demand before Shah when he will briefly visit the Thakurbari in North 24-Parganas to pay tribute to community gurus Harichand and Guruchand Thakur and to Baro Maa Binapani Devi before a public meeting scheduled to begin at 3.30pm on Thursday, the senior leader said. The Mahasangh’s demand to field Matuas on 30 seats is likely to put the BJP in a fix and the party will have to deal with the issue cautiously because alienating the community can prove to be major hurdle to achieving its goal to rule Bengal. The Matuas have already demonstrated signs of restlessness over the delay in framing and implementing the CAA rules and the BJP leadership in Bengal is aware that any slip on their part will be utilised by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who said several times that she would not allow implementation of the citizenship matrix in Bengal. The Matuas expect Shah to speak on the CAA rollout and clear the confusion that has set in after the home ministry recently got a fresh extension of deadline to frame the rules. The reigning confusion within the community has emerged as a challenge for the Mahasangh that seeks to ensure its bargaining power within the legislative domain and assuage sentiments of its members by making the BJP field Matuas on 30 seats. “It has become very important for us to get our own men elected so that they can raise our issues. Since Independence, we have been left at the mercy of other communities who have seldom taken up our cause,” said a leader close to Mahasangh chief Santanu. Although Santanu refused to confirm the possibility of discussing the demand of fielding Matuas in the coming polls with Shah, the MP said he would be happy if community members entered electoral politics. A Mahasangh leader said raising the demand had become a “necessity” for Santanu’s political existence. “With the Centre delaying the CAA roll-out, it has become very tough for us to keep the support base intact. With Trinamul launching an aggressive campaign to woo back the community, it will be tough for Santanu to survive without bargaining for greater political power,” the Mahasangh leader added. BJP’s Bongaon organising district president Debdas Mondal said: “I am aware of such demand being raised by a section of the Mahasangh. However, the decision to nominate the Matua community members solely rests with the BJP’s top leadership and we have nothing to say on it.” The Trinamul leadership has ridiculed the Mahasangh over the demand to field Matuas in the polls. “It is another ploy of Santanu Thakur and his aides to lure the Matuas after BJP’s citizenship promise turned out to be fake. People will give a befitting reply to the BJP and Santanu Thakur for cheating the people,” said Trinamul leader Gopal Seth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-203
11-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee accuses BJP of trying to surpass Gods with rath yatra||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday drew parallels of the chariots of Hindu gods with the “rath tableaux” used by the BJP for its Parivartan Yatra and accused the leaders of the saffron camp of trying to equal or surpass gods while dubbing raths plush mobile hotels. In Bengal, the BJP has launched a statewide road show or rath yatra that intends to move through all 294 Assembly constituencies of the state. While the BJP yatra has already started in some parts of south Bengal, it will flag off in Cooch Behar on Thursday for north Bengal. Mamata, who flew by chopper from Behrampore to Raiganj first and then Malda to address public meetings organised by Trinamul, launched a scathing attack at the BJP rath yatra. “We have seen the famous rath of Puri... every year, I participate in the rath yatra organised by Iskcon and I have also read and heard about the rath of Arjun where Krishna was the charioteer in the Mahabharata. But the rath yatra that the BJP has been organising here is different. It is nothing but a plush mobile hotel where leaders are entertaining themselves,” Mamata told people at Raiganj stadium. “We have huge respect for raths on which gods mount…. Does that mean we will have to venerate BJP leaders who are trying to place themselves equal to or above gods like Lord Jagannath? We have also read about the rath of Ravana in Ramayana which he used to abduct Sita.…. I want to know whether the BJP is running this rath of Ravana. In the name of religion, the party is indulging in sacrilegious activities,” Mamata said in Malda. In both the public meetings, Mamata time and again referred to the tableaux of BJP and accused the saffron brigade of trying to play divisive politics in Bengal. “They did nothing for Bengal and these days, “rathbabus” are coming here to mount chariots and deliver sermons to people. They are going around in raths, enjoying delicious cuisine on board. People of our state will never endorse such politics,” said Mamata. Political observers said the BJP has been playing the polarisation card — especially in Malda and North Dinajpur with considerable minority population — to consolidate Hindu votes. Amid this backdrop, they said the chief minister’s demystification of the BJP rath as “mobile hotels with delicious cuisine” was a planned strategy to exert pressure on BJP in their own coin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-203
