12-02-2021||West Bengal||Kolkata court awards 7-yr jail to chit fund company official||A court here on Friday sentenced an official of chit fund company Rose Valley to seven years in jail for duping investors of their money through ponzi schemes floated by the firm. Judge Anupam Mukhopadhyay of City Sessions Court also slapped a fine of Rs 2.5 lakh on Arun Mukhopadhyay, who was a director in the Rose Valley group. The court convicted Mukhopadhyay after he admitted that he was guilt during the hearing. Lawyer for the depositors Arindam Das said that thousands of people were duped by the Rose Valley Group, which had set up multiple companies to run their chit fund operations. According to the court, Mukhopadhyay, who was arrested after the scam was unearthed in 2013, was in custody for three years before being released on bail, and this period of incarceration will be included in the total jail term of seven years he has to serve. Several accused, including Rose Valley group chief Gautam Kundu, have so far been arrested in connection with the chit fund scam being probed by the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-201
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Normal life partially affected in 12-hour Bengal bandh called by Left Front||Normal life in Bengal was partially affected on Friday due to the 12-hour state-wide bandh called by the Left Front in protest against police action on its activists during their march towards state secretariat Nabanna. Schools in the state are scheduled to reopen during the day for students of classes 9-12 after a gap of 11 months. They were shut in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. Left cadre blocked railway tracks and roads in Malda, Barddhaman, Raiganj, Asansol, Dankuni and parts of Calcutta, North 24 Parganas and Nadia districts during the bandh that began at 6 am. Protestors burnt tyres at some places and offered roses to policemen in other areas. Left activists demanding jobs clashed with police in central Calcutta's Esplanade area on Thursday as they tried to break through barricades during their march towards Nabanna, leading to injuries to several participants and also the police. Calling for a bandh in protest against the "brutal attack" by the police, Left Front chairman Biman Bose had claimed that over 150 students and young men and women were injured. Massive police presence was witnessed on the roads during the day to ensure that public transport functioned normally. Left Front leader Sujan Chakraborty said that people have spontaneously responded in favour of the bandh. He said that school students have not been prevented from physically attending their classes. Meanwhile, Indian Secular Front leader Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui extended support to the bandh. Condemning the police action, he alleged that the TMC government conducts administrative repression even as it opposes the "unconstitutional activities" of the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-201
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Sevoke–Rangpo railway project risky: Villagers||A joint forum of forest dwellers in the hills have launched a campaign against the Sevoke–Rangpo railway project and viaduct planned at Rangpo, the bordering town of Sikkim, alleging that they would put thousands of forest villagers at risk. “The railway project will affect over 1,500 families in 24 forest villages along the 40km stretch between Sevoke and Rangpo. Another 57 families in Rangpo will be at risk because of the viaduct project. We want both projects stalled for the interest of the region,” said Leela Kumar Gurung, secretary of the Himalayan Forest Villagers’ Organisation (HFVO), here on Thursday. Gurung alleged that both projects were taken up without adherence to environment and forest laws, and the Forest Rights Act, 2006, and Forest Conservation Act, 1980, were getting violated. “From February 6, we launched the first leg of the campaign from Sankosh (a river along the Bengal-Assam border). It will end at Malbazar (Jalpaiguri) on February 14. We are telling people about the adverse effects of these projects on villagers and the environment,” he added. According to sources in HFVO, the second phase will be in Gajoldoba from February 18 to 20. The final phase will start from Sukna on February 22 and end in Sevoke on February 28. Back in 2009, the Sevoke-Ranpo rail project was launched by then railway minister Mamata Banerjee to include Sikkim in India’s railway map. Later, the viaduct — a 1km-long flyover — was planned in Rangpo, the main entry point to Sikkim, to ease traffic. The project, assigned to National Highway Infrastructural Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL), is on. “A case has been filed at the Supreme Court. The manner in which the projects are being carried out, there a risk of a cave-in in the ecologically fragile area. We saw what happened in Uttarakhand,” said Soumitra Ghosh, a representative of the organisation, referring to the Sunday avalanche.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-201
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Welfare fund for all refugees pledged by Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday promised that a BJP government in Bengal would constitute the “Mukhyamantri Saranarthi Kalyan Yojona (Chief Minister’s Refugee Welfare Scheme)” for all refugees, launch a scheme for Matuas’s education and employment and provide monthly pension to Matua community heads. With no clarifications on the controversial citizenship matrix, Shah preferred to woo Matuas with a bouquet of “assurances” as he was well aware that the support of the community would play a key role in grabbing power in Bengal. While laying stress on education of the next generation of Matuas, Shah reminded the crowd about the contribution of their guru and social reformer Harichand-Guruchand Thakur to the community. Apart from the Mukhyamantri Saranarthi Kalyan Yojona for all refugees, Shah also announced that if the BJP was voted to power, it would provide monthly pension to Matua Dalapatis, a small group of community heads, so that they could survive with honour in their old age. Another commitment was a scheme for undergraduate and postgraduate students belonging to the Matua community and their employment. Announcing a list of pre-poll promises, Shah said the BJP within a week of coming to power in the state would send a proposal to rename the Thakurnagar railway station as “Shridham Thakurnagar” and promote the holy abode of the Matuas as a tourist spot. He also promised to improve infrastructure of the Harichand-Guruchand temple in Thakurnagar, while proposing to build a new temple in the memory of the two community gurus. Shah unveiled a model of the proposed temple amid huge applause. Pallab Dhara, a young Matua who came from Burdwan, said: “The proposals if implemented will be good because they are intended at social and economic development of the young generation of Matuas.” Sarvabharatiya Matua Mahasangh chief Mamatabala Thakur, leader of the rival faction of Matuas and former Trinamul MP, said: “Amit Shah has clearly tried to hijack the development initiatives that Mamata Banerjee has already implemented.” “She has already constituted Matua Development Board for overall development of the community. At the same time, Amit Shah is trying to take credit by proposing to rename the Thakurnagar railway station, which I as an MP had made at least four years ago. The BJP is trying repackage our endeavours,” Mamatabala said. All India Matua Mahasangha chief and BJP MP Santanu Thakur said: “Amit Shah has spoken about the comprehensive development of the community, which includes education and jobs for youths. The proposals cover a boarder spectrum, while nobody knows what Trinamul has offered for us in the name of the board.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-201
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Shah’s promises galore for Rajbanshis, Matuas||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday made several promises to woo Rajbanshis, which included formation of a battalion in the name of the erstwhile princely state of Cooch Behar in central paramilitary forces (CPMF), a Rs 500 crore cultural centre for the community and a Rs 250 crore statue of social reformer Panchanan Barma. He made the announcements for the community whose votes could swing results in half of 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal at a public meeting here. “The Narayani Sena (of the Cooch Behar kings) had staved off the aggressive Mughals and tales of their valour are known even in the far-flung Gujarat. That is why we have decided to form a Narayani battalion in central paramilitary forces. A training centre of these forces would be named after Chila Roy,” the home minister said. Chila Roy or Sukladhwaj, the younger brother of king Naranarayan, was the fiercest fighter of the Cooch Behar royal family. For several years, Cooch Behar residents, especially the Rajbanshi community, have been demanding the creation of a battalion in the name of Narayani Sena in defence forces. Last year, chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is desperate to win back the support of Rajbanshis as a majority of them sided with the saffron camp, had announced creation of a Narayani battalion in the Bengal police. The headquarters of the battalion will be set up in Mekhliganj of Cooch Behar, she had said. “It seems BJP leaders have understood the pulse and that is why the home minister came up with the announcement of a similar battalion in the CPMF,” said a political analyst. Addressing a gathering of around 50,000 people at the Rashmela Ground, Shah also announced that the Centre would spend Rs 500 crore to raise a cultural centre for Rajbanshis and Rs 250 crore to build a new statue of Panchanan Burma, both in Cooch Behar. “We will also develop a national level tourist circuit covering prominent temples and heritage properties of Cooch Behar,” he said. Before landing in Cooch Behar, Shah went to Bongaon in the neighbouring Assam and met Ananta Maharaj, a leader of the Greater Cooch Behar People’s Association. Ananta, who represents a faction in the association — the other one is headed by Bangshibadan Burman who has lent his support to Mamata — is from Cooch Behar but lives in Assam. Ananta Maharaj enjoys considerable clout among Rajbanshis. After the public meeting, the BJP leader flagged off the tableaux of the party’s Parivartan Yatra in north Bengal. Then, he went to Madanmohan temple (established by the Cooch Behar royals) and offered a puja. Before leaving Cooch Behar, the home minister paid homage to the statue of Panchanan Barma in the town. In his speech, Shah spoke against infiltration from Bangladesh, an issue that had been flagged time and again by the Rajbanshi community. “As I met Ananta Maharaj and reached here, I saw settlements and realised that infiltration is an important issue here. The Trinamul government can’t stop the infiltration. Once we are voted to power, even a bird cannot infiltrate through the (Bangladesh) border,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-201
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Meeting on border crimes in Jalpaiguri||The Jalpaiguri district administration on Thursday held a high level meeting with officials of paramilitary forces and central government departments to curb illegal activities in the district ahead of the Assembly elections, particularly in areas close to the international borders. “The elections are yet to be announced but we have decided to start preparations to stop illegal activities. At the directive of the Election Commission, we had a meeting with officials of different departments and agencies. All of us would be working in coordination and vigil would be enhanced on the international borders,” said Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri. Senior officials of the BSF, Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Customs, GST and income tax were present at the meeting, said sources. In Jalpaiguri district, the Sadar and Rajganj blocks share borders with Bangladesh. The boundary in the Sadar block has a stretch 55km. The frontier is 39km long in the Rajganj block. Different stretches of the Bangladesh border, whose combined length is 18km, are not fenced. The district also shares borders with Bhutan. While the Nagrakata block shares a 30km border with Bhutan, the Dhupguri block has 15km of boundary with the Himalayan country. According to administrative sources, arms smuggling, circulation of black money and inflow of illegal (non-duty paid) liquor are common ahead of the elections. “It is necessary to stop such activities to prevent intimidation of voters. That is why the meeting was held and a clear message has been passed on to central agencies and departments to make all efforts to check such practices. In areas close to the borders, check-posts would be set up to frisk vehicles and luggage,” said an official. In the past few days, reports have reached the administration that some people are illegally bringing in liquor made in Bhutan and storing the same at some places. “The excise department has been asked to take stern steps and act in coordination with the SSB and the district police,” the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-201
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Engineer beaten up in Malda, finger at Trinamul leader||The assault of a senior engineer posted in Old Malda block of Malda district on Wednesday evening by a Trinamul leader led to protests on Thursday by BDO office employees with a cease-work. Accused Trinamul leader Santosh Maiti, also husband of the local panchayat samiti’s sabhapati, however, has denied the charges and instead accused the engineer of corrupt activities. According to sources, on Wednesday evening some contractors came at the block office premises to protest the process of tenders for the construction of three ICDS buildings. “They were angry as the jobs were allotted to contractors not from Old Malda. Suddenly, Maiti started roughing up Sushanta Das, a senior engineer of the block looking after the tender process,” said an employee who joined the protest on Thursday. Das filed a police complaint against Maiti and four others, police sources said. On Thursday, employees at the block office expressed concern over their security and stopped work to protest. “If a sincere and senior employee like him (Das) is not safe, how can we be sure that we won't face such attacks during our work,” said an employee. Maiti called the charges "baseless". “I had simply tried to mediate an altercation between the contractors and the engineer. Some people are conspiring against me,” the Trinamul leader said. District Trinamul leaders responded cautiously. “The police should probe and find the truth. It is undesirable that an engineer has been manhandled.  No one should take law into his own hands,” said a district Trinamul leader. BJP jumped into the fray, with Nitai Mondal, the leader of opposition at the panchayat samiti, asking for the arrests of all the accused. “The administration should also ensure security of the employees working in the block,” Mondal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-201
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung defers public meeting for TET||Bimal Gurung has decided to postpone his first public meeting at Kurseong in more than three-and-a-half years as it coincided with the first teachers’ eligibility test (TET) conducted by the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) this Sunday. “I have been forced to take this decision as the future of the younger generation is more important. Our public meeting and TET exams are coinciding but public meetings can be held on any other date,” said Bimal Gurung, president of his faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. The meeting would now be held on Monday, he said. Around 14,500 candidates will appear for the GTA’s TET from 11. 30am to 2pm in 32 centres across the hills. With Gurung’s proposed mega show at Kurseong on Sunday — his first address in the hill town after being on the run since August 2017 — there were fears among many candidates of inconveniences in reaching exam venues. A political observer said at this moment Gurung could not afford to inconvenience the general public. The TET exam recently come into focus after an audio clip purportedly that of a teacher associated with the Gurung camp, Kamal Thapa of Rohini Tea Primary School, surfaced on social media, where the teacher was heard directing a candidate to fill up the TET application form stating she has a diploma certificate in elementary education (D.EL.Ed) obtained between 2015 and 2017. Thapa purportedly said he could provide the certificate for Rs 1.5 lakh and a primary teacher’s job for Rs 3 lakhs. Thapa was expelled by the party after the audio clip surfaced in public domain. Raju Pradhan, the founding assistant secretary of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Gurung camp), quit the party on Thursday. “I decided to quit as I did not like the party’s decision to align with Trinamul,” said Pradhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-201
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Police and Left youths clash, bandh today||The march of 10 Left student and youth organisations such as SFI and DYFI to Nabanna on Thursday took a violent turn as the police and protesters clashed, leaving many injured and prompting the Left Front to call a 12-hour strike on Friday against “police brutality”. Police sources said 38 protesters and 25 policemen were injured in the clash, and 42 protesters were arrested. SFI state secretary Srijan Bhattacharya, however, claimed around 400-500 protesters had been hospitalised. Thursday’s march to demand jobs started from College Street and was to reach Nabanna to hand over a list of demands to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “All we wanted was to give the list to the chief minister. They could’ve arrested us there (Nabanna) but instead cops brutally beat us up on the road,” said Minakshi Mukherjee, DYFI state president. The police had put up layers of barricades to stop the rally at Dorina Crossing in Esplanade. The Left outfits, however, wanted to breach this and head towards Nabanna. Police sources said at least 25 police pickets had been set up along the route of the rally and some 4,000 personnel were on duty. All alleys along the SN Banerjee Road, which the rally took to reach Esplanade, were blocked by the police and water cannons had been set up at two points. Eyewitnesses said trouble started at Dorina Crossing when the police halted protesters. As some protesters tried to break barricades, the police fired water cannons and tear gas shells. When protesters tried to counter with stones, the police did the same. As tension grew, the police lathicharged protesters. Left sources said a protester’s eye was injured and many others were gravely wounded. An angry Left Front leadership reacted to “police brutality” with a 12-hour bandh call from 6am on Friday. “When BJP goons go on a rampage in the name of protest, the police do nothing. But they brutally come down on a peaceful protest of Left student and youth outfits,” said Left leader Sujan Chakraborty. The Congress, whose youth wing had taken part in Thursday’s rally, condemned the police attack. Congress MLA and leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Abdul Mannan said his party would back Friday’s strike. The strike coincides with the day schools are set to re-open after almost a year of Covid-induced shutdown. The Bengal government issued a notification on Thursday evening cancelling all types of leave for government employees and those in state-aided institutions in view of the strike called by the Left on Friday. Employees who don’t attend duties on Friday will face a day’s pay cut and a day’s deduction from their service life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-202
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata to Shah: Speak first on son’s wealth||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday mounted an aggressive counteroffensive against Amit Shah, calling him out on personal attacks, accusing him of craving power in Bengal and advising basic courtesy as the Union home minister. The Bengal chief minister questioned Shah and other BJP leaders relentlessly focusing their attacks on the alleged corruption by her and nephew, Trinamul Congress’s heir-apparent Abhishek Banerjee. She turned the tables with a question on the source of the wealth — which grew, on record, exponentially after the BJP came to power at the Centre — of Union home minister’s son Jay Shah. “Only bhatija-bua (nephew-aunt), all the time. We are very bad, because we are from Bengal. What about your son? How did he make that kind of money? Respond to that first,” said Mamata to loud cheers from thousands in the audience, comprising civil society members, self-help groups and NGOs, at the Uttirna amphitheatre in Alipore here. Responding to Shah’s claims of the Centre allocating funds for the state, which her government allegedly misappropriates, the Trinamul chief said the money in question was not from the Prime Minister’s pocket, to begin with. “The audacious claims that Modiji gave money, and Mamataji ate it all up. Did Modiji give it from his pocket? It’s the people’s money, taxpayers’ funds, channelled from a government to another government…,” said a visibly outraged chief minister. “Today, again, he said, we are all bhroshtachari (corrupt)…. Then, what are you? Dushtachari (Wicked)? All of us are bhroshtachari, durnitiporayon (corrupt)? The mother of the thief has the loudest voice…. I heard him (Shah). Phuchka khabar khawmota nei, phulko luchi khabey (They lack the ability to handle even the basics, yet they aspire for glory)… with their feet on the throats of farmers,” she added. “I ate everything up? You have to prove it. If you cannot, you should resign.” Picking up from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi had left off on Sunday, with a football reference to drive home a political message, Mamata threw a challenge at him. “The khyala (game) isn’t that easy…. Hoye jaak, ekta khyala. Gonotontreyr khyala, porikkhar khyala, rajneetir khyala (Let’s have it then, a game. A game of democracy, a game of trial, a game of politics)? Want it at the Brigade Parade Grounds?” she asked.  “On one side, there will be your team, including the Left and the Congress. On the other side, Trinamul Congress will stand alone. I will be the goalkeeper. I will do nothing else. I will see how many goals you can score past me. Who wins this khyala,” she added. Mamata then coached the Union home minister on basics of civility. “I say this with sadness. Because if I don’t, they will mistakenly assume I am weak. Civility cannot be one-sided…. The things he said here, his body language, the ugliness of the language, and such monstrous mindset,” she said. “I say this clearly, it does not behove a Union home minister…. I am telling you clearly, in language you understand. You can abuse me, but you cannot ignore me, this you must understand….,” she added. The chief minister also criticised Modi over his andolanjeevi jibe at the farmers’ movement, lambasting his government for the way it had been treating farmers and those opposed to the citizenship matrix. “Abusing the andolankari (agitator) as andolanjeevi (those making a living off agitations)? I am the daughter of many an andolan (movement). I am a street-fighter even today. That is my biggest identity, my biggest pride… inside or outside a government. I was, am and will remain with the people. Till the very end,” said Mamata. “Again, he has come here to make his CAA-cooh noises. There will be not a tnyaphoo (peep) here. The NPR, the NRC, the CAA, not one of them will happen here,” she added. The chief minister then urged the civil society to come forward and join her fight, underscoring why it was important to save what Bengal stands for. “With folded hands, I seek your support. I ask all of you to join this fight to save Bengal. Protect it from riots. Guard its peace. For the sake of development, of students and youth, of the honour of mothers and sisters, of farmers and workers, of culture, of religion, of civilisation itself, and of yourselves,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-202
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 4,313 active cases in all in Bengal||Bengal on Thursday logged 286 Covid-19 recoveries, 217 new cases and five deaths, including three from Calcutta. The unbroken dip in Bengal’s total active cases continued for the 108th day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. Active cases, which numbered 37,190 on Dashami, have fallen to 4,313 now. Bengal has 3.11 per cent of India’s active cases, less than half of its share a couple of months ago. “We have 4.3 thousand active cases left, while over 4.3 lakh vaccine doses have been administered here. We are joint sixth in India in terms of the number of doses administered,” said a minister. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for 111 days straight to touch 97.46 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.25. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.95 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 83 days. On Thursday, the state reported 22,106 tests, taking the total past 82.31 lakh, at 91,467 tests per million people. Of the total toll of 10,225, 8,584 deaths (84 per cent) have been attributed by the state to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained at 1.78 while the national rate is 1.42 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-202
12-02-2021||West Bengal||Goons kill guard at Asansol supermarket||An armed security guard was killed and two employees of a private cash handling agency were injured when six motorcycle-borne goons fired at them in daylight on Thursday on the premises of a branded supermarket chain here. The security guard and the two employees foiled the attempt of the gang to loot cash at Kalyanpur in the West Burdwan town, but were shot at, leaving the guard dead. Police said around 11.30am, employees of a private cash handling agency were shifting Rs 70 lakh from the supermarket to a van to deposit it at a bank. As the two cash-laden bags were being dumped in the van, six masked youths on two bikes trained revolvers at the guard Rabiul Mirdha, employee Prashanta Debnath and driver Bikash Pal. “As Mirdha resisted, the goons opened fire,” said a police officer. “A bullet hit Mirdha on his throat. The other bullets hit the glass windows of the van and shards of glass injured Debnath and Pal. All three were rushed to Asansol district hospital where Mirdha was declared dead on arrival.” The goons failed to take  the bags of cash, fleeing when employees and guards of the supermarket came out hearing the gunshots. The police said the goons had left behind a motorcycle, but it could be stolen. “The motorbike bears the registration of Durgapur road transport authority but we suspect it could also have been stolen too,” said an investigating officer. Two persons have been detained for interrogations, the officer said. “We have also taken CCTV camera footage of the supermarket and alerted all neighbouring police stations, including our counterparts in the (nearby) state of Jharkhand,” said Tathagata Pandey, assistant commissioner of police (central). Police said the goons were aware about the time when cash from the supermarket chain was supposed to be shifted to the bank. “They had been waiting at the spot and they seemed to have carried out a recce beforehand,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-202
