13-02-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah misleading Matuas with citizenship promise, says Abhishek||Claiming that it would take 10 years to complete the Covid-19 vaccination process in the country, senior Trinamool Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee on Saturday accused Union Home Minister Amit Shah of misleading members of the Matua community on providing citizenship to them. Shah attacked the Mamata Banerjee government for opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) at public meetings in Bengal on Thursday, and asserted that the contentious citizenship law would be enforced after the completion of the coronavirus inoculation programme. Referring to TMC leader Dinesh Trivedi's resignation from Rajya Sabha on Friday months before the assembly polls, Abhishek Banerjee who is the youth wing president of the party and a Lok Sabha MP, said, "Trivedi said he was feeling suffocated. Let him go and get admitted to the BJP's ICU. "Shah said that the CAA will be implemented once the Covid vaccination work is completed in the country. It will take 10 years to complete the vaccination process in the entire country. He is misleading the Matuas, Banerjee said while addressing a public meeting at Kulpi in South 24 Parganas district. Matuas, originally from East Pakistan, are a weaker section of Hindus who migrated to India during the Partition and after the creation of Bangladesh. Many of them have been accorded Indian citizenship but a sizable section of the population has not got it. The Matua community, with an estimated population of three million in the state, can tilt the scales in favour of a political party in at least four Lok Sabha seats, more than 30 assembly seats in Nadia, and North and South 24 Parganas districts. It once stood behind the TMC but had supported the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Now, both the BJP and the TMC are wooing the Matua people ahead of the assembly election due in April-May. On Shah's statement that the TMC will be uprooted from Bengal in the assembly polls, he said that the TMC is not a cutout which one can uproot. "It is a grassroots party.The more you cut it, the more it will grow." Claiming that the only poll plank of the BJP is 'Jai Shri Ram' and it has no development agenda, the TMC leader alleged that the saffron party does not know to give respect to women. "They say Jai Shri Ram and not Jai Siya Ram. This is because they don't know to give respect to women", the nephew of Mamata Banerjee said. 'Jai Siya Ram' means 'glory to Sita and Lord Ram' while 'Jai Shri Ram' denotes 'hail Lord Ram'. "See the way the BJP showed disrespect to Mamata Banerjee at the birth anniversary celebrations of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at the Victoria Memorial Hall in Kolkata," he said. Mamata Banerjee, state chief minister and the TMC supremo, on January 23 refused to speak at the event attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi after "Jai Shri Ram" slogans were raised by a section of the audience just before she was to start her address. The Diamond Harbour MP also alleged that women are tortured in BJP-ruled states like Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. Abhishek Banerjee claimed that the TMC will get more than 250 seats in the assembly polls while the saffron party will find it difficult to cross the double-digit mark. Countering the BJP's claim of coming to power in the state by winning over 200 seats in the election to the 294- member assembly, he said, "Bengal will elect Mamata Banerjee as the chief minister for the third time." The saffron party's clamour for a double-engine government (same party rule in the Centre as well as state) in Bengal will fall flat before the single-engine power of Mamata Banerjee, he said adding that the TMC will be in power for 50 years. He claimed that BJP leaders coming from north India are a "bunch of outsiders" who are not aware of the culture of Bengal, and spreading fake news to confuse people. The TMC MP alleged that the BJP is trying to impose north Indian culture on Bengal. "Let me say our chief minister Mamata Banerjee will stand there like Maa Durga to fight against the BJP which has weapons like CBI and ED", he said. Banerjee claimed that the saffron party is trying to influence farmers of the state by promising to provide Rs 18,000 in their accounts, if elected to power, but "Bengal will never sell its spine to the BJP". The BJP has been saying that if voted to power in the state, it will ensure that each farmer of the state gets Rs 18,000 in arrears under the PM-KISAN scheme. "The BJP should first think of Gujarat, UP and other states. No need to worry about Bengal. Outsiders will not rule Bengal," the TMC leader said. Later, Banerjee conducted a roadshow from Kamalgazi to Sonarpur in South 24 Parganas, a stretch of around 4 kilometres, atop a blue coloured bus named 'Didir doot' (agent of Didi).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-200
13-02-2021||West Bengal||Push for two new municipalities in Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar||The Mamata Banerjee government came up with notifications announcing constitution of two new civic bodies — at Maynaguri in Jalpaiguri district and Falakata in the neighbouring district of Alipurduar — on Thursday and specified the rural areas which would be brought under the new municipalities. The move, Trinamul insiders believe, will give a major boost to the party in both these districts as long standing demands of the residents of Maynaguri and Falakata — most of them had sided with the saffron camp in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls — have been met. On Thursday, the notification issued by the state mentioned that the Madhabdanga-I and Maynaguri panchayats, along with portions of Khagrabari-I and Domohoni-I panchayats of Maynaguri block. “Around 45,000 people dwell in the proposed area, with a population density of around 7,000 people. Among them, 80 per cent are not associated with the agricultural sector,” said an official in the district administration. It may be mentioned that in Bengal, an area can be declared a civic body if it has a population of at least 30,000 people, a population density of 750 people (living per square kilometre) and half or more of the adult population is not associated with agriculture. “Now that the notification has been made, a board of council would be formed that will hold a meeting after three months. After the meeting, a final notification would be made where the number of wards, along with reservation of seats, would be announced,” said an official. Similarly in Falakata, another locality where residents have been demanding the “the formal urban tag” or announcement of a municipality, the new civic body will cover two panchayats and parts of two other panchayats of Falakata block. These are Falakata-I & II, Parengerpar and Guabarnagar. Altogether, around 55,000 people reside in these areas which would be demarcated as municipal wards in due course. Once the civic body comes into existence, it will be the second municipality in Alipurduar district. In north Bengal, the only other district that has a single civic body is Kalimpong. “The chief minister had made the announcement on December 5 and has kept her promise. We have been raising the demand for years now and it is Mamata Banerjee who has met it. We are confident that people will stand with us not and not with BJP,” said Subhash Roy, the Trinamul president of Falakata block. In 2016, Trinamul had managed to win both Falakata and Maynaguri Assembly seats. However, in the 2019 Parliament elections, BJP had secured leads in both these Assembly segments. “It is yet another major move by Mamata Banerjee to draw support from people of these two seats as well as from adjoining areas,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-200
13-02-2021||West Bengal||Coal mining case: High Court stays rider for CBI probe||A division bench of Calcutta High Court on Friday stayed the order of the court’s single bench that had allowed the CBI to continue its probe against Anup Majhi alias Lala and others in an illegal coal mining case only after taking the approval of the state government. Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya had in his order on February 3 said the CBI would have to take prior permission of the Bengal government to conduct any probe against any person beyond the railway jurisdiction of Asansol. Justice Bhattacharya had issued the order in response to Majhi’s plea challenging the CBI’s power to investigate affairs beyond the railway jurisdiction of Asansol. Since the order of the high court’s single bench had forced the CBI to restrict its proceedings, the CBI had moved the division bench against the verdict. The division bench comprising Justice Rajesh Dindal and Justice Aniruddha Roy stayed the order of the single bench and ruled that the CBI would have liberty to initiate proceedings against any person beyond the railway jurisdiction of Asansol without obtaining approval from the state government. The CBI had issued summons against Majhi, a coal trader of Asansol, accusing him of his involvement in the coal smuggling case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-200
13-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee government waives road tax for two quarters ||The Mamata Banerjee government has waived the road tax that commercial transport owners need to pay in every quarter to run their vehicles in view of the Covid 19-pandemic and the resultant lockdown that affected their business for many weeks. In a notification issued by the state transport on February 10, it was mentioned that the tax for two consecutive quarters — from January 1 to June 30 this year — has been waived.
For the past few months, transporters in Siliguri and surrounding areas time and again raised a number of demands, including waiver of the tax and penalties for delay in the payment of such taxes and most importantly, revision of fares. In Siliguri as well as in the Darjeeling hills, the fares charged from passengers by thousands of light vehicles — both on share basis and reserve basis — have not been revised since 2008.
Recently, owners and drivers of around 1,300 taxis, most of which ply from Bagdogra airport, observed a strike over these demands. “We thank the state government for waiving the tax for two quarters. It has come as a relief for us. Last year, our vehicles had been lying idle for four to five months. We would also urge the government to waive the penalty we have to pay if there is delay in clearing the taxes,” said Siraj Bhomik, the president of the Bagdogra Airport Taxi Association.
A person can save Rs 8,000 to Rs 9,000 against a vehicle on account of the waiver, he said. State tourism minister Gautam Deb, who was instrumental in flagging the transporters’ issue before the state government, said their demand for fare revision would be addressed soon.
“The department will soon take appropriate initiatives in this regard. We are in touch with officials and hope the fares would be revised soon,” the minister said.
Although he declined further comments, sources said there were indications that the fares would be increased to a considerable level. “We have heard that the fares of luxury taxis which operate on different hill routes would be increased by around 35 per cent while those of the non-luxury cars would be increased by 40 per cent or so,” said a transporter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-200
13-02-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung: BJP interested only in photo sessions, not in delivering promises||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung on Friday said the BJP was only interested in photo sessions and not in delivering promises if one went by the saffron camp’s past deeds. Gurung had been an ally of the BJP from 2009 until last year when he dumped the NDA and joined hands with the Trinamul Congress. “The BJP is good at using social media and publicity. They are only interested in photo sessions but not in delivering promises. One example is the way Darjeeling municipality councillors were treated,” Gurung said at a party workers’ meet at Tukvar. The 17 councillors had moved a no-confidence motion in May 2019 against the then chairman, Prativa Rai Tamang, who was in the Binay Tamang camp of the Morcha. The motion was moved soon after the Gurung-BJP-GNLF alliance had won the Darjeeling Lok Sabha and Assembly seats. “I was displaced (was on the run from Bengal police) and to save them, I asked them to join the BJP. The BJP did a photo session but precious little afterwards even though they were in a majority and could have formed a board. They suffered a lot for nine months,” said Gurung. The Bengal government soon dissolved the Darjeeling civic board and the vote of no-confidence could not be held. Some of the councillors also returned to the Tamang camp later. Gurung’s statement comes at a time many of his associates in the Morcha, like Kalyan Dewan, Swaraj Thapa, B.P. Bagjain and Trilok Chand Roka, have joined the BJP. In his address, Gurung also stressed that the issue of “displaced workers (those who were on the run with Gurung)” and “un-displaced (those at the ground zero)” must end in the party and it was time to move together. “I have to deliver (in this election),” said Gurung and hinted that he would continue to focus on the Terai and the Dooars as of now. “After the Kurseong meeting on February 15, I was thinking of staying there for two-three days. I, however, decided to go to the Terai. I might also delay my public meeting at Mirik (which is in the hills),” said Gurung. Despite joining hands with Trinamul, which is against the demand of Gorkhaland, Gurung said he was the only hill leader “who could and will continue to” raise the Gorkhaland slogan. The Morcha leader, however, said he would not fight with the (state) government as an earlier fight (the 2017 agitation) had forced him to be on the run. “People said that they would lay their lives for Gorkhaland but in the jungles, I was all alone,” Gurung claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-200
13-02-2021||West Bengal||Dinesh Trivedi quits Rajya Sabha and Trinamul Congress||Trinamul Congress MP Dinesh Trivedi on Friday sprang a surprise on the floor of the Rajya Sabha by announcing his resignation from the Upper House, saying he could no longer stay silent when violence was allegedly rocking Bengal. The businessman-turned-parliamentarian later announced his resignation from Trinamul which had lost several leaders to the BJP in recent months. Originally from Gujarat, Trivedi was the railways minister for a brief period in the UPA 2 government. He made the announcement during a debate on the Union Budget in the Rajya Sabha. “If one sits here in silence and can’t do anything, then it is better that one resigns from this place, goes to the land of Bengal and stays with the people…. What I mean is the way violence has been taking place in our state… sitting here, I feel baffled, as to what I should do,” said Trivedi in the Rajya Sabha, shortly before handing over his resignation to Vice-president M. Venkaiah Naidu, the chairman of the Upper House. Trivedi explained to the Naidu that he resigned on his own without fear or favour. “I am grateful to my party, for it sent me here. But now, I feel a little suffocated,” he added. “We are incapable of acting and there are atrocities being committed…. My inner voice of conscience is telling me something Swami Vivekananda used to say: “Arise, awake, and stop not till the goal is reached”.” The septuagenarian with three Rajya Sabha and two Lok Sabha terms under his belt is yet to announce plans. But given that his statements in the House and outside were a virtual echo of Trinamul office-bearers who defected to the BJP in recent memory, few would be surprised if he joins the ruling party at the Centre. Irrespective of the dismissive tone of statements from Trinamul, Trivedi’s exit would be significant to Mamata Banerjee, with whom he has shared an association of over two decades. In his multiple media interactions through the day, Trivedi said Mamata had lost control of the party and it was being taken over by poll consultant Prashant Kishor (whom he did not name). “When the party goes into the hands of a corporate professional, he is running the party, no one has time to listen. Somebody doesn’t know the ABC of politics, he is becoming my neta (leader). So what can people do in such a situation?” he asked. Trivedi said his party was allegedly pestering him to abuse Prime Minister Narendra Modi daily, which he claimed was not part of his value system. He did sound off-tune on several occasions in the past — especially after being removed as Union minister by Mamata in 2012 as she disagreed with his railway budget — but was not deemed a likely candidate for defection. “She (Mamata) sacrificed Arjun Singh, who wanted the Barrackpore Lok Sabha candidature, to stand by Dinesh… who contested and lost to Arjun, the BJP candidate. After that, she sent him to the Rajya Sabha again last year. This is how he pays her back,” said Trinamul MP Kalyan Banerjee. A Trinamul insider said Trivedi, known for his proximity to both the BJP and the Congress high-commands, was all set to board the saffron bandwagon. Trinamul’s deputy leader in the Rajya Sabha Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said Trivedi was “ungrateful” and accused him of having betrayed the trust of millions. “For decades, he did not utter a word within the party. With weeks or months left for the Assembly polls, he feels suffocated. Such well-timed suffocation and claustrophobia are a worrying sign for his health,” Roy added . Trinamul vice-president and veteran parliamentarian Saugata Roy said people like Trivedi should have flagged his concerns within the party first and not leave just before the polls, having enjoyed years of power. Among the first in the BJP to welcome Trivedi was Arjun Singh. The BJP’s national general-secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said: “Anyone who wishes to work for the people of Bengal cannot be part of Trinamul anymore.” “I believe Dineshji delayed all this by a year, because a year ago, he had met me at the airport and said he was not being able to work in Trinamul…. If he wants to come, we will welcome him,” he added. The Left Front mocked Trivedi and Trinamul in equal measure. “This isn’t anything new. It’s just a part of the long line. Trinamul has been reduced to a railway platform from where people are either boarding a train or getting off it,” said CPM general-secretary Sitaram Yechury. “Everyday, people are quitting Trinamul. However, given the track record of the alliance between the two parties (Trinamul and the BJP), it doesn’t make much of a difference if you’re here or there,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-200
13-02-2021||West Bengal||Cattle and coal smuggling cases: ED searches Trinamul leader’s houses ||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday sear­ch­ed at least two Calcutta addresses of Trinamul Congress youth wing leader Vinay Mi­shra in cattle and coal smuggling cases in Bengal. Accompanied by CRPF personnel, two separate teams of the central investigating agency from Delhi carried out searches at Mishra’s residences in south Calcutta to find out whether he had transferred money from several banks to the alleged beneficiaries of the smuggling racket. “Unlike the CBI, our focus in this particular case is on whether Mishra was involved in money laundering,” said a senior ED official. The CBI, which is probing the alleged smuggling of cattle and coal across Bengal, had conducted searches at Mis­hra’s three residences in Calcutta on December 31. The businessman-turned-politician had not been found at any of the three addresses. On January 27, the CBI special court in Asansol issued an arrest warrant against Mishra, who the central agencies believe, is possibly in the Gulf. The CBI has issued a lookout notice against Mishra. Senior ED officers said Friday’s searches were aimed at trying to trace alleged beneficiaries of the racket. The CBI had earlier claimed that Mis­hra had maintained a list which included several politicians who had received money from the dealings. Till late on Friday evening, officials remained tight-lipped about the findings from the search operations. The BJP has called Mishra a “power broker” and its Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvarg­i­ya sought to link the CBI se­arches in December to chief mi­nister Mamata Banerjee and her nephew and MP Abh­ishek. Trinamul said the searches were politically motivated ahead of the Assembly polls. NIA and Naihati blast The National Investigation Ag­ency has recommended punitive action against North 24-Parganas district magistrate Chaitali Chakrabarti, Barrackpore police commissioner Manoj Verma and Pranab Naskar of the district industries centre for their alleged dereliction of duty in the wake of the blast at Naihati in January last year. Five people, including two women, were killed and several others were injured. The NIA submitted its chargesheet in the case on Thursday. A letter recommending punitive ac­­t­ion against the three re­ached Nabanna on Friday, sources said. The state government is yet to decide whether to act on the recommendation. Several senior officials said the recommendation was not binding on them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-200
13-02-2021||West Bengal||Protest against lathicharge: SFI members gift roses to police personnel||Members of the CPM-backed SFI gifted roses to at least 20 police personnel in Burdwan town on Friday while observing a 12-hour strike called to protest police lathicharge on supporters of Left student and youth organisations during their march to Nabanna in Calcutta on Thursday. “We thanked them with roses for hitting us with batons and firing tear gas shells at youths who were marching to Nabanna to demand jobs. We told the cops that their batons had boosted our morale for a bigger fight,” said Anirban Roy Chowdhury, the SFI district committee secretary in East Burdwan. Members of the SFI, along with other senior CPM leaders, started picketing on GT Road in front of Curzon Gate in Burdwan after they took out a rally in the town and requested shopkeepers to close down their outlets in support of the strike. When police came to lift the blockade, the protesters offered the cops roses “in recognition of their act of beating students and youths in Calcutta on Thursday”. In West Burdwan’s Durgapur, a group of CPM leaders went a step ahead when they offered police personnel Trinamul flags along with chocolate for “beating protesters”. The police, however, refused to accept the flags of the ruling party. “We offered Trinamul flags to the cops and asked them to work for the ruling party. Their brutal act in Calcutta on Thursday was no different from what Trinamul workers usually do,” said Pankaj Roy Sarkar, a CPM district secretariat member in West Burdwan. Apart from East Burdwan and West Burdwan, Left Front leaders ,along with members of the students and youth organisations, blocked state and national highways across south Bengal. However, the strike had a partial impact at most places. However, in districts of Birbhum, Purulia and Bankura, private buses did not ply because of the bandh. In north Bengal, the strike had minimal effect as it only led to the closure of marketplaces, some private establishments and banks. A section of private transport went off the roads but otherwise, normal life remained largely unaffected. The strike did not have any impact in tea estates and in the Darjeeling  hills. The schools, which reopened on Friday after almost 10 months, remained open. No major violence has been reported from across the region. Drama unfolded at the Siliguri’s Girls’ High School as a group of strikers entered the premises, shouting slogans. This made the headmistress of the school Atuhya Bagchi step out of her room and admonish the strikers for shouting slogans on the school premise. The demonstrators fumbled and tried to pacify her by saying that they had come to the school to urge students so that they support the strike. Bagchi, however, asked them to leave the premises, which they did. “This is not a place for sloganeering. The girls are back to school after several weeks and now these people want us to close down the institution for the day. The manner in which they entered the school shouting slogans is not expected from a students’ organisation. That is why I asked them to leave the school,” Bagchi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-200
13-02-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah’s CAA rollout promise a bluff: Joint Forum Against NRC||The Joint Forum Against NRC, a conglomerate of organisations protesting against the citizenship tripod, on Friday said Union home minister Amit Shah was bluffing when he told the Matua community that the Citizenship Amendment Act would be implemented after the completion of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. “There is a disconnect between the demand from the Matuas and the provisions contained in the law that the Parliament passed. The Matuas want unconditional citizenship while the law doesn’t include such a provision. Union home minister is bluffing the Matuas by saying that citizenship would be offered after the completion of the vaccination,” said Prasenjit Bose, convenor of the forum. According to him, the law makes it clear that “certificate of naturalisation” or “certificate of registration” — which are likely to resolve the citizenship issue of the immigrant community from Bangladesh — would be issued only after one files an application and meets certain conditions. “If these are the provisions in the law, how can the rules, which are not yet framed, offer unconditional citizenship?)” asked Bose, while adding that this disconnect was the reason behind the Centre delaying the framing of rules of the CAA. To buttress his argument, Bose rolled out the example of the two farm bills that the Centre passed on September 20, 2020. “The rules were notified on October 20 and 21 respectively... If the government can frame the rules for farm laws in a month, why does it take them more than 14 months to frame the rules of CAA?” he asked. Bose and his colleagues in the forum have decided to organise a Citizenship Secure Yatra between February 26 and March 5 through the Matua-dominated areas in Nadia and North 24-Parganas to spread awareness of the “inconsistencies” in the claims of the Centre. “Ordinary gullible people are fooled in the name of citizenship... We will try to convince them that they are being taken for granted by the BJP,” he said. According to him, the Atal Behari Vajpayee government created the biggest problem for refugees in 2003 by amending the original citizenship act of 1955 as the concept of “doubtful citizen” got woven into the act. “The amendment changed the status of refugees as they became infiltrators... It’s an irony that the party that brought this change is dangling the citizenship carrot today,” he said, demanding the repeal of the 2003 amended act and the CAA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-200
13-02-2021||West Bengal||Tea Board of India comes up with new dates to start plucking of leaves and production||The Tea Board of India has come up with new dates to start the plucking of leaves and production in Bengal, Sikkim and Bihar this year. P.K. Sahoo, the deputy chairman of the board, issued an order on February 8, mentioning that plucking of tea leaves and tea production at factories would commence on February 15 in the Dooars, Terai and Bihar. February 22 is the date on which the plucking and production would start in the Darjeeling hills and Sikkim. Since 2018, the board has been announcing dates for growers to start and end the plucking and production in different regions of the country. “The dates are announced to discourage the production of tea of inferior quality during the winter or the lean season when leaves stop growing,” said a planter in Siliguri. Bijoygopal Chakraborty, the president of the Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations (Cista), has said: “We welcome the decision and look forward to a better season than last year when the industry had to face losses because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown. We also hope that prices would be steady this year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-201
13-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal logs 188 infections||Bengal on Friday logged 264 Covid-19 recoveries, 188 infections and four deaths, including three in the city. The total of active cases, which was 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), has fallen to 4,233, having improved by 88.61 per cent. The state recorded the drop for the 109th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. Bengal now has over 5.72 lakh total Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported on March 17 last year, including more than 5.57 lakh recoveries and 10,229 deaths. Since October 26, the state reported over 2.47 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.18 lakh infections detected. In this window of 109 days, the state logged 3,683 deaths. The recovery rate rose for 112 consecutive days to touch 97.47 per cent. The national rate now is 97.3. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.93 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 84 days. On Friday, the state reported 24,110 tests, taking the total past 82.56 lakh, at 91,735 tests per million people. Of the total death toll, 8,587 (83.9 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate was 1.42 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-201
