14-02-2021||West Bengal||Large-toothed Burmese ferret badger sighted in Kalimpong||The badger has frequently made its appearance in literature and comics but in real life, the elusive animal was sighted in Kalimpong recently. A Burmese ferret badger, which is also known as the large-toothed ferret badger, was rescued from No 2 Staff Colony of Jhaldhaka Hydel Project near Kalimpong on February 1. Praveen Katwal, forest ranger, Jhaldhaka division, said the animal had later been released at Paren ( a nearby area) by the staff. “When the animal was first spotted, the staff could not immediately identify it,” said Katwal. Even though there are eight different types of badger, the Burmese ferret badger is native to southeast Asia, north eastern states of India and parts of Bengal. However, sighting, rescue and release of the animal are rare in Bengal. Kalimpong divisional forest officer Hari Krishnan said: “Rescue and release are rare as the animal is nocturnal and mostly active at night.” Foresters could not immediately recall if the Burmese ferret badger had been photographed and recorded before release in the wild in Bengal before. Even though the Burmese ferret badger has not yet been classified as a threatened species, various details of the omnivore like its social organisation, reproductive cycle and life history are still unknown. Animal Diversity Web, which describes itself as an online database of animal natural history, distribution, classification and conservation biology at the University of Michigan, says while the Burmese ferret badger has lived 10 years in captivity, “there are no data on the lifespan of Burmese ferret badgers in the wild”. Another research paper available in public domain on the “first ever” sighting of the Burmese ferret badger in Bangladesh in 2008 states that two specimens and one sighting were reported from Jalpaiguri district, referring to notes from as early as 1917. The paper underscores the recorded sighting a rarity in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
14-02-2021||West Bengal||Supporters of a pro-TMC Congress faction demand cancellation of cultural fest at Cooch Behar palace||Around 500 supporters of a pro-Trinamul Congress faction in the Greater Cooch Behar People’s Association (GCPA) held a demonstration in front of the royal palace of Cooch Behar on Saturday, demanding the cancellation of a three-day cultural fest scheduled to be held there from Sunday. The fest has been planned by the Union ministry of tourism and culture. The demonstration by the Bangshibadan Burman faction was withdrawn on Saturday night after Cooch Behar district magistrate Pawan Kadyan purportedly assured the protesters that the palace wouldn’t be used for any such event in future. Asked about the programmes lined up for Sunday at the palace, the GCPA said it was up to the organisers to decide on. The GCPA, which had been formed over the demand of separate statehood for Cooch Behar, is divided into two factions. While Burman has lent support to Trinamul, the other faction headed by Ananta Maharaj is with the BJP. “We feel a cultural fest on the premises of the palace will hurt its pride and heritage and also damage the structure and different exhibits at the building. When the Left Front government was in power, we had launched agitation for cancellation of a similar programme,” Girija Shankar Roy, the convener of the GCPA, had said earlier in the day. A few days back, Nisith Pramanik, the BJP MP of Cooch Behar, had announced the fest. Prominent local artists and performers from outside, including singer Kailash Kher, were scheduled to perform at the event. The BJP had questioned the intention of the protesters. “It is evident that some people are trying to stop the event with narrow political interests. The state government should extend support to the Centre so that the fest is held successfully. It is disappointing to see that the state government and the district administration are silent,” said Sanjoy Chakraborty, a district general secretary of BJP in Cooch Behar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
14-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 185 new Covid-19 cases, 257 recoveries||Bengal on Saturday logged 257 Covid-19 recoveries, 185 infections and one death as a drop in total active cases continued for the 110th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. The total of active cases, which was 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), has fallen to 4,160. Bengal now has over 5.72 lakh total Covid-19 cases since the first was reported on March 17 last year. The state has recorded over 5.58 lakh recoveries and 10,230 deaths till now. The lone death recorded on Saturday was not in Calcutta. The recovery rate rose for 113 consecutive days to touch 97.49 per cent. The national rate now is 97.3. The state’s current positive confirmation rate is 6.91 per cent now. It has been falling steadily for 86 days. With 22,055 tests recorded on Saturday, over 82.78 lakh swab samples have been examined in Bengal. Tests per million people are 91,980. Of the total deaths, 8,588 (83.9 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate was 1.42 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
14-02-2021||West Bengal||Narendra Modi to address Visva-Bharati University convocation virtually on February 19||Prime Minister and chancellor of Visva-Bharati, Narendra Modi, will address the varsity convocation virtually on February 19, which will be his second speech at the institution in two months. Modi had delivered a speech at the varsity on the occasion of its centenary celebration on December 24. Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal will come down to Santiniketan for the event where governor Jagdeep Dhankhar is expected to be present. Modi had attended only one convocation at Visva-Bharati in 2018. “We have been informed from Delhi that our Chancellor will address the varsity’s convocation virtually on February 19,” said a senior varsity official. Sources said President and visitor to the varsity, Ram Nath Kovind, had attended the convocation last in November 2019 and Modi had attended only one convocation at the varsity in 2018 when he inaugurated Bangladesh Bhavan, along with his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina. A section of varsity teachers said the Prime Minister was very keen on leaving a positive impression vis-a-vis Rabindranath Tagore and Visva-Bharati in poll-bound Bengal, where the saffron party is trying to grab power. “We expect that the Centre could announce something big for the varsity as the Assembly polls are just two months away. Top brass in Delhi asked us to hold the convocation on February 19,” said an official. Sources said there were allegations that the BJP-led central government had slashed funds. Even vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty admitted in writing that funds from the Centre were being slashed regularly and asked the employees to donate their salaries in one of his missives to them in June last year. BJP insiders said party leaders in Delhi were working hard to prove its connection with Bengali culture and measures would be aimed at showing how the central government had been taking care of Tagore’s legacy. Question papers Three examinations for undergraduate and postgraduate students of Sangit Bhavan have been cancelled after question papers were allegedly stolen or got misplaced from the office of a head of the department this week. Swapan Kumar Ghosh, the principal of Sangit Bhavan, said: “We will soon lodge a complaint with police on the question papers being stolen or have gone missing.” A group of old timers on Saturday accused the VC of trying to “disassociate” them from the varsity. “There is a group of people from Santiniketan who are called Ashramik, or old timers, from the time of Tagore. Here, the VC is trying to disassociate them from the campus. He is attacking every tradition and even the students are suffering. We condemn this,” said Dikshit Sinha, a former varsity teacher. Kuntal Rudra, an alumnus, said they would write to the President and the Prime Minister on how the present administration by VC was trampling the tradition of the varsity. PM visit Within three weeks of his last visit to Bengal, PM Narendra Modi will be in the state on February 22. According to sources, Modi will inaugurate the extension of the Calcutta metro railway from Noapara to Dakshineswar station. Later, he will address a public meeting at Chinsurah in Hooghly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
14-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP leader Firoz Kamal Gazi injured in attack in North 24-Parganas||BJP leader Firoz Kamal Gazi aka Babu Master was attacked by goons who fired bullets and hurled bombs at his vehicle near Minakhan in North 24-Parganas on Saturday evening while he was returning from a public meeting in Basirhat. Sources said Gazi had been gravely injured and admitted to a private hospital in Calcutta. Gazi, a former member of the executive committee of the North 24-Parganas Trinamul Congress, joined the BJP on December 18. He is considered close to Suvendu Adhikari who left Trinamul and joined the BJP. Police sources said Gazi had been injured by splinters of the bombs. His car had been stopped by a speed breaker on the Basanti Highway when the attack happened.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
14-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata govt to implement central plan for soft loan to hawkers||The Mamata Banerjee government is set to implement Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi, a central plan that ensures a soft loan of Rs 10,000 each to hawkers, as the top brass at Nabanna has realised that the scheme could help more than 50,000 such traders in Bengal in the post-lockdown period. After the PM-Kisan scheme, AtmaNirbhar Nidhi would be the second welfare plan by the Union government that the Trinamul Congress dispensation would sign up for after initial resistance. “It has been decided in principle that the Centre’s scheme for hawkers would be implemented in Bengal. The urban development department would do the needful to implement the scheme in the state,” said a senior government official. Sources said the Centre had launched the scheme in July last year with an aim to help street vendors, who suffered a lot during the Covid-19-induced lockdown. “The primary objective of the scheme is to ensure a collateral-free loan to street vendors so that they can start their business again in the post-lockdown period,” said an official. According to sources, hawkers authorised by local bodies like municipal corporations are eligible for the scheme. “But the state government did not implement the scheme. Instead, the chief minister had announced a one-time grant of Rs 2,000 for street vendors in Bengal,” said a source. But just ahead of the Assembly polls, the top brass of the government felt that depriving people of central schemes was not going down well with voters and it was giving an unnecessary handle to the BJP to criticise the ruling party in Bengal, sources said. “During the Duare Sarkar programme, state government officials manning the camps found that people were inquiring about central schemes. That gave a hint that people were not happy with the state government’s decision of not implementing a series of central schemes,” said an official. According to sources, people’s interest in availing themselves of the central schemes was evident after more than 22 lakh farmers applied for PM-Kisan that ensures financial assistance of Rs 6,000 annually to farmers. The state government did not implement the scheme since 2019 when it was launched. “This had put pressure on the state ahead of the polls, particularly when the BJP started criticising Trinamul for not implementing the scheme in the state. Accepting the PM-Kisan scheme was the first step and now it appears the scheme for the street vendors would be the second step to counter the BJP’s criticism,” said a source. In Bengal, more than 50,000 street vendors have identity cards issued by civic bodies, most of whom are from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation area. “The chief minister has already said she does not want to deprive anybody of any benefit. If the scheme helps any of the street vendors, we don’t want to put up any obstacle,” said a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-200
