15-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP IT cell spreading rumours, making fake calls to profs: Mamata||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday accused the BJP IT cell of calling up people by posing as ruling party workers and spreading misinformation, Hinddustan Times reported. “Some professors at Kolkata’s Jadavpur University were called up by people who identified themselves as Trinamool Congress (TMC) members and wanted to know who the professors would vote for in the coming elections. The callers gave a lot of misinformation and made insulting remarks before hanging up,” Banerjee told the media at the state secretariat. “When the professors checked the numbers it was found that these are not linked to the TMC. This is the dirty work of the BJP IT cell. I am asking the police to start a probe immediately. I urge people not to receive calls from suspicious numbers and lodge police complaints if they are contacted. Strong action will be taken. The BJP’s IT cell is proficient in spreading fake news. Amit Shah had once said his party can make anything viral through thousands of WhatsApp groups,” said Banerjee. Bengal BJP vice-president Ritesh Tiwari countered Banerjee’s allegation by calling her a “habitual liar”. “Banerjee is a habitual liar and people of Bengal know that by now. She is making up these stories to secure the sympathy of the teaching community. Why doesn’t she make public the records of those alleged calls and audio recording of the conversations that she claims have taken place. I challenge her. Let her prove the involvement of the BJP IT cell if she can,” Tiwari said. The chief minister also accused the Centre of failing to control the prices of petrol and cooking gas. “The prices go down before elections and go up again. I urge the Centre to take steps,” she said. She made the remarks after virtually inaugurating a large number of projects, ranging from a subsidized cooked food chain for common people to a training facility for Indian Civil Service aspirants. The latter has been named after freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose who had resigned from the civil service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-198
15-02-2021||West Bengal||DYFI activist injured in a clash with police while on a march towards Nabanna dies||A DYFI activist who was injured in a clash with the police during the Left parties' march to West Bengal secretariat Nabanna on February 11 succumbed to his injuries on Monday morning, igniting a political row in the state. The CPI (M) has termed its youth wing cadre's death a "murder" by the TMC government, while the ruling party in the state called it a "suicide". Maidul Islam Midda, a resident of Kotulpur in Bankura district, was critically injured and was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in south Kolkata, a health official said. His condition continued to deteriorate and he died in the morning due to excessive blood loss, hospital authorities said. An FIR was registered with the Shakespeare Sarani police station in connection with Midda's death, a senior officer of Calcutta Police said. "We are thoroughly probing the matter. A post-mortem examination will be conducted during the day," he said. The CPI (M) has held the TMC government responsible for his death. "This is nothing but murder. The way the students were lathi-charged during the march shows that the TMC government is scared and worried. The state administration is solely responsible for Midda's death," CPI (M) leader Sujan Chakraborty said. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh also mourned Midda's death and lashed out at the TMC government. "This is an unfortunate incident. It shows that the TMC government has lost control over everything. Whatever is happening in West Bengal is not correct," he said. Senior TMC leader and state Panchayat Minister Subrata Mukherjee said, "Any death is unfortunate. But that day the police was very sensible. I think this is nothing but suicide." Student and youth wings of Left parties had clashed with the police during the rally, leading to injuries on both sides. The police had resorted to lathi-charge, burst tear gas shells and used water cannons to disperse the activists. The Left Front had called a 12-hour state-wide bandh on February 12 in protest against the police action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-198
15-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal allocates plot for Cooch Behar varsity, Centre holds fest to woo Rajbanshis||Bengal government handed over a 13-acre plot to the Cooch Behar Panchanan Barma University to set up the second campus at Khalishamari in the Mathabhanga subdivision on Sunday, a day when a cultural festival organised by the centre was inaugurated at the palace of the erstwhile royals here. The university named after the greatest icon of Rajbanshis and the festival at the Cooch Behar palace have become instruments in the hands of the Trinamul Congress and the BJP, respectively, in their endeavour to woo the community that can influence electoral outcome in close to half of 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal. The land for the second campus was handed over to the varsity authorities at Khalishamari by north Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh. “The date is significant as February 14 is the birth anniversary of Panchanan Barma, the most revered social reformer of the community while Khalishamari was his birthplace,” pointed out a political observer. On the premises of the palace, known as Rajbari among local people, hundreds assembled to witness the gala inauguration of the 11th edition of the three-day Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav hosted by the Union ministry of tourism and culture. Union tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel and Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar were present at the event, along with Cooch Behar BJP MP Nisith Pramanik. “The palace is an emblem of pride and rich heritage of Cooch Behar. We have chosen the palace as the venue of the cultural extravaganza to showcase the site as well as the district before the national and international audience. Prominent artists will congregate here for cultural exchange in the next two days,” Patel said in his speech. Supporters of the Bangshibadan Burman faction of the Greater Cooch Behar People’s Association had demonstrated in front of the palace on Saturday, demanding that the venue of the fest be shifted somewhere else. Their grouse was that the festival would damage the palace preserved by the Archaeological Survey of India. Obliquely referring to the protest, Patel said in his address: “Some people here have a misconception....There should be no difference of opinion when it comes to cultural issues.”  The previous editions of the festival had been organised at other towns in India. Bengal minister Ghosh paid homage to Panchanan Barma at the programme where the land was transferred to the university. “We received the plot today (Sunday) and the chief minister will virtually lay the foundation stone of the second campus from Nabanna tomorrow (Monday). She will also unveil a statue of Panchanan Barma on the varsity’s premises in Cooch Behar,” vice-chancellor Debkumar Mukherjee said. The state government had already taken a number of decisions for the uplift of Rajbanshis. Union home minister Amit Shah had on February 11 made a series of announcements, including a battalion in central paramilitary forces in the name of Narayani Sena, which was the troop of the Cooch Behar royals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-198
15-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 262 cured, two die in Bengal||Bengal on Sunday logged 262 Covid-19 recoveries, 190 infections and two deaths, including one in the city, as total active cases dropped for the 111th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. The total of active cases, which was 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), has fallen to 4,086, back almost to where it was 254 days ago, on June 5 last year. Of total 10,232 deaths, 8,589 (83.9 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. “With this spell of turnaround, we have also managed to lower the daily death toll drastically,” said a Bengal minister. “In half of February so far, we logged just 53 deaths. Over the past one month (January 14-February 14), there were 222 deaths, compared to 910 just before that (December 14-January 14), 1,490 in the month prior to that (November 14-December 14) and 1,808 before that (October 14-November 14),” he added. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate was 1.42 per cent. The recovery rate rose for 114 consecutive days to touch 97.5 per cent. The national rate now is 97.27. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.9 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 87 days. On Sunday, the state reported 22,204 tests, taking the total past 83 lakh, at 92,226 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-198
15-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal seeks undertakings on vaccine refusal ||The Bengal government has made it mandatory for health workers unwilling to take Covid-19 jabs to give a written undertaking to the health department that they are reluctant to take the vaccine. Sources said only 56 per cent of over seven lakh health and frontline workers had been vaccinated across Bengal till February 10. They added only 50 per cent of the target group had taken the vaccine in a few districts. In a video conference on Thursday evening, the top brass of the state health department asked district health officials to finish the vaccination of health workers by February 20 and of frontline workers by 25th. “Despite repeated appeals, a large number of health workers are skipping vaccination. Our officials have approached all reluctant candidates personally. We can’t wait forever. So, those unwilling to take the vaccination will need to give a written undertaking about their refusal,” said a senior health official. The government has prepared a format for the undertaking that includes the name, designation, place of posting and contact number of the employee unwilling to take the jab. Health officials in the districts said there were two categories of health workers refusing vaccination — a section that is not sure about the efficacy of the jab and is scared of adverse reaction and then there are auxiliary nurse midwives who want the government to settle their financial demands before they are inoculated. “We could convince around 20 per cent of auxiliary nurse midwives to take vaccine but the large section of them was refusing. In our district, we have already circulated the format to all block level medical officers and requested them to send copies of undertakings duly signed by those unwilling within three days,” said a senior health official in Birbhum. Pranab Roy, the chief medical officer of health in East Burdwan, said: “The undertaking in the prescribed format has been circulated among unwilling candidates across the district. We will start collecting the undertakings and our officials have informed them that they will have no right in future to demand free vaccine if they refuse it now.” Sources in the state health department said vaccination at most places in Bengal had started on January 16. Sources said the department would also take similar undertakings from frontline workers and others who would be unwilling to take the vaccine. “Frontline workers unwilling to take the jab will also have to give it in writing. The government wants to complete the vaccination process at the earliest so that the process to vaccinate elderly citizens could be started,” said a health official. The state health department on Friday asked districts to be prepared to start the second dose of vaccination for those who have taken the vaccine 28 days ago. The process of a second dose of vaccination will start soon, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-198
15-02-2021||West Bengal||Rural road repair target surpassed in Bengal||The Mamata Banerjee government has reconstructed 14,416.25km of rural roads under Pathasree, the programme launched on October 1 last year by the chief minister, surpassing its initial target of 12,557km and giving connectivity a new lease of life to nearly 7,300 habitations across Bengal. “The state had set a target of reconstructing 12,557km of rural roads under the programme initially. Within four months of the programme’s launch, the state has achieved its primary target. This is a huge achievement in terms of better connectivity in the state,” said a senior state government official. Reconstructing or repairing over 14,000km of rural roads mainly of concrete or upgrading 7,309 roads in villages is significant in terms of better rural connectivity and jobs for thousands in the backdrop of pandemic that drastically slashed job opportunities. According to a booklet, to be soon released by the state government to showcase its success, four departments — panchayat and rural development, PWD, urban development and municipal affairs and irrigation — shouldered the responsibility. Of them, the panchayat department has reconstructed 14,064.07km of roads, urban development and municipal affairs department reconstructed 255.54km. The PWD reconstructed 93.05km of roads and the irrigation department 3.60km of roads. The booklet suggests that emphasis was given to restore rural roads in all 22 districts in the state and the figures gave a clear indication that all districts got their roads repaired. “If 454.49km of roads were repaired in Cooch Behar, 829.58km roads were repaired in Birbhum. The difference (in numbers) could be because of the total area of a district and the number of roads in bad shape (which varies from district to district). But no district would be able to complain that it was deprived,” said a senior government official. Trinamul insiders said the success of the programme would help the ruling party ahead of the 2021 state polls. “Voters in rural areas are very sensitive about the condition of roads in their villages. In the past we have seen people boycotting polls over bad roads. This time, we won’t face uncomfortable questions when we visit rural areas during our campaign,” said a Trinamul MLA. Sources in the state administration said that the chief minister knew the direct link between the condition of rural roads and elections. “This is the reason she launched the programme much ahead (of polls) so that the ruling party does not face questions ahead of polls. Not only this, she allotted funds in this year’s budget to take up the restoration of 46,000km of rural reads in next five years,” said a senior official. Some officials said the success of the programme would be evaluated only after a few months as it remains to be seen if quality was maintained while reconstructing roads. “It has often observed that the local bodies don’t carry out work properly....I hope quality control was an integral part of the programme,” said a senior bureaucrat. However, taking a cue from the success of the programme, the state government has extended its target of reconstructing 17,333.86km of roads under the programme from its initial target of 12,557km.nm“Another 2,917.61km of roads have already been taken up for reconstruction under the programme and it is expected that the work would be completed soon,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
15-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress campaign on wheels||The Trinamul Congress has rolled out over two dozen buses, with Didir Doot (Didi’s ambassador) emblazoned on them for road rallies. The buses have already been fielded in various districts. Trinamul’s campaign on wheels was inaugurated on Saturday at Canning in South 24-Parganas, where Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and Trinamul heir-apparent Abhishek was present. Sources said this was aimed at countering the BJP’s ongoing rath yatra of five buses touring many of Bengal districts as part of the saffron party’s Parivartan Yatra to widen its reach ahead of the Assembly polls. Trinamul’s blue buses with yellow outlines are painted with the Trinamul symbol and the smiling face of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The tagline below the image reads Banglar Gorbo Mamata (Bengal’s pride, Mamata). Sources said the buses were similar to those in the BJP’s yatra: air-conditioned and with a few seats and the option to get to the vehicle’s roof on a ladder. Senior Trinamul leaders from Calcutta are slated to hold street-corners or roadshows on these buses with local MLAs and senior leaders. Sources said the buses have QR codes and anyone can download the Didir Doot mobile application by scanning the code. The application was launched earlier this month to connect the people of Bengal with the chief minister, a concept designed by poll strategist Prashant Kishor. BJP leaders have criticised Trinamul for “copying” their idea. Trinamul leaders, however, said their buses were unlike the BJP’s as the latter’s vision was “polarisation”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
15-02-2021||West Bengal||Murder bid cry as truck hits Bengal BJP MP’s car||A speeding truck reportedly rammed into BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar’s vehicle on NH12 on Saturday night, prompting accusations from the party that it was a “Trinamul conspiracy” to kill him. The hit reportedly left Sarkar unharmed but his driver injured and the car damaged. Barasat police sources said the truck driver, reportedly driving without a licence, was arrested on BJP youth wing leader Koushik Majumder’s complaint. On Sunday, BJP supporters blocked NH12 in Nadia. Sarkar filed a complaint with Santipur police, reportedly claiming it was a “planned attack”. Trinamul’s Naihati MLA Partha Bhowmik dismissed the allegations. However, Sarkar said: There are obvious reasons to believe that Saturday night’s incident was not an accident. We all watched that truck chasing us suspiciously for a while. I was lucky to escape unhurt only because of the driver’s alertness, who at the last moment drove beyond the edge of the road to save my life. However, he (the driver) suffered injuries as the truck rammed into his side of the vehicle before trying to escape.” The BJP MP added that Trinamul had been rattled since he won the Lok Sabha election in 2019. “The ruling party has since been trying to harass me, implicating me in several cases by levelling fake charges that include the murder of MLA Satyajit Biswas. But so far it has been unsuccessful. Now it appears that the party is trying to kill me to stop me politically, but it failed,” he said. Police sources said prima facie that around 10.30pm, the truck was speeding towards Krishnagar, and in a bid to overtake the MP’s black Scorpio near Hela-Battala area in Barasat town rammed into it. Sarkar had been returning home to Santipur from Calcutta airport. A senior police official from the Barasat police district said the incident was “prima facie an accident”. “Nevertheless, we are examining all possible aspects,” he said. In a separate incident, BJP supporters blocked the Minakha-Basanti highway in North 24-Parganas on Sunday morning condemning the murderous attack on BJP leader Feroz Kamal Gazi, popularly known as Babu Master, on Saturday night. Party workers staged demonstrations in front of all police stations under Basirhat subdivision. Some persons had hurled bombs at Gaji’s car on Basanti highway around 9 pm on Saturday near Lauhati when he was travelling to Calcutta. Gazi, who joined the BJP barely two months ago, and his driver were badly wounded. BJP’s Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh joined the protest in Basirhat on Sunday and later met additional police super Chandan Ghosh. Sources said Singh handed police a list of 12 suspects. Both police and Singh refused to disclose the names.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
15-02-2021||West Bengal||Still no job for kin by state govt: Pulwama martyr's family||Family members of Sudip Biswas, a CRPF jawan who was killed in the Pulwama attack two years earlier on February 14, have accused the Mamata Banerjee government of not yet offering a job to his sister only because of a “misconception” created by some in the ruling party that they were BJP supporters. Biswas’s family alleged that while the state government supported many families of slain personnel of military and paramilitary forces with jobs, they remained outside the state largesse because of the “baseless political prejudice”. Biswas, a constable attached to the 98th Battalion of CRPF, died in the Pulwama blast on February 14, 2019, along with 39 colleagues, when an alleged suicide bomber driving a car packed with explosives rammed into a vehicle ferrying them on the Jammu-Srinagar highway. The state government immediately handed the family a cheque of Rs 5 lakh through the Nadia district administration and promised a job for his sister, who takes care of the parents Sannyasi and Mamata Biswas. A road in Tehatta was also to be named after Biswas by the state government. The parents were given around Rs 1 crore as compensation and other benefits by the Centre, and received cash from various private organisations and individuals. “For two years now, we have been living off the money given to us by the governments and organisations. Our married daughter has been living with us to look after us. We are old and ailing. Money received after my son’s death is running out. My daughter’s job could help us meet recurring expenses,” said the 64-year-old father. Biswas’s sister Jhuma said state officials had promised her a job and advised her to submit an application, which she did. “I also visited the local administration office on a number of occasions. But the officials ignored me repeatedly. I came to know that the wife of another Pulwama victim from Howrah has got a state government job. It appears that I am being deprived of a job only because of our alleged proximity to BJP workers, who are mostly our neighbours,” she alleged. Jhuma’s husband Samapta Biswas, who runs a small hardware shop, also alleged that local Trinamul leaders suspect the family of being BJP supporters, but it was “incorrect”. BJP’s Nadia (north) organising district secretary Arjun Biswas said: “The family has become a victim of Trinamul’s politics. The party leadership misled the administration to deny (Biswas’s sister) the job.” Local Trinamul MLA Tapas Saha rubbished the allegations. “We are in touch with the family. I visited them last month and told her sister to submit a fresh application. The matter will be taken care of according to the rules,” said the MLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
15-02-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari takes jibe at Mamata Banerjee government||Trinamul turncoat and BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, here on Sunday, tried to belittle the Mamata Banerjee government’s efforts in north Bengal, saying the state had simply obeyed central policy. “There is a central policy that each district has to have a medical college and hospital and a university, funds are allotted for them. The state government acted according to the policy...that is why the medical college and university are coming up here,” he said. Suvendu was speaking at the meeting held by his new party in Baburhat on Alipurduar town outskirts to welcome the party’s “Parivartan Yatra” from Cooch Behar. In the past few years, the Trinamul government announced and developed a number of new medical colleges and universities in north Bengal in Cooch Behar, Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling, North and South Dinajpurs and Malda. Suvendu also referred to the Centre’s recent allocation of Rs 1,000 crore for the development of the tea population, particularly women and children, of Bengal and Assam. “This indicates that the central government is concerned about tea workers of north Bengal. The state government, on the other hand, has failed to create job opportunities in this region and across Bengal as a whole. These days, the government is busy distributing eyeglasses,” he said. On Sunday, Trinamul leader and state labour minister Moloy Ghatak, along with district Trinamul leaders, held a public meeting in Kalchini of Alipurduar district. “On February 16, the Birpara tea estate will reopen. During the Left rule, 40 tea gardens were closed and we have managed to reopen most of these gardens,” said Ghatak. He also pointed out that in 2011, the daily tea wage was Rs 67 which has increased to Rs 202 in the past 10 years. “The BJP only makes empty promises. It is the state government that has revised the wages, reopened closed gardens and has floated an array of welfare schemes for the tea population,” the minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
15-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress onboards Alok Chakraborty in Terai ||Trinamul leaders in the plains of Darjeeling district seeking to cement their support base in the tea belt of Terai — Siliguri subdivision and Islampur subdivision (in neighbouring North Dinajpur) — received a boost by getting Alok Chakraborty, a veteran Intuc leader, on board. Siliguri-based Chakraborty, associated with Congress’ trade union front Intuc for decades, is known to have clout among Terai’s tea population. On February 2, he left the Congress and joined Mamata Banerjee’s party in Calcutta. Party secretary-general and state education minister Partha Chatterjee inducted him into Trinamul in the presence of Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul chief Ranjan Sarkar. On Sunday, the trade union leader returned to Siliguri. At Bagdogra airport, he was welcomed by Trinamul supporters who held a bike rally as his car rolled out of the airport. “He is a senior trade union leader and a known face in the tea gardens of north Bengal. When he joined Trinamul, many Intuc members followed suit. We are confident that his presence will boost Trinamul’s support base in the Assembly seats of Matigara-Naxalbari, Phansidewa and even in the Chopra seat of the neighbouring district (North Dinajpur),” said Pratul Chakraborty, who chairs Trinamul’s Darjeeling district committee (plains). In all these three Assembly seats, votes of the tea population decide the results. According to party insiders, despite having committees at different tiers in the Terai, Trinamul suffered without a prominent trade unionist in the region unlike the Left and the Congress. Back in 2013, Chakraborty joined Trinamul briefly and returned to Congress after a few months. The trade union leader was the president of Intuc backed National Union of Plantation Workers and also Intuc’s Darjeeling district president. He was also a national committee member of Intuc. “That he has a considerable support base in Terai was evident in 2006 when he backed Hamidul Rehman to contest as an Intuc-backed Independent candidate when the state Congress did not give Rehman a ticket, and secured Rehman’s win. Also, it was because of him that the Congress could win the Phansidewa seat in 2016. He was also instrumental in securing some seats for Congress at the three-tier panchayat elections of Siliguri subdivision in 2015,” said a source. Trinamul sources said a few weeks back, Chakraborty expressed his desire to join Trinamul again. Accordingly, he held talks with party leader and MP Abhishek Banerjee and also with chief minister Mamata Banerjee. At these meetings, he elaborated how he could help Trinamul secure support in the tea gardens of Terai and even the Dooars. “This is why it seems he was inducted into the party again,” said a source. The senior trade union leader, when asked about his decision, said he felt the need to stand with Trinamul to counter the BJP. “Congress and the Left have joined hands for the upcoming elections but their political stand is vague. They will have to make it clear who their number one political enemy in the state is. Owing to this confusion, I felt it necessary as a trade unionist and political worker to join Trinamul,” Chakraborty said. On his plan, he said his focus would be on four Assembly seats of Siliguri, Matigara-Naxalbari, Phansidewa and Dabgram-Fulbari (the seat of state tourism minister Gautam Deb). “Along with the district leadership, I will devote my time to secure Trinamul’s win in these four seats,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
15-02-2021||West Bengal||Police station launch near Balurghat today||The state home department has issued a notification for a new police station in Patiram, South Dinajpur, on the outskirts of district headquarters Balurghat. “The state government issued the notification on Saturday. Accordingly, the existing Patiram investigation centre under Balurghat police station will be upgraded into a full-fledged police station and will be inaugurated on Monday on the same premises....Infrastructure work, which include posting additional personnel, would be done,” South Dinajpur SP Debarshi Dutta said. Areas under Patiram, Bolla, Najirpur and Gopalbati panchayats, under Balurghat police station and Batun panchayat area of Kumarganj police station, will now fall under the ambit of this new police station. The decision was welcomed by residents in and around Patiram for whom this was a longstanding demand. On Saturday, residents celebrated the news by bursting crackers and distributing sweets. On Sunday, social outfit Patiram Nagarik O Yuba Samaj offered people sweets. They said that till 1911, Patiram had a full-fledged police station but eventually it was reduced to an investigation centre or outpost. Biswajit Pramanik of the outfit thanked the state government. Acting on a tip-off, the police of Kaliaganj of North Dinajpur along with some NGO representatives rescued seven camels from Kaludangi area of Kaliaganj on Saturday night. Police sources said the camels were brought from Rajasthan and were meant to be smuggled to Bangladesh. “Those who bought the camels fled the spot. The camels would be sent back to a rehabilitation centre in Sirohi, Rajasthan,” said a police officer. Recently, the police had recovered three camels from Malgaon, also in Kaliaganj block. Malda: A mob in Jhaljhalia caught a youth accused of stealing a stone idol from a shop and beat him for over an hour on Sunday till police rescued him. His condition is critical. In another incident, a man along with four others tried to kidnap his wife. The woman said her husband was a drug addict. The husband and his four aides have been arrested. SOUMYA DE SARKAR||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-199
