16-02-2021||West Bengal||Bimal sees political end for Binay and Anit||Bimal Gurung on Monday oozed confidence about his return to power despite the steady exodus of leaders from his camp, and predicted the end of the political road for Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa in the next “15 to 20 days”. “It’s just a matter of another 15 to 20 days,” said Gurung on the political future of Thapa and Tamang during a public meeting at Monteviot Ground in Kurseong. The two rival Morcha leaders parted ways with Gurung in 2017 to form a splinter of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. Thapa is the present chairperson of the board of administrators of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA). Gurung’s forecast is  probably drawn from an assumption that the model code of conduct for Bengal polls would be implemented, rendering Thapa with limited powers and triggering his political downfall,  said an observer. Gurung had resigned from the GTA in July 2017. But such is his confidence of returning to power that he said he would “re-inaugurate” projects that started during his GTA tenure but were being inaugurated by Thapa now. “In the three years of their tenure, what new asset have they (Tamang-Thapa) built? Everything that is being inaugurated now are projects that we started,” said Gurung who also warned contractors to be careful in their dealings with political leaders in power now. Gurung said he sensed politics behind the GTA’s teachers eligibility test held on Sunday and demanded that recruitment of teachers be done before Assembly elections. The GTA has not opened any teaching vacancy as of now. Nearly 14,000 candidates appeared for the TET conducted by GTA and Gurung probably is worried that these candidates might go with Thapa. “A party delegation met state education minister Partha Chatterjee at 1pm today (Monday) and the minister is unaware of this TET exam,” said Gurung. Gurung also reiterated his attack on the BJP and accused Darjeeling MP Raju Bista of being “garrulous.” Even though Gurung oozed confidence of returning to power, a host of leaders left his camp. Arun Ghisingh, a former GTA Sabha member from Mirik, and who was on the run with Gurung till recently, resigned from the party on Sunday. Earlier, Raju Pradhan, founder assistant secretary and Tilak Chand Roka, president of the party’s tea union had left the party. If one is to go with the list of central committee office-bearers when the party was agitating for statehood between 2007 and 2012, more than 50 per cent of the leaders have deserted Gurung. “We are trying to work with all leaders,” said Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Morcha’s Gurung camp, when asked about the desertions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-197
16-02-2021||West Bengal||4 dead and 2 injured in accidents||Four persons died and two others were injured in three road accidents in Malda and Jalpaiguri districts in the past 24 hours. In Malda, a cyclist and a driver died on Sunday night after the latter lost control of the vehicle headed to Malda from Habibpur. Police said the car overturned following the collision, killing cyclist Premchand Mandal, 35, and driver Mithun Mandal, 22. Manoj Mallik, the lone occupant in the car, was injured. In Jalpaiguri, a motorcycle carrying three youths from Meenglass tea estate of Malbazar collided into a dump truck parked on the road on Sunday night. The trio was heading Odlabari to attend a wedding. Police said Bablu Oraon, 24, and Krishna Munda, 32, died on the spot. Milan Munda, the third youth, has suffered injuries and is under treatment and the NBMCH. In another incident, a bus rammed into a police vehicle at Kodubari of Gazole police station on Monday morning, injuring a civic volunteer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-197
16-02-2021||West Bengal||Samserganj madarsa claim troubles in running academic activities since classes resumed ||Authorities of a high madarsa in Murshidabad’s Samserganj filed a petition with the district education department claiming troubles in running academic activities ever since classes resumed on February 12. They said 15 of its 31 teachers were transferred without intimation when classes were suspended owing to the Covid situation. Authorities of DBS High Madarsa at Dogachi village of Samserganj have blamed the online transfer system introduced by the education department last year for the crisis as it keeps the school in the dark about those transferred. “The problem is because online transfer does not require any no-objection certificate from the school management and the institution remains unaware,” said a school official. The DBS High Madarsa has 3,100 students. Headmaster of DBS High Madrasa Wasim Raja said: “On February 12 when classes resumed, I was shocked to find that 15 teachers of our institution have been transferred. Three of them had been transferred before the Covid outbreak last year and 12 later. I had no knowledge about it. Those transferred included the only political science teacher, whose absence has put the higher secondary humanity group students in a major mess. So far, only one teacher has joined as replacement. It is nearly impossible to run academic activities now.” Last August, the state education department had eased transfer rules by introducing the online application facility for all categories of teachers. Earlier teachers seeking transfer needed to submit an no-objection certificate from their serving institution before appearing before a committee formed to consider their appeal. But the online application system exempted teachers from submitting NOC and the hearing was done away with. While this helped many teachers waiting for transfers, it created a problem for schools in the dark about teachers seeking transfer. A large section of the teaching fraternity alleged that the new transfer policy has put many schools in a major trouble. Schools in remote parts of districts such as South 24-Parganas, East and West Midnapore and Purulia are in deep trouble unable to manage academic activities due to random transfer of teachers without substitute. General secretary of Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses Chandan Maiti, who is also the headmaster of Krishnachandrapur High School in Mathurapur, South 24-Parganas, alleged “lack of transparency” in the new transfer policy. Murshidabad's district inspector of schools (secondary) Amar Kanti Sil said he was helpless. Murshidabad district president of Trinamul’s teachers’ wing Sheikh Furkan said: “The objective of the online transfer was to bring back teachers nearer home. But transfer without proper verification is creating problems.” President of WB Madrasa Education Board Abu Tahir Kamruddin said: “I will take up the matter with the WB Madrasa Service Commission, the recruitment and transfer authority of our teachers.” Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-197
16-02-2021||West Bengal||Three held with pistols, bullets at Manikchak||Three persons, including one from Bihar, were arrested with a cache of arms and ammunition at Manikchak here on Sunday night. Police sources said five 7mm pistols and 90 rounds of live bullets of different variations had been seized from the trio who were held in a joint raid of the special task force of the state police and Manikchak police. “The trio were intercepted as they crossed the Ganga and landed at Shankartola Ghat in Manikchak. They were frisked and the firearms and ammunition were recovered from them,” said Sanjib Biswas, the inspectorincharge of Manikchak police station. The arrested youths — Sayed Sultan Ahmed, from Katihar in Bihar, Sonachand Chowdhury and Jhaksu Chowdhury, both residents of Bilaimari in Malda — were produced at a court on Monday. During the past few weeks, the police have recovered a number of firearms and ammunition. With the elections ahead, the police in Malda have tightened checking at the interstate borders of Bihar and Jharkhand. Couple of weeks back, two persons were arrested by Harischandrapur police with similar arms and ammunition. “The two local arrested youths admitted that they had brought the firearms from Bihar. It suggests that a racket has been active to bring illegal arms and ammunition from Bihar especially before the polls,” said a senior police officer.Also, on January 26, the STF and the police seized a number of finished and semifinished seven mm pistols. “Prohibitory orders would be enforced along the interstate borders right after the election schedule is announced,” the official added. The seizures have also prompted political parties to react. While BJP district president Gobinda Mandal has claimed that police and STF suddenly became active as the election commission had taken stricter stance, Trinamul district spokesperson Sumala Agarwala said that the recoveries proved the alertness of state police and STF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-197
16-02-2021||West Bengal||Dalkhola CPM leader found dead, party finger at TMC||The body of a CPM leader based in Dalkhola of North Dinajpur district was found on Monday with multiple injuries, sparking tension in the area and prompting the CPM leadership to accuse Trinamul of attacking him. Police have started probing the incident but no arrests were reported till Monday evening when this report was filed. Sources said Rafiq Alam, 56, a branch secretary of the Poaltor branch committee of CPM under Dalkhola area committee of North Dinajpur, had gone missing since Sunday. “On Monday morning, some local residents spotted his body in a bush near a petrol pump in Raniganj area of Dalkhola. There were multiple injuries on the victim’s body that appeared to have been made by a sharp weapon and we suspect he has been hacked to death,” said a police officer. In the past one month, this is the second incident when a CPM leader has been murdered in Islampur subdivision of the district. Earlier, on January 17, Guruchand Roy, another CPM leader based in Suryapur area of Dalkhola, was shot dead by a group of miscreants. “We suspect Trinamul-backed goons were behind the attack. Rafiq is the second leader of our party who has been murdered in the past one month. We want the police to probe impartially and find out the murderers,” Apurba Pal, the district CPM secretary of North Dinajpur. Trinamul leaders however, have denied the charges. Monodev Sinha, the Trinamul MLA of Karandighi, said their party has no connection with the incident. “CPM leaders are making baseless allegations. We want the police to find out the truth,” the MLA said. Police said they are probing the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-197
16-02-2021||West Bengal||TMC to reap political dividends as tea gardens owned by Duncans reopen||Gates of the Birpara tea estate in Alipurduar — one of the tea gardens owned by the Duncans Goenka Group — will reopen on Tuesday after one-and-a-half years, the development likely to ring in political dividends for Trinamul in Birpara and adjoining areas of eastern Dooars where Trinamul had done poorly in recent polls. The development, owing to active involvement of the state government, has come as a relief for around 2,200 workers of the garden. According to sources, Merico Agro Industries Limited, a private enterprise that reopened four other gardens of Duncans through an agreement, will reopen Birpara. “On February 12, a meeting was held at the additional labour commissioner’s office in Siliguri. At the meeting, discussions were held on a series of issues, including payment of workers’ dues. Eventually, there was a consensus that the garden will reopen on February 16,” said a source. Back in September 2019, the Duncans Group had abandoned the garden. Surojit Bakshi, the director of Merico, reconfirmed they would reopen the garden on Tuesday. “We will pay Rs 1,000 to each worker as token. In due course, we will clear other dues of workers such as wage and bonus. We have been running four tea gardens (of Duncans) and each garden is running steadily without pending dues,” said Bakshi. The other four which Merico has been running are Huntapara, Dhumchipara, Garganda and Tulsipara. “After Birpara reopens, only one tea garden of Duncans (Lankapara) will remain closed. We are trying hard to ensure its reopening as well,” said Mannalal Jain, vice-president, Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union. The development should yield positive results for Trinamul, opined political observers. Earlier, a number of BJP leaders, including central ministers, had assured the workers of these gardens that the Centre would take initiatives to reopen these gardens. “Such assurance had made the workers vote the BJP. This had helped the party to win the Birpara-Madarihat Assembly seat in 2016 (one of the three seats BJP had won in the state) and also the Alipurduar parliamentary seat in 2019. But the Narendra Modi government could not reopen even one garden,” said an observer. The Trinamul government scouted for prospective investors and could manage to get Merico that reopened the gardens based on an agreement with the Duncans Goenka Group. “During poll campaign, Trinamul leaders will surely raise questions on it that BJP has to answer. It will be interesting to see how BJP handles the issue,” the observer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-197
16-02-2021||West Bengal||Gautam Deb’s album of Tagore songs released||State tourism minister Gautam Deb speaks at his debut album release at Calcutta Port Trust Officers’ Club on Monday. “E Jibon Punnya Kawro”, an album on Tagore’s poetry and songs, designed and directed by Anindya Majumdar, was released on Monday. The album has eight recitals by late thespian Soumitra Chatterjee and eight songs by Deb. “It is a dream come true, particularly because I had the opportunity to share the album with a legend, Soumitra Chatterjee,” said Deb. “I lament that we lost him ahead of the album’s release. Throughout my life, I will cherish my experience with him.” Through the album, Deb said that he also tried to disseminate message of harmony, peace and democracy “amid these troubled times when attempts are being made to divide people”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-197
16-02-2021||West Bengal||Six Sikkim residents, including one IRB constable nabbed with tusk||Six Sikkim residents, including a constable of the India Reserve Battalion (IRB), were arrested with a tusk early on Monday from the Dooars area of Jalpaiguri district. A team of Baikunthapur forest division busted the poaching and animal parts smuggling gang. A forester said IRB constable Ganesh Chhetri was the alleged mastermind of the racket. “We suspect he used his work identity to conceal the crimes,” the forester added. According to sources in the forest department, the team was tipped off about an animal parts deal to be struck at a roadside eatery in Odlabari, under Malbazar subdivision of Jalpaiguri, some 40km from here. A team led by Sanjay Dutta, range officer of Sarugarah forest range of Baikunthapur, reached the spot. “Around 2am, we spotted the group in front of the eatery. As we challenged them, two fled but the remaining six were caught with a vehicle. We found an elephant task weighing around 1.19 kilos, in their possession,” Dutta said. He added that they could not produce any document to prove the legitimacy of the ivory. Those arrested were identified as Gandup Lepcha and Samson Lepcha of Sombarey, Dhan Bahadur Pradhan of east Sikkim, Rohit Tamang of Arithang, Dawa Sherpa of Namchi and Ganesh Chhetri of Upper Kolthang, and produced at the chief judicial magistrate’s court in Jalpaiguri and sent to judicial custody for 14 days, a source said. Foresters came to know that the seized tusk was extracted from a wild elephant poached in Assam. “The arrested persons are habitual poachers and have killed at least 15 wild animals that include elephants, rhinos and even the clouded leopard. They have managed to sell animal parts and made Rs 1.5 crores,” said a forester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-198
16-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid: active cases fall below 4,000, 1 dead||Bengal on Monday logged 258 Covid-19 recoveries, 133 new infections and one death, with total active cases falling to fewer than 4,000 now. There was no Covid death from the city in the 24-hour window that ended at 9am on Monday. The numbers helped the state achieve a drop in its total active cases for the 112th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. The total of active cases, which was 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), has fallen to 3,960, having improved by 89.35 per cent. Bengal is fifth on the list of states with the most active cases in India, with 2.95 per cent of the national total. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for 115 consecutive days to touch 97.52 per cent. The national rate now is 97.3. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.89 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 88 days. On Monday, the state reported 15,532 tests, taking the total past 83.15 lakh, at 92,399 tests per million people. Of the total toll of 10,233, 8,590 deaths (83.9 per cent) were attributed by the state to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate was 1.42 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-198
16-02-2021||West Bengal||DYFI leader Maidul Islam’s family loses breadwinner||Maidul Islam Middya, 33, the unit secretary of the CPM-backed DYFI in Bankura’s Kotulpur, who died in Calcutta on Monday allegedly of wounds sustained in the police-protester clash that erupted during the February 11 march of Left youths to Nabanna for jobs, had told his wife that he was going to buy textbooks for his daughter. Maidul, who drove an autorickshaw for a living in Kotulpur, was the sole breadwinner of his family that included his mother Tahamina Biwi, 66, wife Aleya Biwi, 29, two daughters Suraiya Parvin, 10, and Sumaiya Parvin, 5, and niece Rebeka Sultana, 12. “He (Maidul) told me that he is going to buy books for our elder daughter, who is a Class V student at a residential school in Burdwan. I thought he will go to Burdwan to buy the books but only later did I come to know that he had been injured in the police torture in Calcutta,” said his wife from their two-storey mud house at Chorkola village in Kotulpur, some 72km from Bankura town. Maidul wanted his daughters and niece to study and did not want his poverty to come in the way. He had got Suraiya admitted to a free residential school in Burdwan this year. Sumaiya is a Class I student at a local primary school, while Rebeka studies in Class VII at a local high school. Maidul had lost his sister a few years ago and had brought over her daughter Rebeca home just so that the girl did not miss out on her education. “He could not study beyond Class X as his father had died early but always dreamt of educating his daughters and niece. When he had bought the auto, he told us he needed to earn more so that the children got a good education,” said his neighbour Alam Sheikh. Alam added that Maidul was so concerned about educating the three girls that whenever teachers or friends suggested a book, he would rush to buy it. DYFI leaders in Bankura said Maidul was always there to support others too. When the poor were affected during the Covid-19 lockdown, he dipped into his savings and helped organise relief camps. “He contributed to our relief camps during lockdown. He was so active that he emerged as the face of our organisation in the area and we elected him as the secretary of Gopinathpur unit,” said Pradip Panda, Bankura DYFI secretary. Right now, Aleya is worried about how to run her all-female family. On hearing that chief minister Mamata Banerjee had spoken to CPM leader Sujan Chakraborty and assured help to the family, Aleya said: “I am ready to take up a job if the government gives me one. But the job should be good enough to help me run our big family.” She added: “How can we survive? We have no land, no food stock. He was the sole breadwinner. Who will take care of us? Why was he beaten up so brutally that he had to die?” Neighbours said Maidul’s mother Tahamina was inconsolable and daughter Suraiya fainted several times throughout the day. As family members waited for his post-mortem to be over in Calcutta, CPM leaders Amiya Patra, Ajit Pati and Abhoy Mukherjee visited his home. Tapas Chakraborty, a CPM district secretariat member in Bankura, said: “Mamata Banerjee’s police killed a youth on whom the entire family depended.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-198
16-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata slams BJP over Disha Ravi’s arrest||Mamata Banerjee on Monday threw her weight behind arrested climate activist Disha Ravi and other voices of dissent allegedly being silenced by the saffron ecosystem. The chief minister accused the BJP of discrimination in arresting the likes of the young climate activist while sparing “their (own) nuisance-creators”. Mamata, in response to a question on Disha’s arrest, said at a news meet at the state secretariat on Monday evening that she felt “sorry”. “I have seen it…it was reported in the newspapers and social media. I feel sorry,” said Mamata. “Even Rajdeep Sardesai and other journalists were not spared…I am really sorry,” she said, apparently referring to senior journalists Sardesai, Mrinal Pande, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath, Anant Nath and Vinod K. Jose being formally accused over their tweets and comments about a farmer’s death during the Republic Day violence in Delhi. “Those actually guilty, especially the BJP IT cell, however (are being spared),” she added. “A 21-year-old girl or Sardesai, a Padma Shri awardee, or other journalists from Delhi, Kerala, Karnataka, or even students (are targeted)....But they can spare their (own) nuisance-creators. That is most unfortunate, the discrimination,” said the Trinamul chief. Mamata went on to demand answers on the alleged misuse of social media by the BJP IT cell and other outfits in the saffron camp to further their agenda. “Why is the BJP misusing social networks this way? I remember once Union home minister (Amit Shah) said they can get fake news go viral through 50 lakh WhatsApp groups alone, in a matter of seconds,” said Mamata. “Is it fair, from a political party? Fight politically, but don’t abuse, accuse the people. Don’t beat up farmers, or students, or others,” she added. “It is their pattern. They cannot even spare a 21-year-old girl,” said Mamata. On Monday, Delhi police alleged that Disha, along with two other suspects Nikita Jacob and Shantanu, created the “toolkit” document related to the farmers’ protest and shared on social media. The police claimed Disha, arrested from Bangalore and remanded to five-day police custody ‑ sent the “toolkit” to teen climate activist Greta Thunberg, a global icon, via the Telegram app. Thunberg had shared the “toolkit” to lend her support to the farmers’ agitation against the contentious farm laws of the Narendra Modi government. In the document, various forms of urgent action, including the creation of a Twitter storm and protests outside the Indian embassies, were listed. The “toolkit” has been cited by the saffron ecosystem as “proof” of her alleged conspiracy to fuel protests in India. The police told court that Disha’s custody was required to probe an alleged larger conspiracy against the government of India and to ascertain her alleged role relating to the Khalistan movement. Mamata on Monday also lashed out at the BJP over Disha’s arrest. Mamata also attacked the Centre over rising fuel prices. “Everyone is concerned about it. Every day they have been increasing the prices of diesel or petrol or LPG, while all subsidies are being withdrawn,” the chief minister said. “Now, if a gas cylinder costs Rs 800, then someone who earns Rs 5,000 a month, how will they afford it? It’s a matter of concern and the Centre has not been taking any serious steps on this,” she added. “Only at the time of approaching elections, they reduce it for three-four days and after elections, they again keep increasing it. This has become a pattern, a tradition for them. We are very concerned, and will request the Centre not to do this.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-198
16-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata unveils Maa meals at Rs 5 per plate ||Mamata Banerjee on Monday launched the Maa (Mother) scheme for subsidised meals at Rs 5 per plate for the destitute as well as others across Bengal. Starting on Monday on a trial basis in all 16 borough offices of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and in district headquarters, its ambit would be expanded soon. Run by self-help groups, people on a first come, first serve basis — not confined to the poor — would be able to have a meal of rice, lentils, vegetables and egg curry for Rs 5 between 1pm and 3pm daily. The state government will provide a subsidy of Rs 15 per plate. “This initiative is for the common people of Bengal. We already give free rations, but there remains a huge demand for cooked food. Which is why we decided to start this,” said the chief minister at a Nabanna event in the evening. In her vote-on-account Budget tabled recently, Mamata had earmarked Rs 100 crore for the scheme. On Monday, she repeatedly asserted that funding would not be an issue. “You needn’t worry about the money….We have drawn up a meticulous plan and we have our own mechanism to procure ingredients to run the scheme successfully,” she said. “Sure, there could be some teething troubles, but beyond that, this will certainly make a big difference.” Sources close to her said she did get the idea from community kitchens run by the Left through the pandemic, but wanted to improve on it. “In a recent internal discussion, she received considerable positive feedback on the Left-run community kitchens and how people appreciated the endeavour at the peak of the pandemic. She made some calls and found out how it was being operated. Before long, she decided to imbibe it and improve upon it,” said a source in Trinamul. “Yes, this is also rather similar to the AIADMK’s Amma Unavagam in Tamil Nadu, the Congress’s Indira Canteens in Karnataka and the Shiv Sena’s Shiv Bhojan Scheme in Maharashtra. We believe this state-run project might work towards giving us substantial political mileage in the elections,” he added. A key aspect, he pointed out, like in the case of the Swasthya Sathi (for healthcare), Khadya Sathi (for foodgrain) and Sabooj Sathi (for bicycles to school students), was its universality. “There aren’t restrictions by way of financial strength or allied parameters. This will be made available to all. That is a big deal and therein lies the big difference with projects and schemes conceived by the BJP-led Centre,” he said. The BJP mocked the scheme and questioned the source of funds. BJP’s state unit chief Dilip Ghosh claimed the project exposed the Mamata Banerjee government’s inability to increase people’s spending power. “This is reminiscent of the langar culture during famines back in the 1970s,” he said. “Have we reached the stage again? This goes to show how miserably she has failed to enable and empower people with income, to afford even basic needs such as food,” added the Midnapore MP. The first such initiative by any government in India was launched in 2013, by the AIADMK in Tamil Nadu, which was later proposed for several other states, such as Odisha, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Under the AIADMK government’s Amma Unavagam scheme, municipal corporations in the state establish canteens at multiple places in cities and sell subsidised food at very low prices. The food chains primarily serve south Indian food including idli at Rs 1, sambar rice at Rs 5 a plate, curd rice at Rs 3 a plate, besides pongal, lemon rice, curry leaf rice and chapathi. A Trinamul MP said Mamata was also encouraged by poll strategist Prashant Kishor, whose team conducted an assessment at the grassroots and endorsed the idea. “A scheme such as this can only work to our advantage. Whether or not it would be a game-changer remains to be seen,” Mamata also published the “final report card” for the two welfare initiatives Duare Sarkar and Paray Samadhan, announcing that 32,830 camps were set up in the Duare Sarkar campaign, attended by 25 per cent of the population over five phases. She said of the 1.77 crore applications submitted, cent per cent redress was achieved. Most applications were for enrolment under the Swasthya Sathi and Khadya Sathi schemes, besides for caste certificates, Shikkhashree, Kanyashree and Krishak Bandhu. She said under Paray Samadhan, 10,180 local issues -- 8,415 related to infrastructure, 1,247 related to services and 512 humane issues -- were served and resolved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-198
