17-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul’s ‘corruption and violence’ model won’t work anymore, says Dinesh Trivedi||Nearly a week after dramatically announcing his resignation from the TMC on the floor of the Rajya Sabha, Dinesh Trivedi on Wednesday launched a frontal attack on Mamata Banerjee's party, saying its "corruption and violence model" will no longer work and take Bengal back to "dark days". The former union minister also termed the "insider- outsider" debate started by Mamata "antithetical" to Bengal's liberal ethos. The former railway minister praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi, hailing his popularity and insisting people have faith in his leadership, but kept under wraps his political plans. Trivedi had resigned from the Rajya Sabha and the TMC last Friday, saying he felt "suffocated" because of the violence going on in Bengal and his inability to do anything about it. He also insisted that the rule of law needed to be established in the state for bringing about the "real change". "In Bengal, we talk about icons and their ideals but what we see is contrary. The (TMC) model of violence and corruption is not what Bengal stands for. This model will take Bengal to dark days. The state has so much potential and we can't just let it go waste," Trivedi said in an exclusive interview with PTI. He said as a public representative he could not have turned a blind eye to what was happening in the state. Trivedi maintained he felt ashamed when people asked him about the culture of violence in the state, something that "pricked" his conscience and made him take a firm stand. "I should rather work for the people of the state in my way if my party is not allowing me to do so. It is high time that we ended the TMC's model and culture of corruption and violence," he said. Trivedi also accused the TMC of being in "denial mode" over the happenings in the state and playing the "victim card". "If the thought process is that if you don't abuse the prime minister and home minister regularly, you are not a loyal soldier of the party, then no one can help it. Criticising doesn't mean abusing. We are Bengali Bhadra lok (gentlemen)." He said the chair commands respect and those occupying it should not be denigrated just because they are from a rival party. The veteran leader said he raised these issues several times on TMC forums but that did not yield any result as "somebody else" other than Mamata Banerjee took "control of the party" after it came to power in 2011. He, however, declined to name who it was. "Time and again I raised the issues with the party. After the Narada scam, when I raised the issue in a party forum it was set aside. I became the bad guy and was asked not to go for campaigning in the assembly polls. I never spoke out in public due to party discipline," he said, responding to a question about why it took him so long to speak out. Political circles have been agog with speculation that he may join the BJP but Trivedi chose to keep his cards close to the chest while praising the saffron party. "The BJP is the No. 1 party in the world. I thank Kailash Vijayvargiya Ji (BJP's Bengal minder) and Dilip Ghosh Ji (state party chief) from the core of my heart for welcoming me to the party. Only time will answer what's in store. But I will keep fighting for the betterment of the people of Bengal," he said. Trivedi said people of the country as also Bengal have faith in Narendra Modi's leadership, which was reflected in the way the BJP won 18 of the state's 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. "It was due to people's faith in Modi that the BJP pulled off such a spectacular performance. I too lost the Lok Sabha election because of the Modi wave. How can we deny that?" Trivedi, who had to bite the dust from Barrackpore, said. The former union minister deprecated the insider- outsider debate triggered by Mamata Banerjee, saying it was against the state's cultural tradition of liberalism. "India is a liberal country and Bengal is one of the most liberal states. This Bengali and non-Bengali, insider and outsider debate is very much against the rich culture and heritage of Bengal. The state of Rabindranath Tagore and Swami Vivekananda has no place for such debates," he said. Trivedi deplored the marginalisation of the founding members of the TMC after the party came to power. "Before the TMC came to power, we would sit for three-four hours every day discussing party work and formalising strategy. But after we came to power, the founding members were nowhere and the party was taken over by somebody else. But why blame somebody else if those at the helm choose to keep quiet," he said. He also criticised the Mamata Banerjee government for being in conflict with the Centre "all the time" and not allowing central welfare schemes to be implemented in Bengal, saying it harmed the state. The former TMC veteran was apparently referring to the state refusing to implement the Ayushman Bharat scheme and belatedly agreeing to allowing PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme for farmers. When asked whether he had brought up these issues before Banerjee, he said those at the helm of a party or government need to have a "robust information system". He said the TMC came to power on the promise of "paribortan" (change) but the real change will happen only when the rule of law is established. "There's no rule of law at present," he alleged. "My commitment is to the people," he said when asked whether or not he will be accused of deserting the TMC ahead of the assembly elections after enjoying the fruits of power. Trivedi said several of his former TMC colleagues called him up after his resignation and told him he did the right thing. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
17-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul feud whiff in Englishbazar MLA home attack||Trinamul infighting took an ugly turn in Malda on Monday night, within five days of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s visit, urging district leaders to be united against the saffron camp. Around 10.30pm on Monday, a group of some 150 people, apparently Trinamul supporters, ransacked the house of the party’s Englishbazar MLA Nihar Ranjan Ghosh at BS Road of the town and also a party office which Ghosh uses. Ghosh, in mourning attire after his father’s recent death, narrowly escaped the attack. The mob dispersed when a police team rushed to the spot. Ghosh, who also chairs the board of administrators of Englishbazar municipality, filed a police complaint naming Krishnendu Choudhury, a former minister and chairman of district Trinamul, and Prasenjit Das, the district youth Trinamul president. “They came to kill me as their conspiracies to demean me before the state Trinamul leadership have been foiled. Krishnendu Choudhury and Prasenjit Das led the attack in person and instigated criminals to harm me and my family. They broke portraits of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and  minister Firhad Hakim,” said Ghosh. According to sources, the group carrying sticks, rods and sharp weapons reached Ghosh’s house. “Assembling in front of the house, they started abusing the MLA, ransacked the party office and then entered his home. There, they ransacked rooms indiscriminately and even entered his bedroom,” said one of Ghosh’s close relatives. As the MLA called up the police, a team led by inspector-in-charge of Englishbazar police Madanmohan Roy reached, which caused the attackers to flee. Trinamul loyalists of Ghosh also reached his home. Police started a probe and arranged security for the MLA and his family, SP Alok Rajoria said. On Tuesday, Ghosh handed over CCTV footage to the police and claimed Choudhury and Das could be seen in it. Ghosh and Choudhury have a bitter history. Choudhury was an elected councillor of Englishbazar municipality from 1990 and civic chairman for two terms. He tasted defeat for the first time at 2005 civic polls to Ghosh, then backed by Left and Congress. In 2016, Ghosh filed his nomination from the Englishbazar Assembly seat as an Independent backed by the Left and Congress. Choudhury, then a minister in Mamata’s cabinet, lost to him again. Later, Ghosh joined Trinamul. Choudhury and Das have denied the charges. Choudhury said he knew nothing about the incident. Das said the incident might be the fallout of a family feud.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
17-02-2021||West Bengal||Demonstration for dues marks Duncans Goenka group's tea garden reopening in Dooars||Representatives of a new company who arrived to reopen a tea garden of the Duncans Goenka group in the Dooars on Tuesday and run it on an interim basis were greeted with protests by around 1,000 workers who demanded the immediate payment of all dues. The protest was of a rare kind in the Bengal tea industry where workers hold celebrations on Day 1 of any estate’s reopening. The Birpara tea estate with around 2,200 labourers had been lying abandoned since September 2019. The state labour department had taken initiatives to facilitate the estate’s reopening and accordingly, a meeting was recently held in Siliguri where it was decided that Merico Agro Industries Limited would run operations on an interim basis. Merico director Surojit Bakshi and Mohan Sharma, the chairman of the Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union, reached the Birpara estate around 10am on Tuesday to reopen it. They were, however, surprised to find around 1,000 workers — mostly from the Tukra-Jateswar division — assembled near the entrance. The workers shouted slogans, saying their outstanding wages and bonus should be cleared or else, they wouldn’t allow the estate’s reopening. Bakshi, Sharma and other Trinamul leaders started talks with the demonstrators who relented after three hours. Around 1pm, the workers allowed the Merico director to enter the garden and it was formally reopened. Each worker of the estate was paid Rs 1,000 by the new management. A police team was at the site of the demonstration to prevent any breach of law and order. Mannalal Jain, the vice-president of the Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union, alleged that BJP and some “non-workers” had orchestrated the demonstration. “It was unfortunate that some non-workers, instigated a section of labourers to hold the demonstration. We suspect the BJP also had a hand in the protests. Notwithstanding several promises to the workers of the Duncans group’s tea estates, BJP leaders have failed to do anything for them so far. After the state government’s initiative materialised, the BJP has tried to foil the reopening. Workers always wanted the garden to reopen and are with us,” said Jain. Alipurduar MP John Barla and Birpara-Madarihat MLA Manoj Tigga — both from the BJP — were in the garden on Tuesday. The protests, sources said, were also backed by the Paschimbanga Khet Mazdoor Samiti. Anuradha Talwar, a representative of the samiti, said according to court’s order, Duncans cannot hand over the garden to any other company. “More importantly, prior to reopening any closed tea garden, the dues should be cleared. We will file an appeal in Calcutta High Court to stop such illegal handover of the garden to new management,” she said. Bakshi, the director of Merico, said some time was needed to clear the dues. “Like other gardens, we will gradually clear the workers’ dues in Birpara. But if a demand is made to clear the dues at one go, there would be immense pressure on us. In the remaining four tea gardens (of Duncans), there are no dues as of now,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
17-02-2021||West Bengal||Assembly polls: Rival Morcha camps vie for three hill seats||Both rival factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, allies of Trinamul, are preparing the ground to field their respective candidates in the three hill Assembly seats, a development further complicating politics in hills. Anit Thapa, general secretary of the Binay Tamang faction of the Morcha on Tuesday said their faction would not only contest all three seats but do so in their own symbol. “We are in alliance with TMC (Trinamul) and it is a past understanding that we would support (Trinamul ) during MP elections and TMC would support us during the MLA election. The chief minister has also said this in various stages. We are sticking to this line and three of our candidates will stand in the election on our own (symbol),” Thapa said on the sidelines of a government function in Mungpoo. Amar Singh Rai of the Tamang camp had contested on a Trinamul ticket during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, and  Tamang was supported by Trinamul in the Darjeeling Assembly bypolls in 2019. Both  lost to the BJP alliance. The decision by the two Morcha factions to contest would, observers said, end up helping the BJP, which has an alliance with the GNLF. However, though Morcha sources admitted they were aware of the likely outcome of a fight between them, they are sticking to their guns. While Thapa made his stand clear on Tuesday, the Bimal Gurung faction has also been stating that they, too, would field their own candidates in the three hill seats. “We will sweep the three hill seats even if an election is held tomorrow,” Gurung recently said in a public meeting. Trinamul, which has never won an Assembly seat from the hills, is eyeing the three hill seats through support from both Morcha factions. The two factions have publicly refused to come to any understanding and are getting increasingly critical of each other. “The situation is such that the only hope is Mamata Banerjee’s intervention (Gurung hinted that the I-PAC team, poll strategist for Trinamul, tried to patch up things between the two factions but in vain) but things do not look easy,” said a hill observer. Many are talking about three permutations to solve this deadlock but none looks watertight, said an observer. The first option being mulled is to divide a seat each among three alliance partners. “Going by party workers' mood, a supporter of one faction is mostly unlikely to vote for the other faction,” said an observer. “Accepting a rival faction’s candidate is seen as a loss of face by party cadres.” Many believe the other option would be to ask both factions to vote for an independent candidate of Trinamul’s choice. “This option is easier said than done as both factions are unsure if hills will vote for Trinamul,” said another observer. A Bimal Gurung faction leader said in a public meeting that she will never be able to vote for Trinamul, a statement reflective of the mood of some Morcha workers. The third option is about Mamata Banerjee letting both factions contest the election as a win by any would mean Trinamul’s win. “But such a move would mean a split of anti-BJP votes,” the observer added. No faction seems to be in a mood to yield an inch as winning the Assembly polls is seen as a test of their strength and a mandate to be in the GTA. “This is because to be in power in the hills is to have the GTA under one’s control,” the observer added. At the moment the GTA is being headed by Anit Thapa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
17-02-2021||West Bengal||Elephant kills three women in western Dooars||Three women who had entered a reserve forest to collect fodder for cattle and firewood were killed when an elephant attacked them near Banarhat in western Dooars on Tuesday. Bhado Oraon, 49, Sugi Baraik, 62, and Birsi Oraon, 55, were residents of Haldibari tea estate. The trio were part of a group of women who had entered the Haldibari forest under the Moraghat range to collect the fodder and the firewood. “Suddenly, a wild tusker attacked them. Although most members of the group managed to escape, three women could not run away. The elephant attacked them with the trunk and trampled them over. All the three died on the spot,” said a forest officer. The deceased used to live at the Bora labour line and Mission labour line in the tea garden. Foresters and Banarhat police went to the spot and seized the bodies. In north Bengal, many people who live in tea gardens and villages close to forest enter the jungle to collect firewood. There are also people who take cattle to the forests for grazing. “Many such people have been killed in attacks by wild elephants. A few days ago, a woman was killed by a wild elephant near Nagrakata after she went to the forest to collect firewood. Whatever happened today is unfortunate but others should learn a lesson from the incident and refrain from entering forests,” said Sima Chowdhury, an honorary wildlife warden of the state forest department. Nature and wildlife conservationists said Tuesday’s incident showed the lack of vigil on the part of the forest department. “People have lost their lives in elephant attacks. There have also been incidents of poaching of animals. Today’s incident again proved that the forest department is not vigilant, else, those women would have been prevented from stepping into the jungle,” said Nafsar Ali, a representative of the Nature & Adventure Society based in the Dooars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
17-02-2021||West Bengal||Sub-inspector's mother found dead with wounds on head in Raiganj||The 70-year-old mother of a sub-inspector of police and resident of a village on Raiganj outskirts was found dead with deep wounds on her head on Monday late night. Raiganj police suspect she was murdered and have detained one of her grandsons for interrogation. Sources said victim Batashi Burman, a resident of Joynagar village of Raiganj block, has three sons one of whom is Mohini Burman, who works in the state police force and is posted in Bagdogra police station of Darjeeling district. Batashi used to reside with her two other sons and their families. Police said that Shankar Burman, one of Batashi’s grandsons and Mohini’s nephew, had woken up on Monday night to attend nature’s call when he noticed that the door of his grandmother’s room was ajar. “He said that as he peeped in, he found blood oozing from the old lady’s head, and raised an alert. Soon, we got information and a team was sent to the spot,” said a police officer. As news spread, neighbours swarmed into the victim’s house. Sub-inspector Mohini was told about the fatal attack on his mother. He reached Raiganj from Bagdogra early on Tuesday. Police recovered the body and initiated a probe. “We suspect she has been bludgeoned to death. Some blunt weapon was used and she was hit on the right side of her head. The post-mortem reports will confirm the cause of her death,” an officer said. Neighbours are perplexed over the incident. Batashi had cordial relations with them and they had never heard any dispute within the family, neighbours have said. Police detained Shankar who they suspect might be involved in the crime. “We are not ready to buy what he has told us. We have also learnt that he is a habitual drunkard and we need to interrogate him. Our officers are trying to find out the motive behind the murder,” said Sumit Kumar, the SP of North Dinajpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
17-02-2021||West Bengal||Case lodged against 250 Left Front supporters for thrashing cop at Entally||Calcutta police on Tuesday lodged a case against over 250 Left supporters, including SFI state secretary Srijan Bhattacharya, for allegedly roughing up a policeman at Entally on Monday, a few hours before the body of DYFI leader Maidul Islam Middya, a protester in Thursday’s march, arrived there. A Bankura resident, Maidul died at a Calcutta nursing home on Monday allegedly of injuries from police beating during the Left rally for jobs. Hundreds of Left supporters reached the SFI-DYFI office in Entally on Monday. During a heated argument between them and the police, an ASI of Taltala police station, Arunava Dutta, was thrashed. Police sources said apart from Srijan, FIRs were filed against DYFI spokesperson Kalatan Dasgupta, SFI Calcutta district president Arjun Ray and Calcutta district secretary Samanway Raha under sections including rioting. SFI sources said that none apart from Srijan was even present there. “We are being framed to shift the focus from police brutality,” Kalatan said. On Tuesday, New Market police sent questions to CPM leader and doctor, Fuad Halim, on Maidul’s medical condition and whereabouts since Thursday. Halim, who treated Maidul, said he had replied to all queries and sent copies of Maidul’s medical reports. Left sources said this came in the wake of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s announcement that the police would probe Maidul’s death. On Monday’s incident, Srijan said the cop’s “insulting remark” about Maidul’s “sacrifice” angered some Left supporters present there. CPM leaders asked the police to focus on identifying those who had beaten up Maidul and trace Left worker Dipak Kumar Panja, missing since the march. A source at Taltala police station said that one Dipankar Sengupta, 45, had been picked up from his Bangur Avenue residence on Tuesday in connection with the case. A missing person’s case has been initiated to search for Panja with New Market police by his wife Saraswati, who lives in Panskura in East Midnapore. “Dipak (Panja) is missing because of the police and they will have to find him or we shall launch a bigger protest,” said Panskura’s CPM MLA Ibrahim Ali. Funds for Maidul kin The DYFI will raise funds to help Maidul’s family who lost their breadwinner. “All our party workers will donate,” said DYFI state secretary Sayandeep Mitra and added the government would have to compensate for “killing” Maidul. The Left has lined up a series of protests for Maidul. Supporters of 10 Left students and youth outfits will gherao all police stations of the state on Wednesday. A call to block railway tracks has been given on Thursday. A source in the CPM said an application will be filed at Calcutta High Court by Thursday demanding judicial inquiry into Maidul’s death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
17-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leader meets Maidul Islam Middya's wife with promise of job||A day after Mamata Banerjee offered a government job to a family member of Maidul Islam Middya, the young DYFI leader who died on Monday allegedly of cop-inflicted injuries in Thursday’s Left march, Trinamul leader and minister Shyamal Santra met Maidul’s wife on Tuesday with the promise of a job. Maidul, a resident of Chorkola village in Bankura’s Kotulpur, was the sole breadwinner for his mother, wife, two daughters and a niece. Santra, also Bankura district president of Trinamul and Kotulpur MLA, said: “I gave some financial help and promised to stand by the family till Maidul’s wife (Aleya) got the job. His mother will get old age pension as soon as possible.” CPM leaders and villagers questioned the intent of the government that is yet to take action against the cops. Mamoni Begum, a cousin of Maidul, said she wanted “punishment for murder”. Ajit Pati, secretary of the CPM’s Bankura district committee, was scathing. “Has the government taken any step against the cops who beat up our youth leader? The job offer is an eyewash to cover up the crime that the police have committed.” Earlier on Tuesday, DYFI state president Meenakshi Mukherjee, state secretary Sayandeep Mitra, all-India general secretary Abhay Mukherjee, and senior SFI and CPM leaders were present with thousands of villagers when the body of Maidul was laid to rest. The BJP is also planning to send a team to meet Maidul’s family. Calling the death unfortunate, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh added his party “lost 135 workers and no one offered their families jobs”. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Dutta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
17-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls: Congress, Left Front finalise seat pact||The Left Front and the Congress on Tuesday announced finalisation of seat sharing for Bengal Assembly polls, but refrained from saying the number of constituencies each would contest because of parleys with Abbas Siddiqui's Indian Secular Front and other parties. Leaders of the Congress and the CPM met at the Left party’s headquarters at Alimuddin Street in Calcutta on Tuesday to finalise the modalities of the electoral alliance. State Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, MLA Abdul Mannan, Rajya Sabha member Pradip Bhattacharya, Left Front Chairman Biman Bose and CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra attended the meeting. “We finalised our alliance at the meeting today.… The fight for Bengal will be a triangular one and the Left-Congress alliance would be a formidable force,” Chowdhury said at a news conference after the meeting. Sources said unlike the 2019 Lok Sabha polls when a consensus couldn’t be achieved between the Left and the Congress, the process of sealing the alliance was smooth this time as both the parties were more accommodative. However, the number of seats to be allotted to each party couldn’t be announced on Tuesday. According to Chowdhury, several smaller political forces, including ISF, NCP and RJD are willing to fight alongside the Left-Congress alliance. “That is why we need to provide space for them… So, we are not announcing the number of seats allotted for each of us right now,” Chowdhury said. “We want that the Left parties, the National Congress and the ISF participate in the Bengal polls in 2021 on the basis of a mutual understanding,” Biman Bose echoed him. Although both the leaders named several parties, the seat sharing formula could not be announced primarily because the ISF, a fledgling outfit that has emerged as a strong force in minority-dominated areas. ISF chief Abbas Siddiqui told this correspondent that it had written to the CPM demanding 60 to 80 seats. He also said representatives of his party had spoken to CPM leaders about their demands on Monday. “We have said what we want. There can be minor adjustments, but we are mainly sticking to our demands,” Siddiqui said. “I’ll either win or learn. I’ve nothing to lose. But the other parties have become weak and have been losing. I think it is better for all of us if the three hues come together to fight,” Siddiqui added. Sources said the CPM and the Congress were yet to decide how to accommodate the ISF’s demand, which many believe is “illogical”. “But as both the CPM and the Congress are so weak, they are not in a position to counter Siddiqui, who has already started blackmailing leaders of both the parties... A meeting between CPM-Congress and ISF leaders is likely tomorrow (Wednesday),” said a source. Smaller Left allies have started raising objections to the induction of the ISF into the alliance. These parties are afraid that including Siddiqui — a Muslim religious leader—in the alliance may alienate the traditional Hindu votes of the Left. “We will raise this concern at our meeting with the CPM. Muslim fundamentalists are as objectionable for us as Hindu fundamentalists,” a source in one of the minor Left parties said. Shah’s lunch plan Union Home minister Amit Shah will have lunch with an immigrant family from Bangladesh during his two-day tour of Bengal later this week. The bread-breaking schedule, sources said, is part of the BJP’s agenda to woo the migrants from Bangladesh ahead of the Assembly polls. Shah will be at Kakdweep in South 24-Parganas on February 18 to inaugurate the Poriborton Yatra for the BJP’s Calcutta zone. Before that, he will visit the migrant family at Narayanpur village and have his lunch. Sources said that Shah will participate in a series of central government programs on February 19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-197
