18-02-2021||West Bengal||Will make Gangasagar Mela part of international tourist circuit, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday said that he has full faith that the BJP will form the government in Bengal after the upcoming assembly polls and when it does, the Gangasagar Mela will be made part of the international tourist circuit. The 'Namami Gange' programme for cleaning River Ganga will also be ensured in the state, the Union minister said. Shah said, he feels sad about the facilities here since lakhs of pilgrims visit the site annually, and when the BJP comes to power in Bengal, all tourism projects of the Central government will be successfully implemented here. "We will ensure that the Uttarayan Mela (Gangasagar Mela) becomes part of the international tourist circuit...this place becomes a big tourist spot, and its fame spreads across the world," he said after offering obeisance at the Kapil Muni temple here. The Kapil Muni temple at the confluence of River Ganga and the Bay of Bengal is a mark of spirituality and conservation of environment, Shah said. The 'Namami Gange' programme launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2014 has been working for conservation and cleaning of River Ganga from Gangotri to Sagar, but it "gets stuck" on reaching Bengal, the minister said. "I have full faith that a BJP government will be formed in the state and then the purification of River Ganga through the Namami Gange project will be taken up till Gangasagar," he said. 'Namami Gange Programme' is an integrated conservation mission, approved as a 'flagship programme' by the Union government in June 2014, to accomplish the twin objectives of effective abatement of pollution, conservation and rejuvenation of the Ganga.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-194
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Jakir Hossain was being forced to join another party, claims Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday alleged the bomb attack on state minister Jakir Hossain was part of a conspiracy as certain people were "pressuring" him to switch over to another party. Banerjee, who went to the SSKM hospital to inquire after his condition following Wednesday's incident, slammed the railways for its "lack lusture" way of functioning. "It was a preplanned attack on minister Jakir Hossain. Some people have claimed the blast was remote controlled. It is a conspiracy. Some people (party) were pressuring Jakir Hossian to join them for the last few months. I don't want to disclose anything more as investigation is on," Banerjee told reporters. The attackers apparently knew about Hossain's movement and must have been tailing him, she said. Banerjee said not just the CID, but state STF and Counter Insurgency Force (CIF) will assist in the probe. The chief minister announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh for those seriously injured in the explosion and Rs one lakh for people who received minor injuries. "How can the railways deny their responsibility over security lapses when the attack happened at a railway station? There were no security personnel at the station at the time of the attack. There was no light, it was completely dark. What was the railway police doing?" she asked. The railways should cooperate in the investigation, she said. "A railway station is a railway property. The railway police is in charge of its security. It is not under our jurisdiction," she said. Banerjee said a total of 26 people were injured in the blast. The state government has handed over the probe in the case to the CID. Banerjee refuted the opposition claim of worsening law and order situation, saying the incident took place inside a railway station, premises that belong to the Centre. The BJP leadership, meanwhile, slammed Banerjee for trying to divert public attention from the failures of the state government. "The incident proves that law and order has ceased to exist. Does the railways run the state? Such theories won't help. She has failed both as state home minister and the chief minister," state BJP vice president Jaiprakash Majumdar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-194
18-02-2021||West Bengal||CID to probe bomb attack on Bengal minister||The Bengal government on Thursday handed over the investigation into the attack on state minister Jakir Hossain, who was seriously injured in a bomb blast, to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID). Hossain was seriously injured after unidentified attackers hurled a crude bomb at him at Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad district on Wednesday night. At least two other persons, who were with the Trinamool Congress MLA of Jangipur, were also injured in the incident which occurred ahead of the assembly election in the state due in April-May this year. Hossain was brought to the SSKM Hospital here on Thursday morning and admitted to the Trauma Care Unit, state minister Firhad Hakim said, adding that a medical board has been formed to look into his health condition. "The investigation has been handed over to the CID. A team of forensic experts have visited the spot this morning," a senior police officer said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and senior TMC leaders went to the state-run hospital here to inquire about his health. "Hossain is presently admitted to the Trauma Care Unit. A medical board is looking after his health. He is stable now and has injuries in his fingers and foot," Hakim said. Hossain, the minister of state for labour, was waiting at platform no 2 of the station to catch a train to Kolkata at around 10 pm on Wednesday when he was attacked, the officer said. "The incident shows that West Bengal is not safe even for ministers. The government has failed to control the law and order," state BJP president Dilip Ghosh said. Meanwhile, BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari's rally was attacked by unknown miscreants in Beleghata area of north Calcutta on Wednesday night. Two BJP activists, including party's North Calcutta district president Sivaji Singha Roy, were injured in the incident. Both are admitted to a hospital here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-194
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Fisherman mauled to death by royal Bengal tiger||A fisherman was mauled to death by a royal Bengal tiger and another is feared to have met a similar fate in separate incidents early on Wednesday in the Sunderbans. Fisherman Soumen Roy was fatally injured in the Pirkhali forest area, while in Benefeli a tiger dragged another, Atul Baidya, inside the jungle. Atul was not found till Wednesday evening. Forest officials have launched a search for Atul. With these two fresh cases, at least 20 fishermen have been reportedly killed by tigers in the Sunderbans this past year, an official of the state wildlife department said. Both Soumen and Atul had been fishing for crabs in separate groups. Sources in Jharkhali coastal police station said that Soumen, along with a team of five other fishermen, had left home to catch crabs in the forest area on Saturday. A tiger attacked the fishermen near Pirkhali when they were returning home. Soumen’s brother, Paritosh, who was also among the group of fishermen, recalled the attack: “The tiger attacked us when we were sailing close to a muddy bank. The attack was sudden and dada became its main target. We tried to resist but my brother died on the spot as he had been badly mauled.” In the other incident, fishermen, including Atul, from Kultali-Kantamari had gone to catch crabs inside the Benefeli forest area on Monday. Local sources said when team members were returning home early on Wednesday after catching crabs, the tiger dragged away Atul. “The animal was too big and strong for us (to resist). It disappeared inside the forest dragging Atul by its jaw,” a fellow fisherman said. A senior official of the state wildlife department said there was a strict ban on entry inside the jungle. “We have taken up awareness drives among fishermen, urging them not to risk their lives and try for alternative sources of income like apiculture (bee-keeping for honey), but it appears that they hardly paid heed.” Villagers said many migrant youths who had come home during the lockdown had opted for fishing and were desperate to earn a living. Bengal on Wednesday logged 249 Covid-19 recoveries, 133 new infections and two deaths, including one from the city, achieving a drop in its total active cases for the 114th day on the trot since Vijaya Dashami last year. Bengal’s total of active cases, which was 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), is now 3,736. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for 117 consecutive days to touch 97.56 per cent. The national rate remained 97.3. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.86 per cent now, having fallen steadily for 90 days. On Wednesday, the state reported 14,031 tests, taking the total past 83.49 lakh, at 92,770 tests per million people. Of the total toll of 10,237, 8,594 deaths or 84 per cent were attributed by the state to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate was 1.42 per cent. Bengal now has a total of over 5.73 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported on March 17 last year. It includes over 5.59 lakh recoveries and 10,237 deaths. In the 114-day period since last year’s Dashami, the state had nearly 2.49 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.19 lakh new infections detected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-195
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri turns messy as conservancy workers threaten to cease work||Heaps of garbage lay across Siliguri on Wednesday, forcing residents to negotiate with bins overflowing with smelly waste on roads and lanes, as over 2,500 conservancy workers of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) stayed off work. Workers, demanding permanent jobs at the civic body,  also threatened to cease work “indefinitely”. Some workers also piled up garbage at the entrance of the SMC. In Siliguri, around 3.5 metric tonnes of garbage are collected daily and taken to the dumping ground on the city’s northeast end. “Most of us are working as casual workers for past 15-20 years. On January 13, we urged civic authorities to take initiatives so that at least half of us are made permanent on the basis of seniority. Our demand went unheard. So we have decided to cease work till we get a concrete assurance (on permanency) from competent authorities,” said Kiran Rauth, president, Uttarbanga Safai Karmachari Samiti. According to sources, altogether 2,571 workers provide conservancy services in the civic area spread over 47 wards. They collect trash from households, marketplaces, health establishments and other commercial hubs. Only 371 are permanent employees while the rest work on a daily-rated basis. As the day rolled and trash bins piled up on streets, peeved residents raised questions at the civic body that is being run by a board of administrators (BoA). District Trinamul leaders were quick to pick up the issue and accused the BoA of inefficiency. “The Left-ruled civic board has deprived conservancy workers during their tenure. We support the demand raised by the workers but will simultaneously appeal to them to resume their duties,” said Ranjan Sarkar, Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul president. The sudden move by workers has put the civic body in a soup, particularly as there is no elected board in SMC now. “The BoA is a caretaker body and can’t take a decision on the issue,” said a source. In the evening, Mukul Sengupta, a former CPM councillor, said they would hold talks with workers on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-195
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Hill farmers seek ST status before Bengal elections||Kalimpong Krishak Kalyan Sangathan (KKKS), a federation of farmers’ organisation from the hills that had backed the BJP during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, has resolved on a hunger strike if efforts are not made by the BJP-led Centre to grant 11 hill communities the Scheduled Tribe (ST) status before the Bengal elections. The Sangathan, which has over 9,000 members in Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills, will also hold a meeting this week with representatives of tribal communities seeking the status to give a final shape to the protest. Bishnu Chhetri, president of KKKS, said: “Our organisation has adopted a resolution for hunger strike. However, other stakeholders and especially those from the 11 communities are sending us feelers to join the protest.” The communities demanding the ST status are Bhujel, Gurung, Mangar, Newar, Jogi, Khas, Rai, Sunuwar, Thami, Yakka (Dewan) and Dhimal. The BJP has in their 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto promised tribal status for these communities. The Bimal Gurung faction of the Morcha, instrumental in drumming up support for the BJP, in October 2020 left the saffron camp alleging that promises stayed unfulfilled. The farmers’ protest decision also seems to be an attempt to show their dissent to the BJP leaders from Bengal. “Leaders from the Centre like Prahlad Singh Patel (minister of state, independent charge, for culture and tourism, who is also the BJP in-charge for north Bengal for Assembly polls) and even our own Darjeeling MP Raju Bista are hopeful of positive developments,” said Chhetri. “However, BJP leaders from Bengal have started saying that tribal status and the issue of permanent political solution would be looked after the Bengal elections,” he added, terming Bengal BJP’s stand “humiliating” for the hill people who voted for the BJP. “We feel that the Bengal BJP leaders are trying to sideline our issue,” said Chhetri. Observers believe a protest against unfulfilled tribal demands would send a wrong message about the BJP in the hills. “It was the BJP that inked those demands in their manifesto and we have every right to pressure them as we were with them during the Lok Sabha election,” said Chhetri. The Parliament’s second part of the budget session is expected to go on from March 8 to April 8. Bengal’s model code of conduct for Assembly elections is also likely to be announced soon. Asked if a bill (for the ST status) could be placed and passed for Bengal with the code of conduct in place, Chhetri brought in a new perspective. “Until 1954, these communities were listed as tribes. In this sense the demand is about re-listing these communities on the ST list. A simple notification by the government may serve our purpose,” said Chhetri. The Kurmis from south Bengal, now under the OBC category, are also demanding inclusion as ST as the community was also listed ST by the Britishers. Demand for tribal tag for the hill communities has been around for some time. The Union ministry of trial affairs had formed a committee in 2016, before the last Bengal elections, to examine and recommend tribal status to these communities. Since then the committee was reconstituted thrice and the final report compiled by a team headed by M.R. Tshering, joint secretary, ministry of tribal affairs. In 2019, Bishal Rai, a resident of Teesta, who is now with the Binay Tamang camp of the Morcha, had obtained some salient features of the report through an RTI query. Based on the RTI report, it was clear that the committee had passed the buck to the Office of Registrar General of India (ORGI) on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-195
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari aide cast out of TMC, to join Congress||Murshidabad zilla parishad sabhadipati Musharraf Hossain, once close to Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, was expelled by Trinamul district committee on Wednesday for “anti-party activities”. The decision to expel Musharraf was taken at an hour-long meeting in Behrampore attended by the district top brass of the party, including MLAs and MPs, said district president of the Trinamul Abu Taher Khan. Musharraf fell out of favour with Trinamul leaders since early December, when Suvendu defected to the BJP. Speaking to this paper, Musharraf said: “It had become difficult to work with district president Abu Taher Khan, so I began to take zilla level initiatives on my own. They felt offended and expelled me from the party. I am relieved.” Ruling out the BJP, Musharraf said he would align himself with the Congress to fight both Trinamul and the BJP in the coming Assembly elections. A Congress source said he was expected to join the party on Friday. Sources said Musharraf had been skipping district-level party meetings and had ignored two leadership meetings with chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Murshidabad and Calcutta last month. He reportedly refused to allow Trinamul posters or banners in panchayat events since December. The state government had withdrawn his police cover six months ago and did not reinstate it even after his written appeals to the chief minister and the governor. Khan said Musharraf’s snubbing of Mamata’s meetings was the “final straw” and his expulsion order had been forwarded to the party leadership in Calcutta. “He was regularly seen with Dada’r Anugami,” said a source, referring to Suvendu’s mid-year banner floated to counter Didi’s narrative prior to his formal induction into the BJP. “Musharraf, however, will continue to hold his rural post even though he stands expelled from the party with no recourse,” said a source. The source added that provisions of the panchayat act did not allow moving a no-trust motion against a panchayat executive till the person completed two-and-a-half years in office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-195
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Tea Board initiates move to draw SOP to transport green tea leaves||The Tea Board of India has initiated a move to draw up a standard operating procedure (SOP, or a set of step-by-step instructions) to transport and handle green tea leaves to ensure their quality is maintained till the leaves are processed in tea factories. The Board drafted the SOP and circulated it among stakeholders of the tea industry across India, while underscoring the fact that “good teas cannot be produced from badly handled leaf.” “It has been found that tea leaves mostly get damaged during transportation, that is, when the leaves are sent from plantations to factories. Thus, it is necessary to have an SOP that tea gardens as well as small tea growers can follow to avert damage to the tea leaves. That is why the initiative will eventually contribute to improve the quality of Indian tea,” said a Board source. In the draft that has been released by the tea board, a number of recommendations have been made, including for workers who pluck tea leaves in plantations. Recommendations include not to allow pluckers to hold large quantities of leaves in baskets, and to create a collection area with a shed where the plucked leaves are kept in bulk ahead of their transportation to the factory and confirm that the leaves are loaded in trailers under the shed. “It has been also mentioned that nylon bags, in which leaves are put at the collection centre, should not be stacked one above the other. There should be free flow of air for each bag or plastic crate used for the purpose,” said a tea planter. The draft recommends that tea leaves should reach the factory within four hours of their being plucked. A tea expert said the quality of tea depends mostly on the harvested shoots. “The manufacturing process can only retain the intrinsic potential of the raw material, in this case, the freshly plucked shoots. That is why, it is very important to ensure that no damage is caused to leaves,” he said. On Wednesday, S. Soundararajan, director of tea development of the Tea Board, send letters to the stakeholders seeking their suggestions on the draft document. “The Tea Board will look into the suggestions and then ready the final draft of SOP which will be notified in due course. We welcome the initiative as a specific set of procedures can help small tea growers and others associated with collection and transportation of tea leaves,” said Bijoygopal Chakraborty, president, Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-195
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta police to probe unnatural death of DYFI leader||A seven-member team of officers from Calcutta police was formed on Wednesday to probe the unnatural death of Maidul Islam Middya, the 33-year-old DYFI leader who had joined last Thursday’s Left march in Calcutta that saw clashes between the police and Left supporters. The probe team is headed by joint commissioner (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. Sources said the probe would include examination of witnesses (on-duty policemen and Maidul’s friends and colleagues), corroboration of statements with available CCTV footage and verification of findings with the nature of injuries he had sustained. The Left alleged police excesses on Thursday caused Maidul’s death on Monday, and that they would accept nothing less than a judicial probe. “We demand judicial investigation....How can we trust the SIT formed by the Calcutta police? The Calcutta police is the accused here,” DYFI spokesperson Kalatan Dasgupta told The Telegraph. The police said Maidul’s preliminary post-mortem report suggested superficial abrasion on the knee and no marks of injury on internal organs. Officers of New Market police station, under whose jurisdiction the incident had happened on Thursday, had earlier sought details of Maidul’s medical treatment history from CPM leader and doctor Fuad Halim, who had treated the youth. In another development, DYFI activist Dipankar Sengupta, arrested for allegedly assaulting an on-duty police officer in protest of Maidul’s death on Monday, was produced before a city court on Wednesday and was remanded in judicial custody till February 20. He is among the 250-300 Left supporters and leaders booked for allegedly assaulting a police officer, among others. Sengupta’s lawyer said he had shown the judge signs of police atrocity on his body following his arrest on Tuesday. The police have denied beating up Sengupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-195
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Jakir Hossain and 10 TMC workers injured in bomb attack||Junior Bengal minister and 10 Trinamul Congress workers suffered splinter injuries when unidentified people hurled around a dozen crude bombs at them at Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad on Wednesday night. Police sources said Hossain, 54, the junior labour minister and Suti Trinamul MLA, was attacked while he was waiting at platform 2 to board the Calcutta-bound New Alipurduar-Sealdah Teesta Torsa Express around 10pm. Hossain, a business tycoon in the Murshidabad district, has been admitted to Jangipur subdivisional hospital, around 30km from the spot, where doctors were trying to treat injuries to the legs and the left hand. “We are trying to stop his bleeding and only then can we refer him to Calcutta for better treatment,” said a doctor. The police said the pilot car and security personnel had dropped the minister outside the station and he walked up to the platform, along with his personal guard. Asked about the reason for the attack, the police said they were investigating the incident and it was too early to comment on the probe. Two of the 10 party workers accompanying the minister have been seriously injured and admitted to the Jangipur hospital, the police said. “Police have already reached the spot. We are trying to identify the goons from CCTV footage with help of railway police. No one has been arrested so far,” said Y Raghuvamshi, superintendent of Jangipur police district. Abu Taher Khan, president of the Murshidabad unit of the Trinamul, said: “We can’t imagine a gentleman and popular politician like Jakir Hossain could have enemies who would try to kill him. We have requested the police to arrest the culprits as soon as possible.” He added that Hossain had participated in a meeting in Behrampore where Trinamul had decided to expel the chairperson of Murshidabad zilla parishad, Musharaf Hossain, for anti-party activities. State Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said: “The attack on a minister shows the real picture of law and order in the state.” BJP leaders Suvendu Adhikari and Shankudeb Panda, along with the party’s North Calcutta district president Shibaji Singha Roy, were allegedly attacked while they were marching towards the deputy commissioner’s office in Calcutta late on Wednesday evening. BJP sources said Roy had been seriously injured and admitted to a private hospital along EM Bypass.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-195
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Indian Secular Front ups ante on seats||Talks between the Abbas Siddique-led Indian Secular Front and the Left-Congress leadership hit a stalemate on Wednesday as no consensus could be reached on the number of Assembly seats the ISF would be allotted. ISF chairman Naushad Siddiqui told the meeting that the party wouldn’t settle for anything less than at least 50 seats. But the Congress insisted, sources said, it would not compromise on the number of seats it planned to contest in alliance with the Left Front. Although Congress leaders left the meeting midway, Naushad continued to hold deliberations with CPM leaders till late on Wednesday. The sources said Congress MLA Abdul Mannan and Rajya Sabha member Pradip Bhattacharya would speak to state party chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on the issue on Thursday before holding another round of talks with the ISF. The talks were held on a day Furfura-Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui announced that his party would field candidates in all 294 Assembly constituencies in Bengal unless his demand for at least 80 seats to contest was accepted by the Left Front and the Congress. “I have sent a list of about 80 seats spread across North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Nadia, Murshidabad, Malda and some other areas. I can agree to some minor adjustments in numbers. But if the demand of seats is not largely agreed upon, I will not go for any negotiations and nominate candidates to all the seats,” Siddiqui said at Chapra in Nadia district. “Nijerder sansar ghuchiye newar khamata amader achey (We have the power to organise ourselves).” Multiple sources in the Left and the Congress said that such a public assertion by Siddiqui was nothing short of blackmailing as discussions were underway to strike a deal with his party. “Time is very limited and I will not remain at the mercy of the Left or the Congress. It is a matter of rights,” Siddiqui told journalists at Chapra. He was at Chapra for holding meetings with Muslim leaders. In recent months, the ISF has emerged as a force to be reckoned with in some parts of Bengal with its claim that a significant section of minority and Dalit voters would vote for it. With his fiery speeches in Muslim-dominated areas, Siddiqui has projected himself as a champion of minority rights. Although a section in the Left considers him as a fundamentalist, Siddiqui has pitched himself as a leader of the minority community and Dalits. “Our objective is to ensure democratic and constitutional rights for the minorities and the downtrodden people….We have demanded some seats and assured our support to the Congress and Left Front in the remaining seats. We will also campaign for them. Our intention is to build a strong partnership. But they are dillydallying. It appears leaders like Adhir Babu has not understood my words,” Siddiqui said. The Congress and the Left Front announced finalisation of seat sharing in Calcutta on Tuesday after a meeting at CPM office on Alimuddin Street, but refrained from naming the constituencies allotted for each party. This angered Siddique as he alleged that the two big partners had not bothered to leave seats for the ISF. “I am not begging… Who are the Congress or the Left Front to give me seats? They are also political parties like ours. We have begged for past 74 years. Now we want our right,” a visibly angry Siddiqui said in Chapra. “They announced finalisation of seat sharing… but deliberately avoided to announce the number of seats. It appears they have not left seats for us…So, we have to take our decision fast as time is very limited,” Siddiqui said. Abbas Siddiqui said he had directed Naushad to reiterate his demands categorically at the meeting. “We also have like-minded organisations in our fold, whom we need to accommodate as well,” Siddiqui said. The sources said the Congress and the Left Front apparently found the ISF’s demand “illogical”. The ISF has demanded almost all seats in North 24-Parganas’s Basirhat subdivision as well as a large number of seats in Baruipur and Diamond Harbour subdivisions. It also wanted to contest from a chunk of seats in Nadia’s Krishnagar and Tehatta subdivision as well as in Murshidabad and Malda districts, which put both the Congress and the Left in a difficult situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-195
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Yash Dasgupta and nine other Tollywood artists join BJP ||Tollywood actor Yash Dasgupta was among nine to 10 actors and actresses who joined the BJP on Wednesday. Although no A-lister appeared to be among the converts so far, the first such  expression of solidarity from Bengal’s film and TV serial fraternity ahead of the state polls prompted the BJP to claim that it had tiptoed into the state’s cultural sphere. “I haven’t taken this decision in a hurried manner.… The BJP is a party that lays special emphasis on the young generation. I am also young and that’s why I have joined the BJP,” said Yash, who started his career in television and debuted on silver screen with the 2016 film Gangster that also starred Mimi Chakraborty, now a Trinamul MP. He, however, made it clear that he was respectful towards Mamata Banerjee. “I am joining the BJP after seeking blessings from Didi…. I can’t say bad things about her.” Other stars in the BJP camp included Papiya Adhikari, Soumili Biswas, Sutapa Sen, Atanu Roy, Ashok Bhadra and Mallika Bandyopadhyay. The party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, national vice president Mukul Roy and Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta presided over the event. “This is a very important occasion for all of us,” said Dasgupta. The BJP believes this cultural capital will help them contest the “outsider” tag that Trinamul attacks it with. “Tollywood actors and actresses will play an important role in our campaign,” said a source, adding the party was trying to rope in A-listers of Tollywood, and talks were on with actor Hiran Chatterjee. Trinamul was unfazed. “Most of those who took up the BJP flag today hardly have any star value.…Besides, we contest polls on the strength of development work carried out by Mamata Banerjee,” said a Trinamul source. Tollywood star and Trinamul MLA from Barasat Chiranjeet Chakraborty wrote to party chief Mamata Banerjee, requesting her to allow him to step down. He did not want to be in mainstream politics, he said. In 2019, about a dozen actors and actresses — including Rishi Kaushik, Parno Mittra, Kanchana Moitra and Rupanjana Mitra — from the Bengali film industry had joined the BJP at the party’s national headquarters in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-195
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul and BJP vie for Rajbanshi support ||Identity politics has become the flavour of the season in north Bengal ahead of the Assembly elections as both the Trinamul Congress and the BJP are leaving no stone unturned to woo Rajbanshis through a series of announcements and initiatives in remembrance of Panchanan Barma, the most revered social reformer of the community. The reason behind the reachout attempt is simple. The Rajbanshi population spread across Cooch Behar, Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri and North Dinajpur districts is a decisive factor in around half of the 54 Assembly constituencies in north Bengal. In the Lok Sabha elections in 2019, the BJP had managed to perform exceptionally well in the Rajbanshi-dominated belts of north Bengal and won seven of the eight Parliament seats in the region. In the run up to the Assembly elections, while the BJP is desperate to retain its support base, Trinamul wants to woo them back. As both these political forces pull out all stops to draw support from Rajbanshis, The Telegraph highlights some of the announcements made and initiatives taken by Trinamul and the BJP in the past few weeks. ⚫On February 14, that is, on the birth anniversary of Panchanan Barma, the state government handed over a plot of 13 acres to Cooch Behar Panchanan Barma University (CBPBU) for the construction of a second campus at Khalishamari — the Rajbanshi icon’s birthplace — in the Mathabhanga subdivision of Cooch Behar. State ministers paid homage to Barma on that day at the venue. ⚫On February 15, chief minister Mamata Banerjee virtually laid the foundation stone of the second campus at Khalishamari. She also unveiled a bronze statue of Barma on the main campus of the varsity. ⚫On February 14, a number of Trinamul leaders and state ministers were seen offering homage to Barma at various places of north Bengal, including Siliguri and Jalpaiguri. ⚫In the vote-on-account for the next fiscal, the chief minister announced that the state government would recognise 200 Rajbanshi-medium schools and also open schools in Kamtapuri (a variant of Rajbanshi language) in the areas dominated by the community. ⚫The Bengal government has also announced formation of Narayani battalion (named after the royal troops of the erstwhile princely state of Cooch Behar) in Bengal police. It would have its headquarters at Mekhliganj in Cooch Behar. ⚫The state has also offered jobs to over 500 former militants and linkmen of the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO). Most of them are Rajbanshi youths. ⚫The Mamata Banerjee dispensation has promised to look into the demand of a development board for Nasya Sheikhs who introduce themselves as Rajbanshi Muslims. Added to these, the Mamata Banerjee government had earlier established the varsity in Barma’s name and constituted two language academies and a development and cultural board for Rajbanshis. ⚫On February 11, Union home minister Amit Shah announced that the Centre would install a statue of Panchanan Barma by spending Rs 250 crore. Also, a cultural hub for Rajbanshis would be set up in Cooch Behar, on which Rs 500 crore would be spent. ⚫The home minister also announced that a Narayani battalion would be formed in central paramilitary forces. Also, a training centre of such forces would be named after Chila Roy (Chila Roy or Sukladhwaj, the younger brother of King Naranarayan, is known to be the fiercest fighter of the Cooch Behar royal family.) ⚫On February 14, as a three-day cultural fest hosted by the Union ministry of tourism and culture was opened at the Cooch Behar palace, all dignitaries, including Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, Union minister of state Prahlad Singh Patil and local BJP MP Nisith Pramanik paid homage to a portrait of Panchanan Barma on the dais. ⚫On the same day, BJP held a public meeting at Baburhat in Alipurduar district. It was the first public meeting of Suvendu Adhikari in north Bengal after he joined the BJP. The dais was named as Panchanan Barma Manch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-195
18-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP worker found hanging in Jalpaiguri||A BJP worker in the Dhupguri block of Jalpaiguri district was found dead at his home on Wednesday. While the BJP has demanded a complete investigation, police suspect Sanjay Kumar Roy, 42, died by suicide. He was found hanging at his home in the Niranjanpat-Garkhuta area in the morning. A police team arrived and seized the body. Sujay Tunga, the inspector-in-charge of Dhupguri police station, and Vikramjit Lama, the deputy superintendent of police (crime) of Jalpaiguri, went to the village and spoke to Roy’s family members and neighbours. “We suspect it to be a case of suicide and can confirm it only after we get post-mortem report,” said a police officer. A BJP leader said: “The police should find out the cause of his death. If we find that any attempt has been made to hush up the truth, we will resort to protests.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
18-02-2021||West Bengal||First poll training records 90% attendance||More than 90 per cent of state government employees, who were requisitioned as polling officers, attended the first training programme in south Calcutta on Wednesday with the high turnout coming as a surprise as a good number of officials selected for election duties generally tend to seek exemption. Usually, 20 to 25 per cent employees seek exemption from poll duty citing various reasons even before the first training programme. District administration officials face a lot of trouble to engage the required number of polling officers at booths because of truancy. “But it is a relief that applications seeking exemption from poll duty are much lesser this time compared to previous years. About 10 per cent of the employees who have already been requisitioned sought exemption citing serious health conditions, which we will consider,” said a district magistrate. The development is considered significant in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic that has necessitated more polling officers to conduct the election process this year. “The number of booths has gone up to 1.01 lakh this year from 78,000-odd. Each booth requires four polling officers. And we have to keep 20 per cent polling officers in reserve considering the Covid-19 situation. A total of 5 lakh employees would be required this year,” said a source. Getting 5 lakh from a pool of 8 lakh employees in state government offices and state-aided institutions is itself not an easy task, sources said. Against this backdrop, the high turnout for training is a welcome relief, said a senior official. The sources said the tough stance of the Election Commission ahead of the polls might have created panic among a section of employees, who usually want to avoid poll duties in the past. “From the very beginning, the poll panel has made it clear that if any of the government employees is charged with negligence, he or she would have to face a stern action. In addition to this, the way the state government has transferred top officials, including district magistrates, ahead of the polls, common employees might have thought that they would not be spared too if they cite any false reason to avoid poll duty,” said a source. The Union health ministry had directed all five poll-bound states, including Bengal, to administer Covid-19 vaccine to polling officers. The Bengal government has already asked district authorities to prepare a database of polling officers, who would be administered vaccines ahead of the polls. According to the sources, the government has decided to run special camps for the polling officers during the second phase of vaccination, which is likely to start in the last week of February. The vaccination for polling officers is optional as any official can skip the vaccination. “This is an initiative to safeguard the polling officials. If anybody wants to skip this, he or she can by giving an undertaking to the authorities concerned…. The offer of vaccination may have also increased interest in logging in for poll duty,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Bomb attack on Bengal minister Jakir Hossain in Murshidabad||West Bengal minister Jakir Hossain was seriously injured after unidentified attackers hurled bombs at him in Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad district on Wednesday night, police said. At least two other persons who were with him were also injured in the incident. Hossain, the minister of state for labour, was waiting at platform no 2 of the station to catch a train to Kolkata at around 10 pm when he was attacked, a senior police officer of West Bengal Police told PTI. "Jakir Hossain was seriously injured after unidentified attackers hurled bombs at him in Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad district on Wednesday night," the Police confirmed. The MLA of Jangipur in Murshidabad district and the two other injured persons were taken to Jangipur Sub-divisional Hospital, he said. Assembly election is due in West Bengal in April-May this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
18-02-2021||West Bengal||Lucky draw and LED bulb gifts at Dilip Ghosh's tea party||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh handed over LED bulbs to 10 lucky draw winners selected from those who attended a “cha-chakra (tête-à-tête over tea)” at Jodhpur Park in Calcutta on Wednesday morning, inviting ridicule from the Trinamul Congress which said the programme was a flop and the gifts had been offered to attract participants. Ghosh had launched the “cha chakra” initiative in 2019 in response to Mamata Banerjee’s “Didi ke Bolo” and as part of an attempt to reach out to people and spread the BJP’s message with an eye on Assembly elections. However, the cha-chakra at Jodhpur Park on Wednesday morning stood out as some of those who attended the session with Ghosh got coupons with tea bags. “I was not sure why a coupon with a number was given along with the tea bag... Later, I realised that the number was for a lucky draw. After the programme, the BJP president handed over LED bulbs to 10 people who were selected through the lucky draw,” said a middle-aged man who took part in the programme held near Jodhpur Park post office. The inclusion of lucky-draw in the cha-chakra offered Trinamul an opportunity to go after the BJP. “This initiative was a cheap gimmick. The cha-chakra has been a huge flop as people are not interested in it. As the polls are drawing closer, they are desperate to show that people are with them and that’s why lucky draws are held,” said Trinamul MP Sougata Roy. BJP’s South Calcutta district committee, which organised the tea session, said over 1,000 people had joined Ghosh for their morning cuppa and enjoyed the discussion. “We think there is nothing wrong in giving LED bulbs to lucky winners. The electricity tariff is very high in Bengal and the LED bulbs will help people cut monthly electricity bill,” said Shankar Shikdar, the president of the district unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-196
