19-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal court sends Amit Shah notice for comments against Abhishek||A designated MP/MLA court in Bengal issued summons to Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday to appear either personally or through a lawyer before it on February 22 in connection with a defamation case lodged against him by Trinamul Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee. The special judge of MP/MLA court at Bidhannagar directed that Shah is "required to appear in person/by pleader" at 10 am on that day. The judge directed that Shah's attendance either personally or through a lawyer is necessary to answer to a charge of defamation under section 500 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). In a press note, Abhishek Banerjee's lawyer Sanjay Basu claimed that Shah had made certain defamatory statements against the TMC MP on August 11, 2018 at a rally of the BJP at Mayo Road in Calcutta. Shah had accused Abhishek indirectly of putting money allotted by the Centre during the 14th finance commission in his own “pocket”. "During the 14th finance commission, the Narendra Modi government allotted Rs. 3,59000 crore to Bengal as compared to Rs. 1.32,000 crore given by the UPA government during the previous finance commission. Where did all the money go? Did it disappear in the pockets of syndicates and the nephew," he had asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata likely to skip Niti Aayog meet on February 20||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to skip the Niti Aayog's governing council meeting to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 20, sources said on Friday. The council, the apex body of the government's think tank, includes all chief ministers, lieutenant governors of Union Territories (UTs), several Union ministers and senior government officials. The prime minister will chair the Saturday's meeting, where issues related to agriculture, infrastructure, manufacturing and human resource development will be discussed, according to an official statement. "Mamata Banerjee may not attend the Niti Aayog's February 20 meeting," a senior TMC leader said on condition of anonymity. Banerjee had earlier skipped the Niti Aayog's meetings and termed it as a "fruitless" exercise, alleging that the body has "no financial power" and cannot support the state plans. The sixth meeting of the governing council will witness the entry of Ladakh for the first time, in addition to the participation of Jammu and Kashmir as a UT, the statement said. This time, other UTs headed by administrators have also been invited to join, it added. The governing council meets regularly and its first meeting took place on February 8, 2015. However, the council did not meet last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Rail rage in Bengal||Supporters of the Left Front and the Congress blocked railway tracks for almost an hour across Bengal on Thursday to protest against the death of DYFI leader Maidul Islam Middya and demand the repeal of farm laws enacted by the central government. Bankura resident Maidul, who died on Monday, had allegedly been beaten by police during a protest march demanding jobs by Left student and youth wings on February 11 in Calcutta. The picture shows the rail blockade at Serampore in Hooghly district. Responding to a call by the DYFI and the SFI to stand by the family of Maidul, who was an autorickshaw driver, actor Badshah Moitra and secretary of the CPMbacked All Bengal Teachers’ Association Sukumar Pyne called on his relatives in Bankura on Thursday and extended financial help to them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Man guns down son in Raiganj||A four-year-old boy from Jhitkia village on the outskirts of Raiganj town died after being shot in the head by his father on Wednesday night. Sahil died in hospital. His father Nastar Ali fled. Sources said Ali shot his son after a fight with his wife and demanding money from her parents. They said Ali, who got married seven years ago, would often fight with his wife and ask her to bring money from her parents and torture her. “The past few days, he had been making similar demands and on Wednesday, around 11.30am, they got into a fight. Suddenly, Ali took out a firearm and fired at his son,” said Shamsuddin Ahmed, a relative. The bullet, police said, hit the head of Sahil Sheikh, the little boy. Though rushed to Raiganj Government Medical College and Hospital, Sahil succumbed to his injuries. As the news spread, Ali fled while a team from Raiganj police station went to the area to start an investigation. “Nastar Ali was involved with anti-social activities and often resorted to highhandedness. Residents here are fed up with his activities,” said Biswanath Deb Sharma, a local panchayat member. On Thursday, angry villagers gathered near his house and decided that Ali would never be allowed to enter the village. “Even if he is arrested and spends years in jail, we will not allow him into the village. What he did is unpardonable,” said a villager. Police officials investigating the case said the boy was fired from point blank range. “It is evident that the bullet was fired to kill the boy,” said a police officer. "We suspect he has sneaked into Bihar as the interstate border is a few kilometres away." At least 30 passengers in an NBSTC bus, on its way to Balurghat from Malda, were injured after it collided head on with a truck in Rampur-14th Mile area under Tapan police station of South Dinajpur on Thursday afternoon. Passengers alleged rash driving led to the accident. Local residents rescued the passengers, and when police and firemen reached the spot, helped them too in the rescue work. The injured, some critical, have been admitted to super-specialty hospitals of Gangarampur and Balurghat. Police have seized the bus and truck.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Malda: tainted Trinamul leader joins BJP||A Trinamul leader of Malda with many police cases pending against him joined the BJP in presence of state unit chief Dilip Ghosh and the party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya in Calcutta on Wednesday. Sheikh Yasin, appointed a secretary of Malda district Trinamul in December last year, switched loyalties along with three zilla parishad members, four panchayat chiefs and 23 panchayat samiti members of the district, all from Mamata Banerjee’s party. Yasin, a bahubali or strongman in Ratua area of Malda, was accused of rigging poll booths in the 2018 panchayat elections. Ballot boxes were looted at gunpoint, dumped on the roads and were set on fire in Ratua. The incidents allegedly orchestrated by Yasin drew flak from many quarters and made the state election commission order re-polling in over 50 booths of Malda district. Parties in Opposition, including the BJP, had shrilly accused Yasin of looting votes. Yasin’s spouse Payel Khatun is an elected member of zilla parishad. A couple of months back, Yasin hit the headlines when violence erupted in a flat in Calcutta owned by Payel and one person died in the incident. Again, BJP among all other Opposition parties had made the shrillest protest seeking police action against Yasin. BJP leaders in Malda when asked about Yasin’s joining, reacted briefly. “Such activities would not be allowed in the BJP. Maybe he wants to change himself,” said Ajay Ganguly, a vice-president of BJP in Malda. Trinamul’s reaction was mixed. While district INTTUC president Manab Banerjee said “the party has been purged with voluntary departure of such a history-sheeter,” district Trinamul chairman Krishnendu Choudhury said “the party should look into the causes behind the departure of leaders and workers”. Trinamul insiders revealed Yasin wanted the Ratua Assembly ticket and humiliated Samar Mukherjee, the sitting Trinamul MLA, many times. “It did not go well with the party leadership and they did not entertain his demand. This perhaps made him decide to join the BJP,” said a source. Sources said that Yasin was initially close to the Left but after being refused a nomination in the 2013 panchayat polls, he contested as an Independent and win in the panchayat samito tier. Later, he joined Trinamul and was appointed as a district secretary of the party. “However, after some years, the state Trinamul leaders realised that he was developing a larger-than-life image (as a strongman). In fact, at a public meeting on March 4, 2020, chief minister Mamata Banerjee asked district leaders to rein in Yasin,” said a source. Along with BJP, the Congress leadership also flagged Yasin’s alleged involvement in illegal activities. Recently, Mostaque Alam, a Congress MLA of the district, published a list of police cases pending against Yasin and demanded stern police action against him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Maintain discipline: Gautam Deb’s message to TMC, INTTUC||State tourism minister Gautam Deb on Thursday asked representatives of over 30 trade unions affiliated to Trinamul workers’ front INTTUC and based in New Jalpaiguri (NJP) area to stay disciplined and refrain from violence. Deb was speaking at a public meeting organised by INTTUC at Netaji More in NJP area, the first political activity of Trinamul after some INTTUC supporters led by local leader Prasenjit Roy on February 4 barged into the inland container depot in NJP and vandalised the premises. Roy, ousted from Trinamul and INTTUC, is still at large. “I would like to remind everybody that no one is above the organisation. We have to follow guidelines of the party and INTTUC and cannot take part in any undisciplined activity that can affect the party’s image,” Deb said. The vandalism, Trinamul insiders said, led to a loss of face for the party and Deb, the MLA of Dabgram-Fulbari under which NJP falls. Deb will contest from the same seat in the coming polls for the third time. An insider said in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul lagged behind the BJP by over 85,000 votes in this Assembly segment, which made this election crucial for Deb. The minister wanted to tell INTTUC-backed trade unions — there are 32 affiliated ones in NJP — to abstain from any activity that could hurt Trinamul. An INTTUC leader in NJP also said that as Roy was no longer with them, they also had to ensure trade unions functioned and its members stayed with Mamata Banerjee’s party. “It is indeed a challenge to retain support base. We have planned to convene a meeting with representatives of all these trade unions and INTTUC members of NJP during the next few days. The tourism minister will be here at the meeting,” the INTTUC leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Medical teachers’ sit-in for pay hike, promotion in Nadia||Nearly 150 teachers attached to the JNM Hospital and College of Medicine, Kalyani, staged a day-long sit-in in front of the principal’s chamber on Thursday, demanding their inclusion in the West Bengal Health Scheme, implementation of a revised pay structure already in place for state government and university employees and their time-bound promotion among other demands. The doctors held the demonstration without hampering academic activities in the college and allied medical services and submitted a memorandum to the principal under the banner of the Kalyani Medical Teachers’ Association. The memorandum was to draw the attention of the West Bengal University of Health Sciences (WBUHS) and the state government. KMTA joint secretary Kaustav Chakraborty, who is also the head of the psychiatry department, said: “The college became operational in 2009. But since it has been brought under the control of the WBUHS, little has been done for the teaching doctor community. The most unfortunate part is that we are still being denied benefits of the West Bengal Health Scheme, which has already been provided to teachers of other medical colleges in Bengal. Facilities of the health scheme remain elusive despite our repeated appeals, even amid a pandemic.” “At the same time, WBUHS authorities did not bother to implement the revised pay benefits announced by the state government. This is sheer denial of our legitimate rights,” said KMTA president Subikas Biswas, adding that the university authority also denied them career advancement scope with no timely promotions in place. The aggrieved doctors said they would continue the demonstration until and unless the WBUHS or the state government fulfilled their demands. They also sought the intervention of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, assuring her that there would be no disruption in academic and medical services in the college and the attached JNM Hospital owing to their demonstration. Acting principal Suman Kumar Roy said: “The grievances of the faculty doctors are quite genuine. As a faculty member, I also wholeheartedly support their demands. I have conveyed the grievances to the higher authorities and sought their immediate intervention so that the faculty staff can work here happily.” An official of the WBUHS said the issue of inclusion of the faculty in the WBHS had been considered. “A process has started to provide the benefit but nothing has been finalised about the other demands,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah seeks presence at Bengal yatra||Union home minister Amit Shah has issued an appeal to BJP supporters to be “united in their presence” along the route of the “paribartan yatra” that he flagged off from Namkhana in South 24-Parganas on Thursday. The call comes at a time attendance at the party’s rath yatras — an unfamiliar feature in Bengal — has flagged after the initial enthusiasm. Shah was in Namkhana to launch the last of the five paribartan raths — decorated air-conditioned vehicles. “Mothers, brothers and sisters, this yatra starts today…. I urge you all to be united in your presence while the yatra passes through the villages and the cities. Stand in support of the yatra,” Shah told a public meeting on Indira Maidan in Namkhana before flagging off the chariot. The party’s poll strategists had planned five rath yatras, one from each of its organisational zones, to cover all the 294 constituencies to help facilitate a mood for change. While two of these, including the one that began on Thursday, were inaugurated by Shah, three others were flagged off by J.P. Nadda, the party’s national president. The rath launched by Nadda on February 9 from Tarapith was received by a mere 200 people at Rampurhat after travelling almost 90km through the district. Sources in Birbhum BJP said the party had initially planned to invite Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to participate in the rally on February 13. However, the plan was abandoned purportedly because of the poor response. “It isn’t possible for the poor party workers to be present at the rally every day. They’ve told us that it affects their work,” a source in Birbhum BJP said. Not just poor turnout along the routes of the rath yatras, the flag-off sessions have also failed to create the excitement that matched the expectations of BJP leaders, sources said. The turnout was less than expected on Indira Maidan on Thursday. Empty patches of the field reminded party leaders of the lukewarm response the flag-offs received at Tarapith, Nabadwip and Lalgarh. Although Shah paid his respects to the crowd for turning up in “large numbers”, images from the Maidan did not entirely reflect such a rosy picture. State BJP vice-president Raju Banerjee said over 50,000 people had gathered on the Indira Maidan but another leader claimed in private that the count did not exceed 25,000. The more or less lukewarm response prompted a senior BJP leader, who is also an office bearer in the state committee, to wonder whether the state government castled the party by allowing the rallies. “Before the 2019 polls, our rath yatras were denied the permission. There was a lot of fuss about it and we gained political mileage out of it,” the leader said. “But now that we can take our rallies out, the interest among the people is subsiding after the inauguration.” However, BJP MP and state general secretary Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato denied that the yatras had failed to draw crowds. He said the turnout had surpassed expectations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Garbage piles up in Siliguri||Residents of Siliguri continued to bear the brunt of the garbage lying in heaps and piles and the obnoxious smell emanating from the trash for the second day in succession on Thursday as conservancy workers of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) went ahead with the ceasework. The situation was so miserable at markets that shopowners and traders joined hands to clean their areas. In residential areas, heaps of garbage piled up on almost every street, much to the inconvenience of the people. Every day, 2, 571 workers are engaged to clear around 3.5 tons of garbage from across the civic area. On Wednesday, they stopped joining their duties, demanding that they be provided with permanent jobs at the civic body. To end the stalemate, Asok Bhattacharya, the chairman of the board of administrators at the SMC, held a meeting with a delegation of the workers on Thursday and urged them to resume their services. The workers, however, demanded that even if their jobs were not made permanent, they be given a hike of 20 per cent in wages with effective from next month. “We have requested the civic authorities to increase our wages by 20 per cent and it should be implemented from March. We will not join the work unless our demand is met,” said Kiran Routh, president, Uttarbanga Safai Karmachari Samiti. The conservancy workers, sources said, not only continued their ceasework but even stopped a couple of dump trucks from carrying the garbage to the dumping ground. Bhattacharya, who is also the Siliguri MLA, said the BoA didn’t have the authority to increase the workers’ wages. “We have told the conservancy workers that the BoA cannot make a decision. When the elected civic board was in power, a decision was made to increase the wages by 10 per cent from April this year. They are demanding that the hike be doubled and made effective from March. This is beyond our capacity. We hope they will understand the situation and withdraw the ceasework,” Bhattacharya said. People from across the society sounded disgruntled over the halt in conservancy services. Khokan Bhattacharya, president, Seth Srilal Market Byabsayee Samiti, who along with others, took the task of cleaning the market on Thursday, said the workers might have some demands but they should resolve it through talks. “The way they carried out their movement by preventing the dump-trucks and dumped the waste on the streets is unacceptable. We appeal to the civic authorities to take necessary steps for the restoration of the garbage collection and disposal service,” he said. Sources at the SMC said state tourism minister Gautam Deb was likely to have a meeting with the workers on Friday. “There might be some positive developments at the meeting,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-194
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata touches on Abhishek’s political upbringing||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday took head on the principal thrust of the saffron ecosystem’s election campaign for Bengal as she dismissed allegations of nepotism against her over the apparent elevation of nephew Abhishek Banerjee as her heir-apparent. At a rally in Pailan, South 24-Parganas, the Trinamul Congress chief rolled out an anecdote from his childhood to explain why her nephew had a legitimate place in politics. “Remember, when I was beaten up in Hazra (in 1990)… shortly after he was born (in 1987). He saw my head and hands were bandaged. He used to ask why, and my mother used to tell him how his Didi (what he addresses Mamata as) got beaten up by the CPM,” said Mamata. “He used to wield a Congress flag and conduct a rally alone, in the room… barely a couple of years old then. Didi k marley kyano, jobab dao (Why did you beat up Didi, answer),” she added to loud cheers from the audience. “He used to do this from when he was an infant. Seeing that kind of interest in him….” The Diamond Harbour MP was on the dais at the rally. “In my family, everybody has been in politics. Maybe they haven’t been in high places. When we were in the Congress, back when Indira Gandhi lost (1977 Lok Sabha polls), eight of us — six brothers and two sisters — used to participate in rallies….,” said Mamata. “Abhishek gets no special priority from me…. I did not make him the deputy chief minister, nor the chief minister,” she added, responding to repeated assertions from Union home minister Amit Shah and other BJP leaders that her only goal now was to make him the chief minister. The chief minister said she had given her nephew the option of working for the people without contesting elections, and the choice of going to the Rajya Sabha directly. But, she said, he had put his foot down, choosing to face elections and go to the Lok Sabha as a duly elected representative of the people. “Those who don’t know these things saying all sorts of things today,” she said.Mamata also brought up the 2016 road accident on the Durgapur Expressway near Singur when Abhishek suffered serious injuries and reiterated that it was part of a conspiracy to have him killed. “He virtually lost an eye in that…. Because it’s all in the same household, I know the pain…. The entire eyeball had been uprooted… was there a strong chance of survival? No,” she said, before asserting that the Banerjees of Harish Chatterjee Street in Kalighat would never do anything to harm people or bring them disrepute. She added that every family takes a few generations to prosper and hers took four, over 50 years, and nothing was handed to anybody overnight. “I feel so bad. Daily, because of me, he has to listen to so much. I really think whatever abuse you want to hurl, hurl them at me. Spare the wives and young ones of the family, at least. Say whatever you want to about the seniors, we will tolerate it,” said the chief minister. Abhishek’s wife Rujira has been a frequent target of attacks by the BJP. She threw a challenge at the Union home minister to contest against Abhishek in Bengal. “Only Didi and bhatija (nephew), all the time. Fight Didi later, fight the bhatija first. I challenge you, Amit Shah. First you contest against Abhishek Banerjee,” she said. Mamata then brought up Shah’s son Jay Shah — whose sudden elevation to the key post of BCCI secretary and exponential increase in wealth during the Narendra Modi government’s tenure have been the subject of many a controversy — and accused the father of hiding the son. “Your son, Amit bhaiya (elder brother), is my bhatija too. How did he rise to the top of cricket (the BCCI)? How did he make hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of crores suddenly? What, bhaiya? The mother of a thief has the loudest voice,” said Mamata, before challenging Shah to also bring his son to politics and work for the people, the way her family has. “Do not play with fire. Basic courtesy is mutual, give and take…. Remember, an injured tigress is lethal. You will not be able to handle me.” Mamata peppered her 32-minute address with rebuttals against Shah’s allegations, levelled earlier in the day, in the same crucial district of South 24-Parganas with 31 Assembly seats, and urged its voters to hand the BJP a 0-31 drubbing. She discarded Shah’s predictions about the election results and vowed to secure a third consecutive term in power, this time with record-shattering margins.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-194
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Bharat Sevashram Sangha red-carpet welcome for Amit Shah||Home minister Amit Shah on Thursday visited the Bharat Sevashram Sangha’s head office here  to pay tributes to its founder Yugacharya Swami Pranavananda Maharaj. Monks led him to the main hall of the Sangha down a red carpet, garlanded him and gifted him a shawl. Shah said Bharatiya Jana Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee and Swami Pranavananda shared similar ideologies. Shah, who lit a candle and performed an aarti of Swami Pranavananda, spoke of being influenced by a Sangha monk in Ahmedabad. “I used to visit Bharat Sevashram Sangha in my younger days. Swami Ganeshananda of the Sangha’s Ahmedabad unit influenced me immensely,” Shah said to a small gathering of monks in the 45-minute event. “The Bharat Sevashram Sangha through its seva (service), samarparan (surrender) and tyaag (renunciation) has set a great example to all other institutions serving mankind,” he added. Senior BJP leaders including Kailash Vijayvargiya, Dilip Ghosh and Mukul Roy had accompanied him to the Sangha’s Rashbehari Avenue address. “We had formally invited him to come down on the occasion of the 125th birth anniversary of Swami Pranavananda Maharaj. That was nearly a year ago, and he had then said he would come,” said Dilip Maharaj of the Sangha. “On his (Shah’s) way out (on Thursday) he said he gathered strength after visiting the Sangha and paying tribute to Swami Pranavananda.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who inaugurated the 125th birth anniversary celebrations of Swami Pranavananda last February, had then said: “These days, a strange idea of religion has cropped up among a few...that says ami thakbo, tumi baad (I’ll stay and you are out)....Ami etar pokkhey noi (I’m not in favour of this).” “Their (those who believe in such a concept of religion) brains have turned into a morubhumi (desert). Aamra morubhumi chai na (We don’t want deserts),” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-194
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Blast witness talks about ‘bulky white bag’ ||Trinamul Congress supporter Ejaz Hossain, 24, was with junior labour minister and Suti MLA Jakir Hossain when a bomb exploded at Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad district around 10pm on Wednesday. Ejaz was one of the approximately 50 youths who had gathered at the railway station to send off Hossain who was to board the Calcutta-bound Teesta-Torsa Express around 10.03pm when explosives hidden inside a bag went off on the platform, injuring the minister and at least 26 others. Speaking from his bed at Murshidabad Medical College in Behrampore, Ejaz, who suffered splinter injuries to the right leg, said: “The minister alighted from his SUV at Nimtita railway station around 10pm on Wednesday to jubilant cries from us praising him and the party. He was on his way to Calcutta for a meeting with chief minister Mamata Banerjee.” The Trinamul supporter said the minister took the same train whenever he travelled to Calcutta and they were used to the routine. “We began following him from his vehicle up to platform number two to wait for the train to chug in. The atmosphere was a positive one. Once we reached the platform, a few of us noticed a bulky white bag sitting conspicuously almost on the edge of the platform and where the AC Tier-II compartment of the Teesta-Torsa Express is usually positioned,” Ejaz said. “As the train was to arrive any moment, I asked one of my comrades to move the white bag. He did so and then everything happened in a flash. I still cannot believe I am alive. There was a loud bang, and then smoke and screams of pain and desperate plea to save lives. It was nothing less than a nightmare,” said Ejaz. “I have returned from the mouth of death. I heard my friend has lost his arm on the spot. I have suffered injuries to the leg. In hindsight, I feel the device was either a time bomb or a remote-controlled explosive. Those who carried out the blast must have been keeping a watch on our movement,” he added. Police officers from Suti, 4km from Nimtita railway station, were the first to reach the site of the explosion on Wednesday night. They rushed 13 grievously injured victims in two ambulances to Jangipur subdivisional hospital. An officer who had rushed to the Nimtita railway station said: “By the time we reached the platform, the minister had already been rushed by his aides to the hospital. But the sight was unthinkable, straight out of a horror movie. Maimed and screaming people, bloody body parts, and a burning smell filling the air. People were crying.” Asima Biwi, 65, who lives 30m away from the station, said the sound of explosion was something she had not heard in her life. “A massive noise shook us late at night. A noise like I had never heard. We were too frightened to even find out what had happened. So, we locked our doors and closed our windows,” Asima said, adding she did not find out until Thursday morning about the attack on the minister. “We could barely sleep because of fear,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-194
19-02-2021||West Bengal||Heckled, Bimal Gurung keeps calm||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung faced pro-Anit Thapa slogans while on a visit to a Kurseong temple early on Thursday, but did not react. Gurung, with a perception of being a “tough” person since his Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council election win, has seldom been heckled on his face. On Thursday morning, supporters of the rival Morcha camp played a song eulogising Thapa and Binay Tamang when Gurung’s convoy reached the temple. As Gurung alighted from his vehicle, pro-Thapa slogans were raised. Gurung did not react and simply walked towards the temple. The incident triggered shadow-boxing on social media. A section circulated videos to show Gurung’s reaction to pro-Anit Thapa slogans in a bid to dent his “tough” persona. Another section circulated another clip to prove Thapa supporters had problems with Gurung visiting a temple. This video is complete with a commentary to suggest that protesters were allegedly reeking of alcohol. Hill observers said that the incident was reflective of the present political contours. "It is obvious that Anit Thapa's group tried to prove that they are no longer intimidated by Gurung's perceived tough personality. Gurung's reaction also suggests he has mellowed for the moment," said an observer. The observer also recalled that a similar heckling at Gurung's convoy in the middle of Kurseong town some years back that had resulted in an angry backlash in full public view. The two youths at the receiving end had not filed any police complaint against Gurung, the observer added. Both Thapa and Gurung are now in alliance with Trinamul. "The state government will not want any law and order situation in the hills," the observer added on the condition of anonymity. Many in the hills also noted that while both parties were with Trinamul, their bitterness towards each other was evident. In reaction to Thursday's incident, Thapa said he was appealing to his supporters to maintain peace in the hills. "I was told that Gurung's supporters raised slogans against us at Subedar busty in Kurseong last night. I think our supporters are reacting to that incident but I have appealed for peace," said Thapa, general secretary of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha of the Tamang camp. Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Gurung camp, countered: "Their (Tamang-Thapa) base is being eroded and the act was triggered out of frustration."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-194
