20-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul launches its election slogan ahead of assembly polls||The Trinamul Congress on Saturday launched its slogan for the upcoming assembly elections -- 'Bangla Nijer Meyekei Chaye', adding to the shrill insider vs outsider debate while portraying Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee as the daughter of Bengal. The slogan, which translates to 'Bengal wants its own daughter', with Mamata’s photo was put up on hoardings across Kolkata as the state's ruling party officially launched it from its headquarters off EM Bypass. "The people of the state want their own daughter who has been by their side for the last several years as their chief minister. We don't want outsiders to call the shots in Bengal," TMC secretary-general Partha Chatterjee said. The Trinamul Congress is engaged in a bitter political fight with the BJP, pitching the opposition party's leaders as outsiders who are on "election tourism" to the state. "The upcoming election is not a big factor for the Trinamul Congress. The entire country is watching how the Constitution can be protected and the outcome of the polls will prove that," TMC's Rajya Sabha MP Subrata Bakshi said. He said the chief minister has already submitted a report card of the work done in the last ten years to the people of the state. "Which state has done so much? None," Bakshi added. State Panchayat Minister Subrata Mukherjee said that while other parties are struggling to find a chief ministerial face, the Trinamul Congress has Mamata who knows the pulse of the people of Bengal. Mukherjee said she knows how to protect the women. Mamata also has a soulful connection with rural Bengal and has built 34 lakh houses in the villages while providing electricity to 96 lakh households, he said. Total 1.18 lakh km of rural roads were built in the last ten years, Mukherjee said. The party's slogan of 'Bodla Noy Bodol Chai', meaning 'don't want revenge but change', ahead of the 2011 polls turned out to be crucial in reaching out to the masses who toppled the 34 years of Left rule in Bengal. The slogan of 'Chup Chap Fuley Chap' (vote for TMC in silence) during the Left rule is also considered iconic. However, 'Ma, Mati, Manush' -- the slogan Banerjee gave during the land agitation of the mid-2000s became the ideology of the party, helping it win rural Bengal along with the urban areas, election after election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
20-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal court calls Amit Shah on Abhishek Banerjee’s petition||A special court for MP/MLA in Calcutta on Friday ordered Union home minister Amit Shah to appear before it personally or through a representative at 10am on February 22 to clarify on what basis he had made “defamatory” remarks against Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee. The court issued the order on a petition by Banerjee seeking penal measures against Shah for making “untrue and defamatory” remarks against him at a public rally in 2018. The Diamond Harbour MP also claimed that Shah’s remarks had tarnished his image as well as that of Trinamul. Speaking at the rally in Calcutta on August 11, 2018, Shah had allegedly linked Banerjee to deposit collection scams. In the same month, Banerjee lodged the defamation petition which came for hearing on Friday. Shah will have to either come to the court personally or send his representative or he has the option to move Calcutta High Court to challenge the order. The state legal cell of the BJP said the party was yet to decide on the future course of action. BJP leader Samik Bhattacharya, however, said the case would be fought legally and in the court of the people. Trinamul Congress leader Kunal Ghosh said: “Now, Shah should come to court with proper documents to prove that Abhishek Banerjee was involved in activities as claimed by the Union home minister. If he fails, the people of Bengal would not spare him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
20-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 194 cases and 3 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Friday logged 238 Covid-19 recoveries, 194 infections and three deaths as total active cases dropped for the 116th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. The total of active cases, which was 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), has fallen to 3,625, back almost to where it was 261 days ago, on June 3. None of the three deaths on Friday was from Calcutta. Bengal now has 2.58 per cent of the national total of active cases, with the share having come down to nearly a third of what it was even a couple of months ago. The recovery rate rose for 119 consecutive days to touch 97.58 per cent. The national rate is 97.25 now. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.84 per cent, having fallen steadily for 92 days. On Friday, the state reported 20,528 tests, taking the total past 83.88 lakh, at 93,209 tests per million people. Of the total death toll of 10,242, 8,597 (83.9 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate was 1.42 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
20-02-2021||West Bengal||Job for Bankura DYFI leader’s wife||The state government handed over an appointment letter for the post of homeguard to the wife of deceased DYFI leader Maidul Islam Middya in Bankura’s Kotulpur on Friday. Maidul, a unit secretary of CPM’s youth wing DYFI, died in Calcutta on Monday. The DYFI leader had allegedly suffered injuries during a protest march when Left supporters and police clashed in Calcutta on February 11. Minister of state and Trinamul’s Kotulpur MLA Shyamal Santra, along with Bankura district magistrate K. Radhika Aiyar and police chief Koteswara Rao, went to Maidul’s home at Chorkola village in Kotulpur on Friday to hand over the appointment letter to Aleya Biwi in the presence of hundreds of villagers. “Within five days of the assurance of our chief minister, we have handed over the appoint letter to the wife of Maidul Islam Middya. She will join duty at Kotulpur police station as a homeguard soon. We are happy to have been able to help the family consisting of Maidul’s wife and mother and his three daughters,” said Santra. After receiving the appointment letter, Aleya thanked chief minister Mamata Banerjee for the employment. “I want to thank our chief minister as the job will help us survive. I hope the government will be with us in future,” she said. Mamata had on Monday announced that the government would provide a job to Maidul’s kin and a team led by Santra had called on the bereaved family the following day to collect necessary documents. Maidul had taken part in the march to Nabanna demanding jobs for youths and Left Front leaders pointed to the irony that Aleya got employment but at the cost of losing her husband. “Maidul wanted jobs for all and the government gave his wife a job after snatching her husband away. It is also an irony that Aleya has been given a job in the police department as homeguard while her husband died because of police brutality. The government is trying to erase the crime as no step has been taken to identify and punish the cops responsible for Maidul’s death,” said Pradip Panda, DYFI’s Bankura secretary. Santra, however, said: “We had to appoint her as homeguard as she needed a job near her house. There is a police outpost around 1.5km away from her village and we will request that she is posted there.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
20-02-2021||West Bengal||Prime Minister ties central education policy to Tagore ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday tried to draw a parallel between Rabindranath Tagore’s vision of education and his government’s controversial New Education Policy saying both sought to build a modern India, but critics said the two ideas were as different as chalk and cheese. Addressing the Visva-Bharati convocation virtually from New Delhi on Friday, Modi said: “The education system and process that Gurudev ensured in Visva-Bharati helped the then education system get rid of the shackles of subordination and make India modern. The New Education policy…will also help break the old shackles to give students freedom to show their excellence.” Friday’s speech comparing the NEP to Tagore’s idea of education is Modi’s second attempt to link the vision of Visva-Bharati’s founder with the programmes of his government. Barely two months ago, while speaking at the centenary celebrations of Visva-Bharati, Modi had tried to connect his government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat project with Tagore’s idea of inclusiveness and self-reliance. The attempt of the Prime Minister, who is also the varsity chancellor, to use Tagore as a tool to justify schemes of his government has run into criticism from Visva-Bharati alumni and senior officials of the university. The critics said the two ideas were not one and the same as Gurudev believed in making education inclusive and holistic, while the NEP sought to make it exclusive and inaccessible. They also raised questions about the varsity administration’s faith in the ideas that Tagore propagated. “It is interesting that the chancellor is finding the ideology of Tagore to relate policies of his government schemes. Ironically, I have doubts whether the present varsity administration and the Prime Minister himself are practicing Tagore’s ideals. Tagore’s ideology of truth, courage, welfare and development for all is not followed by the government but contradicted when we see thousands of farmers fighting in Delhi against the farm laws and Modi refuses to listen to them,” said Dikshit Sinha, who retired as professor of sociology from Visva-Bharati. Modi’s praise for his education policies came on a day when state education minister Partha Chatterjee criticised the NEP and said through it, the Centre wanted to privatise the education sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
20-02-2021||West Bengal||Central forces set to beat Bengal poll dates||The Union ministry of home affairs has decided to send 12 companies of central paramilitary forces to Bengal by Friday night and another 113 companies by February 25 for the purpose of area domination ahead of the Assembly polls. The unprecedented early despatch of the troops has come as a surprise for the state administration. Sources said the chief electoral officer of Bengal had already sent a detailed deployment plan of the forces and based on it, Nabanna had asked district authorities to make required arrangements. Multiple sources in the state administration said they could not recall an instance of the central forces getting deployed even before election dates were announced. “So far, a few companies of central forces were sent to the state for area domination after election dates were declared. I can recall that about 30 companies were sent to the state after dates of 2016 Assembly polls had been declared and around 40 companies were despatched following the announcement of the 2019 Lok Sabha election dates,” said an official. “But sending 125 companies even before poll dates are declared is unprecedented in the recent past.” Each company of the central force — headed by an assistant commandant — has 80 to 100 men. The state government has to bear the expenses incurred by the forces sent by the Centre. A section of state government officials said the Election Commission had sent a stern message to the Bengal government by deploying 125 companies of central forces ahead of the polls. “This sends a message that the poll panel is not satisfied with the law and order in the state. It also makes it clear that the poll panel was taking note of the complaints lodged by the Opposition, mainly the BJP, about the state’s law and order,” said another official. A source said that jawans of the 125 companies — 60 of CRPF, 30 of SSB, 25 of BSF and five each of CISF and the ITBP —would be deployed across 35 police districts in Bengal. Deployment of a large number of central forces much before the poll dates are declared also drops a hint the EC would initiate all possible measures to hold an incident-free election in the state this year. The sources also pointed out that it also gave a clear hint that the EC was laying special emphasis on Bengal ahead of the polls this year. “I am not sure whether central forces were sent for area domination in Assam, Tamil Nadu or Kerala where polls would be held alongside Bengal. It is interesting that forces were sent soon after Union home minister Amit Shah told a rally in South 24-Parganas on Thursday that no Trinamul goon would be on the streets on the day of the polls,” said a minister. Sources in the home department said usually central forces deployed for area domination undertake route marches to build confidence among people ahead of the polls. “This is something unusual that forces would be deployed in all police districts. Usually, central forces are deployed in trouble-prone areas. It is unacceptable that the law and order is worse in all districts,” said another official. The EC had earlier given hints that it was keeping a close watch on the law and order in Bengal as it had asked the district authorities to send detailed reports to the poll panel on a regular basis about two months ago. “This was also something unusual. Now, deployment of 125 companies of central forces drops a clear hint that the EC has acted according to the memorandum of the BJP as it had demanded deployment of central forces at the earliest,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
20-02-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah flags off cycle rallies in Bengal||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday flagged off three cycle rallies, each of which will visit the homes of almost 400 unsung freedom fighters from Bengal in distant corners of Bengal. The initiative is a part of a series of programmes undertaken by the Centre to mark the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. “This is a very important event…The people of India still remember Subhas babu with the same kind of love and respect as they did when he was alive and fighting. Several attempts were made to remove Subhas babu from our memories. But his work, his patriotism and his supreme sacrifice will remain in the minds of Indians for ages to come,” Shah said in his address during the event held at the National Library in Calcutta. “The Union government has decided to dedicate his 125th birth anniversary to not only Subhas babu, but to everyone who sacrificed their lives and quit their studies for the freedom struggle,” Shah added. Before the Union home minister spoke, a cultural show was staged at the library. He congratulated the fleet of more than 300 cyclists who would be marshalled across Bengal in 30 days and would cover a distance of over 900km. The three teams of cyclists have been named after Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Rasbehari Bose and Khudiram Bose — three of Bengal’s most iconic freedom fighters. The central initiative, however, has drawn criticism from the Trinamul Congress, which alleged that Shah was using a government event for electoral benefits. “In the BJP’s scheme of things, the party and the government are not separate. What happened on Friday was a part of that tradition,” said Trinamul spokesperson and minister Bratya Basu. “This event was a complete eyewash.” The Friday’s event was criticised by the Left Front-backed National Library Employees’ Association as well. The association released a press note condemning the programme. “The iconic National Library isn’t a public place. Only acknowledged readers can enter its premises other than the employees,” the press note read. The association said that it wasn’t acceptable that a few thousands of people gathered on the library premises where the number of readers have been capped to abide by the Covid-19 protocols. It also condemned the unchecked movement of vehicles carrying “the flags of a particular party” on the premises in connection with a government event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
20-02-2021||West Bengal||Birbhum boy to attend global science meet||Aniruddha Das, a Class X student from Birbhum’s Kaitha High School, will represent India at the International Science and Engineering Fair this year. Aniruddha, the son of a medicine shop owner from Kaitha, a remote hamlet 90km from Santiniketan, bagged the grand jury prize this January at a virtual award ceremony organised by the Initiative for Research and Innovation, organised by the Centre's department of science and technology. The 16-year-old last year came up with a unique innovation producing mosquito repellent from extracts of the acacia fruit. “I was surprised after receiving the letter from Delhi and a proposal that my project will be taken to the international stage,” said Aniruddha, who will be the only representative from Bengal, and one among 20 young innovators from India, who will compete with over 1,800 youths from 80 countries. On Thursday, Aniruddha came to Bolpur with his teacher Syed Imtiaz Ahmed and the coordinator of the National Children Science Congress in Birbhum, Tarak Banerjee. He had to qualify three tiers at the district level in the National Children Science Congress before participating in the national fair. Aniruddha, whose annual family income is around Rs 50,000, had to struggle with poverty to continue his studies, said he got the idea about the mosquito repellent on the way home from school in 2019. “I saw one of our neighbours cutting a dozen akashmoni (Acacia Auriculiformis) on the banks of his pond. When I asked him the reason, he claimed hundreds of fish in his pond died because the fruits of the tree were falling into the water. After talking to local experts, my neighbour had decided to fell the trees. The incident sparked a thought of using the flower as a repellent,” he said. Aniruddha thought if the fruit of akashmoni could kill fish, then its extract could be used to kill mosquito larvae in stagnant water. “Aniruddha informed me about his idea and I asked him to experiment with it. After his experiment, we found that it was really working. Later, we planned to submit the project before the district level National Children’s Science Congress,” said Syed Imtiaz Ahmed, a teacher in his school, who also guided Aniruddha’s friend Ramiz Akbar in preparing another project.
Tarak Banerjee, the district coordinator of National Children Science Congress in Birbhum, said: “We are overwhelmed that Aniruddha is going to be the first student from our district to compete at the international level of the fair.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
20-02-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri garbage collectors up ante||The ceasework by conservancy workers of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation continued for the third day on Friday, which worsened the situation across the city as more and more garbage piled up in different corners. Since Wednesday, over 2,500 workers of the civic body have been on strike. Under the banner of the Uttarbanga Safai Karmachari Samiti, they have raised a number of demands, which include permanency of their jobs and hike in wages. “The civic authorities have said that they are helpless and have passed on the buck to the state government. It is their problem as to how they obtain funds and approval from the state government. We will not budge from our stand unless there is a specific assurance from the SMC or the state government that our demands would be met immediately,” said Kiran Rauth, the president of the samiti. On Thursday, they had a meeting with Asok Bhattacharya, the chairperson of the board of administrators at the SMC. But no decision was made at that meeting. State tourism minister Gautam Deb had called them for talks on Friday but none of the workers turned up at the meeting. “He is the tourism minister and we believe that he can only forward our demand to the state municipal affairs department. That is why we did not join the meeting and sent a letter to the minister (Firhad Hakim) concerned instead for his intervention,” said Rauth. Altogether 2,571 workers provide conservancy services in the SMC area. Among them, 371 are permanent employees while the remaining workers serve on daily basis. The permanent employees have also joined the ceasework, which has led to complete collapse in the waste collection and disposal system in all 47 wards of the city. In fact, an effort by the civic authorities to engage new workers for clearing the garbage has also faced resistance from the agitators at a number of places. They have also stopped SMC vehicles from carrying away the garbage. The SMC authorities as well as the subdivisional administration held emergency meetings to discuss the situation. “Specific complaints will be lodged against the workers who have damaged some vehicles of SMC and have threatened some of our workers as they joined their duties. Also, if the permanent workers do not join their duties from Saturday, we will mention that there has been a discontinuation of service in their service books,” said Asok Bhattacharya, who is also the Siliguri MLA. He also mentioned that on Saturday, a meeting with civic employees’ and workers’ unions affiliated to Citu, Intuc and Inttuc would be held in SMC. “We are trying to end the stalemate and have also sent a letter to the agitating workers, asking them to withdraw the movement and resume their services,” added Bhattacharya.
Meanwhile, the sub-divisional administration of Siliguri held a meeting in the Mainak Tourist Lodge complex here on Friday. State tourism minister Gautam Deb was present at the meeting. After the meeting, Deb said that they have sympathy with the conservancy workers but their cease work can lead to serious consequences as the Covid 19 pandemic is not over. “If required, along with all the ward coordinators irrespective of their political affiliation, will come out and initiate a cleanliness drive in the city,” the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
20-02-2021||West Bengal||Murshidabad's Nimtita station blast probe yields no clue||No incisive leads indicating the origin or the grade of explosives used in the blast at the Nimtita railway station were uncovered till Friday even though the CID, bomb squad and forensic experts have been scouring the area. Junior labour minister Jakir Hossain and 26 people accompanying him were injured in the blast at the railway station in Murshidabad district around 10pm on Wednesday. The minister had reached the railway station to board the Calcutta-bound Teesta-Torsa Express when explosives suspected to have been kept on the platform went off. “We are collecting blood-smeared soil and rock samples hoping for a lead, but as of now, we are still unclear about the sophistication of the explosives or their origins. The remains and splinters will help our probe,” said scientist Chitrankar Shankar of the Forensic Science Laboratory who arrived with his team at Nimtita from Calcutta on Friday. Separate teams of CID and bomb squad officials from Calcutta had reached the site on Thursday morning and sealed off the area, disrupting train services for a day for their investigations that spanned the surrounding areas. On Friday, the probe teams recovered splinters, suspected to have been used to make the explosive, 30 metres away from the station. The portion of a human finger was found 100 metres away from the roof of the railway station’s ticket counter. “The recovery of a part of the human finger 100 metres away from the blast site goes to show the power of the explosion,” a CID sleuth said. Inspector general of police (south Bengal) N.K. Varma and other senior police officers also inspected the blast site on Friday but refused to comment on the status of the probe. Divisional railway manager (Malda) Jitendra Kumar also visited the site and issued a press release later on Friday. Sources said the Government Railway Police had filed a fresh report on Friday at Azimganj police station in connection with the incident. Nimtita station was sanitised and thrown open to the public on Friday evening but the CID and the police continued with the investigations. Behrampore MP and state Congress chief Adhir Chowdhury demanded that the inquiry be handed over to the CBI. Chowdhury suggested that “partisan” forces could hamper the outcome if the investigation remained in the hands of the CID, which works under the state government. “We are demanding an immediate CBI inquiry into the incident,” he said while speaking to reporters after inducting Trinamul turncoat and Murshidabad zilla parishad chairman Musharraf Hossain into the Congress on Friday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-193
