21-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government announces reduction of fuel prices by Re 1 ||The Bengal government on Sunday announced a reduction of tax by Re 1 per litre on petrol and diesel effective from midnight of February 22. State Finance Minister Amit Mitra said the move will provide some respite to people stung by burgeoning prices of fuel. "The Centre earned Rs 32.90 per litre in taxes from petrol (on February 20), while the state got around Rs 18.46 only. In case of diesel, the central government's earning was Rs 31.80 per litre as against about Rs 12.77 for the state," Mitra said. He also alleged that the Centre had imposed cess to avoid devolution with states, which is "against the characteristics of federalism". To a question, Mitra said the Union government should reintroduce the planning commission. The decision from the state government came a day after the ruling TMC on Saturday staged a protest march against the continuous hike in the prices of petroleum products across the country. Party supporters marched from Jadavpur to Hazra crossing to mark their opposition to the spiralling prices of petrol, diesel and LPG gas. The ruling party in the state expressed its protest in a tweet "Prices hiked for the tenth consecutive day. Modi hai to mumkin hai' (possible because of Modi). Petrol price almost touched Rs 92 in Calcutta, while 14.2 kg LPG cylinders were almost Rs 800. The Centre has claimed that the prices had risen due to the mechanism followed by oil producing nations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
21-02-2021||West Bengal||CBI notice to Abhishek Banerjee's wife in coal pilferage case||The CBI on Sunday served a notice to the wife of TMC leader and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew Abhishek Banerjee at his Calcutta residence asking her to join the probe in the coal pilferage case, a development that could further raise the political temperature in poll-bound West Bengal. The team is likely to question Abhishek Banerjee's wife Rujira Banerjee in connection with the case at her residence, sources said. The central probe agency had on Friday carried out a fresh round of searches in connection with the case, they said. The CBI had registered an FIR in November last year against the alleged kingpin of the pilferage racket Manjhi alias Lala, Eastern Coalfield Ltd General Managers Amit Kumar Dhar (of then Kunustoria area now Pandaveswar area) and Jayesh Chandra Rai (Kajor area) besides ECL Chief of Security Tanmay Das, Area Security Inspector, Kunustoria Dhananjay Rai and SSI and security in-charge Kajor area Debashish Mukherjee. It is alleged that accused Manjhi Lala is involved in the illegal mining and theft of coal from leasehold mines of ECL in Kunustoria and Kajora areas, they said. "If they think they can use these ploys to intimidate us, they are mistaken. We are not the ones who would ever be cowed down," Abhishek said in a tweet. "We have full faith in the law of the land," he added. The assembly elections are due in April-May in West Bengal, where the BJP has launched a vigorous campaign to oust the ruling TMC that had secured consecutive wins in 2011 and 2016 under its leader Mamata Banerjee. Abhishek Banerjee, who is a Lok Sabha member, wields considerable influence in the party and has been leading the Trinamool Congress' counter-attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
21-02-2021||West Bengal||Modi to inaugurate Calcutta Metro extension from Noapara to Dakshineswar on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the extension of Calcutta Metro's North-South Line from Noapara to Dakshineswar on Monday, an official said. The prime minister will flag off a train from Noapara to Dakshineswar from a programme in the Hooghly district, Kolkata Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said. The inauguration, scheduled on Monday afternoon, will help connect thousands of people in the 4.1 km stretch between Noapara and Dakshineswar, she said. Apart from regular passengers, devotees intending to visit Dakshineswar Kali temple will also be facilitated with a fast and pollution-free travel mode following the extension of the Metro Railway in its north-south axis. Passengers from Kavi Subhash station in the southern end will be able to travel to Dakshineswar in just over an hour, traversing 31.3 km, a Metro official said. The prime minister is also scheduled to hold a public meeting at Dunlop Maidan in Hooghly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
21-02-2021||West Bengal||Assembly elections: Mamata to be portrayed as daughter of Bengal||Didi will be portrayed as the daughter of Bengal taking on intruders, replacing the mother motif that had so far driven the election campaign of the Trinamul Congress. “Bangla nijer meyekei chay (Bengal wants its own daughter and nobody else),” will be the campaign slogan for Trinamul in the upcoming Assembly elections, with the ruling party doubling down on its strategy to fight the elections with Mamata Banerjee spearheading the daughter-versus-bohiragwto (outsider) theme. The party suggested that much more than local survival issues — captured in the earlier slogan “Ma, Mati, Manush” — are at stake this time. “This election is about protecting the Constitution of the country and as the whole country looks at Bengal, it will be the daughter of Bengal who will lead the fight to protect the state and its culture,” Trinamul secretary-general Partha Chatterjee said at an event where the slogan was launched. Chatterjee said the leadership had gauged a similar sentiment among the masses across the state. Besides the obvious thrust on addressing women, the new slogan ties in with the schemes and projects Mamata had launched with their focus on the girl child and girl student. In effect, Didi will be seeking votes from Bengal households as a daughter — to which the BJP currently lacks a matching answer. The slogan will help underscore another message: Didi is the sole and unequivocal chief minister candidate in the state, with no other party having yet declared a nominee. Besides Chatterjee, Trinamul’s all-India general secretary Subrata Bakshi, senior minister Subrata Mukherjee, Rajya Sabha chief whip Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, party leader in the Rajya Sabha Derek O’Brien and Barasat MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar attended the event. The saffron ecosystem, which is betting big on the polarisation card, has so far appeared unsure of the impact of the outsider charge, amplified by some gaffes associated with visiting BJP leaders. “Every person in Bengal trusts her daughter. Under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee, Bengal’s culture has been protected. She won’t allow the misogynistic ‘Bargi’ onslaught on the culture of Bengal,” Ghosh Dastidar said. “Bargi” is a term Trinamul has been using for the battery of politicians from other states being parachuted into Bengal by the BJP. The Bargi were a sub-category of the Maratha empire’s troops who carried out plundering expeditions across Bengal’s western swathes almost annually through the 1740s. Minister Mukherjee said he was proud to belong to a party with Mamata as its leader and stressed that theirs was the only party where the chief minister candidature was a foregone conclusion.  “Our main objective is to go to the polls with no uncertainty over who our face is and spread the word on the unprecedented development that Bengal has seen since 2011 when Mamata came to power,” Mukherjee said. The Trinamul slogan was conceptualised and executed by poll consultant Prashant Kishor and his team. Within hours of Trinamul launching its slogan, the BJP came up with a song called Pishi Jao (Go, Aunt), sung to the tune of the Italian protest folk song Bella Ciao. The song was launched by the BJP’s IT cell chief and co-observer for Bengal, Amit Malviya. Bella Ciao was sung by the mondina (paddy) workers of north Italy in the 19th century to protest against the the harsh working conditions in the fields. A parody song video of the Left attacking both Trinamul and the BJP captured the imagination of many social media users. The Left’s parody of the song Tumpa — a pop culture favourite among vast sections of Bengal’s youths — was widely circulated within hours of its launch. The parody, written and performed by Left supporters Rahul Paul and Nilabja Niyogi, has been composed as a promotional for the Left’s Brigade Parade Grounds rally of February 28. The event is being planned as a show of strength, and the target headcount is 10 lakh. “For a long time now, the Left has been accused — rather correctly — of being snobbish when it comes to the contemporary culture of the masses while claiming to be their voice. It’s time that changed and this is a step in the right direction. Politically mature youths must come forward to weave more of such elements into the Left’s voice in 2021,” a city-based political scientist said. “It does not matter if the content is no longer classical or intellectual enough for Alimuddin Street. Packaging the correct politics in a way that resonates with the masses of today, especially the youths, matters,” he added. “It was a pleasant surprise to see (CPM state secretary) Surjya Kanta Mishra, perceived to have an intellectual rigidity about him, share it on social media.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
21-02-2021||West Bengal||‘The challenge now is to save Bengal’s liberal legacy’||On a lazy February afternoon, I catch up with Dipankar Bhattacharya at the offices of the CPI-ML (Liberation) in central Calcutta. He is busy discussing plans for upcoming public meetings and conventions across West Bengal with a comrade of his. This includes a meeting called Ekusher Daak, Manusher Dabi — which falls today, February 21; the day has been earmarked by Unesco as International Mother Language Day. On this day this year, large numbers across Bengal are expected to meet and firm up a charter that pledges to “save Bengal from the BJP’s fascist expedition”. A section of Bengal’s intelligentsia — writers, actors, musicians, playwrights, artists, educators, environmentalists, human rights activists — has already met to formulate the charter. The charter demands withdrawal of the farm bills, labour code bills, the Citizenship Amendment Act, privatisation of government properties and so on. Bhattacharya seems to think his party has been able to sensitise a large section of “intellectuals” about “the aggressive designs of the BJP to capture Bengal by hook or by crook”. Bhattacharya is lanky, nearly six-foot tall, sports a salt-and-pepper beard that makes him look more like a philosopher than a politician. We talk while sipping laal cha, tea without milk and sugar, the customary drink in almost all Left party offices; we are constantly interrupted by the sirens of ambulances headed for the Nil Ratan Sircar Medical College and Hospital on the other side of the road. When I ask Bhattacharya to sum up the agenda of the CPI-ML (Liberation) for the upcoming Assembly polls in a slogan, he offers two — “Save Bengal’s liberal legacy” and “More power to people”. While explaining the first, he emphasises why the BJP’s “fascist ideology” can ruin the liberal and inclusive legacy Bengal nurtured through the freedom struggle and subsequent Left movements. He says, “The BJP is just the antithesis of a progressive, pro-change and rational temper — the essential aspects of a Bengali identity.” To explain the second slogan, he draws attention to how the survival of the common man has turned into a challenge ever since the BJP came to power. He cites job losses, the agrarian crisis, price rise and loss of labour rights. Three months ago, Bhattacharya had said that in the upcoming Bengal elections, the Left Front and the Congress should identify the BJP as the “No. 1 threat to democracy”. But his proposal was somewhat derided by both the parties. Says Bhattacharya, “They have been bracketing the Trinamul (TMC) and the BJP together, but considering the situation in Bengal, an enemy like the BJP cannot be defeated if they fight on two fronts.” He admits that the TMC’s track record is not good, and agrees it is true that in some ways it has tried to imitate the BJP. But according to him, there is no underestimating the current situation. Bhattacharya cites his own party’s pragmatic decision to join the Grand Alliance with the Congress and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) during the 2020 Assembly elections in Bihar, despite the fact that the two parties have been sworn rivals of the CPI-ML (Liberation) in the past. The RJD, led by former chief minister Lalu Prasad, had allegedly colluded with upper caste militia Ranvir Sena to massacre several Dalit villagers aligned with the CPI-ML (Liberation) in the 1990s. Many party leaders and activists, including firebrand student leader Chandrasekhar, were murdered at the behest of gangster-turned-RJD-leader Mohammad Shahabuddin. Says Bhattacharya, “We were the worst sufferers of crime and corruption during the RJD rule, and yet at this moment we consider the BJP’s majoritarian and communal politics a bigger threat to our democracy.” Bhattacharya talks about the Congress, another partner in the Grand Alliance in Bihar. He is still peeved with the Congress’s poor performance in the Bihar Assembly polls last November. “They insisted on fighting 70 seats, but they won only 19. Had they won at least 30, or let us — the Left parties — contest from more seats, the alliance would have formed the government. They didn’t take the elections seriously and neither do they have the organisational strength. They were lackadaisical, loath to believe it is possible to form such a formidable alliance against the NDA,” he says. According to Bhattacharya, the Congress needs to reinvent itself immediately and introspect on how it has helped the BJP grow. In the Bihar Assembly polls, the CPI-ML (Liberation) won 12 seats out of 19; the resurgent Left together bagged 16 out of a total 29 seats allotted to them, a strike rate of over 50 per cent. Drawing lessons from the Bihar polls, Bhattacharya believes the Left’s alliance with the Congress for the upcoming Bengal polls is not such a good idea. “The Left here must get their act together and never allow the Congress to position itself in the driver’s seat,” he says. Bhattacharya is concerned about the alarming decline of the Left’s vote share in Bengal — down to 7 per cent — in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. When I bring up the widespread belief that a large share of the Left vote had shifted to the BJP during these elections, he says, “I can’t say whether the vote shift happened by design or default, but the fact is shocking in itself. How can a party that secured nearly 50 per cent of vote share a couple of decades ago go down so drastically?” He is rueful that despite such a loss of public support, the Left Front, especially leaders of the CPM, didn’t attempt any serious course correction. “Some leaders still think they are not fighting the TMC enough, as if fighting the TMC is their only agenda… They are simply not aware that the BJP won’t spare them if they come to power,” says Bhattacharya and even cites what the BJP did to the Left and its supporters in Tripura. And where does the Trinamul boss and current chief minister of Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, figure in his critique of the mess that is Bengal politics? Bhattacharya harks back to the time when the Left was voted out of power in Bengal and there was tremendous disenchantment and anger against them, how Banerjee benefited from it, came to power, and a large section of Left leaning intelligentsia started regarding her as the “new Left”. But does he deny that after assuming power, Banerjee came down heavily on the Left; that CPM party offices were attacked? No, he doesn’t. “There was clearly a rightward shift and the BJP started to gain ground. They brought out the communal divisions that were beneath the surface,” says Bhattacharya. What does he have to say about the TMC’s alleged Muslim appeasement? His response: “I won’t call this appeasement. Mamata Banerjee’s concern for Muslims was never real, it was more of a symbolic gesture. It is just political opportunism; she never pursued any anti-Hindu agenda.” He also seems to believe that post 2019, Banerjee went for some course correction to fight corruption in her party, tighten up on development agenda and deliver social schemes. Bhattacharya has travelled extensively across Bengal the last three months; especially pockets his party considers its strongholds. And what is his reading? “There has been some change of attitude of voters since the second term of the Modi government began,” he replies. He talks about disillusionment setting in over a range of issues. And from discussing this and that, we are back to talking about Bengal’s electorate which has never experienced BJP rule in the state. Bhattacharya says, “We’ve been successful in creating a certain degree of awareness… Based on the lessons learnt from Bihar and Jharkhand, we have been telling people to fight unitedly against the divisive politics and social engineering of the BJP and the Sangh Parivar. We have been initiating conversations about how elections can be turned into a people’s agenda and an antidote to communalism and social oppression.” Recently, the CPI-ML (Liberation) announced that it would contest 12 seats independently in the upcoming Bengal elections. Apart from these, the party is ready to support the TMC and Left Front candidates and the Congress candidates too, if required. Bhattacharya says, “We are not electorally strong in Bengal but we have our own pockets of struggle, especially in the tea gardens and the Adivasi areas in the western region.” 1960: Bhattacharya is born in Guwahati, the son of a  railway employee Does schooling from Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya, Narendrapur 1979: Comes first in the West Bengal higher secondary exams Joins the BStat programme at the Indian Statistical Institute, Calcutta, and becomes active in CPI-ML (Liberation) politics. Completes MStat in due course Becomes general secretary of the Indian People’s Front in the 1980s and thereafter of the party’s trade union wing, the All India Central Council of Trade Unions 1987: Is elected member of the central committee and political bureau of CPI-ML (Liberation) 1998: Is unanimously elected party general secretary after the sudden death of Vinod Mishra 2020: Leads the CPI-ML (Liberation) to an unprecedented seat haul in the Bihar Assembly polls||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
21-02-2021||West Bengal||The Calcutta-Siliguri highway is a track everybody loves to take but nobody ever made||For a decade now, Dipankar Bhattacharya has been routinely taking the Calcutta-Siliguri highway. He works in the animal health division of a private sector firm and drives from his home in south Calcutta, down the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass, reaches the Dum Dum airport and thereafter “crawls” through Madhyamgram, Birati, Barasat, till he reaches Ranaghat. “From Ranaghat, right through Krishnagar to Berhampore in north Bengal, the road is horrible,” says Bhattacharya. Once upon a time it would take him 10-11 hours to make the journey to Siliguri, now it takes him 18 hours. Of late, he has started taking the route via Burdwan, down Badshahi road to Moregram. He tells The Telegraph, “It is longer by 15 kilometres, but it still saves me two hours.” Mind you, the Calcutta-Siliguri highway is an important road. It is crucial to tourism, business travel and commerce. It links Bihar to north Bengal, Bengal to the Northeast, Assam to both Bengal and Bihar, and India to Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh. A part of the East-West Corridor that runs from Porbandar in Gujarat to Silchar in Assam also merges with it. Medical representatives travelling from Calcutta take this road. Nurses from North Bengal and Assam, travelling to private and government hospitals and nursing homes in Calcutta take this road. This route is much travelled by college teachers, government schoolteachers, auto dealers, furniture retailers. Sikkim sends its orchids this way, Assam its tea... And Raiganj, a little ahead of Purnea junction, and thereabouts are much favoured by smugglers and peddlers of illegal goods what with their geo-strategic locatedness within the Chicken’s Neck or Siliguri Corridor. The Chicken’s Neck is a narrow stretch of land — 22 kilometres in width — with Nepal and Bangladesh on either side. The 564-kilometre stretch that is the Calcutta-Siliguri highway resembles a whimsical piece of needlework. Someone seems to have used three different skeins of random length. Skein A is NH12, 438 kilometres and stretching from Dum Dum to Purnea More in Dalkhola. Skein B is NH27, 132 kilometres, stretches from Dalkhola to Siliguri. Skein C represents the part of the Asian Highway Part 2, which crosses NH27 a little before Siliguri. Arun Basak mans a booking counter at the bus depot in central Calcutta’s Esplanade. The Calcutta-Siliguri bus service is pretty much a night service. Buses leave at 5.30 in the evening, reach Siliguri around 8am the next day. Says Basak, “Routinely, the buses get stuck in a traffic snarl at Barasat, barely an hour into the journey. Crossing the Barasat-Ranaghat stretch shouldn’t take more than 30 to 40 minutes, but it always takes an hour and a half or more.” Reason? Potholes; a single carriageway for trucks, lorries, trailers, buses, bikes, private cars, yellow taxis, app cabs, cycles; frequent accidents; local haats. And in case you are trying to visualise it — remember, it is a single carriageway channelling up traffic as well as down traffic. The next two pain points are Santipur and Krishnagar. One sweaty May evening in 2017, I remember taking a bus from Calcutta to New Jalpaiguri. At about 11pm, we reached Ranaghat and stopped at a dhaba; as we were tucking into refreshments, the conductor announced that the bus would bypass Santipur as it was too narrow a road to take during the night. And so I continued the onward journey leaving behind crestfallen passengers who had planned to reach Santipur on some business or the other. So many years later, I understand what the conductor had not bothered elaborating upon. Explains Samiran Sen, who is currently chairman of the Infrastructure Advisory Committee, “The minimum width of a four-lane national highway should be 25 to 30 metres. But NH12 is very narrow — barely 12 metres wide.” It also totters left and right like a drunken person, twists and turns, in all making it unfit for safe and speedy passage. According to Sen, “Trailers or 22/24-wheeler trucks often get stuck in the single carriageway while taking a left or right turn; boundary walls crumble from the impact.” Basak adds, “A bus and a car cannot pass side by side on this road.” The road between Krishnagar and Berhampore is relatively smooth sailing; it became a double carriageway some years ago. The problem starts a little before Farakka and continues right up to Malda. Aniruddha Biswas, a schoolteacher and resident of Malda, has to do the 32-kilometre commute (one way) every day. He says, “Even the 2.5 kilometre stretch on the Farakka Barrage cannot be crossed in 30 minutes.” There are feeble signs of another bridge coming up on the Bhagirathi and Biswas hopes this will make life easy for him some day. Enigmatically though, the bridge’s columns have been constructed but there is no sign of a link road. Ms Sitharaman is no doubt using this highway largesse to pave newer inroads for the BJP in Bengal. But in the past, there have been attempts to solve the NH12’s multiple issues, not all of which were politically motivated. Studies have been conducted, reports submitted, scientific solutions offered, settlements razed, compensation doled out to hawkers for land acquisition, but nothing and no one has been able to make this road sing. 1995. The CPI(M)’s Somnath Chatterjee, then chairman of the West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation, announced that a brand new 600-kilometre expressway would be built. It seemed more viable an option than acquiring more land for the widening of NH12. But nothing happened. 2000-05. The Asian Development Bank or ADB and the UK-based engineering firm Halcrow conducted a deep dive. The report ran into 12 volumes and Volume 13 summarised all the previous volumes. Solutions were proffered, each of which would impact the Calcutta-Siliguri Highway. Upgrade feeder roads. Build this bypass, that bypass. Develop SH7 to ease traffic. But very little happened. 2008. The National Highway Authority of India took over the Calcutta-Siliguri highway’s guardianship. Proposed that the road be built under the BOT model. BOT as in build, operate, transfer model. Again, nothing happened. The speed-breakers to the smooth evolution of this highway were always the same. Any widening activity required disturbing human settlements and acquiring new land. Biswas had spoken about vegetable vendors, roadside eateries and dhabas encroaching on the highway. Bhattacharya talks about the local haats in Bethuadahari, Chakdah, Debagram, also spilling onto the highway. Sen explains, “The world over, human settlements spring up along the main corridors. For India, the main corridors are its national highways; earlier our rivers were our main corridors.” The settlement problem dovetails into the land acquisition issue. Sen continues, “Farmers in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab or Chandigarh have large land holdings that they willingly part with at a price. They develop the fields that extend behind these. In Bengal, the farmers own very small plots. If they have to forgo their land, they will have nothing.” At the turn of this century, when Sen and his supervisors went to Kazipara in Barasat to take measurements for the Barasat Bypass, he recalls, “We were chased by a group of men with sickles in their hands.” The Barasat Bypass could not be made. Beyond the resistance of the common man lurk other, less obvious speed-breakers. Experts don’t tire of telling me that the National Highway Act of 1956 stipulates the state government has to facilitate land acquisition and the Centre will bear the cost. Says Sen, “Now you know; it is sheer lack of intent that has come in the way of developing this highway.” Saunak Das, a National Highway repair contractor, is another frequent traveller on this route. He talks about the road as it runs through Malda. “The problem near Malda has been solved somewhat as the Malda Bypass helps us avoid the town completely. The route between Kaliachak and Sujapur is soon going to become a double carriageway. Work is on.” According to him, it is further north of Malda that the problem lies. “The Dalkhola railway crossing is a nightmare. Recently, I had to escape through a village road when I got stuck in a jam there. It was about seven in the evening. I wouldn’t have reached anyplace close to Siliguri that night had I waited.” The Islampur-Siliguri stretch is relatively blameless. If a point must take blame for Saunak’s itinerant delays, that would be Purnea More. Amitabha Ghoshal, who is the ex-president of the Consulting Engineers Association of India, says, “There is a problem with the traffic signals, even the signage is all wrong. There is next to no policing. The junction is a chaos of dhabas and shops.” The Purnea junction also receives the added traffic load from Bihar’s NH31. Basak from the Esplanade booking counter had said how buses headed for Siliguri never make it back to Calcutta on time to do another trip. He said, “It is a common practice among bus owners to have extra vehicles at the Siliguri Bus Depot to continue service...” And so continue the olden complaints about a road much taken, much forsaken. Ms Sitharaman has chosen to make a poll sop of its lumbering tragedy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
21-02-2021||West Bengal||Truck kills pregnant pillion rider in Haroa’s Kulgachhi||A pregnant woman and her husband, both in their 20s, died in Haroa’s Kulgachhi in North 24-Parganas on Friday night when their motorcycle was run over by a truck loaded with stone chips. The mishap occurred around 10pm when the couple were returning home in Brahmanchak village after a visit to the doctor. Police and local sources said the truck, speeding along Haroa-Radhanagar road, hit the motorbike and ran over Pijush Mandal, 28, and Sathi Mandal, 21, when they fell off on the Sankarpur-Kulgachi bridge. Residents rushed them to the Haroa rural hospital where Sathi was pronounced dead. Pijush, who suffered multiple injuries, was transferred to RG Kar Medical College and Hospital in Calcutta. He succumbed to his injuries on the way. Family sources said Sathi was seven months pregnant. “She had developed some health problems and that’s why the couple went to consult a doctor,” a family member said. Angry residents on Friday night alleged negligence on the part of the police in controlling reckless driving on the road. “The Haroa-Radhanagar road has become a nightmare because of reckless driving by trucks. The police stay mute spectators. A number of accidents have occurred on the stretch in the recent past and several lives have been lost. The police do not book speeding drivers and motorists,” said local resident Bablu Roy. Refuting the allegations, an officer of Haroa police station said: “We often conduct surprise raids and take action against errant drivers. Still, some do act desperately flouting all rules. We have begun a probe into Friday’s accident and have seized the truck. Search is on for the driver, who managed to flee.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
21-02-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung case withdrawal process going on||The process of withdrawing cases against Bimal Gurung, the leader of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, who had been on the run for more than three years from law enforcers, has started, much to the hill leader’s relief. “The process started from November last year. There has been a sanction to withdraw almost 130-odd cases of which nearly 70 cases have been withdrawn over the past few months,” said an official involved in the matter. Gurung, a long-time ally of the BJP, parted ways with the saffron camp in October 2020 citing “unfulfilled promises” related to a permanent political solution in the hills, and joined hands with ruling Trinamul. After this, Gurung’s visibility increased in the hills. Sources in the know said that Gurung has around 400-odd cases slapped against him since 2007, when Bengal was under Left rule. Even though the cases against Gurung, except murder, were to be withdrawn when the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) was formed in 2012, no such step had been taken by the state, then headed by Trinamul. “So if one is to take into account all the cases since 2007 and not just the 2012 agitation cases, there are almost 400 odd cases. However, murder cases, or individual cases filed against Gurung cannot be withdrawn,” said a source in the know of things. “Only those cases filed by the government can be withdrawn.” Withdrawal of the cases, the source said also needs the governor’s sanction. “The process starts from the office of the legal remembrance cell of the judicial department and order to withdraw the case reads “by order of the governor”. We have received such a sanction for 130 odd cases since November,” the source added. A senior Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader who is camping in Calcutta for the past few weeks did not want to comment on the development. “We are not very aware of all the details about the withdrawal of cases. We will want to go through the papers before commenting,” the leader said. Many were speculating that the Morcha leader was in Calcutta to also talk about withdrawal of cases against Gurung. “The Morcha leaders have had a bad experience. Even after the GTA was formed, the cases against them were not withdrawn despite repeated assurances from the state government,” said an observer. Gurung decided to dump the BJP and join TMC in October last year. “However, we are satisfied with the way things are moving now,” said a leader from the Gurung camp. Gorkha Battalion became the new political issue of Darjeeling hills with BJP MP Raju Bista stating that the Trinamul government was doing “sheer tokenism” by promising a battalion in the name of Gorkhas. “Amidst much fanfare Hon’ble CM Mamata Banerjeeji had announced the establishment of a Gorkha Battalion in West Bengal Police, but it has now come to light that only 4 jawans out of a total strength of 123 are actually Gorkhas,” said Bista. A document on this issue is circulation on social media. Bista’s statement endorses the information though this paper could not independently verify the content. Four months back, in November 2020, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced three community based battalions for Gorkhas, Narayani Battalion for Rajbangshis and a battalion for tribals from Jangal Mahal. Bista’s statement, however, prompted even the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Gurung camp), an ally of Trinamul, to issue a statement on Saturday. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesman, GJM (Gurung camp) said they want Gorkhas to be dominant in the battalion. “When the new recruitment takes place, majority of police personnel must be Gorkhas. Non-Gorkhas deputed to the battalion should be retracted.” Police officers said that the allegations were baseless. A source said that a battalion usually comprises six to eight companies. Each company has a strength of 100-odd personnel. "This basically suggests that statements mean nothing as the entire strength of the Gorkha Battalion has not come to light," said a source. But such was the impact of Bista’ statement and the general perception that the battalion was not for Gorkhas in the Darjeeling hills that even Trinamul Congress came up with a clarification. N.B. Khawash, coordinator, TMC (Darjeeling) said: “Raju Bista seems to be unaware of administrative procedures.” The Trinamul leader contested that raising a new battalion was not an easy task that could be left only to new recruits. “Experienced people are needed and this is why police personnel have been send on deputation. Once the recruitment is over, things would be clear,” said Khawash. Retired army and police officials that this newspaper spoke to had different views on the issue. Some agreed that a battalion cannot only be raised with new recruits. “The issue is why only four Gorkhas are there in the list of 123 personnel in Gorkha Battalion. However, the question is can all Gorkhas police personnel be withdrawn from various state battalions and deputed in this battalion,” said a retired army officer when asked for an independent opinion. Some retired police officials also added that instead of raising a new Gorkha Battalion, the state government could have strengthened the Eastern Frontier Rifles (EFR). “EFR predominantly consists of Gorkhas and Jharuas. Recruitment in EFR has come to a standstill. Instead of creating a new Gorkha Battalion, strengthening EFR would have been better,” said a retired police personnel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
21-02-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee focuses on Mamata-daughter theme ||Trinamul MP and youth president Abhishek Banerjee on Saturday played the outsider-versus-Bengal card with his party’s newest slogan as he lashed out at the saffron camp to draw support from north Bengal residents. Using Trinamul’s slogan “Bangla nijer meyekei chay (Bengal wants its own daughter and nobody else)”, released in Calcutta on Saturday, Abhishek at his Jalpaiguri public meeting propped up Bengal’s “Didi” as “daughter” to lash out at the BJP. “Do you want the daughter of Bengal to surrender before Delhi? She is the only woman chief minister in the country now and the BJP is hell-bent in removing her from power. They will never succeed in their intention as Mamata Banerjee lives in the hearts of millions of this state,” Abhishek, also Mamata’s nephew, told the 25,000-plus crowd at the European Club Ground in Nagrakata of Jalpaiguri. Indicating the saffron camp, Abhishek said “outsiders” were coming here before the elections. “We will not succumb to threats. Let me reaffirm that eventually the attempts of these external elements will be thwarted by Bengal’s people,” said Abhishek. Abhishek liberally used the newest slogan, which indicates Trinamul’s strategy to drive home the point that Mamata is “Bengal’s daughter” versus “outsiders” in the saffron camp. Abhishek also took a dig at the BJP on “Sonar Bangla”, regularly used by leaders of all tiers of the saffron brigade, from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief J.P. Nadda to local leaders. “They claim they will build Sonar Bangla (bring back Bengal’s golden era). First, they should tell us why they could not build a ‘Sonar Bharat’ (a golden India) or a ‘Sonar Gujarat’ or a ‘Sonar Tripura’ or a ‘Sonar Uttar Pradesh’. These are false claims and people will not buy it…” He questioned why in north Bengal, where the BJP performed well in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, none of the BJP MPs were seen in public during the pandemic and lockdown last year. “However, our leaders and elected representatives were out in the streets (helping people),” said the Trinamul MP. He was also vocal against those who joined the BJP. “Some rotten elements have left our party…they were pests and insects and now they have moved to another ground. We want to make it clear that a person who has emerged as a leader from the ground will get the ticket. All we want from you is all the seven Assembly seats of Jalpaiguri district and we assure you that Trinamul will come to power for the third time with 250 seats,” Abhishek said. Some Trinamul leaders in Dinhata subdivision of Cooch Behar demanded on Saturday that Udayan Guha, the party’s MLA of Dinhata, be replaced with a new candidate before the Assembly elections. “We want to alert our party leadership that if they do not change the candidate, they will lament. We will put all efforts to ensure Trinamul’s win in Dinhata but the party should confirm that there will be a new candidate,” said Mir Humayan Kabir, a former block president of Trinamul and a member of Cooch Behar Zilla Parishad. An observer said this was nothing but Trinamul’s infighting. None of the district leaders commented on this. Guha, the Dinhata MLA, could not be contacted. Additional reporting by our Cooch Behar correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
21-02-2021||West Bengal||Kailash Vijayvargiya’s tweet stirs up storm||BJP’s minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya on Saturday posted a tweet that mischievously suggested key posts in Bengal would be or are being held by Muslims. The BJP’s political opponents called the tweet a blatant attempt at polarisation before the elections. Vijayvargiya tweeted in Hindi under the subject “West Bengal’s new equation!”: Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui is TMC’s deputy chief minister. The chief minister of the Congress-CPM alliance is Abdul Mannan. Calcutta’s mayor is Firhad Hakim. Where is Bengal heading to? Bengal’s people will have to think!” Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui’s Indian Secular Front is now in seat talks with the Congress-Left alliance. The BJP is hoping that the Abbasi Front’s poll foray would help split Muslim’s votes and harm Trinamul. Trinamul spokesperson and minister Bratya Basu tweaked Vijayvargiya’s own message in an attempt to turn the tables on the BJP and underscore the party’s “outsider” image. “If the BJP comes to power, the observer for Bengal will be Amit Shah, chief minister will be Kailash Vijayvargiya and their chief adviser will be Narendra Modi. There will be no space for Bengalis; that is what the people of Bengal must think,” Basu said. He added: “I don’t understand why he is tagging Abbas Siddiqui with us. Siddiqui is in talks with the Left and the Congress and not with us.” Responding to Vijayvargiya’s tweet, CPM MLA Sujan Chakraborty said: “What business does he have speaking on matters of other political parties? He is trying to confuse the people and communally polarise them.” Congress MP Pradip Bhattacharya said his party would lodge a complaint against the “communal tweet” with the Election Commission of India. “Is he trying to alienate the Hindus from the Muslims in an effort to polarise Hindu votes? We will not allow that to happen,” Bhattacharya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
21-02-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri civic workers end cease work||Conservancy workers of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) withdrew their cease work on Saturday and will resume work from Sunday. These past four days, collection and disposal of garbage had stopped across the city as over 2,500 workers had ceased work over demands such as permanent jobs and pay hike. On Saturday, the stalemate ended after a meeting with tourism minister Gautam Deb. Deb said he would take up the demands with municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim. Kiran Rauth, president of Uttarbanga Safai Karmachari Samiti, said after the meeting with Deb, it was decided that workers will join their duties from Sunday. “However, we have made it clear that if no visible initiative is taken on our demands by February 23, we may resume cease work from the next day,” he said. Asok Bhattacharya, chairman of the board of administrators at SMC, on Saturday held a meeting with representatives of Citu, Intuc and INTTUC backed unions of civic employees and workers at SMC. “At the meeting, it was decided that workers’ wages will be increased by 10 per cent, effective from the current month,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
21-02-2021||West Bengal||Twelve companies of central forces arrive in poll-bound Bengal||Twelve companies of central forces, part of the 125 companies of the central forces to be deployed in poll-bound Bengal by the end of this month, reached some districts  on Saturday and held route marches. According to sources, one company each reached East Burdwan, Birbhum and Bankura. Two companies were deployed in West Burdwan. The remaining seven companies were scheduled to reach Hooghly, Howrah, North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas by Saturday night. By the time this report was filed in the evening, they had already reached Dankuni and Calcutta railway stations. On why the central forces are already here before election dates are announced, a senior government official said: “It is expected that the Election Commission of India would send a SOP (standard operating protocol) on how to use the forces ahead of the polls. Before district authorities receive specific instruction from the poll panel through Nabanna, forces are used for confidence-building exercises in areas known for untoward incidents during polls.” Sources also said that the ECI might specify areas where the confidence-building measure would be needed once the 125 companies reach the state by February 25. “It has often been often alleged in the past that central forces were not used properly as they were not taken to areas which are known for untoward incidents during polls to give an advantage to the ruling party. The BJP has already sent a series of memorandums in this regard. The ECI might keep a track on how the forces are being used this year. It is likely to seek daily reports from the districts on the use of forces,” said a source. Some officials said that the ECI was keeping track on Bengal’s law and order situation for the past two months. The poll panel had asked authorities to send reports on this regularly for the past two months, “The poll panel now knows which are the trouble-prone areas. If the authorities don’t use the forces in the required areas, officials concerned may face action,” said a source. A senior government official said even though they were not prepared to arrange transport, lodging and other facilities for such a huge contingent of central forces much before election dates are declared, district authorities have completed required arrangements on a war footing. “The state does not want to have a face-off with the poll panel by any means. The district authorities have been given clear instructions to arrange all required facilities for the central forces so that they can take up confidence-building measures,” said a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-192
