22-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal minister may not be actual target, blast possibly accidental says CID officer||West Bengal minister Jakir Hossain, who was seriously injured in an explosion last week in Murshidabad district, might not be the target of the perpetrators and the bomb seemed to have gone off accidentally, an officer of the state Criminal Investigation Department (CID) said on Monday. The miscreants who could have links to an international terror group possibly brought the explosive kept in a bag from outside the state and were on their way to take it to Calcutta or somewhere else, the top CID official told PTI on condition of anonymity. Hossain, Trinamool Congress MLA and the minister of state for labour, was waiting at platform no 2 of Nimtita station to catch a train to Calcutta at around 10 pm on February 17 when the blast occurred injuring him and several other people. The West Bengal government has handed over the investigation into the case to the CID. The investigators collected torn pieces of a black bag, remains of mobile phone battery and a bike-battery, wires and other items from the site of the explosion. The results of the tests conducted on those articles are yet to arrive, the IPS officer said. "Going by our initial investigations, it seems that the bomb went off accidentally and not intentionally. Miscreants had kept the explosive inside the bag and probably had plans to travel to Kolkata or some other district. But most likely, the minister was not their target," he said. As security arrangements at Nimtita station was "a bit relaxed" compared to several other stations of West Bengal such as Malda, Jalpaiguri, Siliguri or Burdwan, miscreants might have chosen it to transport the explosive, the CID official said. He said that the CCTV footage and mobile video recordings of the spot are being examined. The CID is yet to arrest anyone in connection with the blast. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday paid a visit to Hossain at the state-run SSKM hospital in Kolkata where he and 13 other people injured in the explosion are undergoing treatment. "Jakir is fine now. He had to undergo two surgeries. The doctors here have done a very good job. I will request everyone who is visiting Jakir and others to take precautionary measures and not to go too close to them as Covid-19 infection is increasing again," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
22-02-2021||West Bengal||EC official to visit Bengal on Friday||Deputy Election Commissioner Sudip Jain, who is in charge of Bengal, will be visiting the state on Friday to oversee the preparedness for the upcoming assembly elections, officials said. During his visit, Jain is scheduled to hold meetings with district magistrates, police superintendents and other senior officials of the state, they said. "Mr Jain is scheduled to come this Friday to have a look at the overall preparedness for the assembly elections. He will also take stock of the law and order situation in the state. The district administrations have been asked to prepare PowerPoint presentations on their preparations for the elections," a poll panel official told PTI on Monday. Jain may also meet officers transferred to the different departments, mainly in the administration and the police, during his visit to West Bengal, the official said. "There have been several shuffles in the administration as well as in the police departments recently. Mr Jain may meet them as well as ADG (Law and Order), senior police officers, and the Chief Secretary and Home Secretary," he said. Jain may also seek a report on the deployment of the central forces in different districts, he said. "He may chalk out a guideline on the deployment of the central forces," the official said. The EC official might also be holding meetings with senior officers of the central government here, he added. Though the duration of the trip could not be known immediately, the official said that Jain would submit a report to the Election Commission following his visit. Elections to the 294-member Bengal assembly are likely in April-May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
22-02-2021||West Bengal||Rujira responds to CBI notice, asks team to visit residence on Tuesday||Rujira Banerjee, the wife of TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, Monday responded to the CBI's summons in the alleged coal pilferage scam and asked the central agency to send its team to her residence for examination on Tuesday, officials said. The CBI had on Sunday asked her to join the probe. A team of CBI officials had visited the residence of Abhishek Banerjee, a nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, on Sunday to deliver the summons but Rujira was not present. She responded to the summons on Monday and asked the CBI to visit her residence between 11 am and 3 pm on Tuesday. "Though I am unaware of the reason for me being called for questioning or the subject matter of the investigation, you may visit my residence as per your convenience between 11 am and 3 pm tomorrow, i.e. 23 February, 2021," she said in her letter to CBI. "You are requested to kindly inform me your schedule," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
22-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt decides to cut taxes on petrol and diesel by Re 1 ||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to cut taxes on petrol and diesel by Re 1 from Tuesday, bringing consumers marginal relief from the soaring fuel prices and piling pressure on Narendra Modi to match his words on the campaign trail before he became Prime Minister with action. The cut is also expected to somewhat blunt the pro-BJP ecosystem’s attempt to cite state taxes whenever fuel price hikes resurrect Modi’s Opposition day speeches that have become an embarrassment now. Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said the decision was taken in consultation with the chief minister. He said the cut, which comes at a time the state government is grappling with financial challenges stemming from Cyclone Amphan and Covid, was meant to “reduce the common man’s burden”. The notification is scheduled to be issued on Monday morning. Mitra tweeted on Sunday evening that the rebate would be in effect till June 30. Petrol and diesel prices at Calcutta’s retail pumps stood at Rs 91.78 a litre and Rs 84.56 a litre, respectively, on Sunday. The prices were not increased on Sunday night, breaking a 12-day streak. If the Centre-run oil companies do not raise prices by Monday night, Calcuttans can buy petrol for Rs 90.78 a litre and diesel for Rs 83.56 a litre from Monday-Tuesday midnight. “It’s a small relief but will be useful to all, especially the farmers who use diesel to run pumps (to water their fields),” Mitra said. He said the state earned Rs 18.46 a litre on petrol and Rs 12.57 a litre on diesel from sales tax, as on Sunday. “We are reducing our share of taxes by Re 1.” The Centre now collects Rs 32.90 per litre of petrol and Rs 31.80 per litre of diesel. But it shares only a small part of this with the states as it collects the lion’s share of the levy in the form of a cess, bypassing the formula for devolution of central taxes. The cess now stands at Rs 20.50 a litre on petrol and Rs 22 a litre on diesel, accounting for 62 per cent and 69 per cent of the central tax collection, respectively, on these two fuels. Bengal imposes sales tax at 25 per cent and 17 per cent on petrol and diesel, respectively. On top of that, it collects a Re 1 cess per litre on both fuels. Mitra had a word of advice for his central counterpart Nirmala Sitharaman, who has called for a Centre-state effort to tackle the rising fuel prices. She told an event in Chennai that the escalating prices had put her in a “dharm sankat” (moral dilemma). “We are ready to discuss anything. But first they should bring down the tax collection at par with our level before nudging us to cut tax. We have put our money where our mouth is, let her do the same,” Mitra said. Fuel prices began their upward journey on November 20 last year on the back of strengthening crude oil prices. However, the Centre did not reduce the excise duty and cess which it had hiked on May 6, 2020, to capitalise on the falling crude prices around that time. Crude oil prices have rebounded since then in the international market — with the Indian crude imports jumping from an average $19.9 a barrel in April 2020 to $54.79 a barrel in January 2021. Sunday’s petrol price of Rs 91.78 a litre at Calcutta’s retail pumps reflects a rise of Rs 9.19 a litre, or 11 per cent, in the three months since November 21, 2020, when the fuel cost Rs 82.59 a litre. The rise in diesel prices from Rs 73.99 a litre to Rs 84.56 a litre over the same period marks an increase of Rs 10.57 a litre or 14 per cent. In the past, the Narendra Modi government had cut oil prices ahead of elections. In 2018, then finance minister Arun Jaitley had reduced petrol and diesel prices by Rs 2.5 a litre ahead of Assembly elections in five states. While the taxes were cut by Rs 1.5 a litre, the Centre had asked the public sector oil companies to reduce prices by Re 1 a litre. Some of the BJP-ruled states had effected a matching reduction in their taxes too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
22-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP gag on Pamela Goswami drug bust||Kailash Vijayvargiya, BJP’s minder for Bengal, reportedly called up two state leaders on Sunday and asked them to react judiciously to the controversy over the arrest of the party’s youth leader Pamela Goswami for allegedly carrying cocaine. “Kailash-ji is very upset with the incident and the manner the two leaders have been giving reactions to the media. There is little doubt that the incident embarrassed the party,” said a source. According to the source, Vijayvargiya called up the party’s youth wing chief Saumitra Khan and Rakesh Singh and spoke to them at length. While Bishnupur MP Khan couldn’t be contacted, Singh denied that the directive had come from Vijayvargiya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
22-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 3,525 active cases in Bengal ||Bengal on Sunday logged 233 Covid-19 recoveries, 182 new infections and three deaths, including two from the city, with the state’s total active cases dropping for 118 days on the trot to 3,525. There were 37,190 active cases in all on Dashami (October 26), making the dip an improvement by 90.52 per cent. Bengal now has 2.39 per cent of the nation’s active cases. Its recovery rate of 97.6 per cent while the national average is 97.2. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.81 per cent, having fallen steadily for 94 days. On Sunday, the state reported 20,003 tests, taking the total past 84.29 lakh, at 93,660 tests per million people. Of the total toll of 10,249, 8,604 deaths (83.9 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate was 1.42 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
22-02-2021||West Bengal||Shah’s Bengal allotment claim a lie: Mitra||State finance minister Amit Mitra on Sunday rebutted the recent claim of Union home minister Amit Shah that the Narendra Modi government during its tenure had allocated Rs 3.59 lakh crore to Bengal. Mitra said that the allocation to central schemes and centrally sponsored schemes in Bengal stood at Rs 113,617 crore, less than one-third of what Shah had claimed, from 2014-15 to 2019-20. In a political rally last week in South 24-Parganas, Shah accused chief minister and Trinamul leader Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek and “his goons” of siphoning the entire sum given by the Modi government. Mitra challenged Shah to join in a debate with him on the numbers. “I do not know from where he (Shah) got the numbers. He is spreading lies with political intent,” Mitra said. The state finance minister further added: “The money does not come from Modiji. The fact is that the Centre collects taxes from all states and what they are giving from those funds is expected in a federalist polity. On top of that, the figure is being inflated…I challenge him (Shah) to join me in a debate (over the numbers).” The Centre collects tax from the state in the form of direct (income tax) and indirect taxes (GST, customs duty, among others). According to the 15th Finance Commission formula, 42 per cent of the central collection is earmarked as part of devolution to the states. In contrast, Bengal has spent over Rs 3.02 lakh crore of its own funds in various schemes over the same period, Mitra said. “We have spent our fund on our strength, three times more than they have allocated,” the minister added. The state spent over Rs 4.1 lakh crore as salaries and wages in the same period, which Mitra argued created a multiplier effect in the economy by boosting demand. “Put together, the state has spent over Rs 7 lakh crore on our (its) own strength without taking recourse to the Centre in six years, compared to the allocation of Rs 1.13 lakh crore by the Centre,” he said. Shah in the rally had said that during Congress rule, it sent “Rs 1 lakh 32 thousand crores in five years to Bengal”. “The Narendra Modi government has sent Rs 3 lakh 59 thousand crores to Bengal...But did it reach your houses?...Where did it go? This bhaipo (Abhishek) and his goons ate it all. But you don’t worry. BJP will come to power and investigate these matters...Whoever has eaten people’s money will be sent to jail by the BJP government...,” Shah said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
22-02-2021||West Bengal||CBI notice to Abhishek Banerjee wife on coal theft probe||A team of CBI officers turned up at the residence of Trinamul Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee here on Sunday and served a notice on his wife Rujira asking her to attend a questioning session as a witness in connection with the agency’s ongoing probe into alleged pilferage of coal worth thousands of crores of rupees across Bengal. The notice asked Rujira to participate in the questioning session at her Harish Mukherjee Road residence. “We would want to question her as a witness and she has been asked to attend the questioning session under Section 160 of the CrPC,” said a senior CBI officer. Section 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure relates to the power of a police officer to issue orders in writing looking for attendance of any person whom he believes to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case that he/she is probing into. The section spells out that no woman shall be required to attend this questioning session at any place other than where she resides. A special court for MPs and MLAs here had on Friday issued summons to Union home minister Amit Shah to appear before it either personally or through a representative on February 22 in a defamation suit filed by Abhishek, the nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. On Sunday, Abhishek said he had full faith in the law of land. Without referring to the CBI notice, Mamata said she was not afraid of anybody and would not be silenced with attempted intimidation. “Do not ever try to intimidate us with jail. We were raised fighting guns and state-sponsored atrocities, and are not afraid of fighting rodents.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
22-02-2021||West Bengal||Rivals seek to puncture Modi’s Dunlop ride ||The non-BJP opposition parties in Bengal have begun tossing up uncomfortable questions for Prime Minister Narendra Modi ahead of his much-hyped Monday rally at the Dunlop ground in Hooghly from where he is expected to launch a bitter attack on the Mamata Banerjee government for lack of industrialisation in Bengal. The venue of the meeting — the ground at the closed Dunlop factory — was chosen with the intention of highlighting the state of industry in Bengal, said a BJP source while adding that the Prime Minister was likely to announce some measures for closed industrial units at the meeting. The fact that the BJP is planning to use Monday’s meeting to attack Mamata on the issue of industrialisation became clear when Kailash Vijayvargiya, BJP’s Bengal minder, visited the venue on Friday evening and attacked the Trinamul government for its failure to restart the factory. “Mamata Banerjee had promised to start this factory, but couldn’t do anything. I promise that we will form a committee to restart all industries which were closed during the tenure of Mamata Banerjee government,” Vijayvargiya said.Dunlop India Ltd, set up in 1937, used to produce an array of tyres, including aero-tyres, till it was closed in 2006. The company is now closed and a liquidator has been appointed to sell it off. While the BJP leaders are bullish that Modi’s visit would help them create the right narrative for the polls, Opposition parties have begun their campaign on the Centre’s apathy. Trade unions and a section of employees said that despite floating the concept of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India), Modi-led government didn’t do anything for the company in the seven years of its tenure. “Despite having the capacity to produce aero-tyres which were used to supply to the defence ministry, the Modi government did not take any step to reopen it even after several appeals,” said Sarbik Ghosh, an employee of the factory and a secretary of the Citu, the CPM’s labour arm. According to him, a parliamentary team in 2014 visited the Dunlop factory in an attempt to explore options on how to reopen it, but the Modi government did not take any step to inject a fresh lease of life to Dunlop. “Everyone knows, during the Kargil war, a large number of tyres for cannons were taken from the closed Dunlap factory after a request from the central government led by Atal Behari Vajpayee. It was the only factory which used to produce tyres for all categories of planes, including cannon and jet planes. But the Prime Minister who is campaigning for Atmanirbhar Bharat, did not do anything for Dunlop. Now, he is coming for poll campaigning,” said Ghosh. “If the Modi government used this factory to produce tyres for defence use, it would have been enough to keep it alive. But this government is more interested in selling companies,” he added. Trinamul leaders said Modi had no right to speak about the closed factories when his government was selling off profitable public sectors like the Railways and BHEL. The ruling party leaders in the state accused the BJP government of sitting on a proposal of reopening the factory that the state government had sent in 2016. Sources said, in February 2016, the Mamata government passed a bill in the Assembly for two sick companies — Dunlop and Jessop — to be acquired by the state government. Sources said the state government had been providing a honorarium of Rs 10,000 per month from 2016 to each of around 200 employees of the factory. “After passing the bill in 2016, we sent a proposal to the Modi government for a Presidential consent to start production in Dunlop. Nothing happened to that proposal,” said Dola Sen, INTTUC president and a Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha MP. “Mamata Banerjee is still providing Rs 10,000 to the existing employees who are yet to cross their retirement age and arranged for pension for the retired persons. Modi should know that Dunlop has gone for liquidation,” Sen added. Rupchand Pal, a veteran Citu leader and seven-term CPM MP from Hooghly till 2009, said he didn’t have any expectations from the BJP government as the party-led government had always shied away from its responsibilities. “I can’t forget the reply of the NDA government during the time of Atal Behari Vajpayee. When we requested the then government to acquire Dunlop, they informed us in writing that it was not the government’s policy. I have no expectation from Modi as they believe in the same ideology,”  said Pal. Hooghly district is known for its industrial belt having around 120 big and small factories, out of which around 54 are closed. Singur, where Tata Motors had planned to set up its small car factory, falls in this district. BJP state committee member and a leader from the district Subir Nag said: “We are hopeful our Prime Minister Modiji will say something to reopen the closed Dunlop factory and also about Singur.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
22-02-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung: Plot to keep me off hills||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leaders Bimal Gurung has taken up the task to establish a “conspiracy theory” that had led to his absence from the hills for over three years since the 2017 statehood agitation. Gurung, speaking at a public meeting in Mirik on Sunday, also obliquely accused leaders of the rival Morcha faction led by Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa of forcing him to move out of the hills and trying to keep him out. “Party leaders and workers present here… the audience and thousands of residents…none of them did anything. It is because of two people that I was forced to move into the jungles then,” said Gurung. “I stayed away from the hills for over three years...Now, Mamata Banerjee could assess me...When I came here to work, some of our people resorted to hue and cry and said that if Bimal Gurung reaches the hills, there will be tension and violence. I ask them to provide proof… I have been staying here for three months now and there hasn’t been any such incident. All these indicate a political ploy hatched against me,” he said. Gurung’s remarks come at a time the Mamata Banerjee government has initiated the process of withdrawing police cases registered against him, except the murder cases and the UAPA case. Around 70 cases have already been withdrawn, said sources. Political analysts pointed out that as the state’s decision drew flak from political quarters — a number of political parties have alleged that the cases are being withdrawn in exchange of Gurung’s support to Mamata and her party — he is trying to prove that he had “fallen prey to a conspiracy.” “He (Gurung) is trying to drive home the point that he is a victim of circumstances and political strategies and was not involved in the incidents for which police cases were registered against him. It appears to be a planned move to counter political parties on the issue (of withdrawal of cases) and also try to exert pressure on the other faction (Tamang-Thapa) that is also with Trinamul,” said an observer. Gurung also hit out at his former ally BJP and Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling who won the 2019 Lok Sabha polls with Gurung’s support. He said he trusted the BJP for years but was eventually “betrayed.” “Whenever I met the Prime Minister or Union home minister, I asked about the permanent political solution (PPS) for the hills and for tribal status to 11 hill communities. They went on assuring me but eventually our patience and trust did not pay off,” he said. He told Bista not to ascend to Darjeeling without fulfilling the aspirations of hill residents. “The (Assembly) elections are now ahead and once the model code of conduct comes into force, nothing can be done. I would like to ask him (Bista) that there is no need for him to come to Darjeeling without meeting the commitments made by his party.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
22-02-2021||West Bengal||Disquiet in Trinamul over tribal question ||The near-absence of the tribal community at Saturday’s public meeting of youth Trinamul president and MP Abhishek Banerjee in Nagrakata has left district party leaders frowning. On Saturday, some 25,000 people had turned up at Abhishek’s meeting at the European Club grounds, Nagrakata, but only a fraction was from the tribal community. “However, we found that the number of tribal people was very few,” said K.K. Kalyani, the Jalpaiguri district Trinamul president on Sunday. “This should not have happened as the meeting was arranged to address the tribals, thousands of whom live in Nagrakata, Malbazar and adjoining areas. The block leaders and elected representatives of these areas have been asked to find out why tribal turnout was low.” In Jalpaiguri, Nagrakata and Malbazar are two Assembly seats reserved for scheduled tribes. Overall, tribal voters in north Bengal decide the electoral fate of some 15 Assembly seats. According to Trinamul insiders, the district and the state leadership had chosen Nagrakata as the venue for two reasons. First, they felt the need to show their strength in Nagrakata as Sukra Munda, the local tribal MLA, recently defected from Trinamul to the BJP. Second, they wanted to see the response to Trinamul’s recent initiatives, from the free housing scheme to pay hike for tea workers among the tribal population. “It is surprising that despite an array of initiatives taken by the state (free housing scheme, tea wage hike), there were only a few hundred tribal people in the audience,” said an insider, adding that the party leadership had hoped that around 80 per cent of the audience would be tribals. “We did get a good crowd but most were non-tribals. It is natural that our leaders want to find out why most tribals stayed away from the meeting,” the Trinamul leader said. District leaders after a meeting here on Sunday decided to send party workers to tribal homes. The teams would hand over the report card of the state government in various local languages and tell people what the Mamata Banerjee government did for them. “We have asked for a report from the elected representatives and block level leaders by next Friday on the issue,” Kalyani said. Trinamul has on board Rajesh Lakra, a prominent tribal leader, and Sanjay Kujur, a tribal social worker. Also, Joseph Munda, a former tribal MLA of Nagrakata, is the district president of INTTUC. “It is good that these leaders are with Trinamul, but we need to confirm that tribal people are with us,” said a leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-190
22-02-2021||West Bengal||Railway gift to north Bengal: 126km of electrified tracks||The Narendra Modi government, playing the development card to woo Bengal’s voters, on Sunday introduced new infrastructure, including a 126km electrified section, and facilities in a number of stations across north Bengal. Piyush Goyal, the Union railways minister, inaugurated the amenities via video-conferencing, with railway officials and Union minister of state for women and child development Debashree Chaudhuri — the sole Union minister from north Bengal — physically present at various locations. “The railways have taken up the task to contribute to the mission of developing Sonar Bangla. In Bengal, railway tracks will be fully electrified in three years,” said Goyal. “North Bengal is known for its natural beauty and its infrastructure development will draw more tourists. The railways are working for the holistic development of the region,” the railway minister added. Among the infrastructure inaugurated on Sunday were the 126km electrified section between New Jalpaiguri (NJP) and New Cooch Behar, the new station building with a circulating area, running rooms and signalling system at Haldibari station, the electronic interlocking system at Haldibari, Gangrampur and Jalpaiguri Town stations, a new platform at Gangarampur station, a renovated Alipurduar Junction with two elevators, and a foot overbridge at Madarihat station in Alipurduar district. “The NJP-New Cooch Behar section is vital for train movement to the northeast. Electrification will help run more trains in an environment-friendly manner with less carbon emission,” said a source. Last December, the Haldibari-Chilahati (Bangladesh) route opened up and goods trains started running along the route. Three passenger platforms and two tracks for goods trains came up before the route started functioning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
22-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee attacks Centre on Bangla delay||Mamata Banerjee on Sunday accused the BJP-led Centre of step-motherly treatment towards Bengal, raising questions on the delay in renaming the state and accusing it of deprioritising regional languages such as Bengali. The chief minister, at an event to commemorate the International Mother Language Day, said the Bengal government had approved the change of the state’s name formally to Bangla four years ago, but the Centre had not yet done so. “They (the Centre) came up with this strange reasoning that the name (Bangla) would leave scope for confusion with a neighbouring nation. But that’s another nation. If there can be another Punjab in another nation, why can’t there be a Bangla here? Four years, they kept it hanging…. Some will say Bangal, others will say Bongal, why? Why won’t even the name be pronounced correctly?” asked Mamata. The proposal to rechristen the state had been endorsed by all non-BJP parties in the Assembly, in a relatively rare instance of an issue uniting Mamata, the Left and Congress. There have been multiple renaming efforts since 2011, involving several suggestions, to culminate in the Assembly resolution in July 2018 to change the name to Bangla. In the run-up to the crucial Assembly polls this year, Mamata has been repeatedly trying to corner the BJP, which she accuses of being the bohiragawto (outsider), trying to invade and destroy the state and what its people hold dear. On Sunday, she went on to say she has noticed a historical tendency towards a step-motherly treatment towards Bengal. “An attempt to deprive Bengal. A stepmotherly behaviour towards it. Whenever someone from Bengal rises, (there are) attempts to drag them down, pull them back. From Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose to Syama Prasad Mookerjee, Ramakrishna Paramhansa to Rabindranath Tagore, none spared,” said the chief minister, carefully adding the saffron camp’s mega icon Mookerjee too to the mix. “Why should this happen at all, and why should it go on?” she asked. “Bengal must always mean the worst? This perception that they try to peddle is very bad…. The people of Bengal, I know, will stand up to this aggression.” Though vehemently critical of the Trinamul chief’s alleged attempts to polarise voters on the basis of regionalist sub-nationalism, the saffron ecosystem seems unsure of how the outsider label will impact the BJP electorally. Its top leaders Narendra Modi, Amit Shah, J.P. Nadda are trying to convince the people of the state that their party does not lack a Bengal connect and does not exclusively represent the Sangh parivar’s Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan vision now. Mamata and her party have, so far, been enjoying an apparent edge in this fierce rivalry, as the BJP has often been found wanting, with avoidable gaffes in their gestures or statements that have suggested a relative lack of understanding in several core areas of the complex Bengal ethos.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-191
