23-02-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court directs SIT to file report on probe into death of DYFI worker||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday directed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) formed by the West Bengal government to investigate the death of a DYFI activist who had participated in a protest march by the organisation, to file a comprehensive report on the probe into it by March 12. The Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), the youth wing of the CPI(M), filed a PIL in the high court seeking an independent inquiry into the alleged incident. The Left organization claimed before a division bench comprising Chief Justice T B N Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee that the police used excess and unprovoked force on a peaceful demonstration organised by it on February 11 in violation of human rights. It alleged that as a result of the police action, hundreds of protesters suffered serious injuries in vital parts of their body and one of them, DYFI member Maidul Islam Midya, died on February 15. Representing the state, Advocate General Kishore Datta informed the court that the West Bengal government has already constituted an SIT headed by a very senior IPS officer, Damayanti Sen, and the team is probing the matter. Datta also submitted that the victims family has lodged a criminal case, wherein they have sought to make certain named persons liable for the death of the victim. Hearing both the parties, the division bench directed the SIT to file a comprehensive report on or before the next date of hearing, touching all aspects of the matter, including that of filing a criminal case by the victim's family. The bench directed that the matter would be taken up for hearing again on March 12. The youth and students' wings of Left parties had on February 11 organised a march to Nabanna, the state secretariat, demanding jobs. The agitators and the police clashed near Esplanade at the heart of the city after the barricades put up to prevent the protestors from moving ahead were allegedly broken.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP leader Rakesh Singh arrested in drug seizure case||The police on Tuesday night arrested BJP leader Rakesh Singh from Galsi area of West Bengals Purba Bardhaman district in connection with his alleged involvement in a drug seizure case, a senior officer said. His two sons were also arrested by the Calcutta Police's narcotics section for stopping its personnel from entering the residence of the BJP state committee member in the port area of the city, he said. Pamela Goswami, state secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), was arrested along with a friend and her personal security guard from south Calcutta's New Alipore area on February 19 after seizing around 90 gm of cocaine from her car. Goswami then alleged that it was a conspiracy of Singh. The Calcutta police served a notice to Singh asking him to appear before investigators at Calcutta Police headquarters Lalbazar during the day in connection with the case. However, he said that he is travelling to Delhi for some work and appear before the police on February 26. The BJP leader is being brought to Calcutta, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
23-02-2021||West Bengal||SC defers hearing on CBI plea against Rajeev Kumar in Saradha case by 4 weeks||The Supreme Court on Tuesday deferred by two weeks the hearing on CBI's contempt plea against former Calcutta police commissioner Rajeev Kumar and others alleging non-cooperation by them in its probe into the multi-crore-rupee Saradha chit fund scam case. The CBI, entrusted with investigating the Ponzi scheme cases in West Bengal by the apex court, filed the contempt plea on February 4, 2019 against Kumar, former Chief Secretary Malay Kumar De and state's DGP Virendra saying that it was not getting their cooperation in the ongoing probe. The agency also sought cancellation of bail granted to Kumar and his custodial interrogation as he was "evasive during questioning". A bench comprising Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna deferred the hearing by two weeks as it has been conducting final hearing into the case related to winding up of six mutual fund schemes of Franklin Templeton. During brief hearing, senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing for one of the bureaucrats, said the agency was "reviving something which is age old". "The contempt always remains alive," said Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the CBI. "It becomes alive during elections," said Singhvi. The Saradha group of companies allegedly duped lakhs of people of around Rs 2,500 crore, promising higher rates of return on their investments. The scam was unearthed in 2013 during Kumar's tenure as the Bidhannagar police commissioner. Kumar was part of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) set up by the West Bengal government for probing the scam, before the Supreme Court handed over the case to the CBI in 2014 along with other chit fund cases. In November 2019, the apex court had sought the response of the IPS officer on the CBI's appeal challenging the anticipatory bail granted to him in the chit fund scam by the Calcutta High Court. The probe agency had filed an appeal in the apex court against the October 1, 2019 order of the Calcutta High Court, which had granted Kumar the relief saying it was not an appropriate case for custodial interrogation. The high court had directed Kumar to cooperate with the investigating officers and make himself available before them for questioning on a 48-hour notice by the CBI. On September 21, 2019, a pre-arrest bail plea of the IPS officer was rejected by the Alipore District and Sessions Court in Calcutta. The Centre and the West Bengal government were also locked in an unprecedented standoff after a CBI team had reached Kumar's official residence for questioning him, but had to retreat as the local police detained its officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh shown black flags in Darjeeling||BJP's Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh was shown black flags by Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) supporters as he reached the hill town of Darjeeling on Tuesday to take part in a party programme. Ghosh was shown black flags by GJM supporters near the Ghum railway station as he reached the Hills to take part in the BJP's state-wide 'Poriborton Yatra'. The GJM supporters alleged that though the BJP won the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat for consecutive terms, the Hills remained neglected and no development work was done by the Centre. The GJM supporters also raised 'go back' slogan against the BJP leader. Ghosh claimed that supporters of Bimal Gurung and TMC were behind the incident as they were afraid of the growing support for the BJP in the Hills. "This is the situation in Bengal where opposition parties are not allowed to conduct their political programmes. We need to change this atmosphere of fear," he said. In 2017, Ghosh and a few other BJP leaders were allegedly heckled and beaten up by GJM supporters when they were visiting the Hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
23-02-2021||West Bengal||CBI at Abhishek's residence to examine his wife in coal pilferage case||A CBI team visited the residence of Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee on Tuesday to examine his wife Rujira in the coal pilferage case, officials said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee visited the residence of her nephew Abhishek in south Calcutta's Harish Mukherjee Road minutes before the CBI team landed there. The CBI's visit to Abhishek's residence comes after Rujira told the central agency that she will be available for examination between 11 am and 3 pm on February 23, replying to a notice that the sleuths had hand-delivered her on Sunday. The agency sought the examination of Rujira Banerjee to ascertain the details of her bank transactions, suspecting a connection to the proceeds of the illegal coal excavation money, sources said. On Monday, the CBI examined Rujira's sister Menaka Gambhir in connection with the same case. Two woman officers of the CBI visited Gambhir's residence off EM Bypass and had examined her for nearly three hours. The developments come months ahead of the assembly elections in the state with Trinamool Congress alleging it to be a political vendetta. The CBI on November 28 last year carried out a massive search operation in a number of locations across four states -- West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh -- after registering a case against one Anup Majhi alias Lala. It is alleged that Lala, the alleged kingpin of the scam, is involved in illegal mining and theft of coal from leasehold mines of ECL in Kunustoria and Kajora areas, sources said.  Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday visited the residence of TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee ahead of the CBI examination of his wife in the coal theft case. The TMC supremo was at the Abhishek's house for around ten minutes. The CBI had on Sunday asked her to join the probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Modi and Mamata govt spar over Jal Jeevan Mission||Prime Minister Na­rendra Modi on Monday tore into the Mamata Ba­nerjee government for an alleged delay in implementing the Jal Jeevan Mission, a project to give pipeline-based water supply to rural households. Modi’s attack is an indication of how such “delay” in the implementation of central schemes would increasingly become a key poll plank for the BJP in the Assembly elections. At a BJP rally in Hooghly’s Sahaganj, Modi said the Centre had given over Rs 1,700 crore to the Bengal government for the pipeline-based water supply initiative to 1.75 crore rural households in the state, but only Rs 609 crore of the amount was spent. “The remaining Rs 1,100 crore was suppressed…. Cou­ld those who wronged the wo­men of Bengal be forgiven? Re­al change is in order. The Trin­amul government does not sp­are a thought for Bengal’s wo­m­en,” said the Prime Minister. Modi said it was astonishing to note that 1.5-2 crore ho­useholds in the state did not get piped water. He claimed his government decided that the deprived households wo­uld be prioritised. “But, despite repeated pr­o­ds to the government here, it was possible to ensure such supply for barely 9 lakh households,” he added. Sources in the state’s public health engineering department said the annual target was to give pipeline connections to 55,58,388 rural households by March 31 this year. “Till Sunday, 11.37 lakh co­nnections could be given and Rs 1,040.79 crore was sp­­­­ent, out of a total of Rs 1,953.66 crore made available for the current fiscal,” said a se­­nior state government official. He said the scheme’s pro­gress was hit hard because of the Covid-19 pandemic as villagers did not allow engineers of the department to enter their areas till around October last year, apprehending the sp­read of the novel coronavirus. “Moreover, the state’s wa­t­er supply schemes were not pl­a­nned for household connections. Once the state joined the central project last year, we had to change the plan from setting up of roadside taps to household connections. This takes some time and it requi­res acquisition of land for boosting centres, wh­ich is also a time consuming process,” said another official. He said the progress of the scheme had gained momentum in recent times as majority of the problems had been resolved. “We gave 9,358 connections across the state on Sunday. If the progress could be maintained, it is expected that we would be able to give 5 lakh more connections by March 31 and we can supply piped water to over 70 lakh homes next year,” said an engineer. Officials said if the pace was kept, the state could meet the target of giving pipeline connections to all rural households in Bengal by 2023-24. “So, it is too early to be critical of the progress,” the official added. Raising the issue at a public meeting by Modi, the sou­rces said, was more a political issue than an administrative affair. “It is clear the Centre would try and attack the state government on central sch­emes. The Prime Minister brought up the issue at a public meeting for the first time apparently after the BJP realised that campaigning over non-implementation of Ayushman Bharat was not working here,” said another official. He said the non-implementation of Ayushman Bharat would not affect the people of Bengal as the state government had brought all 10 crore people under Swasthya Sathi, a health assurance scheme that ensures free treatment of up to Rs 5 lakh for each family. Moreover, attack over non-implementation of PM-Kisan scheme was also blunted after the chief minister agreed to join the scheme by verifying 22 lakh farmers’ applications for the central dole. Trinamul attributed the new line of attack to the BJP’s “fear”. Its Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Ray said Modi and the BJP had realised that breaching Mamata’s Bengal bastion would be easier said than done and that’s why “baseless” attacks would be necessary to keep the saffron campaign afloat. “The financial year is yet to be finished and work took off on a war-footing after the Co­vid-19 scare relatively subsi­ded. Whatever delays there ha­ve been, have been there for the entire country,” he said. “But they will only come forward with such claims regarding Bengal, staying silent on the BJP-ruled states.” “In my 53-year career in politics, I have never seen a Prime Minister or a Union home minister (Amit Shah) who makes such rubbish claims in public, simply for the sake of winning an election, by hook or by crook…. The people of Bengal are much wiser than the saffron camp gives them credit for,” added Ray.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek’s sister-in-law questioned in coal case||A team of CBI officers questioned Menaka Ga­mbhir, sister-in-law of Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee, for nearly two-and-a-half hou­rs at her New Garia residence in Calcutta on Monday in connection with a probe into alleged coal pilferage in several states, including Bengal. The CBI team’s visit came within an hour of Abhishek’s wife Rujira informing the agency on Monday morning that she would be available for questioning between 11am and 3pm on Tuesday at her so­uth Calcutta residence. Rujira sent the letter to the officer of the CBI’s economic offence wing who had served a notice on her on Sunday asking her to be available for a round of questioning in the coal pilferage case. A team of CBI officers had turned up at Abhishek’s south Calcutta residence on Sunday looking for Rujira but had to return because of her absence. Around 12.10pm on Monday, seven CBI officers, inclu­ding two women, turned up at Menaka’s residence for questioning. “We have recorded her answers to our questions. Her statements would be a source of vital information for us when we question her sister Rujira on Tuesday,” said a senior CBI officer. While responding to the CBI notice, Rujira has said even as she is prepared to face the officers, she is unaware why the central investigation agency wants to question her and in what connection. The Supreme Court on Mond­ay agreed to examine whe­th­er the CBI could be allowed to pr­obe alleged smuggling of coal through railways in Bengal without the state’s cons­e­nt. A bench of Justices D.Y. Ch­an­drachud and M.R. Shah issued a notice to the CBI and the Centre for responses. The court posted the matter for further hearing to next Monday. The court refused to grant any interim protection from arrest to petitioner Anup Majee, one of the accused in the case and who had sought quashing of the FIR registered in November last year. Majee contended that the CBI had no authority to register the FIR as the Bengal government had withdrawn the general consent to the agency under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act on November 16, 2018. The Mamata Banerjee government withdrew the general consent, saying the Narendra Modi dispensation was misusing the CBI and other central agencies to target political opponents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Centre to institute award in the name of Satyajit Ray: Javadekar ||Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar announced here on Monday that the Centre would institute an award in the name of legendary filmmaker Satyajit Ray. The decision to institute the award, to be on a par with the Dadasaheb Phalke award, comes in the backdrop of the Narendra Modi government’s continuous attempts to forge a Bengal connect in poll season. Javadekar said this at a meeting organised under the banner of the National Film Development Corporation that was attended by the who’s who of the Bengali film industry at a south Calcutta hotel. An actor considered close to Mamata Banerjee said the move to honour Ray shows the desperation of the BJP to fight the outsider tag that Trinamul constantly attacks it with. “While the BJP continues to rely heavily on leaders from outside to run its poll campaign in Bengal, it is trying to reach out to the elite voters in Bengal by instituting an award in Ray’s name,” the actor said. Actors Rituparna Sengupta, Abir Chatterjee, Mamata Shankar, filmmakers Arindam Sil, Goutam Ghose, Srijit Mukherji, Anik Dutta, Kaushik Ganguly were among those at the event. While Sil and Ghose have shared the stage with Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee in the past, Dutta is considered close to the Left Front. Emerging from the meeting, filmmaker Sil told reporters: “We discussed how Bengali cinema can be developed and the development should be holistic.” Actors Rudranil Ghosh and Hiran Chatterjee, both of whom have recently joined the BJP, were also present at the meeting that also had in attendance Union minister Babul Supriyo and BJP MP Roopa Ganguly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Prahlad Singh Patel cites article 370 as a lesson in ‘patience’||Prahlad Singh Patel, the BJP in-charge of north Bengal for the state polls, on Monday cited the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir to advise hill residents to be patient about tribal status for 11 communities and a permanent political solution for the region. The reference comes at a time many in the hills are getting restless with the BJP for its failure to execute the region’s two key demands. Patel said: “When the (party in the) Centre and state will be the same, the old issue can be resolved. For this, I want to provide an example. To remove Article 370, we struggled for long.” He brought up Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s differences with then prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru over Article 370 and said “it took 50 years” to remove it. Patel, flagging off his party’s Parivartan Yatra from Kalimpong, then spoke at length about Mookerjee’s life, his differences with Nehru on the special status for Jammu and Kashmir, and his subsequent death in Kashmir after being arrested for visiting without obtaining permanent travel permission. He added that the Article 370 was an example to drive home the point that Narendra Modi was a leader who would deliver. This time, many in the hills have started piling pressure on the BJP to come up with something concrete before the upcoming Bengal elections. Bimal Gurung’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, an ally of the BJP for 13 years, recently dumped the saffron party alleging that it had done little to fulfil their election promises. The demand for a separate administrative unit for the Darjeeling region was first raised in 1907. The BJP, however, has not explicitly talked about a separate state of Gorkhaland but come up with a term “permanent political solution” leaving it open to all types of interpretations. However, the clock is ticking for the BJP as the next budget session is scheduled to start from March 8. The model code of conduct is also expected to be enforced soon in Bengal. Once the code is enforced, no new announcement can be made for any poll-bound state. Obliquely addressing the restlessness of hill leaders, Patel said: “I want to remind those who are impatient that the struggle can be long.” While there are no clear indications on whether the two major issues of the region will be fulfilled before Bengal votes, Patel said that his year-old promise to hold a national culture festival in Bengal was being fulfilled. The three-day Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav started at Raj Bhawan in Darjeeling from Monday. The first leg of the event was held at Cooch Behar from February 14 to 16 and the final leg will be held in Murshidabad on February 27 and 28. Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will be the chief guest at the closing ceremony of the Darjeeling event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-188
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal registers 148 new Covid cases, 3,440 in all||Bengal on Monday logged 231 Covid-19 recoveries, 148 new cases and two deaths, but none from the city. The state has 3,440 active cases, an unbroken drop for 119 days straight from 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami on October 26 last year. Bengal now has 2.38 per cent of the national total of active cases, the share having reduced to nearly a third of what it was a couple of months ago. Bengal’s recovery rate is now 97.61 per cent while the national average is 97.22. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.8 per cent, having fallen steadily for 95 days. On Sunday, Bengal reported 15,112 tests, taking the total past 84.44 lakh, at 93,828 tests per million people. Of the total toll of 10,251, 8,606 deaths (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate was 1.42 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
23-02-2021||West Bengal||‘Platitudes’ over plan for industry in Hooghly||Narendra Modi’s speech in Hooghly’s Sahagunje on Monday belied the party’s hype that the Prime Minister would lay down a roadmap for the industrial revival of a district once known for names like Dunlop and Hindustan Motors. Modi stuck to general assurances in his 30-minute speech in Hooghly, a district with around 120 big and small factories, of which some 54 are closed. The BJP had chosen the venue for the rally in the vicinity of the closed Dunlop tyre factory and campaigned that Modi would come up with major announcements to revive closed industrial units in Hooghly, including a blueprint for Singur where the Tatas had to abort its auto hub after a fierce anti-land acquisition movement that catapulted Trinamul leader Mamata Banerjee to power in 2011. “Hooghly district had a place in India for industries. It is an example of how the district reached such a (bad) situation in the past few decades. There were many big jute, iron and steel factories on two sides of river Hooghly. Now you know better the situation of Hooghly. People from other states used to come here to work and now residents of industrial towns are going to work in other states,” Modi said but did not name the closed Dunlop factory. “The BJP government, who you have decided to bring here, will take steps to change this situation. The BJP government will bring a change in industrialisation policy. The decision will be taken very fast,” Modi said. Modi’s lack of specifics drew flak. Bidyut Routh, the Hooghly unit president of the Trinamul’s trade union wing INTTUC, called Modi’s speech a “gimmick”. “There are two major closed industries in Hooghly, Dunlop and Hind Motor (Hindustan Motors). Modi did not name either. His address was nothing but a gimmick,” said Routh, adding that on Wednesday Mamata Banerjee would speak from Modi’s venue. BJP sources said many in the party expected specific announcements on sick industries from the Prime Minister. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh, who spoke before Modi, had referred to Dunlop’s glory, which party insiders said was a cue for Modi. Modi spoke on jute industries in Bengal and their decline, elaborating on what his government had done for the sector. “When the BJP government came into power (at the Centre) it specially thought of jute farmers. The government made it mandatory to use jute bags to pack wheat. We are using jute bags on a large scale to pack sugar too,” Modi said. Modi’s critics pointed out that five central jute mills in Hooghly, Howrah and North 24-Parganas are closed. “During the 2014 poll campaign, Modi promised to reopen all jute mills in Hooghly. That hasn’t happened...,” said Tirthankar Roy of Bengal Chatkal Mazdoor Union and Citu leader. Modi referred to Hooghly for its iron and steel factories, which exposed his lack of knowledge, pointed out Citu leader Sarbik Ghosh. INTTUC president and Rajya Sabha MP, Dola Sen, echoed Roy: “Modi has forgotten that five Centre-run jute mills are closed....Mamata Banerjee has reopened 26 closed jute mills and now production is on in over 50 jute mills.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Prime Minister accuses Mamata Banerjee government of indulging in appeasement politics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday accused the Mamata Banerjee government of indulging in appeasement politics and preventing traditional customs like Durga Puja, falling back on the polarisation narrative. “This kind of politics (tushtikaran or appeasement) strengthens the vote bank over nationalism, appeasement over development for all,” Modi told a rally on the Dunlop ground at Sahagunje in Hooghly district. Modi’s thrust appeared to be part of a concerted attempt with multiple BJP leaders flagging issues such as Rohingya refugees or adding a communal colour to a reference to even Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, either conveniently forgetting or blissfully ignorant of history. On his second trip to Bengal in a month, the Prime Minister was in Hooghly to inaugurate railway and Metro projects. Before the railway programme, he addressed the public meeting at which he said the people of Bengal had made up their mind to bring about “asal paribartan (real change)” in the state. Modi promised reindustrialisation without mentioning any specifics and rolled out a litany of alleged lapses by the Mamata Banerjee government. The appeasement question came up while Modi was saying that Vande Mataram Bhavan in Hooghly, which was the residence of Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay for five years, had not been properly looked after. Modi went on to allege that the Trinamul government’s politics of appeasement was the reason for the lack of care for the building associated with the “Vande Mataram” call. “This politics stops the people of Bengal from celebrating Durga Puja, stops them from immersion (of the goddess).… The people of Bengal will not forgive those who have insulted their traditions for the sake of vote bank politics,” Modi told a crowd of over 1.5 lakh. “Today I want to assure you that when the BJP comes to power in Bengal... there will be development for all and appeasement for none.” The BJP has long been seeking to milk a notification issued in 2017 by the Bengal government that suspended the immersion of Durga idols on September 30 and October 1 on account of Muharram, observed by Muslims as a day of mourning. The decision, driven by goodwill and an eagerness to minimise potential flashpoints because both events involve processions, has been amplified by the Right-wing ecosystem as an example of appeasement. However, even BJP leaders concede in private that the scale and scope of celebrations during Durga Puja have grown exponentially under Trinamul rule with the active patronage of the ruling party. The Mamata government had announced Rs 50,000 each for nearly 37,000 community Durga Pujas last year to help them stay on course in spite of a pandemic-induced funds crunch. It is against this backdrop that Modi has raked up the Durga Puja charge. Many BJP leaders believe that polarising voters along religious lines is their best bet in Bengal. At several internal meetings, BJP leaders have placed reports that they can win 200 seats in the Bengal Assembly polls if the voters are polarised. Before Modi’s address, Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari accused Mamata’s party of allowing in illegal immigrants and Rohingya Muslims from neighbouring countries. Even a reference to Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, whose status as Bangabandhu had always overshadowed his religious identity, is now being spun to give it a communal hue. BJP IT cell chief and co-observer for Bengal Amit Malviya criticised Mamata for saying on Sunday at a programme to observe International Mother Language Day that even if she is jailed, she will fight from there -- like Bangabandhu. The Father of the Nation in Bangladesh had led the freedom struggle from behind bars in Pakistan. Perhaps unaware of the role language had played in the creation of Bangladesh, Malviya tweeted: “Y’day Pishi said, like Bangabondhu (Sheikh Mujibur Rehman) she would fight from jail and win. Why doesn’t Pishi want to fight like Netaji or Aurobindo or Rasbehari Bose or Khudiram? Mujibur created Bangladesh, what does she want? Or is there a message for her Muslim vote bank?” February 21 is observed as International Mother Language Day at the initiative of Bangladesh, which uses the occasion to commemorate the martyrs of the Language Movement of 1952 in what was then East Pakistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Tie-up only with Left: Malda Congress||Malda district Congress president Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury has made it clear that the party will not leave a single seat for other party in the district except the Left Front in the Assembly polls. The statement is being seen as the rejection of demand for seats in the Malda district by the Indian Secular Front (ISF) which was floated by Muslim cleric Abbas Siddiqui. “We have finalised the alliance and sharing of seats with the Left Front. Now, it is not possible to spare even one seat for any other party in Malda and the neighbouring Murshidabad district. There can be adjustments in seat sharing in some other districts but not here,” Choudhury, who is also the Malda South MP, said on Sunday. Siddiqui’s ISF has been holding talks with Left and Congress leaders for an alliance and demanded seats in Malda, a district that has around 55 per cent Muslims. While attending an event in Malda on January 26, Siddiqui said the ISF was planning to contest from at least half of the 12 Assembly seats in the district. Told about Choudhury’s comment, Siddiqui still sounded confident. “Negotiations are always possible if the Congress agrees to share some seats with us,” he said over the phone. In the 2016 Assembly polls, the Congress had contested from nine seats in the Malda district and won eight. “We will field candidates in all these nine seats this time also. The Left can contest from the remaining three seats,” said Choudhury. Ambar Mitra, the district Left Front convener, said: “The Left Front needs at least five seats in Malda district. Instead of considering old electoral records, we should take into account the present political situation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Dhaka-Siliguri train talks on||Bilateral talks between officials of Bangladesh Railway and Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) started in New Jalpaiguri here from Monday on modalities for the proposed passenger train service between Siliguri and Dhaka. On Sunday, an eight-member delegation of Bangladesh Railway led by Md Shahidul Islam, the divisional railway manager of Paksey railway division of Bangladesh, reached here for talks that would continue till Tuesday. From NFR, the zone of Indian Railway that will handle the service, divisional railway manager of Katihar division R.K. Verma is leading his team in the talks. “The two-day meeting started today (Monday) to discuss the proposal to start the passenger train service between Siliguri and Dhaka. Senior officials from both sides are at the meeting to discuss a range of issues pertaining to the train service,” said S. Chandra, the NFR chief public relations officer. On December 17 last year, India and Bangladesh reopened an old railway route that used to connect the countries — from Haldibari station (in Cooch Behar) to Chilahati station (Nilfamari district in Bangladesh) — after a gap of over 50 years. The prime ministers of the two countries, Narendra Modi and Sheikh Hasina, had jointly inaugurated the route for a goods train service. In north Bengal, this became the third train route to Bangladesh after Radhikapur-Birol (in North Dinajpur) and Singhabad-Rohanpur (in Malda). After the third train route re-opened, there were indications from both the countries that a passenger train service between Bangladesh capital Dhaka and Siliguri, a key commercial and tourism point in Bengal, will start. “There are hints that on March 26 this year, that is, on the occasion of the Independence Day of Bangladesh, the passenger train service will be launched. That both nations are working on the proposal is evident from the two-day bilateral talks among railway officials,” said a source in NFR. He also pointed out that Indian Railways had developed infrastructure in Haldibari station. As recently as on Sunday, Union railway minister Piyush Goyal inaugurated a new station building, a circulating area, running rooms, signalling and electronic interlocking system in Haldibari, which is the last Indian station along the route. Railway officials said a number of issues were being raised at the meeting such as safety, technical details, probable stations along the route, rakes, fares, among others. Siliguri residents have welcomed the railway initiative, saying thousands of Bangladeshi residents visit north Bengal for various needs such as education, healthcare, trade and tourism, and the passenger train would help them. Soumen Nag, a social researcher based in Siliguri, added: “Also, many north Bengal residents have roots in Bangladesh and want to visit the country. So far, their only option was to take a bus via Changrabandha or a flight from Calcutta. The proposed passenger train service will provide an easier and better option for them to visit Bangladesh.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Gautam Deb: Running the last lap||State tourism minister Gautam Deb, believed to be the tallest leader of Trinamul in north Bengal, has remarked that he is “running the last lap to finish the circle of his political career.” Such a remark from the minister, during a door-to-door campaign in his Assembly constituency Dabgram-Fulbari, led to ripples in the political arena of Siliguri ahead of the crucial Bengal polls. “These days, I am running the last lap to complete the circle of my political career spanning over a period of 45 years. I want to work for efficiently for people in the coming days,” the minister told journalist in Tinbatti More area under ward 32 of the city. Deb, now in his sixties, was in politics since his college days. He was in the Congress and joined Trinamul in 1998 when Mamata Banerjee floated her party. His journey as an elected representative started as a councillor in Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC). In 2011, when Trinamul swept the polls, he was elected as an MLA for the first time and became a state minister. In 2016, he could retain his Dabgram-Fulbari seat that comprises 14 wards of the SMC and four adjoining panchayats under Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri district. Since 2011, his back-to-back wins bolstered the confidence of Trinamul workers and local party leaders. But in 2019, Trinamul suffered a setback in Lok Sabha elections when the saffron camp secured a lead of around 86,000 votes in that Assembly segment. The huge margin in Dabgram-Fulbari is believed to one of the prime reasons behind the BJP winning the Jalpaiguri parliamentary seat. Since then, Deb and his party had put in a lot of effort to revive the support base. Ahead of the 2021 Assembly elections, Deb, who otherwise resides in Collegepara of Siliguri, has taken rented a house in a locality under his constituency and is staying there for the past few weeks. He is moving out every day to meet his electorate, playing the development card by inaugurating new projects or laying foundation stones. He has seldom left his constituency during this period. “From May this year, people will see a new Gautam Deb who will stay among them and work for them round the clock. I want to devote my time for people’s development,” Deb said. BJP leaders contacted by this paper abstained from commenting on Deb’s strategy. Political analysts, however, said that the minister seemed to be playing the sympathy card. “The upcoming elections are probably the toughest elections that he has faced in his political career, considering the large margin that BJP has managed to gain over Trinamul in his Assembly segment in the Lok Sabha polls. That is why he is trying to earn compassion from people. It is also a different strategy from the BJP that has been following traditional campaign techniques so far,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Two held with 70 kilos of cannabis in Malda||Two suspected peddlers, including a local youth, were arrested from the Rathbari area in Malda on Sunday night after around 70 kilos of cannabis was seized from their possession. Police sources said the narcotic had been brought from Manipur. The arrested youths had travelled by train to reach Malda. The arrested duo have been identified as Mahadeb Sarkar, who hails from Dinhata in Cooch Behar district, and Sanjay Pramanik, a resident of Sovanagar in Malda. “Sarkar and Pramanik were to sell the consignment, packed in seven packets, in clandestine markets in the rural belts of Malda. The value of the seized cannabis is around Rs 4 lakh,” said Madanmohan Roy, inspector-in-charge of  Englishbazar police station. The police officers also pointed that in the past one year, around four quintals of cannabis had been seized in Englishbazar alone. Altogether, 22 persons have been arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Cash-for-job finger at Trinamul MLA of Dhupguri||Mitali Roy, the Trinamul MLA of Dhupguri in Jalpaiguri district, has been accused of taking money from job aspirants after promising them jobs in at least two state government departments. The aspirants have sent written complaints to K.K. Kalyani, the Jalpaiguri district Trinamul president, alleging that the MLA had taken Rs 83 lakh from 13 of them in 2018. Roy brushed aside the charges and alleged that some people were trying to tarnish her image ahead of the polls. According to sources, in October 2018, Roy allegedly took money from candidates after assuring them of jobs as primary teachers in the education department and with the water resources department. “The candidates alleged that they were taken to Calcutta for interviews and even handed appointment letters. In due course, they realised the appointments were fake. Since then, they have been demanding that the MLA return their money,” said a source. With the job aspirants exerting pressure on Roy, one of her relatives reportedly took up the onus to return the money last year, said a source. “This relative issued cheques to the aspirants but they bounced. The aggrieved persons then brought the matter to the notice of the district Trinamul leadership,” the source added. The MLA stoutly denied the charges as a “conspiracy”. “It is nothing but a conspiracy to malign my image and that of my party ahead of the elections. If I had taken money from them, why were they silent so far (since 2018)? Why have the allegations come up only now?” Roy said, referring to the timing of the charges coinciding with the polls. District Trinamul president Kalyani was brief in his reactions. “I need to check whether any such complaint has reached my office. Also, if anything happened, the state leadership will have to look into the matter. The district committee cannot make any move against any MLA of the party,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
23-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal forest department to create mini zoo for rescued tigers in Alipurduar||The state forest department has started to construct a mini zoo at the South Khayerbari Nature Park here. According to senior forest officials, tigers, especially those rescued from circuses, will be brought to the park that already has an enclosure and cages. The Asiatic black bear, sloth bear, dhole (a species of Indian wild dog), fishing cat and jungle cat will also be brought to the park. Enclosures will be readied for one-horned rhinos, gaur and deer species, along with an aviary. Forest department sources said that 25 hectares had been marked to develop the largest open enclosure for leopards at the nature park. “Bengal Safari Park (on Siliguri outskirts) has turned out to be a success. Similarly, we intend to open a mini zoo with open enclosures for animals to draw more tourists. We hope to make the infrastructure ready by next winter (2021-end),” said V.K. Yadav, the state principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife). A source said that approval had been obtained from the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) for the largest open leopard enclosure as well. In 2005, a rescue centre was opened at South Khayerbari and 18 royal Bengal tigers rescued from circuses were brought there. A leopard safari was launched as well. In due course, all tigers died of old age. The leopard safari was stopped as the vehicle developed technical snags. Tourism stakeholders in the Dooars have welcomed the mini zoo initiative. “Earlier, South Khayerbari was a popular destination for tourists. These days, there is nothing there to attract tourists. We believe once the mini zoo opens, footfall will increase in the Dooars,” said Biplab Dey, assistant secretary, Dooars Tourism Development Forum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-189
