24-02-2021||West Bengal||Mandatory for flight passengers from 4 states to produce negative covid report: Bengal govt||Amid a spike in coronavirus infections in Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka and Telangana, the West Bengal government on Wednesday made it mandatory for passengers travelling in flights from these states to produce negative COVID-19 reports. According to a notification issued by the health department, passengers should undergo RT-PCR tests within 72 hours of the flight departure. "In view of the increasing trend of COVID cases in the states of Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka and Telangana and in continuation of earlier order issued last August, this is to inform you that the state government has decided that from February 27, all passengers coming to the state from the four states shall mandatorily carry a COVID negative RT-PCR report," it said. Necessary instructions to all the airlines would be issued in this connection, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
24-02-2021||West Bengal||Modi biggest ‘dangabaaz’, will meet worse fate than Trump, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday lambasted Prime Minister Narendra Modi, branding him as the "biggest rioter", who will face an "even worse fate" than former US President Donald Trump. Mamata, speaking at a rally at Sahaganj in Hooghly district, also said Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah are spreading lies and hatred throughout the country. "Naredra Modi is the biggest dangabaaz (rioter) in the country... What has happened to Trump, he (Modi) will meet an even worse fate. Nothing can be gained from violence," she said. "The country is being ruled by a doitya and a danab (demons). They will try to break our spine. They will infiltrate. They will grab Bengal. What do you want? Bengal to stay Bengal or whatever the BJP makes of it? Bengal will control Gujarat. Gujarat will not control Bengal," NDTV quoted her as saying. "I will be the goalkeeper in the assembly polls and you (BJP) will not be able to score a single goal. All shots will fly above the goal post," Banerjee added. The chief minister also condemned the recent CBI interrogation of TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee's wife in connection with a coal pilferage scam, saying it was an "insult to our women". Meanwhile, cricketer Manoj Tiwary and several Bengali actors joined the TMC at the rally in the presence of the chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
24-02-2021||West Bengal||CBI files supplementary charge sheet against businessman close to Mamata||The CBI on Wednesday filed a supplementary charge sheet in a cattle smuggling case and named as accused Calcutta-based businessman Binay Mishra, believed to be close to Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew and TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, officials said. In its charge sheet filed before a special CBI court in Asansol, the agency has shown Mishra as absconding. The CBI on February 18 had filed a charge sheet in the case against BSF Commandant Satish Kumar and six others for their alleged involvement in a cattle smuggling racket operating on the India-Bangladesh border. The agency had taken over the case on September 21, 2020. Besides then Commandant of 36 Battalion of BSF Kumar, the CBI had filed charge-sheet against Enamul Haque, Anarul Seikh, Golam Mustafa, Taniya Sanyal, Badal Krishna Sanyal and Rashida Bibi, the officials said. The CBI alleged that Haque was the mastermind of the illegal cattle trade and was assisted by two other accused in connivance with Kumar who was deployed in Murshidabad and Malda. The central probe agency has recently questioned Banerjee's wife Rujira and sister-in-law Menaka Gambhir in a separate case pertaining to illegal coal mining and pilferage from the mines of Easter Coalfields Limited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
24-02-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri dry port ransack accused arrested||Expelled INTTUC and Trinamul leader of New Jalpaiguri, accused of leading an attack at the inland container depot (ICD) or dry port in the area earlier this month, was arrested by a team of Siliguri Metropolitan Police from Assam on Sunday and brought here on Tuesday. Prasenjit Roy, the former president of Trinamul’s trade union front INTTUC in NJP, was absconding since February 4, when he led hundreds of supporters inside the ICD and ransacked the office of a private firm running the facility to demand local workers be hired. It angered chief minister Mamata Banerjee who was at the branch secretariat Uttarkanya, some 1.5km away. “Roy was arrested in Tinsukia, Assam, and produced at a court that granted his transit remand. On Wednesday, he will be produced at a court in Jalpaiguri,” said a police officer. Mamata asked party leaders and the police to take a stern view on the matter. In a matter of days, the absconding Roy — who ran 30-odd Inttuc-affiliated trade unions in and around NJP — was expelled from INTTUC and Trinamul, and some of his aides were arrested. A five-member police team was formed to find Roy. “Finally, from a specific tip-off and cell phone location, the police arrested him from Tinsukia,” said a source. The vandalism also led to loss of face for Trinamul and state tourism minister Gautam Deb as the ICD is located in his Dabgram-Fulbari seat. Minister Deb reacted briefly to Roy's arrest. “We never tolerate indiscipline. The law will take its own course,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
24-02-2021||West Bengal||Price buffer for potato farmers in Bengal||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to encourage cold store owners in Bengal to buy 10 lakh tonnes of potato at Rs 6 a kilo directly from farmers to cushion them from the vagaries of a demand-supply mismatch in a year likely to see a bumper harvest. The state government initiative is also seen as an attempt to keep over 15 lakh potato farmers across Hooghly, East Burdwan, West Midnapore and Birbhum in good humour with a price buffer ahead of the Assembly polls as the BJP has organisationally strengthened itself in these four districts. “The state government will encourage cold stores to buy 10 lakh tonnes of potato from farmers as a bumper production is expected this year. The government will help the cold stores to secure bank loans for this purpose and the government will compensate the store owners if they incur any loss, which, however, is a distant possibility,” said chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. A senior government official elaborated why a minimum price guarantee was needed in a year of bumper potato production. “This year, around 115 lakh tonnes of potato will be produced against an average annual production of 90 lakh tonnes. The result of the bumper production is already visible as farmers are being forced to sell off potatoes at Rs 4 a kilo these days,” he said, indicating that the minimum price of Rs 6 a kilo would offset their losses. However, some government officials are unsure if the government’s plan to help the farmers can be implemented on the ground. “The plan to ensure a minimum procurement price for the tuber will be successful only if certain preconditions are fulfilled,” said a source. The most important factor, he said, was to ensure that cold-store owners, who actually control the price of the potato in the retail market, actually procure from farmers. “In most cases, traders buy potato from farmers and then sell cold-store owners...If that keeps happening, the benefits will not reach farmers,” he added. According to him, monitoring the procurement by cold-store owners holds the key to the success of the plan. “Orders would have to be issued and the district authorities would have to keep watch on the procurement process... In an election year, such micro-management is easier said than done,” said another official. Some officials think both the targets — procurement price and direct procurement volume — are too low. “Given the rise in input cost, farmers have spent on an average more than Rs 5 to produce a kilo of potato. So, the offer price of Rs 6 is not good enough. Besides, the target volume of procurement (10 lakh tonnes) is also low, it should have been at least 25 lakh tonnes to ensure that the farmers do not suffer from the demand-supply mismatch,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
24-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP’s Parivatan Yatra runs into Darjeeling protests||The BJP’s Parivatan Yatra in north Bengal, which had been flagged off from Cooch Behar by Union home minister Amit Shah, reached here on Tuesday amid protests not just by its rivals but even by two hill allies which accused the saffron party of not being serious about its promises. Supporters of Bimal Gurung’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, which had been supporting the BJP for 13 years until recently, waved black flags at the yatra, while the Kalimpong Krishak Kalayan Sangatan — a federation of hill farmers — staged a dharna which was supported by an apolitical organisation representing 11 hill communities seeking tribal status. If this was not enough, the Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM), which had backed the BJP in the last Lok Sabha election, refused to participate in the yatra and said its support was for fulfilment of hill demands and not for the saffron camp’s political programmes. The turn of events on Tuesday, many believe, could be an indicator that the BJP might find it difficult to win over the voters in the hills unless their promises were translated into delivery. The BJP’s two main promises are tribal status for the 11 communities and “a permanent political solution” for the hills. “The promises remain only on paper... Time is running out,” said a source in the BJP admitting that the non-fulfilment of the promises would hit the party in the run up to the polls. With the model code of conduct round the corner, the BJP is under pressure as the budget session will resume only on March 8. Once the MCC is in place, new announcements cannot be made for poll-bound states. The BJP had promised tribal status to Bhujel, Gurung, Mangar, Newar, Jogi, Khas, Rai, Sunuwar, Thami, Yakka (Dewan) and Dhimal and also a “permanent political solution” for the region in their 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto. Gurung severed ties with the BJP in last October stating that the party was not interested in fulfilling the election promises. On Tuesday, members of the Gorkha Janmukti Nari Morcha (Gurung camp) waved black flags at the yatra at Ghoom and near Darjeeling Railway station when the cavalcade entered the hill town. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh, state vice-president Arjun Singh and Darjeeling MP Raju Bista were present at the yatra. While the women supporters raised slogans like “BJP go back” and “Raju Bista go back” in Darjeeling, members of the Kalimpong Krishak Kalyan Sangathan staged the dharna at Kalimpong to demand tribal status for the 11 hill communities before the Bengal elections. The KKKS was also joined by apolitical United Indigenous Gorkha Community Forum in their one-day dharna. “It would be good if the Parivartan Yatra had been held after fulfilling their promise,” said Bishnu Chettri, the president of the KKKS which had backed the BJP in the last general election. CPRM office-secretary Sunil Rai said: “We supported the BJP for a permanent political solution…Today’s Parivartan Rally is their rally and we will not participate in it. Our parivartan (change) is not to carry the BJP’s flag.” Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) supporters, however, came out in large numbers and attended the public meeting at Darjeeling Motor Stand. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista said the BJP was committed to fulfilling both the promises while admitting that hill people wanted the tribal status before the polls. “The 11 hill tribes’ demand can be fulfilled anytime (by the Union home minister). As far as the permanent political solution is concerned, it is not easy. It is something which will come through the (provisions of) the Constitution.” Bista, however, said he would be here till 2024 and it was unwise to link the demands with elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
24-02-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 3,399 active cases in Bengal||Bengal on Tuesday logged 228 Covid-19 recoveries, 189 new infections and two deaths, but none from the city. The state now has 3,399 active Covid-19 cases, down from 37,190 on Dashami last year, in an unbroken slide of 120 days. “We have fewer than 3,400 active cases left, while over 7.4 lakh vaccine doses have been administered, the fifth highest in the country….We are on track to beating this pandemic soon,” said a minister. Bengal now has 2.36 per cent of the nation’s active cases. The state’s recovery rate has touched 97.62 per cent while the national average is 97.23. The state in all has 5.74 lakh cases, including over 5.6 lakh recoveries and 10,253 deaths. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.78 per cent, having fallen steadily for 96 days. On Tuesday, the state reported 18,302 tests, taking the total past 84.62 lakh, at 94,301 tests per million people. Of the total toll, 8,607 deaths (83.9 per cent) have been attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.78 per cent and the national rate is 1.41.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
24-02-2021||West Bengal||3,000 Bengal civic casual workers demand pay||As many as 3,000 casual workers of the Trinamul-ruled Bhatpara Municipality in North 24-Parganas on Tuesday demonstrated to demand they be paid their wages — four months due — immediately. Agitating workers locked the entrance to the municipality premises on Tuesday morning, suspending civic services in 35 wards of the town. Sources said the workers vowed to continue the agitation till they were paid in full. “We are being wronged by the municipality authorities who have only given us vague assurances. We are in a financial crisis, we are struggling for basic needs,” said casual worker Bijay Barma, one of the protesters. “We won’t stop our agitation till our dues are cleared.” Municipality chairman Arun Banerjee blamed the previous BJP-ruled civic body’s “misuse” of funds to favour contractors close to BJP MP of Barrackpore Arjun Singh and his nephew, which Singh rubbished. Workers said the civic body had some 3,300 workers on “no-work-no pay basis” who were going without wages since October 2020. “Municipality chairman Arun Banerjee and Trinamul’s Bhatpara assembly committee chairman Dharampal Gupta assured us of clearing our dues by February 11. No money has been paid,” said a worker. On Monday, 150 health workers of the Bhatpara Municipality’s maternity clinic spearheaded the agitation by stopping work. Health workers alleged that they were appointed under a project jointly funded by the Centre and state, and their not being paid was “new and unexpected”. “This is unusual for us. We provide our best services round the clock in public interest, but civic authorities appear to be least bothered about paying our salaries,” a health worker said. The municipality casual workers’ union leader J.L. Barma said the issue had begun fomenting over four months ago. “For months, payment of wages is an irregular affair, each time nothing is paid without some agitation from us,” Barma said. Blaming the preceding BJP-led civic body, municipality administrator Banerjee said: “The previous board is solely responsible for non-payment of dues. The state government had allocated funds for payment of wages but the previous board diverted the funds to pay bills of contractors close to Arjun Singh and his nephew Sourav Singh. This created a backlog of a few months. Nevertheless, we are hopeful of settling the matter soon.” He added that he asked the workers for another week. Rubbishing the allegations, BJP MP Singh said: “The Trinamul-run board reduced the wages of workers after failing to pay them.” Vice chairman Maqsud Alam, however, blamed the Centre for slashing a grant under the urban mission scheme that allegedly caused problems in paying health workers. “The Centre has granted only Rs 5.9 crore against the previous year’s Rs 18 crore,” Alam said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
24-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul workers bank on central forces||Around 500 Trinamul Congress leaders and supporters, who have been rendered homeless in four blocks of East Midnapore following the outbreak of political clashes that coincided with former transport minister Suvendu Adhikari’s switch to the BJP in December, are banking on the neutrality of central forces for their “ghar wapsi” ahead of the Assembly polls. Sources said Trinamul workers in several parts of East Midnapore, including Bhupatinagar, Moyna, Khejuri and Potashpur, were living in “exile” for fear of political retribution from the BJP. Several Trinamul leaders said as their multiple pleas to police to escort their men back home had fallen on deaf ears, they asked the district administration to use the central forces for the job. “Around 500 leaders and supporters have fled homes because of political clashes. We are hopeful that with the arrival of the central forces, they will be able to return home,” said Trinamul district coordinator Mahmud Hossain. Trinamul leaders in the Bhaganwanpur block submitted a list of 42 supporters, including Arjunnagar panchayat chief Tanmay Pradhan, to Bhupati Nagar police station on Saturday seeking the help of central forces for their return home. While Pradhan and a few others have been at their in-laws’ homes for the past three months, most are said to have sent their children and wives away to relatives in Calcutta and elsewhere. “We were forced to flee in the environment that ensued after Suvendu’s defection. We feared for our safety and couldn’t return home,” said Pradhan, adding they had repeatedly appealed to the police for help but to no avail. Subrata Malakar, block president in Moyna’s Bakcha gram panchayat, said he and at least 100 others had fled their homes nearly a year back to avoid attacks from BJP workers. The complaints of Trinamul workers who fled their homes have resurfaced in the midst of deployment of central forces in Bengal districts for pre-poll area domination. Sources said one company was already active in East Midnapore and four more would reach the district this week, reportedly for deployment at “250 more vulnerable” booths. East Midnapore superintendent of police Praween Prakash on Tuesday said: “We have received some complaints of (Trinamul) workers willing to return home. We will investigate.” The BJP attributed Trinamul workers’ flight to “intra-party rivalries”. “It has got nothing to do with the BJP,” said Contai district president Anup Chakraborty. Till the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, it had been CPM supporters who begged the administration to facilitate their “ghar wapsi” in the district. Ever since the land agitation of 2007, thousands of CPM workers and leaders, particularly in Khejuri and Nandigram, had to flee their homes following alleged attacks by Trinamul. Before every poll, the CPM would submit to the district administration a list of names of people wanting to return home. Ironically, this time the CPM has not submitted any such list while the ruling party is trying to get their men back home. “They are simply reaping what they themselves sowed with their violent tactics over the past several years,” said a CPM leader. In several south Bengal districts, political parties are preparing lists of vulnerable areas and pockets where their supporters are facing trouble to campaign or write wall graffiti. CPM leaders in Birbhum and East Burdwan said they had asked their local leaders to send name of the pockets and areas where they were facing threat and violence. “We have a list of areas where our workers are being stopped from carrying out political activities. However, we are waiting for the election to be announced to take up the issue with the administration,” said Apurba Chatterjee, a CPM leader in East Burdwan. Personnel of central forces have started carrying out route marches in several districts, particularly in sensitive pockets. “We are conducting route marches, along with police and central force personnel, in vulnerable pockets. If any political party comes to us with complaints, we will act accordingly,” said Sukanta Saha, the subdivisional officer of Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas. Sandip Nandi, BJP president in East Burdwan, said: “We have a list of allegations against several Trinamul leaders for spreading violence in the district. But we will list our complaints only with the Election Commission.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
24-02-2021||West Bengal||Assam tea pay hike brews Bengal ripples||A notification from Assam’s labour welfare department on the interim hike of Rs 50 in the daily wage of tea workers in the BJP-ruled state prompted the saffron camp in north Bengal to point out that tea wages in the Mamata Banerjee-ruled state were lower now in comparison. Both Assam and Bengal are set to face Assembly polls this summer, making tea wages a political issue in both. On Tuesday, Assam’s principal secretary of the labour welfare department issued a notification, saying that with the hike, the daily cash wage for the state’s tea workers (other than those serving in tea gardens of the Barak valley) increased to Rs 217 a day with effect from February 22. For tea workers of Barak valley, it is Rs 195 a day. In January this year, the Bengal government revised the daily wage of tea workers on an interim basis and it stands at Rs 202 a day now. Manoj Tigga, the BJP MLA of Madarihat in Alipurduar district, said that many state ministers and Trinamul leaders had in January “scoffed at the Assam government” for lower wages there. “Now that the Assam government has made the revision, the wage rate is higher than Bengal. We will raise this issue as we go out to campaign before the Assembly elections,” said Tigga. Trinamul leaders dubbed the hike announced by the Sarbananda Sonowal government as a ploy to woo Assam residents ahead of the polls and underscored a slew of development schemes  introduced by the Bengal government for its tea population. Mannalal Jain, a senior Trinamul leader in the Dooars and the vice-president of Cha Bagan Trinamul Mazdoor Union, said such tactics by the BJP won’t work ahead of the polls. “Unlike Assam, the state government here has taken up many initiatives for tea workers, the most important being free housing. Workers get food grains from the state....Also, wage rate here is uniform, unlike Assam with a different rate for Barak valley,” said Jain, adding that the Trinamul government reopened many closed tea gardens and improved infrastructure in the tea belt. But Trinamul leaders are also aware that most tea garden residents had sided with the saffron camp in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, which helped the BJP win Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Darjeeling. Poll results of some 15 Assembly segments in Bengal depend on the tea population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
24-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leaders in Hooghly plant saplings ||Trinamul leaders and supporters in Hooghly’s Sahagunje plant saplings on the grounds of the closed Dunlop tyre factory on Tuesday. The leaders said that they did so as a few trees had allegedly been felled to enable Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s chopper landing on the grounds on Monday. Trinamul leaders also took out a protest rally with slogans like “Modi ele dhongsho, Didi ele sristi (it’s destruction when Modi visits, it’s creation when Didi visits). Trinamul's Hooghly district president Dilip Yadav said: “As several trees were chopped off to facilitate the Prime Minister’s helicopter landing on Monday, we planted trees as part of our protest against such destructive practices.” BJP leaders claimed that the branches of a few trees had been trimmed and all was done to meet security requirements. “No trees were cut off, only the branches of a few trees trimmed, the protest is a Trinamul gimmick,” said Subir Nag, a BJP state committee member and a leader of Hooghly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
24-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Chhatra Parishad survey to assess voter mood||A desire to win back voters who had deserted the Trinamul Congress in the 2019 Lok Sabha election in the Goghat Assembly constituency has made the students’ wing embark on a door-to-door campaign to conduct a survey and assess the people’s mood. Armed with a set of 10 questions, members of the Trinamul Chhatra Parishad (TMCP) in Hooghly’s Goghat started its first-ever survey on February 14 and set a target to visit 75,000 households in an Assembly constituency where Trinamul had lagged behind the BJP by over 8,000 votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Goghat is part of Arambagh Lok Sabha constituency that Trinamul’s Aparupa Poddar had won by 1,142 votes in 2019. “Our goal is to reach out to the people with questions on LPG price rise, BJP’s rath yatra and schemes of the Mamata Banerjee government. Through the campaign, we are trying to tell the people about the achievements of the state government and the failure of the BJP government at the Centre. We are not asking respondents to fill in the survey form in front of us. They have the option to hand over the forms to us later,” said Syed Ashik Hossain, TMCP president in Goghat-I block. While a question in the survey form asks respondents about their reaction to the hike in price of LPG cylinders, another question wants to know whether Mamata Banerjee’s Swastho Sathi scheme is good or not. “The questionnaire has 10 questions that will give us an insight into people’s perception about various policies of the state and central governments along with other political issues. A political question that is part of the survey will let us know how people are reacting to BJP leaders riding a chariot for political purpose,” a TMCP leader said. One of the questions reflects the Trinamul’s concern about party leaders switching camps and joining the BJP. “We are trying to get an idea what people are thinking about turncoats. A leader who has recently joined the BJP has a good support base, so we need to know the impact of him leaving Trinamul,” said a TMCP leader, who added that five separate groups of supporters were visiting villages every day to complete the survey within 20 days. Ashik, however, said to elicit honest response from the people, the surveyors were not carrying TMCP flags but disclosed their identity if they were asked about it. “The team members are not carrying party flags or raising slogans. We are not wearing our identity on the sleeves as the feedback is important to know how voters are responding to the political situation ahead of the polls,” Ashik said. Asked what prompted the TMCP to take up a people’s mood assessment tool that is usually associated with Left parties, Dilip Yadav, Trinamul’s Hooghly district president, said: “We want to know about the demands of the people. Similar surveys will be carried out in other Assembly segments in the district.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
24-02-2021||West Bengal||90 new winged species sighted in 4-day fest at Mahananda sanctuary||Foresters and birders, including ornithologists, have found as many as 90 new species of birds at the Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary on the outskirts of Siliguri. The new avian species were spotted during a four-day bird festival that ended at the sanctuary on Tuesday. It was for the first time that the state forest department hosted such a bird fest in the sanctuary. Among the new species sighted include the Striated Yuhina, the White-bellied Drongo, the Chestnut-bellied Rock Thrush and Blyth’s Leaf Warbler. In all, 16 birdwatchers, eight ornithologists and eight local guides participated at the event, along with foresters. During these four days, they roamed around the sanctuary area, watching birds, clicking pictures and jotting down notes. Rajendra Jakhar, the chief conservator of forests, (wildlife, north) said the inventory of the avian species of the Mahananda sanctuary that they had was made back in 1997 with 292 species. “But during this four-day event, 90 more new species, including some rare ones, were sighted in Mahananda. It is nice to see that the number of avian species that can be sighted here has increased to 382. This will also help us work for their conservation,” Jakhar said. He said that as a follow-up, the department would publish a report with details of the birds that can be seen in Mahananda. The exercise, he said, would increase the popularity of the sanctuary among birdwatchers and ornithologists. In these four days, the participants walked down seven jungle trails, covering Latpanchar, Gulma, Rongtong and banks of the Teesta river. Starting from the foothills, they ascended to around 3,500 feet in the hills within the sanctuary area to obtain details of the birds. Animesh Bose, a wildlife conservationist in Siliguri who had joined the event, said the experience was delightful. “We are delighted that the forest department took the initiative to find out how varied the avian population in the sanctuary is,” Bose said. Later this month, a similar bird watching camp would be held at the Neora Valley National Park in Kalimpong with around 30 participants, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
24-02-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul ‘micro’ formula to retain minorities ||Trinamul leaders have decided to activate its minority cell with “low-key, micro-level” campaigns with the help of youths and clerics to retain votes from the community in the state polls. Adding urgency to this decision are two contenders — the Indian Secular Front (ISF) floated by cleric Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui and the Hyderabad-based All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) — that have the potential to split Bengal’s minority votes. “We don’t need the AIMIM or Abbas Siddiqui for the development of Muslims and other minorities. It is chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s development plan that has largely helped Bengal’s minorities, and it will go on if Trinamul retains power,” said Alok Das, a south Bengal Trinamul leader who works with the minority cell. “That’s why we have decided on micro-level, understated door-to-door campaigns by youths in minority belts across Bengal. We will also ask imams, muezzins and other clerics to personally tell people about initiatives (under the Mamata government),” Das added. Party insiders said the minority cell has been asked to prevent a Muslim vote split. The cell, sources said, will distribute pamphlets in various languages, including Urdu, to apprise the minority population what the Mamata Banerjee government has done for them since 2011. The consequences of the CAA in Bengal will also be put before them. Bengal has 28 per cent Muslim population and their votes decide the results in 110-odd Assembly seats, mostly in Murshidabad, Malda, North and South Dinajpur, North and South 24-Parganas and Calcutta. The AIMIM, foraying in Bengal for the first time, has lined up its first major event, a public meeting at Metiabruz in Calcutta on February 25. “Our party chief Asaduddin Owaisi will speak and we are expecting a good crowd,” said Imran Solanki, a state leader of AIMIM, which won five Assembly seats in Bihar from Seemanchal area close to the Bengal-Bihar border. Siddiqui’s ISF is in talks with the Left-Congress alliance, but is yet to strike a deal on seat-sharing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-187
