25-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata rides e-scooter to protest against fuel price hike||In a unique protest against fuel price hike, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday rode pillion on an electric scooter to state secretariat Nabanna. The chief minister was seen sitting behind state minister Firhad Hakim, who rode the battery-powered electric scooter. With a placard protesting against the petrol price hike hanging around her neck, helmet-clad Banerjee waved at people on both sides of the road during the seven-km-long journey from Hazra More to the state secretariat. After reaching Nabanna following a 45-minute ride, Mamata slammed the BJP-led government at the Centre saying, "We are protesting against the fuel price hike. The Modi government only makes false promises. They have done nothing to bring down fuel prices. You can see the difference in petrol prices when the Modi government came to power and now." She said the TMC will launch a stir against fuel price rise from Friday. "The BJP had promised free LPG connections to the people before coming to power and now they are hiking its price," Mamata said. "Modi and Shah are selling the country. They are selling the profit-making PSUs. This is an anti-people, anti- woman, anti-youth, anti-farmer government," she said. The feisty TMC chief also criticised the BJP government for renaming the Sardar Patel Stadium, popularly known as the Motera stadium, in Ahmedabad after Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "The way they are changing the names of stadiums, who knows they might change the name of the country in the coming days," she quipped. Speaking on her unique protest, the chief minister said, "I rode on an e-scooter to protest the manner in which petrol, diesel and LPG prices are rising. "A middle-class household needs two LPG cylinders a month which they can't afford now. Over 1 crore people in our state also depend on kerosene which they are not getting now," she said. Banerjee said she will return home in the evening on the e-scooter. The chief minister was trailed by security personnel on other two-wheelers as other vehicles followed her a little distance away. There was tight security along the Hazra-Exide-AJC Bose Road-Vidyasagar Setu route. The opposition parties, however, called her protest an "election stunt". "The CM is resorting to novel theatrics ahead of the elections but the state government is not doing its bit to reduce fuel prices," BJP leader Jai Prakash Majumder said. Congress Legislature Party leader Abdul Mannan said, "This is nothing but an election stunt. Why is the state government not substantially withdrawing cess to blunt the effect of the fuel price hike to help the common man?" Left Front leader Sujan Chakraborty compared her fuel hike protest with her earlier riding pillion on a motorcycle ridden by former PCAPA leader Chhatradhar Mahato during the Lalgarh agitation. "Mamata had ridden pillion on Chhatradhar Mahato's motorcycle in the Jangalmahal region before coming to power in the state but later people of that region witnessed the TMC's intimidation and terror," he said. The TMC supremo had earlier several times ridden pillion on two-wheelers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
25-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata questions Modi on Dunlop||The chief minister on Wednesday took the Dunlop battle to Narendra Modi’s court and asked the Prime Minister to explain why his government had been sitting on a state government proposal to revive the closed factory in Hooghly’s Sahaganj for the past five years. The question was clearly aimed at the BJP’s narrative that the party would ensure re-industrialisation of Bengal if voted to power. Mamata Banerjee’s attack on Modi came within two days of the Prime Minister’s rally at the same venue in Sahaganj where he did not even take the name of the closed tyre factory or a plan for its revival in his speech. “We decided to acquire Dunlop and Jessop in 2016 and passed a bill in the Assembly. From 2016 to 2021, the central government did not allow us to acquire it. Ask Narendra Modi why he kept the Dunlop factory closed for the past five years? You (Modi) should have answered it before attending a meeting on the ground of Dunlop. You did not do your job and (is) restraining me to do  it,” Mamata said at the Dunlop ground in Sahaganj. The chief minister added that while the Centre did nothing for Dunlop, her government was providing Rs 10,000 as monthly ex-gratia to all employees for their survival. Sources said the BJP had chosen the venue for Modi’s rally in the vicinity of the closed Dunlop factory, which was known for providing specialised tyres for defence vehicles, expecting that the Prime Minister Modi would come up with major announcements to revive closed industrial  units in Hooghly, including a blueprint for Singur where the Tatas had to abort its auto hub after a fierce anti-land acquisition movement that catapulted Mamata to power in 2011. Mamata questioning Modi for his government’s lack of support for the revival of Dunlop found resonance among several trade union leaders and employees of the closed factory. “This is our question too. Why has the central government been sitting on the proposal for years? We are ready to go to Delhi if the state government takes the initiative. If the state government is at fault then the Prime Minister should tell that publicly. Why did he not speak on the issue when he visited the Dunlop grounds on Monday?” said Sarbik Ghosh, Dunlop employee and leader of the CPM-affiliated Citu. Mamata not only attacked Modi but accused “two” BJP leaders, who she did not name, of taking shelter at the house of Pawan Ruia, who was the last owner of Dunlop before it went into liquidation. The CID had arrested Ruia after he had served the suspension notice in 2016. He is now out on bail. “What is the name of the owner of Dunlop? It is Pawan Ruia. At a time when we have lodged several cases against him, BJP leaders are staying at his house. After denying workers and labourers (of Dunlop) jobs and food, they (BJP leaders) became guests at the Sarat Bose Road house of Ruia,” Mamata said and added that she knew the names of two leaders but would not disclose it. “I feel ashamed to take the names of the BJP leaders. I will confide the names to Dilip Yadav (Hooghly’s Trinamul president). You launch a movement by putting up posters everywhere asking BJP leaders why they became guests of Ruia,” Mamata said at the gathering where around a thousand family members of Dunlop employees were present. Trinamul insiders said the way Mamata took the Dunlop war to Modi was a masterstroke. Hooghly president of the Trinamul-affiliated INTTUC, Bidyut Routh, said Mamata's attack on the Modi government on the fate of Dunlop would help the party campaign among the workers against the BJP. “We have already started to interact with Dunlop workers and will start a movement against the BJP soon,” Routh added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
25-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata tears into Modi and BJP over ‘lies’ propagated to win polls ||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday tore into Narendra Modi and his party over “lies” they had been propagating to win the Bengal Assembly polls before daring the BJP to defeat her. The chief minister, who held a political rally at the venue of the Prime Minister’s public meeting on Monday, said the Bengal debacle for the BJP would be the beginning of its end around the country, telling people that a “fate… much worse” than that of Donald Trump awaited him. “A party of a danob (monster) and a doityo (demon), a Rabon (mythical monarch and principal antagonist in Ramayan) and a danob. Just the two of them running this country,” said Mamata at Sahaganj in Hooghly, apparently referring to Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, without specifying who was which. “Lies, lies and more lies. To win, somehow…. They will break your backbone and destroy with outsiders everything you hold dear in and about Bengal, should you make the mistake of trusting them with your votes,” she warned, vowing against letting “Gujarat” rule Bengal. The Trinamul Congress chief mocked Modi for his endorsement of former US President Donald Trump who was later voted out of power by Joe Biden. “You saw Trump. He (Modi) went there to get him elected. He can’t even do enough here, but he went there to get Trump elected. The fate that Trump has suffered, much worse awaits him (Modi)…. Violence is eternally incapable of delivering good for mankind,” said Mamata to thunderous applause from an audience of tens of thousands. The chief minister called the BJP the “ugliest, the most corrupt” political party globally and asserted that none other than she was able to speak against them. “All you do is for two industrialists… I have nothing against them. But what about the rest of the country?” the chief minister asked, before accusing Modi of being a “compulsive ribbon-cutter”, inaugurating — and thereby taking credit — for things done by others, such as her during her stint as the railways minister. Mamata also explained how the Prime Minister had been able to — rather arduously —  pepper his recent speeches with Bengali. “He does chalaki (resorts to artifice). Understand it well. He uses a teleprompter, with transparent glass, on either side of him… all of it is pre-scripted. He simply reads that out, making it sound like he knows Bengali,” she said, mocking Modi and other senior BJP leaders over the laboured — sometimes incorrect — Bengali in their addresses. Although vehemently critical of Mamata’s alleged attempts to polarise voters on the basis of a regional sub-nationalism, the saffron ecosystem has appeared unsure of how the outsider label is going to impact the BJP electorally. The likes of Modi, Shah and BJP chief J.P. Nadda have been falling over themselves to try and convince the people of the state that their party does not lack a Bengal connect and does not exclusively represent the Sangh parivar’s Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan vision now. “A few lines of Bengali here and there… one cannot win Bengal’s heart with that. Bengal only cares for genuine love from the heart,” she said. “You sold off the entire nation. You come here, speak lies and go back…. You dare call us tolabaj (extortionist)? You are the biggest dangabaj (rioter), dhandabaj (opportunist)…. A party of rodents,” she added. The chief minister then dared the BJP to arrest her and others in her party in order to win the election. “We have 20 lakh workers. Arrest everybody, because you cannot fight politically… all you have is vendetta. Arrest all of us, including me, fill your jails…. Plant us here, we will grow out in Delhi. An injured tigress is a lot more dangerous than a fit one,” she said. “The khyala (game) that will happen here, if you are able to defeat them here, they will lose the rest of the country. It will be the beginning of their end. They will be thrown out of the entire nation,” she added. “I respect that chair (that of the Prime Minister). He (Modi) is occupying it today. Tomorrow he won’t.” Several civil society members, including former Team India batsman and Bengal captain Manoj Tiwari, footballer Syed Rahim Nabi, actors Saayoni Ghosh, June Malia and Kanchan Mullick, besides filmmakers Raj Chakraborty and Sudeshna Roy, joined Trinamul at the rally. Former Indian cricketer Ashok Dinda joined the BJP in presence of MP Babul Supriyo, state leaders Suvendu Adhikari and Sabyasachi Dutta at a rally in north Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
25-02-2021||West Bengal||J.P. Nadda to launch 294 LED vehicles or raths today ||BJP national president J.P. Nadda will flag off 294 LED vehicles or raths from here on Thursday to collect suggestions from the people of Bengal for incorporation in the party’s election manifesto. Dubbed as an “outsource campaign”, the programme is one of the many reachout initiatives undertaken by the BJP to establish direct communication with the state’s electorate ahead of the Assembly elections, sources said. “Through the campaign, it (the party) will directly engage with the citizens of West Bengal in crafting the vision for West Bengal for the next five years by inviting citizens to give their suggestions,” a press release issued by the party on Wednesday said. “Two crore suggestions will be collected by the party and will be used in the creation of the BJP’ manifesto for West Bengal,” the release added. Each of the 294 vehicles, equipped with suggestion boxes, mobile phones, and tablets, will cover an entire Assembly constituency. While people will be able to drop their suggestions in these boxes, party workers travelling along the vehicles will make videos of “people’s aspirations” through the mobile phones and tablets. Suggestion boxes will be placed at several points across the state. The press release said 30,000 such boxes — 100 for each Assembly — will be set up. Additionally, the party will release a phone number and email id that can be used by the common people to communicate their ideas. Meetings with representatives of various communities across the state will be held to collect suggestions. Nadda will participate in one such meeting on Thursday evening in Calcutta. BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya on Wednesday said the programme was being launched as a part of the party’s plans to campaign for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s scheduled public meeting at Calcutta’s Brigade Parade grounds on March 7. “The initial launch will be to campaign for the PM’s meeting on March 7. However, it will continue even after that,” Bhattacharya said. He added that the BJP had fixed a target for its workers to bring at least 10 people from each of the 78,000 odd booths in the state to the Brigade rally. On March 5 and 6, BJP MPs and MLAs will go on a door-to-door campaign to invite common people to the meeting. During his day-long tour on Thursday, Nadda will be visiting the residence of iconic Bengali authors Bankim Chandra Chatterjee and Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay in North 24-Parganas. He will also visit the Mangal Pandey memorial and is scheduled to have lunch at a jute mill worker’s house. Nadda will take part in the culmination rally of the party’s Parivartan Yatra in the Nabadwip zone on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
25-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata ties CBI’s questioning to women’s safety ||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday ended her silence on the CBI’s questioning of nephew Abhishek Banerjee’s wife Rujira over its probe into alleged coal smuggling in some western districts of the state, giving it a spin of women being unsafe in the saffron regime. The day after the CBI questioned Rujira, wife of the Diamond Harbour MP, for less than an hour in connection with the probe, the Trinamul chief — without taking names or specifying otherwise that she was referring to the Rujira incident — accused the BJP of hobnobbing with coal pilferers. She attacked the BJP for allegedly trying to barge into homes and hounding women because of her political resistance to the saffron camp. “Two leaders in this nation now. One is a hnodol kutkut… the other one is kimbhut kimakar (both adjectives broadly mean grotesque in Bengali). Showing us physical force…. Today, just think, where they are trying to hit,” she said at Sahaganj. Rujira was questioned as a “witness” by the central agency. “Because I am in politics and you are furious with me… because I am the only one refusing to shut up against you…. But does that allow you to disrespect our mothers and sisters? Barging into our homes. A little girl, 22/23-year-old (Rujira is 33)… a daughter, a wife of the family… calling her a coal thief. That too while hobnobbing with the real coal thieves yourselves. Have you no shame?” asked the visibly furious chief minister. “This is very simple and also predictable. They would have used such agencies to hound that family and others in the top-tier leadership over baseless allegations regarding scams such as Saradha and Narada. But many of the accused from those scams have defected from Trinamul to the BJP now, so that won’t happen,” said a senior Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. The chief minister said “The mothers and sisters of our homes are kawyela (coal) thieves today? Your entire body is covered in mawyela (filth)…. The demonetisation scam’s money alone, where it went… only you must answer, Narendra Modi.” Going on to accuse the saffron camp of general misogyny, she warned women against allowing the BJP to rise here. “A lot of lofty things he (Modi) said here. Women here are supposedly not safe. Are they safe within the BJP? What about women in Uttar Pradesh, in Bihar, in Madhya Pradesh….? Because women here are doing well, they are envious and shameless,” she said. “I don’t need to tell you how much I care about women, how much our party does….” “The BJP party, I know shameful horrific stories about women and their condition in that party. Women are not even safe within that party. People want to speak out, but cannot,” she added. “I know everything. I won’t say it, because my language is not as obscene as yours.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
25-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata taps Centre for free vaccine for all before polls ||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his help for the Bengal government to procure Covid-19 vaccines so that everyone in the state can be inoculated free of cost before the Assembly polls. “Government of West Bengal has decided to procure adequate number of vaccines for the members of the public at large. We would request you to kindly take up the matter with appropriate authority so that state government is able to purchase the vaccines from designated point(s) on top priority basis because the West Bengal Government wants to provide vaccine free of cost to all the people,” the chief minister wrote. In her letter, Mamata said as the Assembly polls would be held soon, her government wanted a rapid vaccination programme — with the cost borne by Bengal — for all people. “However, the worrying point is that, in the ensuring elections, the people in general will be forced to go to the polling stations without any vaccine coverage. We feel that it is equally important to reach out to them with a rapid vaccination programme immediately,” her letter read. So far, about 3 lakh health workers, Asha (Accredited Social Health Activists) workers and doctors were administered jabs in the state. Another 2 lakh frontline workers, including policemen and municipal workers, are being given vaccines in the second phase. The Bengal administration has also said all state government employees and staff of state-aided institutes like schools, colleges and panchayats will be vaccinated against the novel coronavirus as they are assigned for poll duties. The Centre had asked the state to give vaccines to all polling officials. “The state would require more than 6 lakh polling officials this year as the number of booths have been increased to 1.01 lakh from over 78,000. So, the state decided to bring all its 8 lakh employees under the vaccination programme,” said an official. The letter by the chief minister, sources said, appears to be a smart one ahead of the polls. “The chief minister had made it clear to the Prime Minister during a video conference just before vaccination started that the state wanted to buy vaccines and give them free to common people. Now, the chief minister reiterated her stand to make it clear she is eager to give free vaccines to all people as she had promised,” said an official. The letter, a bureaucrat said, assumed significance in the backdrop of the Centre’s decision to make vaccines available at some private hospitals. “The decision gives a clear hint that the Centre would not be able to give free vaccine to all. The chief minister wants to put pressure on the Centre ahead of the polls by sending the letter,” said the bureaucrat. Trinamul insiders said Covid-19 vaccination would be a major issue in the polls as people were in panic in the backdrop of the pandemic. “Initially, the BJP was trying to cash in on the vaccination citing that the central government has fast-tracked the process to keep people safe from the virus. But now, the chief minister has caught the BJP on the wrong foot by making it clear that Bengal wants to administer vaccine free of cost to all people, which the BJP-led Centre could not do,” said a Trinamul MLA. Active cases plummet Bengal on Wednesday logged 221 Covid-19 recoveries, 202 infections and three deaths, including one from Calcutta, as the drop in total active cases continued for the 121sth consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. The total of active cases, which was 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), has fallen to 3,377. Bengal now has 2.27 per cent of the national total of active cases, with the share having reduced steadily from nearly seven per cent a couple of months ago. It is now sixth on the list of states with most active cases, having improved from third place. The recovery rate rose for 124 consecutive days to touch 97.63 per cent. The national rate is 97.19 now. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 6.77 per cent, having fallen steadily for 97 days. On Wednesday, the state reported 20,212 tests, taking the total past 84.83 lakh, at 94,256 tests per million people. Of the total deaths of 10,256, 8,610 (84 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate is 1.41 per cent. Additional reporting by Meghdeep Bhattacharyya||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
25-02-2021||West Bengal|| Longview tea garden work ‘resumes’||Work “resumed” in the Longview tea garden, the largest estate producing Darjeeling Tea, on Wednesday but in the poll-bound Bengal, a peculiar situation emerged with the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay Tamang camp) claiming that labourers were independently running the plantation, a claim disputed by the management. Anit Thapa, the general secretary of the party and also the chairman of the board of administrators at the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, claimed that the party was pursuing the concept of “hamro ghar, afnai bhar (we will stand on our might)”. “The method in which the garden has been opened is in pursuance of our hamro ghar, afnai bhar thoughts. People working in this garden are ours, plantation is done by our own people and it’s being looked after by them. So, where is the problem?,” said Thapa. The hill party said it could not wait for the owners to reopen the estate and had hence taken the initiative. Since December 23, workers had “stopped going to work” as the garden had dues for workers. Amar Pal Singh Dahiya, manager of the garden, however, claimed that the management was still running the garden. “We had neither declared suspension of work or lockout. The workers stopped coming to work but I was always present in the garden. Today, they joined work. We have taken attendance and they will be paid their wages every fortnight,” said Dahiya. The Longview management further claimed that they had disbursed a sum of Rs 15 lakh to workers as wages and Rs 12 lakh to staff and sub-staffs on Wednesday. “As of today, there is no wage due to any labourer,” said Dahiya. However, there are outstanding fringe benefits to be paid. The garden spread over 500 hectares has 1,200 workers on rolls but the management said that “only 300 to 400 workers” would attend work. Dahiya admitted the company faced cash crunch as the garden could only produce 1.5 lakh kg of made tea last year against the average annual figure of 7.5 lakh kg. The management said that 135 workers reported for work on Wednesday. The moot question doing the rounds in the tea industry is the policy adopted by the Morcha. “This is a clear case of the union trying to take control of the garden to gain workers’ sympathy across the region. There is no doubt that the upcoming election is directing the party’s policy, which is worrisome for the industry,” said an official of the Darjeeling Tea industry. Gorkha National Liberation Front accused both Anit Thapa and Bimal Gurung of indulging in politics. “A few days back, Bimal Gurung went to Longview and appointed 15 volunteers to purportedly safeguard the garden. Anit Thapa now comes and declares that the workers committee is going to run the garden. The workers are being sandwiched between the politics of these two,” said Nima Tamang, president, GNLF Kurseong branch committee. The GNLF said that the owner had to be made accountable as many other dues like annual bonus are yet to be cleared. “In the workers committee model the worker will pluck tea leaves and sell it. How will other workers engaged in non-plucking jobs like office and hospital be paid? The owner has to run the garden,” said Tamang. Observers believe that Thapa’s decision is expected to gain sympathy as it would be seen as a “pro-workers approach.” I Thapa, however, said that the decision had nothing to do with politics but only influenced by the deplorable condition of the workers. “The issue of the garden is not political but the issue of hunger. The workers do not have work. They are not able to feed themselves,” said Thapa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
25-02-2021||West Bengal||NJP-Dhaka train service from March 26||A passenger train will chug out of Dhaka in Bangladesh on March 26 and head for New Jalpaiguri, marking the commencement of the third passenger train service between the neighbouring country and Bengal. “The passenger train service between NJP and the Dhaka Cantonment station will start on March 26. It will be a bi-weekly train and will be the third passenger railway service between Bengal and Bangladesh,” said R.K. Verma, the Katihar divisional railway manager (DRM) of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) here on Wednesday. In the past two days, DRM-level talks were held between both the countries. Md. Shahidul Islam, DRM of the Paksey railway division of Bangladesh, led the delegation of his country. According to Verma, the train will leave NJP on every Thursday and Monday while it will depart from Dhaka on Friday and Thursday. As of now, two trains run between Bengal and Bangladesh. These are the Bandhan Express that runs between Calcutta and Khulna and Maitree Express which plies between Calcutta and Dhaka. “The NJP-Dhaka route is 513km long and it will be covered in nine hours. The train will not have any stop between NJP and Dhaka Cantonment. It will have 10 coaches and will be run by a diesel loco,” said Verma. Two air-conditioned coaches, six sleepers and two chair cars will make up the train. On December 17 last year, goods train service was introduced along the Haldibari-Chilahati route. Haldibari, which is on the India-Bangladesh border, is in Cooch Behar district of the state, while Chilahati is the first station on the other side of the border, located in the Nilfamari district of the neighbouring country. After the goods train service was commenced jointly by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bangladesh counterpart Sheikh Hasina, there were indications that the passenger train service would begin on March 26, that is, on the Independence Day of Bangladesh. Modi is likely to be present in Dhaka on that day, sources said. “The running staff will change on the international border. As far as immigration and other formalities of passengers are concerned, those would be carried out both in Dhaka and NJP. The fares, however, are yet to be worked out,” a railway official said. The train, sources said, will reach Haldibari from NJP via Jalpaiguri Town. It would then enter Bangladesh and reach Dhaka via Chilahati, Jaidebpur, Parbatipur, Shantahar and Tangail. “Our relations have always remained cordial and we believe the new train service would strengthen our ties. The train service can also help Bangladeshi residents visit any tourist destination,” said Islam. The delegation of the Bangladesh Railway had been to Darjeeling on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
25-02-2021||West Bengal||Police’s decision of security downgrade irks leader||Police’s decision to curtail the number of security personnel of former minister and Malda district Trinamul chairman Krishnendu Choudhury left him miffed on Wednesday. Although senior district police officers claimed that the security downgrade had been decided on after a review, Choudhury was annoyed and took up the matter with the state Trinamul Congress leadership. Choudhury, who was appointed the district chairman of the party in January, is also the secretary of the district sports association. He claimed that considering the threat to his life, the state government had assigned security cover to him even during the Left Front regime. According to him, one of his three armed security personnel received a message on his cellphone on Tuesday night. “He was asked to leave my address and report for another duty. I was surprised but without demur, I released all the three immediately. None of them turned up for duty this morning either at my residence or in my office,” said Choudhury. He claimed that a number of attacks were organised on him. “When I was a minister, I was provided with six police personnel. However, I am not bothered about the security downgrade. There are hundreds of Trinamul workers who can take care of my security,” the miffed Trinamul leader said. Alok Rajoria, the superintendent of police of Malda, spoke differently. “We have withdrawn only one of his three security persons after the routine review. Two others are still on duty as his security personnel,” he said. A section of Trinamul leaders believes that the curtailment of the former minister’s security might have a connection with the recent incident which they believe, had demeaned the image of the party. Last week, Choudhury was caught in a controversy after Englishbazar Trinamul MLA Nihar Ranjan Ghosh’s house had been attacked. Ghosh had alleged that Choudhury and the district youth Trinamul president had orchestrated the attack. The district Trinamul chairman, however, rejected the allegation While a section of Trinamul workers believes the police should have informed Choudhury before reducing his security cover, others feel the former minister, who was cornered after the attack on the MLA’s house, is trying to attract attention. “His reaction is undesirable and might send a wrong message to people. It would also raise questions as to whether he has confidence in the party workers. He should have spoken to police officers to resolve the issue,” said a senior Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
25-02-2021||West Bengal||Raju Bista, Bimal Gurung threaten to expose each other||Darjeeling MP Raju Bista and Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung have threatened to expose each other and such has been the bitterness that Gurung has decided to return a pair of shoes that he received as a birthday gift from Bista. The threat has added a lot of spice to the already charged political atmosphere in the hills and this sequence started following Gurung’s warning to expose Bista during a public meeting at Mirik on Sunday. “Our issue is getting derailed because Raju Bista engages in garrulous talk. The other two (BJP) MPs on the contrary derailed our issue by not talking at all….If I am to expose our conversations, the BJP will expel Raju Bista,” Gurung had said on Sunday. The two BJP MPs that Gurung was referring to are Jaswant Singh and S.S. Ahluwalia who had both won the Darjeeling seat riding on the Morcha’s support. While addressing a Parivartan Yatra in Darjeeling on Tuesday, Bista decided to take Gurung by his horn. “It is because of the leaders that the people have achieved nothing. Once (these leaders) reach Delhi, they only want money. So, how will you get Gorkhaland? They only seek money in Delhi. The day I have to reveal, I will reveal everything, I will even reveal (Gurung’s) shoe size,” said Bista. Bista said he was the person who had rescued Gurung from a “toilet, when holed up for two hours” when the hill leader had come to visit Darjeeling municipal councillors in Delhi. “And yet, they say we did nothing for them,” said Bista. The Darjeeling MP, however, did not take Gurung’s name but the pinpointed attack was not lost in the hills. Gurung, too, has decided not to lie low. “Instead of talking about major issues like tribal status, permanent political solution, unemployment, the fate of tea workers, he talks about revealing my shoe size,” he said on Wednesday. “He had gifted me a pair of shoes on my birthday. I have not even worn. I will return it through speed post immediately,” said Gurung, adding he was willing to listen to all the allegations that Bista wanted to reveal in the days to come. BJP draws flak BJP MP Arjun Singh has drawn flak from the Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha for obliquely tagging the Gorkha community with the “chowkidar” profession. Addressing the Parivartan Yatra in Darjeeling on Tuesday, Singh had said: “The place where we stay have a lot of factories. Lot of people from your community, the Gorkhas, would stay there. There is so much trust in the word ‘Gorkha’ that they would entrust their property and leave the place and not an item would be moved an inch. This is the kind of respect towards Gorkhas.” Taking umbrage at Singh’s statement, Keshav Raj Pokhrel, the spokesman for the Tamang camp, said: “Arjun Singh’s speech reflects the BJP’s thought about Gorkhas.” “Arjun Singh and the BJP recognise Gorkhas only as chowkidar. This is deplorable. Our people must be conscious.” A similar reference by a radio jockey to Indian Idol winner Prashant Tamang in 2007 had triggered a law and order problem in the hills and Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
25-02-2021||West Bengal||Former INTTUC leader in police custody||The chief judicial magistrate’s court here on Wednesday remanded former INTTUC leader Prasenjit Roy in nine days of police custody in connection with the vandalism at the Inland Container Depot near the New Jalpaiguri (NJP) station. Roy had been arrested from Tinsukia in Assam a few days ago. Hundreds of INTTUC supporters had rampaged through the dry port on February 4. When Roy was brought to the court around 2pm, hundreds of supporters raised slogans hailing him. “The party should think about his contribution and bring him back to his post at the NJP. Otherwise, it might impact our vote bank at the NJP and in the adjoining areas,” said a supporter. Roy said he was not present during the vandalism. “It was an undesirable incident and as the local Trinamul leader, I was expelled to ensure that the party’s image is not besmirched.” His counsel Bidyut Ghosh said police should collect the CCTV footage of Roy’s home. “He was at home and not at the spot where the incident happened,” the lawyer said. Mrinmoy Banerjee, the assistant public prosecutor, said 14 persons altogether had been arrested so far in connection with the vandalism and two of them released on bail. “Eleven people are in judicial custody. All of them, including Roy, will be produced in the court again on March 5,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
25-02-2021||West Bengal||TMC leader Vinay Mishra named in cattle-smuggling case||The CBI on Wednesday filed a supplementary chargesheet in the cattle-smuggling case naming Trinamul youth congress leader Vinay Mishra. The chargesheet submitted to the special CBI court in Asansol said Mishra was absconding. The first chargesheet submitted to the court on February 8 had named Enamul Haque, a Murshidabad businessman, as the mastermind. “The supplementary chargesheet reveals the involvement of the accused in the cattle smuggling case with specific evidence. Mishra has been booked under different sections of the IPC, including criminal conspiracy and cheating,” said a senior officer of the CBI. “We can’t divulge the details of the chargesheet though.” The CBI had taken over the probe on September 21 last year. In the February-8 chargesheet, the CBI had named Satish Kumar, a BSF commandant, among the seven accused in the case. Besides Kumar and Haque, several others believed to be close to the duo — like Anarul Seikh, Golam Mustafa, Taniya Sanyal, Badal Krishna Sanyal and Rashida Bibi — were also named in the chargesheet. The CBI claimed that Haque was the mastermind of the illegal cattle trade and was assisted by two other accused in connivance with Kumar, who was then deployed in Murshidabad and Malda zone as the BSF commandant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-186
