26-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata fumes over poll schedule, Opposition welcomes move||Questioning the eight-phase assembly elections in West Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday that she suspects that the dates were announced as per the suggestions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah for better management of the BJP's poll campaign. Addressing a press conference at her residence in Kalighat, Banerjee said the Election Commission should not look at the state "through the eyes of the saffron camp" a reference to the BJP. "With all due respect to the Election Commission, I want to say that questions are being raised on why elections will be held in so many phases in Bengal while other states will be voting in one phase. If EC doesn't provide justice to the people, where will the people go," she said. "I request the Election Commission to consider West Bengal as their own state," the Trinamool Congress chief said. Banerjee also raised questions on the way the phases were divided. "They have divided our stronghold districts such as South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas into three parts. This is unprecedented," she said. Banerjee said that despite "all these tricks", she will win the elections. "I have information from my sources that the poll dates are similar to the ones BJP wanted. Have the dates been announced as per Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah's suggestions? The PM and the home minister cannot misuse their power for the state elections," she added. Banerjee also urged the EC to stop the misuse of money power. "The Union home minister should work for the country. He cannot misuse his powers for the elections here. We welcome the PM, but he cannot misuse his powers for West Bengal polls," she said. Her comments came just minutes after the Election Commission announced that voting for the five assembly elections will begin on March 27, with West Bengal having the maximum eight phases continuing till April 29, while counting of votes for the four states and one Union Territory will be on May 2. Cautioning the Centre against "misuse of power", Banerjee said it would prove detrimental for the BJP. "Centre can't misuse their powers for a state election. If they do it, then it will be a big blunder and they will have to face the music. We are common people, we will fight our battle. I request the EC to stop the misuse of money. BJP has sent money to all the districts through agencies," she alleged. Banerjee also took exception over the EC appointing two special police observers for West Bengal -- Vivek Dubey and MK Das. "Vivek Dubey is the same man who was the observer for Bengal during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. We all know the role he had then played then," she said. Banerjee said she is the daughter of the state and knows Bengal better than the BJP, exuding confidence about her party Trinamool Congress winning the elections. Banerjee's allegations drew sharp reactions from the BJP, which alleged that she is perplexed over the eight-phase elections as her party won't be able to intimidate the voters. "Why is she so worried about eight-phase elections? Is she worried because TMC goons won't be able to influence the elections? We welcome the EC's decision for eight-phase elections to ensure free and fair polls," BJP leader Rahul Sinha said. Opposition parties welcome eight-phase elections in Bengal The opposition parties in West Bengal welcomed the eight-phase elections in the state announced by the Election Commission on Friday with the BJP saying that it was hopeful about the polls being free and fair. "We are happy. We hope that the elections would be free and fair and the people of the state will be allowed to exercise their democratic right without any fear," BJP's state vice-president Jaiprakash Majumdar said. BJP's national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya too welcomed the decision. "Along with the announcement of elections, anti-social elements will also have to be controlled for peaceful elections in West Bengal. Also, fair officers should also be appointed in every district of the state so that there is no disturbance in the election," he said in a tweet. BJP MP from Bengal Babul Supriyo welcomed the EC move and said that it was time for change in the state. "8 phase election in Bengal. I want change, I want BJP in Bengal ...," he said in a tweet. The state Congress said that it was looking forward to an election in 10 to 12 phases, while the CPI(M) maintained that the number of phases does not matter if the elections are held violence-free. State Congress leader Manoj Chakraborty said the elections should have been held in at least 10-12 phases, alleging poor law and order situation in the state. "We have seen how the panchayat polls were held in Bengal. So many people were killed due to violence. We just hope that the Election Commission ensures that polls are held in a free and fair manner," he said. Senior CPI(M) leader Sujan Chakraborty said that instead of increasing the number of phases, efforts should have been made to tighten the security during the elections. "Just seven or eight phases are not enough. The electorate should be free from any sort of fear or intimidation," he said. CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya seemed unable to fathom the "numbers game". "Five-day test match in Chennai becomes a two-day affair in Ahmedabad. One-day election in Tamil Nadu gets stretched over eight phases in West Bengal. Can any of you explain this numbers game?" he asked in a tweet. Congress leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Prithviraj Chavan wondered if there were any "nefarious plans". "If voting for Kerala-140, Tamil Nadu-234 and Puducherry-30 (total 404 seats) can be conducted in a single phase, why Assam-126 and West Bengal-294 (total 420 seats) require 7 & 8 phases? Are there any nefarious plans?" he asked. Elections for the West Bengal assembly will be held in eight phases, up from seven last time, beginning with polling for 30 seats on March 27, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora announced in New Delhi. The EC also announced that voting for five assembly elections will begin on March 27 and continue till April 29, while counting of votes will be done on May 2. After having a limited presence in the politically polarised state for decades, the BJP has emerged as the ruling Trinamool Congress's main rival over the last couple of years, managing to win 18 out 42 seats in the Lok Sabha polls of 2019 and following it with inducting popular TMC MLAs and ministers into the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
26-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata government hikes daily wages of labourers in poll-bound Bengal||Hours before the announcement of dates for the Bengal assembly polls, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday said her government has increased the daily wages of labourers working under the state's Urban Employment Scheme. She said unskilled workers would get a daily wage of Rs 202 per day, up from Rs 144, while the same for semi- skilled labourers was raised to Rs 303 from Rs 172. Under the job scheme, the government introduced a new category for skilled workers who will get a daily wage of Rs 404, Banerjee said. "I am pleased to announce a hike in the wages of daily wage workers under WB Urban Employment Scheme," she said on Twitter. The chief minister made the announcement hours before the Election Commission of India declared the dates for the assembly elections in four states Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Bengal and the Union Territory of Puducherry. Elections for the Bengal assembly will be held in eight phases, up from seven last time, beginning with polling for 30 seats on March 27, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said while announcing the poll schedule. Mamata said 40,500 unskilled, 8,000 semi-skilled and 8,000 skilled workers will be benefited from the state government's announcement. "These wages are in parity with rural workers' enhanced pay (MNREGA unskilled and semi-skilled). Budget provision for this step has been made available for both FY21 and FY22," she said on the microblogging site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
26-02-2021||West Bengal||Two held for bomb attack on Bengal minister||The Bengal CID has arrested two persons in connection with the blast in Murshidabad's Nimtita Railway Station in which state minister Jakir Hossain and over 20 others were injured, a senior official said on Friday. Both have been booked under Section 3 of the Explosive Substances Act, 1908, and other sections of the IPC, including attempt to murder, he said. "The two will be produced in court for further legal action," the official said. Sleuths of the CID have been conducting raids at different places in the state as part of the probe. Hossain, Trinamool Congress MLA and the minister of state for labour, was waiting at platform number 2 to catch a train to Calcutta around 10 pm on February 17 when the blast occurred, seriously injuring him and the others. The senior TMC leader and the other injured persons are undergoing treatment at a state-run hospital in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
26-02-2021||West Bengal||Border Security Force rescues 54 exotic birds from Nadia village||As many as 54 exotic birds were rescued by the BSF from Bijoypur village in Nadia as they were being smuggled into the Indian side of the India-Bangladesh border on Wednesday evening. BSF sources said a group of suspected smugglers had tried to enter India with the birds in seven cages when they were spotted by a border patrolling team. The smugglers managed to flee but left the cages behind. The 54 birds included two Rosy-faced Lovebirds, 45 Budgerigars, one Timneh Parrot, two Major Mitchell’s Cockatoo, and four Common Ravens. All were later handed over to the forest department. A spokesperson for the BSF’s South Bengal Frontier in Calcutta said a patrolling team of the 54th battalion, acting on a tip-off, intercepted the group of smugglers. “They were carrying cages in their hands. Once they came closer to the border alignment, our personnel challenged them upon which they fled through the bushy vegetation,” the spokesperson said. “After a search in the area, we spotted the cages with the birds lying on the ground. The birds were rescued and fed before we informed forest department officials, who identified their species,” the spokesperson added. Sources said all five varieties of the birds were likely to have been caught in Bangladesh and smuggled to India to be handed over to an Indian counterpart. Bird watcher Anupam Saha said that all five species were exotic. “Most of these birds are also endangered species and are protected. However, these have a huge demand in India and abroad and each of them fetches a handsome price, which is the main attraction for the smugglers,” Saha said. “It is good that the birds, who are an integral part of nature, were rescued by the BSF,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
26-02-2021||West Bengal||Artistes campaign for Mamata Banerjee||A team of performers from different walks of life campaigned for Mamata Banerjee and her party through a skit in Jalpaiguri district on Thursday. The troupe has readied as many as 15 skits, each of which is around 10-minute-long, to be held at street corners, particularly in rural pockets. Scripts have been prepared in Bengali, Rajbanshi, Nepali, Hindi and Sadri languages, keeping in mind the diverse demography of Jalpaiguri district. “The basic idea is to tell people about the array of development initiatives that has been carried out by the Trinamul government since 2011, vis-à-vis the performance of the erstwhile Left Front government,” said Bhaskar Sarkar, the district media coordinator of Trinamul in Jalpaiguri. He added that the team has people from different professions and are not actively associated with the party. “Initially, the team is working in Jalpaiguri and Maynaguri Assembly constituencies. Eventually, they will perform skits in all seven constituencies of the district,” Sarkar said. They were sending the team to weekly markets in the rural areas and to key crossings in urban and semi-urban areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
26-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata govt forms 8-member board for Rajbanshi Muslims||The Mamata Banerjee government has constituted a development board for Nasya Sheikhs or Rajbanshi Muslims with eight members. The state backward classes’ welfare department constituted the West Bengal Nasya Sheikh Development Board with its headquarters in Cooch Behar through a notification on February 22. The notification says the district magistrate of Cooch Behar will be the chairman of the board that has prominent faces of the community from different districts of north Bengal as the members. “It is a major development for us. We had been raising the demand for years and it is good that the state government has finally created the board that will carry out works for socio-economic development of the community,” said Bazlay Rehman, the chairman of Kamtapuri Bhasa Academy and a member of the board. In the past few months, Nasya Sheikhs had vehemently raised the demand for the board. “In fact, a section of them had made it clear that if the board was not announced ahead of the Assembly elections, they would rethink about supporting the Trinamul Congress. The new board can help Trinamul keep political forces like the AIMIM and Indian Secular Front at bay,” said an observer. Around 35 lakh Nasya Sheikhs reside in the north Bengal districts of Cooch Behar, Jalpaiguri, North Dinajpur, Malda, Alipurduar and Darjeeling. “As a whole, the support of Rajbanshis determines the fate of candidates in almost half of the 54 Assembly seats in the region,” the observer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
26-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP’s promise to grant citizenship to Matuas is “fake”: Abhishek Banerjee||Trinamul Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee on Thursday said the BJP’s promise to grant citizenship to Matuas after the completion of the Covid-19 vaccination drive was “fake” because it would take nine years to inoculate 130 crore people in the country. Speaking at a rally in the Matua stronghold of Thakurnagar in North 24-Parganas, the Trinamul youth wing president questioned the rationale behind the assurance given by Union home minister Amit Shah. “They are making fake promises once again ahead of the Assembly polls. They have promised to provide citizenship only after the Covid vaccination drive is completed. How many people live in India? Just do a reality check. How many years will it take to complete the vaccination? It will take at least nine years to cover the entire population,” said Diamond Harbour MP Banerjee. While addressing a rally in Thakurnagar on February 11, Shah had reiterated the BJP’s commitment to the Citizenship Amendment Act, but said it would be implemented only after the Covid vaccination drive. Citizenship is a major issue for Matuas who form a sizable section of voters in Nadia and North 24-Parganas districts. The community had voted for the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, helping the party defeat Trinamul in Ranaghat and Bongaon Lok Sabha constituencies. With the history of the 2019 defeat in mind, Abhishek urged Matuas owing allegiance to the Trinamul-backed Sarba Bharatiya Matua Mahasangha not to be misled by the BJP’s “fake promise”. He reiterated that government documents in their possession were enough to substantiate their citizenship. “Before the Lok Sabha polls, they had promised you citizenship and you helped them win...You voted them to power using your voter’s card and you do not need to establish your citizenship? If you are unauthorised people by being Matuas, then people like Narendra Modi are also unauthorised,” said Banerjee. “As long as Mamata Banerjee is alive, you need not worry about your citizenship.” Responding to the claim, BJP MP Santanu Thakur told The Telegraph: “Abhishek and his aunt (Mamata) are misleading people. Amit Shah never meant that citizenship would become a reality only after the vaccination drive. He actually meant that once the process and preparedness of the Covid vaccination ended, the CAA would be implemented.” Abhishek also used the rally to talk about the CBI’s questioning of his family members and accused the BJP of political vendetta. He, however, vowed not to surrender under pressure. The CBI had questioned Abhishek’s wife Rujira on Wednesday in connection with a probe into the alleged pilferage of coal worth thousands of crores of rupees. “Use CBI, ED or income tax to do whatever against me. Bring more such agencies to use against me. But you will get nothing. This will only make me double my strength. I will never surrender,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s  nephew. “You hack my throat but I will continue to roar ‘Joy Bangla’ and ‘Long live Mamata Banerjee’,” he added. Echoing Mamata, the Trinamul MP said: “People will give a befitting reply to such harassment in the ensuing polls.” He claimed Trinamul would win at least 250 seats, while urging party supporters to take the election as a challenge to ensure the defeat of the BJP’s “outsiders”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
26-02-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee rides electric scooter to protest against rising fuel prices||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday held a unique form of protest against the relentless rise in fuel rates in India by riding from her home to the state secretariat and back on an e-scooter and demanded a rollback in the price of LPG cylinders to the level of the UPA II regime. The Bengal chief minister threatened a much wider agitation from Friday, before urging other non-BJP forces across the country to do their bit on the fuel price rise. “The price of everything, other than that of people’s lives, has at least doubled in this regime, across the country…. Every day, a leader will come (to Bengal), but you will not hear one word out of them on the price rise…. Only lies, as they please.... this price rise will not go on, it will not be tolerated,” she said at her residence in the evening, after her journey back from Nabanna. “The LPG cylinder price must be brought back to Rs 400, where it was before they came to power. Or else, going forward, we will launch a much wider agitation…. Gas ka price vapas karo, nahi toh Narendra Modiji wapas jao (Roll back the price of LPG for domestic consumption, or else go back, Narendra Modi),” Mamata added. Visibly pleased over her maiden e-scooter run, the chief minister said: “Now it becomes very easy for me. I will go anywhere, alone… I made so much progress in just a day.” The Trinamul Congress chief warned the Prime Minister, asserting that he wouldn’t be able to handle the situation if the common man began to follow what India’s farmers had started. “When the Modi government hadn’t come to power, a domestic LPG cylinder used to cost Rs 400. Today, it is Rs 825. A normal household needs a couple of cylinders a month. If two cylinders come for over Rs 1,600, what will the common man eat, buy, spend on children and their education, travel?” she asked. The chief minister alleged a “big, mysterious game” behind the scenes, causing fuel prices in India to be disproportionately high even when crude oil prices had been low, internationally. She then urged the non-BJP forces across the nation to unite on the issue. “Whichever section of society tries to protest against these anti-people policies, agencies are unleashed to hound them and they are branded as terrorists.” “All other (non-BJP) forces in other states too, (Shiv Sena chief) Uddhav Thackeray in Maharashtra, DMK’s Stalin in Tamil Nadu, the CPM government in Kerala, the Congress government in Rajasthan, the  Delhi government… everywhere. I urge people to come forward and protest,” she added. The Trinamul chief accused the Modi government and the BJP of being opposed to most sections of the society. “This government has sold off the nation. Modibabu and Amitbabu…. Anti-people, anti-women, anti-youth, anti-farmer, anti-worker…. Shorbonashi shorkar (a government that destroys everything),” she said. “From history and geography to names of roads, places, everything, they will change. Names of stadiums too,” she added, apparently referring to the Motera stadium being renamed after Modi on Wednesday. “They have no respect for the nation’s real heroes and icons…. They will now change the name of this country too, perhaps.” BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh reacted with scorn. “Neither can she control the scooter, apparently, nor the state. What is the point of taking all this needless risk, for the sake of a gimmick, at her age? All of this will amount to naught and the BJP will throw her out.” On her way to Nabanna in the morning, Mamata rode pillion on an electric scooter that Firhad Hakim, urban development minister, rode. In the evening, Mamata herself occupied the rider’s seat briefly, braving lack of practice at riding a two-wheeler. At least twice, the scooter seemed off balance but accompanying security guards and policemen intervened just in time. After riding briefly on the Second Hooghly Bridge, Mamata gave the rider’s seat to Hakim. She was back on the rider’s seat from Rabindra Sadan till she reached her Harish Chatterjee Street residence in Kalighat.Along the way, curious onlookers on the roadside as well as highrises waved at the chief minister. Many clicked pictures and others cheered Mamata, who was “covered” by a team of around 25 policemen in plainclothes on two-wheelers. Late in the evening, the Trinamul Congress launched a social media campaign with a picture of Mamata riding the scooter, The caption read: “Banglaar energy/ Mamata Banerjee.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-184
26-02-2021||West Bengal||J.P. Nadda ridicules Trinamul’s ‘daughter’ slogan||BJP national president J.P. Nadda ridiculed Trinamul’s new slogan of Mamata Banerjee as the “daughter (gharer meye)” on Thursday in Barrackpore. At the Anandapuri grounds, Nadda questioned Trinamul for promoting Mamata as “daughter” when she apparently “failed” to ensure the security of women in the state. “We have no objection to your being portrayed as didi or daughter...But are you at all concerned about the security of girls in Bengal? Why did you fail to ensure their security? Why are cases of rapes and domestic violence and trafficking of women so high in Bengal?” he said. He also attacked Mamata’s appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide free Covid-19 vaccinations to people. “Much before her appeal, Prime Minister Narendra Modi arranged vaccination for all. From March 1, people aged over 60 will get the vaccine, followed by people over 45 with comorbidities,” Nadda said, adding that the people of Bengal were part of it. Trinamul leaders tore into Nadda’s attacks, asking BJP “to look at UP first before looking at the security of women in Bengal” and pointing out that Mamata’s appeal to Modi for urgency in vaccination was because Bengal was heading for polls amid a pandemic. However, the “decent” 30,000-plus footfall at Anandapuri grounds, Barrackpore, was a relief for the state party leadership that had been hauled up after Nadda had to abort a recent meeting in Jhargram owing to low turnout on February 9. In Jhargram to flag off one of the BJP’s Parivartan Yatras and address a cultural event, Nadda left the local party office as only a handful had turned up for the cultural event, and later pulled up the state leadership over it, sources said. Nadda also visited the ancestral homes of literary icons Bankim Chandra Chatterjee and Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay, and lunched at a jute mill worker’s home in line with his party’s Bengal-connect strategy. Later in the evening at a meet at Science City in Calcutta, Nadda took a dig at Mamata’s e-scooter ride to protest against the fuel price hike. “She should move around in e-scooters as that is what she will have to do after the polls," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
26-02-2021||West Bengal||Journalist P. Sainath accuses Modi government of using “a good crisis”||Journalist-activist P. Sainath on Thursday accused the Narendra Modi government of using “a good crisis” like the Covid-19 to thrust farm laws and labour codes on farmers and workers, expecting that the pandemic-hit peasantry and working class would give in to them during these tough times. However, the government had underestimated the farmers, as is evident by their ongoing mass movement, added Sainath, who was in Santiniketan to address a mass convention by Left student organisations against fascism. He said: “What were they (Rightwing intellectuals and economists) saying? They were saying that peasants and workers are on their knees because of the pandemic. They (farmers or workers) wouldn’t dare to come out of their home (to resist) as they are pulverised by the pandemic....They will not be able to resist and this is the time to pass these laws.” The labour codes allow industries flexibility in hiring and retrenchment and make industrial strikes more difficult by clamping new conditions. Sainath, speaking in front of a gathering of 500 people at the convention on  fascism in the country and on the Visva-Bharati campus, asked people to understand why the Modi government chose this particular period of the pandemic to introduce the farm laws and tweak labour codes when it could have done so earlier or after the crisis. “After all, the NDA government had a majority between 2014 and 2019. In 2019, the BJP got a very sizeable majority on its own. But they did not pass these laws or introduce these laws for 10 months between May 2019 and March 2020… If the pandemic is controlled in the next 10 or 12 months, they will still have a huge majority for two years,” said the 2007 Ramon Magsaysay Award winner. He pointed out that the laws were passed without talks at a time the government needed to tackle pressing issues such as improving health infrastructure or helping people access food grains that they desperately needed because of joblessness amid the lockdown. Charging the government of being hand in glove with big business, he said the only persons who knew about the farm laws when they were being drafted were corporate bosses. “The only people they ever consulted were their corporate bosses. How do we know those people (corporate bosses) were consulted as they drafted the laws? They knew what was coming because they started building silo storages knowing that the essential commodities act is about to be gutted. They already built hundreds of silos in Himachal Pradesh, for example, for storing produce before the laws were even passed in Parliament,” said Sainath. Sainath, however, said that the Modi government now found itself in a fix because it had miscalculated the power of resistance of the farmers. Farmers from states including Punjab Haryana, Rajasthan and even in Maharashtra have proved the government wrong by mobilising huge mass movements against the laws for months. “On January 25, around 40,000 of Maharashtra’s poorest farmers gathered at the historic Azad Maidan from 36 districts of the state...One more interesting thing, the pandals et cetera could not be done in the normal way (as these people had no funds) ...(Yet) Huge pandals and shamianas were erected. Do you know who built those? Migrant labourers from UP, who are farmers in their own villages but work as migrant labourers in Mumbai, they made the pandals,” he said. SFI leader Aishe Ghosh in her meet criticised Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty for allegedly suspending and gagging voices of those who dared to criticise the policies of the varsity administration. “The attitude of the varsity authorities is no different from the fascist tendencies that we are witnessing in those ruling the nation,” said Aishe and added that it was time to resist fascism. Visva-Bharati students also took an oath that they would together protest against the fascist tendencies of the VC. Addressing the convention virtually, economist Prabhat Patnaik warned the gathering against the dangers of fascism emerging in a new form in the country. SFI leader Aishe Ghosh criticised Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty for allegedly suspending and gagging voices of those who dared to criticise the policies of the varsity administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
26-02-2021||West Bengal||'Joy Bangla' masks a Trinamul Congress poll tool, says BJP||Masks, which have worked as a safety essential since the onset of the pandemic, can apparently raise political temperatures in poll season. Central paramilitary force personnel carried out route marches on Thursday wearing masks emblazoned with the phrase “Joy Bangla”, a Trinamul slogan, causing the BJP to claim that Mamata Banerjee’s party was using the forces in the party’s poll campaign. Late on Wednesday night, two companies of the paramilitary forces reached the district and on Thursday morning, a contingent came out for a route march in Raiganj wearing “Joy Bangla” masks. These masks, paramilitary sources said, had been given to them by North Dinajpur police. “Visiting personnel had asked for masks from the district police and were given those. What led to a row is that the masks had ‘Joy Bangla’ printed on them,” said a police source. Biswajit Lahiri, the BJP president of North Dinajpur, saw in the masks an attempt by Trinamul to “use the central paramilitary forces in their poll campaign”. “They (the forces) have been given masks that carry the party’s slogan. The administration should see to it that no such mask is handed over to the paramilitary forces or is used during the election process,” Lahiri said. Later in the day, other state BJP leaders unmasked their reservations. Sayantan Basu, a state general secretary of the BJP, accused the administration of being biased. “This is why we need a change in Bengal. The party and administration have become one. There is no difference between them. We will surely inform the Election Commission of India about this incident,” Basu said. In the evening, the BJP blocked the MG Road in Raiganj, to protest against the masks for around 45 minutes. It was withdrawn after the police intervened. The paramilitary forces wearing “Joy Bangla” masks attracted residents in droves as the contingent moved through the town. Most paramilitary personnel had no clue why they were the subject of so much curiosity. “Initially, we did not know why people were looking at us and speaking among themselves. Later, we learnt what the issue was,” said one of them. District Trinamul leaders found the whole brouhaha a “non-issue”. “It is obviously our slogan but there is nothing political in it. Any person who loves Bengal can wear the mask. The BJP is politically bankrupt and is creating a fuss over a non-issue,” said Kanaialal Agarwal, the district Trinamul chief. Senior police officers, when asked about the masks, said they provided them from their stocks. “These masks are meant for government supply. We received those from Nabanna and distributed them among the central paramilitary forces,” said Sumit Kumar, the North Dinajpur superintendent of police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
26-02-2021||West Bengal||Seven foxes, a bull electrocuted to death at North Dinajpur village||Seven foxes and a bull were allegedly electrocuted to death at a village in North Dinajpur on Wednesday night after they came in touch with illegal live wire laid around a farm. Owners of the plot, brothers Suman and Bhadra Roy, who had tried to hush up the deaths by digging a trench for the dead animals on Thursday, absconded when villagers came to know about it. An organisation working for animal welfare has filed a complaint with the police against the duo and investigations have started. Sources said Suman and Bhadra, both residents of Durgapur-Jharpara village under Kaliaganj police station of the district, had cultivated wheat in their farm and laid illegal energised fences to keep animals away. Police said this was illegal. “On Wednesday night, seven foxes came in touch with the livewire and died instantly. A bull roaming the area followed suit. We want appropriate legal steps against the owners of the plot as they are responsible for the animal deaths. It was an inhuman act,” said a representative of Uttar Dinajpur Peoples’ for Animals which filed the case. According to the villagers, early on Thursday, Suman and Bhadra noticed the carcasses in the field and dug a trench to bury the animals. “However, as more and more people started gathering at the spot, they fled,” said a villager. As news spread, a police team from Kaliaganj police station inspected the area, sent the carcasses to the veterinary hospital in Raiganj for post-mortem and spoke to residents. The police also found the illegal energised fence at the spot. Also, a team of Uttar Dinajpur Peoples’ for Animals reached the village and filed a complaint with Kaliaganj police against the owners. “We are waiting for post-mortem reports to know the exact cause of deaths of these animals. Our officers are working to arrest the duo,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
26-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government extends Anit Thapa’s GTA term for six months||The Bengal government on Thursday extended the tenure of Anit Thapa-headed board of administrators at the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) for a further period of six months. The board of administrators at the GTA has been receiving a six-month extension since September 20, 2017 but in the poll-bound Bengal, the fresh term is significant as rival hill parties were attributing the support enjoyed by the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha led by Binay Tamang and Thapa to the power they wielded at the autonomous Darjeeling body. A notification issued by home and hill affairs department on Thursday stated: “NOW, therefore, the Governor, in terms of the relevant proviso of Section 17(1) of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration Act 2011, is pleased to allow further extension to the aforesaid Authority of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration to function for another period of 06 (Six) months with effect from 20.03.2021.” The Tamang camp quickly circulated the notification, an indication of the importance of the extension. A senior leader of the Morcha’s Bimal Gurung faction had recently told The Telegraph: “Without the GTA, they (Tamang and Thapa) are not a force to be reckoned with. Their support base is purely on account of the power they yield at the hill body.” Thapa is the chairman of the board of administrators. The extension of the GTA board is seen as a snub to the Gurung camp. Both the factions of the Morcha back the Trinamul Congress. “This is a major boost for us. It has put to rest all speculations and is also an affirmation of the state government’s faith in the Tamang faction,” said a source in the Tamang camp. Binay Tamang had headed the GTA board till May 2019 but after he decided to contest the Darjeeling Assembly byelection, Thapa was made the chairman. Not just the Gurung camp but other hill parties, too, were keeping a hawk’s eye on the extension. “Once the model code of conduct is enforced, the state government cannot extend the term,” a hill political leader had recently told this correspondent. “It would be interesting to note the support Thapa will receive if he has no power,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-185
