27-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Left-Congress alliance to launch poll campaign with Brigade rally ||The Left-Congress-ISF alliance will kick-off its campaign for the upcoming Assembly elections in Bengal with a mega rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta on Sunday. The CPI(M)-led Left Front and the Congress have already sealed a seat-sharing agreement, while the talks between the Left and Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui's ISF have also concluded with both agreeing on 30 seats for the newly- floated outfit. The negotiations between Congress and the Indian Secular Front (ISF) are at present underway, and both sides are hopeful that the differences over a few seats would be resolved, sources said. "The mega rally at Brigade will mark the beginning of our campaign for the Assembly elections. We want to provide an alternative to the anti-people and communal politics of the TMC and the BJP," senior Congress leader Pradip Bhattacharya said. "A section of the press, and the TMC and the BJP are trying to project it as a two-cornered contest, but it will be a three-way fight in Bengal," he added. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, state Congress president Adhir Chowdhury, ISF's Siddiqui will be the main speakers at the rally. Chattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel will also be present, besides state leaders of the Congress and the Left parties. The state Congress and the Left wanted Rahul Gandhi or Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to address the rally, which would have given a major boost to the alliance's campaign, but both refrained from it, considering the compulsions of the Kerala elections where the Congress-led UDF is in a direct contest against the LDF, sources said. The CPI(M) has gone all out to campaign for the rally -- branded as 'People's Brigade', launching innovative ways, from on social media to the streets. The party's youth activists have been hosting flash mobs over the past few weeks at several locations across Calcutta, including shopping malls, busy traffic intersections and crowded localities. A parody of the hit Bengali number 'Tumpa Sona' on social media, asking people to attend the Brigade rally has also created a wave. "At the Brigade rally, we will speak about alternative policies. We are fighting against both the TMC and the BJP, which are communal forces," senior CPI(M) leader Md Salim said. The Left-Congress, the vote share of which has been on a decline in Bengal with the rise of the BJP, received a shot in the arm with Siddiqui joining the alliance ahead of the Bengal polls, which is being seen mostly as a bipolar contest between the Trinamul Congress and BJP. Siddiqui, a pirzada at one of the holiest shrines among Bengali Muslims -- Furfura Sharif in Hooghly, launched the ISF last month. He created a flutter by meeting AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi ahead of the elections but ditched him for the Left-Congress. Bengal has 30 per cent Muslim population -- a deciding factor in around 100-110 seats. In case of a close contest, the Left-Congress-ISF alliance will become a deciding factor. In 2016, the Congress and Left Front had fought together and bagged 77 seats in the 294-member Assembly. The alliance broke after the CPI(M)-led Left Front walked away. During the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the proposed Congress-Left alliance fell apart after the parties could not agree on seat sharing. After the dismal performance of the two sides in the Lok Sabha polls, the Left-Congress decided to stitch an alliance to fight the 2021 Assembly polls. The details of the alliance's seat-sharing will be announced once the ISF-Congress talks conclude, sources said. Elections for the Bengal Assembly will be held in eight phases, up from seven last time, beginning with polling for 30 seats on March 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
27-02-2021||West Bengal||CBI interrogates Calcutta businessman in coal pilferage case||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Saturday interrogated a Calcutta-based businessman in connection with its probe into the multi-crore coal pilferage scam, an official said. Randhir Kumar Barnwal was quizzed by the CBI officers a day after the central agency raided his office premises and residence here. The CBI had served a notice to him to appear before its Nizam Palace office here on Saturday for its investigation into the case, the official said. Incidentally, the central agency and the Enforcement Directorate had on Friday conducted search operations at various places in West Bengal in connection with the scam. Both the agencies are concurrently probing the illegal coal mining case. The CBI is looking after the criminal aspect of it and the ED is delving into the money laundering angle of the scam. A CBI team had examined Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee's wife Rujira on Tuesday in connection with the coal pilferage case. Earlier, searches were conducted at the residences and offices of people who are "considered close to Anup Majhi alias Lala" -- the main accused in the coal scam, the CBI official said. Majhi has been absconding since the agency had initiated searches in connection with the case in November last year. A lookout notice has been issued to Majhi to ascertain his whereabouts, as his interrogation was vital for the probe, the CBI had said earlier. The central agency had, on November 28 last year, conducted raids at 45 places, including 25 in West Bengal, in connection with its investigation into the case. Majhi is believed to be involved in the illegal coal mining in the Asansol-Raniganj belt of Eastern Coalfields Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
27-02-2021||West Bengal||Businessman hacked to death||An elderly businessman was hacked to death by unidentified assailants while he was parking his two-wheeler on the premises of his residence at Gaighata in North 24-Parganas on Thursday night. Bidhan Sarkar, 63, who owned a furniture shop and faced charges of alleged involvement in cattle smuggling racket, was attacked with sharp-edged weapons by the unidentified goons as he was parking his motorbike after opening the gate of his house in Gaighata’s Kahaknia area around 10.30pm on Thursday, police and family sources said. “We heard the sound of his motorcycle and was waiting for him to enter the home. As he took unusually long to enter his home and a dog started to bark, I stepped outside with a torch and found my father lying in a pool of blood and gasping for life,” said his son Raja Sarkar. “His throat was bizarrely hacked. There were other deep injuries on his head, shoulder and legs. I cried out watching him in such a state. Neighbours rushed in and took my father to Chandpara Hospital but he died on the way,” Raja said. Though neither the police nor his kin could so far conclusively ascertain the motive behind the murder, a family said: “We are clueless what led to the murder but heard about some old business rivalries.” Raja has lodged a complaint of murder and the police have detained one person for his suspected involvement in the incident. “Prima facie it appears that the businessman was killed to settle an old enmity as he was earlier associated with a number of criminal activities like drug trafficking, cattle smuggling and was a close associate of a notorious criminal based in Sutia area,” an investigating officer of Gaighata police station said. Police sources said that Sarkar was a kingpin of a smuggling racket and had been arrested a few years ago. “We are looking into all the possible angles behind the murder,” a police officer said. In a second tragedy to the family, Sarkar’s sister-in-law Tanu Biswas, 34, was found hanging in her rented house in Gaighata’s Kahaknia  on Friday. Family sources said Tanu was dependent on Sarkar as she was separated from her husband and committed the suicide unable to bear the pain of the murder of the businessman. A police officer said the suicide was being investigated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
27-02-2021||West Bengal||Binay camp hauls up BJP over ‘lies’||The Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha lashed out at the BJP for failing to fulfil the promises made to the Gorkhas with the model code of conduct kicking in following the announcement of Bengal’s poll dates on Friday evening. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto the BJP had promised tribal status to 11 hill communities and a permanent political solution for the region. Nearly two years later, neither has come about, despite the expectation in the hills that the BJP-led Centre would have at least granted tribal status. Once the model code is enforced, no new announcement can be made in a poll-bound state. “They (the BJP) have lied, they are again lying and they will lie to the people of Darjeeling in future,” said Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesman of the Tamang camp of the Morcha moments after the Election Commission of Indian (ECI) announced the dates of Bengal’s eight-phase elections, starting from March 27. At noon, when news filtered that the Election Commission would hold a news conference to announce polls dates at 4.30pm in Delhi, Pokhrel issued a statement: “Darjeeling MP Raju Bista, home minister Amit Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have four-and-a-half hours to fulfil the demands.” The Tamang camp said “BJP allies from the hills” should immediately sever ties with BJP. “All the hill parties who are with the BJP must sever ties. This time the hill people will thoroughly reject the BJP,” said Pokhrel. The BJP has been winning the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat since 2009. In 2019, the party also won the Darjeeling Assembly bypoll. An observer said that now that poll dates had been announced, the BJP would have a lot of explaining to do. “It will be facing the polls without anything concrete to show. It is definitely in a spot of bother,” the observer added. However, over the past few days, Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista has been saying publicly that it would be unwise to link the two issues promised by the BJP with the election. “Our issue is different, the election is different,” Bista had said in Darjeeling on Sunday. Bista is also stating that he is here till 2024, which many believe is an indirect way of saying that the issues would be addressed before the next Lok Sabha polls. A BJP supporter added that one should not jump the gun and that a committee to examine the tribal status was formed in 2016 after the code was enforced for the Assembly polls then. However, in 2016, the Centre had juggled with words to say that a committee to look into the demands of Gorkha community in Sikkim and elsewhere in the country was being formed. The Centre had not used the word Bengal. Sikkim was outside the model code purview as it was not poll-bound then.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
27-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal active Covid cases fall to 3,343 ||Bengal on Friday logged 223 Covid-19 recoveries, 216 new infections and three deaths, none from the city. Active cases, which were 37,190 on Dashami (October 26), has fallen to 3,343 on February 26, improving by over 91 per cent in four months —  an unbroken 123 days. Bengal’s recovery rate is now 97.63 per cent. The national rate is 97.13 now Central paramilitary personnel deployed in North Dinajpur ahead of Bengal elections on Friday wore masks other than the “Joy Bangla” ones that had created political ripples on Thursday. “Joy Bangla” is a popular slogan used by Trinamul leaders, including party supremo Mamata Banerjee. Masks emblazoned with the message, given by district police from their stocks to central paramilitary forces, had raised the hackles of the BJP. Trinamul is using the paramilitary forces for its poll campaign, the saffron camp had said. Though Trinamul had said that the BJP’s objection to the mask was a “non-issue”, and that anyone who loves the state can wear the mask, paramilitary personnel wore different masks on Friday’s route march in Raiganj subdivision. Many paramilitary personnel were seen wearing blue surgical masks or masks in other colours. A few had covered their faces with the bandana they wear with their uniform. “It is good that the central paramilitary forces changed the masks. We voiced our protests on Thursday as the administration had given them masks with the state ruling party’s slogan,” said Biswajit Lahiri, the BJP district president. He alleged that it was Trinamul’s strategy to provide such masks to the paramilitary forces through the district police. “It was cheap politics that did not work out,” Lahiri added. A Trinamul leader wondered whether the BJP did not have any real issue to talk about. An officer of Hemtabad police station, North Dinajpur, said central paramilitary personnel did not ask for any mask from the police. “It seems they arranged masks for themselves,” he said.Reporting by Kousik Sen||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
27-02-2021||West Bengal||Wife dead, murder finger at husband||A 30-year-old homemaker of a villager in Englishbazar police station was found dead on Friday morning, her family members alleging her husband killed her for giving birth to three daughters. Police have detained deceased Sabina Bibi’s husband Rashul Sheikh for interrogation. Sources said Sabina was found dead on her bed at Shobhanagar village some 15km  from Malda town. There were bloodstains and injury marks on her torso, villagers said. Mazlis Sheikh, a relative of the victim, said Sabina and Rashul were married 14 years ago. “In due course, she gave birth to two daughters. This angered her husband who started torturing her. The situation turned worse after the couple had their third daughter six months ago. Three months back, Rashul even married another woman, making his relationship with Sabina even more bitter,” he said. “We suspect he killed her for giving birth to three daughters,” the relative added. Police have sent the body for post-mortem. “We have registered a case and are waiting for post-mortem reports.  Our officers are trying to get information from the husband,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
27-02-2021||West Bengal||Malda Zilla Parishad chief receives showcause notice||The head of Trinamul-run Malda Zilla Parishad received a showcause notice from the district election department for not turning up for pre-election training that he had been asked to take up in his capacity as a government schoolteacher. Zilla parishad head Gour Chandra Mondal, included in the list of poll personnel in Malda district as a primary schoolteacher, along with hundreds of other teachers, did not go for the poll training because of his political identity. Election department authorities, unaware that Mondal was a zilla parishad head, served him a showcause. The bureaucratic lapse threw up embarrassing questions. “Five years back, when Mondal was elected as sahakari sabhadhipati, he took lien and has not been in active service (as a teacher) since. He continued to be in lien when he became the sabhadhipati in 2018. Those in the education department overlooked this and forwarded his name for poll duty. Those in the election department did not cross-check why he absented himself from the training and served him a showcause,” said a source. On Friday, Mondal’s name was struck off the poll personnel’s list. The showcause may be withdrawn, sources have hinted. Mondal, when contacted, said it was a mistake (on the administration’s part) but he did not want to drag the issue. “The administration is taking remedies,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
27-02-2021||West Bengal||Our borders are safe, says Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday referred to the Indian Air Force’s strike at militant launch pads at Balakot in Pakistan and the army’s stand-off with China in Ladakh as he sought to whip up sentiments ahead of the Assembly polls. The BJP leader was in South Dinajpur to speak at a public meeting as part of the party’s Parivartan Yatra. “Two years ago, it was on the same day that our forces had carried out the Balakot air strike. We have proved that we continue to fight extremist forces. On the India-China border, our army had given an apt reply last year and let me assure you that our borders are safe. We are taking all appropriate steps in this regard,” Singh said in Balurghat. The Balakot air strike had been carried out on February 2019. The defence minister referring to the air strike and the standoff in the Galwan Valley of Ladakh is an indication that the BJP plans to stoke voters’ sentiments, particularly in areas close to the international borders. The South Dinajpur district shares border with Bangladesh. Singh also underscored that the BJP was determined to stop trans-border smuggling, human trafficking and infiltration and emphasised that the central government would fortify the India-Bangladesh border by raising additional outposts of the security forces and fencing more areas on the frontier. “On a number of occasions, people living near the international border flagged a number of problems which they faced in their areas. The problems include anti-social activities as well as highhandedness of security forces. It seems Rajnath wanted to consolidate the support of those living near the border,” said an observer. At the meeting, the defence minister was critical of the Trinamul Congress government also. “Ma, Mati, Manush……… none is safe here these days. To expedite development in any state, maintenance of law and order is an important perquisite and it is absent from Bengal. We want to make it clear that if the BJP is voted to power, there will be no bombs,” he said. Singh also accused Trinamul of prioritising politics over people. “There are some people who are into politics only to form government and lack proper plans and vision. Such attitude leads to political violence and corruption,” the BJP leader said. The saffron brigade has been focussing on north Bengal, the region from where it could win seven of eight Lok Sabha seats. As the Assembly polls are drawing near, many prominent leaders of the party, including Union home minister Amit Shah and party chief J.P. Nadda, have started visiting the region. That the BJP is desperate to retain its support base — it was ahead in 38 of 54 Assembly segments in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls while Trinamul led only in 12 segments — was evident from the defence minister’s speech. “You have voted for us in Balurghat and altogether, people of Bengal have given us 18 of 42 Parliament seats in 2019. This mandate has marked the commencement of a new political chapter,” said Singh. He also referred to the “Khela Hobe” (there will be a game) — a catchphrase coined by Trinamul. “Some people are saying ‘Khela Hobe.’ I want to say, ‘Khela Hobe, Nischoi hobe’ (yes, definitely there will be a game) for development and peace,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
27-02-2021||West Bengal||Dhaka train prods tourism demands ||The first international passenger train service to start between New Jalpaiguri (NJP) and Dhaka next month has prompted stakeholders of the tourism industry to raise a series of demands, which include infrastructure upgrade for the NJP station and an office in Siliguri for visas. The demands follow a joint announcement by railway officials of Indian and Bangladesh. On Wednesday, they announced that from March 26, a bi-weekly passenger train service will start between NJP and Dhaka. “NJP is one of the important railway stations of Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) and it will soon be a part of history as the first international train service from the region will commence from here next month. That is why we want appropriate infrastructure for people who avail the train service. There is every possibility that along with residents of Bangladesh, tourists from other countries will also use the service to reach north Bengal,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network (HHTDN). On Friday, a delegation of HHTDN met senior officials of NFR and submitted a memorandum seeking improvement in infrastructure. Sanyal said that as the train service would start from here and facilities for immigration would be opened up in NJP, it was necessary that a visa office came up in Siliguri. “As of now, to get a visa for Bangladesh, one has to visit Calcutta. A new visa office in Siliguri will increase the number of passengers and be convenient for residents of north Bengal and those in neighbouring Sikkim and parts of Bihar. We will raise the issue with the Union external affairs ministry and have also urged railway officials to take it up with the Centre,” he added. Stakeholders have also flagged the issue of Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR), a prime attraction for tourists. On March 26 last year, the toy train services of DHR was suspended owing to the Covid 19 pandemic and lockdown. A few months ago, the railways resumed joy rides between Darjeeling and Ghoom but regular services between the hills and plains continue to remain suspended. “The railways should resume the regular service as well as it draws a number of tourists,” said a tour operator in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
27-02-2021||West Bengal||Two held over blast that hit minister at Nimtita railway station||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of Bengal police arrested two persons for their alleged role in the blast at Nimtita railway station on February 17 night, which had left minister of state for labour Jakir Hossain and 26 others seriously injured. Abu Samad, 44, a part-time farmer, was arrested from his home in Suti. Sahidul Islam alias Chemical Sahidul, a Suti native residing in Jharkhand’s Sibganj, was picked up from his home in the early hours of Friday. This is the first arrest made by the CID, which is probing the case, along with the Special Task Force (STF) and the Counter Insurgency Force (CIF). Senior CID officers claimed that they had found evidence — circumstantial and CCTV grab seconds before the blast — to suggest that the two were present around the railway station in the Murshidabad district when the blast took place around 10pm. Jakir was about to board the Calcutta-bound Teesta-Torsa Express when the explosion occurred. The officers said the arrested duo were actively engaged in cattle smuggling till a few months back. The family members of both Sahidul and Abu said they had been falsely implicated and they were nowhere close to the railway station when the blast had taken place. The CID had during its probe recovered around three kilos of gunpowder in a packed bag from Aurangabad, 3km from the blast site. Aurnagabad is in the Suti block. Anuj Sharma who is heading the three-agency probe had visited Nimtita and examined the blast site. The investigators had concluded that the explosive material that was used for the blast was of high intensity to the extent that fingers had come off some of the victims. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had visited Jakir and other injured persons after they had been admitted to the trauma centre of the SSKM Medical College and Hospital in Calcutta. The BJP and other Opposition parties had sought an NIA probe into the explosion. Sources in the police said Sahidul was being brought to Suti on a transit remand from Sibganj in Jharkhand. Abu was produced in the Lalbagh subdivisional court and remanded in 12 days of police custody. “We will want to question both and find out their activities. There are some more persons involved in the case and we want to reach them after questioning the two,” said a senior CID officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
27-02-2021||West Bengal||EC pulls up district authorities for being 'underprepared' for state polls||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has pulled up many district authorities, including from Calcutta and South 24-Parganas, for being “underprepared” for Bengal state polls scheduled to begin from March 27. The reprimand came during a videoconference between deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain and district authorities on Thursday. “Jain has pulled up officials primarily for three reasons. First, non-completion of vulnerability mapping. Second, lack of interest in visiting temporary structures where polling booths will be set up this year. Third, a large number of licensed firearms were not deposited in the government's armoury with exemptions given by authorities without showing valid reasons. Jain has given seven days to plug the loopholes,” a senior government official present in the videoconference said. Jain expressed his displeasure as most of the district authorities during the meeting apparently failed to produce a list of vulnerable areas. “This (the list) is important because based on vulnerability mapping by the police, central forces are deployed (in those areas) for confidence-building measures. The ECI deployed 125 companies of central forces even before poll dates were declared. As vulnerability mapping was not done properly, the forces could not be used properly,” said a source. Jain reportedly expressed surprise after a few districts could not properly explain primary parameters based on which vulnerable areas are identified, sources said. A source said that vulnerable areas were identified primarily based on past history of inducement or violent incidents. “Moreover, he was not satisfied with some districts that have shown very few vulnerable areas such as South 24-Parganas,” said a source. The deputy election commissioner also pulled up authorities responsible for holding polls in Bengal after he found most temporary structures where polling booths would be set up were not surveyed by the police or civil administration. “The state will have nearly 3,000 temporary polling stations as the ECI issued a guideline that all booths have to be set up on the ground floor. A visit to these structures is important to assess security requirements,” said an official. The third issue that Jain pointed out was that authorities in some districts were liberal in allowing licensed firearm holders to keep arms. “Jain found that in some districts about 25 per cent firearms holders were allowed to keep their guns (exempting them from rule). For example, about 1,300 firearms holders of 4,000-odd owners were exempted from the rule in Calcutta. He pointed out that no valid reason was shown as to why so many owners were allowed to keep their guns,” said an official. The meeting, sources said, clearly suggests that the ECI was keeping close watch on each development in Bengal ahead of polls. A senior state government official said that in view of the current charged political atmosphere, the ECI was facing a challenge in holding a peaceful election in Bengal but “it seems it won’t leave any stone unturned to hold free, fair and incident-free polls”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
27-02-2021||West Bengal||30-seat deal with Left: ISF cleric Abbas Siddiqui ||Indian Secular Front chief and Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui on Friday said his party would field candidates in 30 Assembly constituencies in alliance with the Left Front, while seat-sharing talks with the Congress were still on. “We had demanded 70-80 seats. The Left has given us 30 seats. We are trying to get four or five additional seats. The problem with the Congress will be resolved if they give us around 25 seats,” Siddiqui said and added that the ISF had written to Congress multiple times, the latest being on Thursday. Reacting to Siddiqui’s claim, CPM politburo member Mohd Salim said: “He has quoted a number, but we haven’t because it is a multiple-side approach. We are talking to several other parties and organisations. What they have said is right. We have confirmed a few seats and the rest are in course of discussion. The ISF has been asked to speak to the Congress.” Sources in the ISF said while Left parties, especially the CPM, had been exceedingly flexible in leaving seats for the party, the state Congress under its chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury was unwilling to meet Siddiqui’s demands. “The ISF has claimed important seats in Malda, Murshidabad, South Dinajpur and Birbhum. The Congress is strong in these districts and hence, the party is unwilling to give the seats away to the ISF,” a Congress leader said. However, Siddiqui hoped the Congress would finally accept the demands of the party to build a strong alliance. Siddiqui also said three ISF representatives would be present at the rally called by the Left and the Congress at the Brigade Parade grounds in Calcutta on February 28. “We had wanted to hold a meeting at Brigade for a long time. But then we are going (to fight polls) together with Left parties and even they want us to be together to create a grand alliance and tsunami of people. This made me think and my party’s leaders said it would be good for all of us to come together on one platform.” “This is why I thought it is important for us to go (to Brigade) on the 28th. Hence, I invite all supporters of the ISF to come to Brigade,” he added. Siddiqui, however, didn’t clarify whether he would be present at the rally. He said it was being discussed if he should speak at the rally on behalf of the ISF. “Every party will be represented by three leaders and one speaker. People want me to speak, but it will be decided by our party,” Siddiqui said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
27-02-2021||West Bengal||Varsity officials ‘shut in’ teachers for 6 hours||Over a dozen teachers of Visva-Bharati’s English department were allegedly “confined” in the central office by the varsity administration for six hours on Friday in an unprecedented incident on campus. Teachers alleged varsity officials “forcibly” sought the copy of a mass petition that some faculty members had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the President Ram Nath Kovind that was critical about the way the central university was being run. The teachers, who were allegedly confined from noon to 6pm, were released when two faculty members of the Visva-Bharati’s physics department filed a complaint at Santiniketan police station, accusing vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty of detaining faculty members. The two physics teachers sought the help of the police for the rescue of their “confined” colleagues, they added. “The vice-chancellor wanted to grab the copy of the petition with the intention to identify the teachers who had signed it and punish them,” said one of the teachers who had signed the petition. A faculty member alleged that the vice-chancellor and his associates had confined the teachers illegally to get the petition anyhow, but the teachers refused to hand it over. One of the teachers, who lodged a complaint with the police on behalf of his “confined” colleagues, said: “They had been confined illegally and we were forced to seek police help (to set them free). After we went to the police, our colleagues were released.” A police officer at Santiniketan police station said that they received the complaint from Visva-Bharati  teachers and were probing the charges. A varsity official said many teachers and staff were annoyed with the present VC for many reasons, including the “arbitrary” suspension of teachers and students and gag on dissenters, and had decided to send a memorandum to the Prime Minister and the President on how Chakrabarty was allegedly ruining the legacy of the free-thinking institution founded by Rabindranath Tagore. Refuting the charges, a varsity official said the VC on Thursday visited the English department and found a teacher absent, and so he had summoned teachers to his office on Friday. Visva-Bharati’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not reply to a text message from this correspondent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
27-02-2021||West Bengal||EC deputes veteran Ajay Nayak as special observer in Bengal||The Election Commission has appointed former Bihar chief electoral officer Ajay Nayak as a special observer and Vivek Dube and M.K. Das as two special police observers for the Bengal Assembly polls. The appointment of the three retired officers announced by chief election commissioner Sunil Arora in New Delhi on Friday gives a clear hint that the poll panel is laying special emphasis on ensuring free and fair polls in the state. Nayak is not new to Bengal as he was brought in as a special observer for the state soon after the first phase of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Dube, a 1981-batch retired IPS officer of Andhra Pradesh cadre, had also been appointed as a special officer in the 2019 general election. “Ajay Nayak was one of the best CEOs in the country. He worked as a special observer in Bengal in the past… Vivek Dube also worked as a special police observer in Bengal in 2019 Lok Sabha polls,” Arora told a news conference in Delhi on Friday. Sources in the state administration said appointing retired bureaucrats as special observers in a state where they had conducted polls in the past bore hints that the EC had taken the views of Opposition parties in Bengal seriously. “It is important for a special observer to get to know the ground realities of a particular state to hold polls properly. Both Nayak and Dube know the ground reality in Bengal as they had conducted the last Lok Sabha polls here. It is a rare incident when the EC deputed two special observers in the same state again. The EC is clearly interested in using their experience this time,” said a source. Another official said deputing M.K. Das (a 1977-batch retired IPS officer) as the second special observer was also significant as he had worked as a special police observer in Tripura in the past. “Characters and problems of both Bengal and Tripura are almost similar as the two states are highly politicised,” said a bureaucrat. Former director general of income tax (investigation) in Chennai B. Murli Kumar—whose seizure of unaccounted cash found on the premises of a DMK functionary led to the rescinding of the parliamentary election in Vellore in 2019 — has been appointed as special expenditure observer for Bengal. Immediately after the EC news conference, chief minister Mamata Banerjee held a news conference at her home and questioned the appointment of the three officers, especially Dube, as observers. “This officer, Vivek Dube, was here before, in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls... We all know what drama he did,” said Mamata Congress state president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury also objected to the posting of Dube as a special police observer for Bengal. “I had complained to the EC regarding his prior postings (as observer during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls) in the state because observers like him do not listen to us and cause us disappointment and worry.” “We do not understand why he has been posted here again. We understand he might be the EC’s choice, but he has not heeded our complaints or demands in the past. So, we will keep raising our grievances with the EC if he repeats such actions.... He rejected our every request and so we had several complaints.” Sources said that appointments of the two special police observers meant that the EC felt that the law and order of the state was not satisfactory. “Generally, police observers take note of law and order in the state during the elections and submit reports to the EC on a regular basis. The primary inputs are received from police observers posted in the districts. Based on the reports of special police observers, deployment of central forces is planned,” said an official. As the issue of deployment of central forces remained a controversial issue in Bengal, the EC apparently does not want to take a chance and that is why the second special police observer was deployed, sources said. A senior bureaucrat said the EC felt that Nayak and Dube had worked well in 2019 Lok Sabha polls despite the fact that Trinamul had raised several questions on the alleged excesses of central forces. “Significantly, the BJP had no major complaints over the 2019 Lok Sabha poll process,” said the bureaucrat. The way the poll schedule was announced, sources said, also gave a hint that the EC was laying utmost importance on deployment of central forces at booths. “A number of districts — even small districts like Bankura — would go to the polls in two phases, which is a departure from earlier practice. This will make the movement of central forces smooth,” said a source. A bureaucrat said movement of central forces from one district to another was a critical exercise. “Now, the forces would move from one part of a district to another. And even, the forces can move to the neighbouring district for the next phase. This is a much easier exercise from bringing central forces from one district to a faraway district,” the bureaucrat explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
27-02-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections to stretch from March 27 to April 29||The Election Commission of India has notified the longest-ever Assembly polls in Bengal, stretching in eight phases from March 27 to April 29 and the result coming up on May 2. The unprecedented duration of the polling process prompted chief minister Mamata Banerjee to wonder aloud whether the schedule had been drafted “according to the convenience of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah”. Mamata also pointed out that the combined firepower of the Centre and its organisations is being marshalled against the last remaining woman chief minister in the country. Another feature that stood out in the schedule was the poll panel’s departure from the usual north-to-south sequence of polling. Besides, voting in some districts has been split over three phases. Mamata suspects this was done to polarise the voters in her strongholds. A long-drawn process does help parties without tall local leaders and those that depend on national figures for campaigning. More days of polling means these national leaders can campaign more in the state, focusing on each region phase by phase. The current schedule offers as many as 23 days during which elections will be held only in Bengal. However, Mamata, undoubtedly the biggest star campaigner for her party, can also similarly make the most of the long schedule. Bengal had seen seven-phase polling for the general election in the past but not eight phases. Calcutta and its immediate neighbourhood will go to polls on April 22 (areas like Salt Lake) April 26 (areas in south Calcutta) and April 29 (areas in north Calcutta). Chief election commissioner Sunil Arora, who demits office in April, announced the schedule in New Delhi on Friday. The commission attributed the long schedule to factors such as a nearly 32 per cent rise in the number of booths — from around 77,000 to over 1.01 lakh — because of the Covid-19 safety protocol, besides the electioneering challenges in the state. Not long after the commission’s news conference ended in Delhi, Mamata told journalists in Calcutta: “Eight phases? Why… to make it easy for whom? We expect the ECI (Election Commission of India) to be a little rational…. The ECI is such an important body, if they don’t give justice to the state and its people, then where will people go?” “Whatever I came to know from the BJP party’s sources, whatever the BJP had decided, as per the BJP’s requisition…. Have these phases been decided according to Narendra Modi and Amit Shah? So that they do not face difficulties in going to the constituencies of their choice. After finishing off with Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala… play a 23-day game here?” asked the Trinamul Congress chief. The elections in the other four states will be over by April 6 while they will continue in Bengal until April 29. “We don’t mind. Even in this game, we will decimate them. The game will be over in eight phases. We will hand you a drubbing, because we are from the grassroots,” she added. Mamata suggested she believed that the schedule would certainly benefit the BJP as it would chalk out an elaborate campaign for Bengal, spearheaded by Modi, Shah and party chief J.P. Nadda with their rallies likely to be scheduled just before and during the phases of polling. The Trinamul chief hinted at an attempt at misogyny. “Just one woman chief minister left in the country. The entire central government and all its organisations… such planning?” she asked.
Mamata urged women, who are not only half of the electorate but also a crucial base of her support, to give a befitting reply. A Trinamul insider said: “She has already created a narrative that suggests the poll panel is dancing to the BJP’s tune and the entire might of the central government has been deployed to attack her. She would go across Bengal and hammer home this point.” The BJP welcomed the election schedule. The Congress and the Left in Bengal were non-committal, confining themselves to expressing the hope that the commission would do its job of ensuring free, fair and peaceful polls. Mamata criticised the division of voting phases in the districts. “Tell me why half or one-third of districts are going to polls (in a particular phase)? What did you do… splitting districts as part I, part II, part III. Are these BA exams or what?” she asked.
“For instance, South 24-Parganas, simply because we are strong there, three-phase polling. Bujhun obostha (Understand the situation)!” she added. She went on to tie the splitting of the districts by the commission to the polarisation tactics of the saffron camp. “You are splitting districts, you are splitting mothers and sisters, dishonouring them… splitting siblings, splitting communities, splitting Bengalis, splitting the nation…. But remember, Bengal’s own daughter Mamata Banerjee is telling you, I know Bengal thoroughly, with over 40 years in politics…. Every conspiracy of yours, we will shatter,” she said. Mamata repeatedly underscored her respect for the commission and all constitutional bodies, urging Nirvachan Sadan to think of Bengal as its own state. “Please consider Bengal as your own state. Don’t consider it through the eyes of the BJP. Whatever their party decided, I have seen their lists from their party office, that same list we are seeing today. I am really sorry, I am shocked,” she said. “We know all the drama, all the games…. The BJP has the power of agencies, of the Centre…. If you allow their misuse for the state election, there will be a big, big blunder.” A proposal to offer the Electronically Transferrable Postal Ballot System to overseas voters will not be implemented in these polls. The external affairs ministry has suggested further consultations with stakeholders before a decision is taken on extending this facility, currently offered only to members of the armed forces and any other person covered under the Army Act. As in the Bihar polls last year, regular postal ballot facilities will be offered to the disabled, voters aged above 80, voters employed in essential services and those who are in Covid quarantine. Election staff have been recognised as frontline workers by the Union health ministry to make them eligible for vaccine shots at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
27-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP ready to hurl into Bengal battle, eye on farm protest||The BJP is revving up for a no-holds-barred battle to win Bengal, hoping that victory in the state would shatter the Opposition’s morale and help the party neutralise the farmers’ movement, insiders said. Many in the party believe that triumph in Bengal, an ideologically crucial state for the BJP, will be as important as the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya and the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. The BJP has already unleashed a campaign blitzkrieg and is set to scale it up to an unprecedented level now that the poll dates have been announced. “Party leaders from top to bottom, drawn from across states, have been asked to hurl themselves into Bengal,” a BJP general secretary said. “We are determined to win,” he added. BJP leaders are happy polling will be held in eight phases spread over a month as that will allow them to virtually carpet-bomb the state with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rallies. The BJP is not projecting a chief ministerial face and Modi would be used as the principal vote-catcher. The party has always used electoral victories to blunt the Opposition’s attack on issues and BJP leaders are sure success in Bengal would stun their rivals into silence. “Recall how the hue and cry over the Rafale (fighter jet) deal fizzled out after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls,” another BJP leader said. The farmers’ protest has emerged as a big political challenge for the government and the BJP fears it could harm their future electoral prospects, particularly in north India, if it continues. “Thankfully, the farmers’ protest has hardly had any impact in Bengal,” a BJP leader said. On the contrary, the denial of the cash dole under the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme to the state’s farmers was working in the party’s favour, the leader said. Although five states are slated for polls, Bengal holds a special ideological significance, being the home state of Syama Prasad Mookerjee, one of the founders of the Jana Sangh, the predecessor of the BJP. The BJP had never been a significant force in the state but it stunned everyone when it bagged 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. Exhilarated by the performance, the party now wants to conquer the state. “Victory in Bengal will be no less than the construction of a Ram temple or the abrogation of Article 370 in Kashmir,” a BJP leader said, recalling Mookerjee’s struggle against the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. The BJP’s internal surveys have shown that though the party was still behind the ruling Trinamul Congress, the gap was thin, BJP sources said. “We are sure that our mighty election machinery will bridge the gap and we will surge ahead by the time the votes are cast,” a general secretary micromanaging the ground campaign said. The general secretary said Union home minister Amit Shah was masterminding the Bengal poll strategy. “These days Amitbhai is totally focussed on Bengal. He tells us that we have to win Bengal,” he said. BJP managers said that apart from dealing a blow to the Opposition’s campaign against the farm laws, a win in Bengal would also prepare the ground for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-183
