28-02-2021||West Bengal||Buddhadeb to miss Brigade rally due to poor health||Former Bengal chief minister and CPI(M) veteran Buddhadeb Bhattacharya will not be attending the party's mega rally at the Brigade Parade Ground on Sunday owing to ill health, sources said. The Left-Congress-ISF alliance will kick-off its campaign for the upcoming Assembly elections in Bengal at the Brigade Parade Ground, an iconic political platform in the city with a capacity to accomodate lakhs of people. Bhattacharya, 76, expressed anguish at not being able to attend the public meeting. "My comrades are fighting on the ground, and I have to stay back at home as per the advice of doctors. It is unthinkable that such a massive rally is being held at the Brigade Parade Ground, and I cannot attend it. I wish the rally a grand success," he said in a statement. According to party sources, Bhattacharya is likely to send a written message for the rally. During the last such event at the same venue in 2019, Bhattacharya stayed for a brief period but could not address the gathering due to poor health. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, state Congress president Adhir Chowdhury and ISF's Abbas Siddiqui will be the main speakers at Sunday's rally. Chattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav will also be present, besides state leaders of the Congress and the Left parties. The RJD is a part of the Left-Congress alliance in Bengal. For the first time, once-bitter rivals Congress and the Left Front would be holding a joint rally in Kolkata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
28-02-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee: Midnapore voting split ‘to help one person’||Diamond Harbour MP and Trinamul youth wing chief Abhishek Banerjee who launched his party’s poll campaign from Ghatal in West Midnapore on Saturday, accused the Election Commission of splitting polling dates in the two Midnapores to benefit “one person”, indicating his bête noire Suvendu Adhikari. “In the two Midnapores, polling has been split in two phases for the benefit of one person,” said Abhishek, hinting that Suvendu would be able to marshal his forces better across the span of days. However, Abhishek added that Trinamul would win all 31 Assembly seats in the twin districts even if voting was held in 31 phases. “We will win all 16 seats in East Midnapore and 15 in West Midnapore. We will win 250 seats in the state,” Abhishek said to loud cheers from the 50,000-odd crowd. Devoting over five minutes of his 15-minute speech to Suvendu without naming him, the Trinamul MP urged the people to teach the “traitor” a lesson by defeating the BJP in Ghatal and elsewhere. “They (BJP) may have central forces and bohiragawto (outsiders) behind them, but we have Kanyasree and Yuvasree (chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s pet projects),” he said, urging the crowd to cheer for Trinamul’s “Bengal’s daughter” slogan for Mamata. “I will never lose my spine, unlike some...Midnapore is not their fiefdom, it is of the people. Those trying to sell it to Delhi will disappear from the scene following (their loss in) this election,” he said. A 4.5km march followed,  which he called his “most important political roadshow”. Trinamul is popular in the twin districts but during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP edged past Trinamul in eight Assembly seats in West Midnapore and two in East.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-181
28-02-2021||West Bengal||BJP, Left allege violation of model code of conduct||he distribution of bicycles by the state under its Sabuj Sathi scheme among students in North Dinajpur on Saturday made the BJP and Left allege violation of the model code of conduct. As the EC announced Bengal poll dates on Friday, the code has kicked in. On Saturday, around 220 students of Milanmoyee Girls’ High School in Kaliaganj town got the bicycles. “Block officials were supposed to give them on Friday but they possibly got busy,” a teacher said. Biswajit Lahiri, BJP district head, said Trinamul violated the code. The CPM filed a complaint with the block administration. Trinamul said officials gave the cycles on Saturday and only they can answer why.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
28-02-2021||West Bengal||Longview Tea Estate disburses wages to around 250-odd workers||The “workers committee” of the 500-hectare Longview Tea Estate on Saturday disbursed wages to around 250-odd workers, indicating that workers are taking control of the garden from the management. “We disbursed around Rs 1.4 lakhs to 250-odd workers at the rate of Rs 202 per day,” said Mani Raj Dhumjen, coordinator of both the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay camp) trade union and workers’ committee. Workers at Longview, the largest tea estate in the Darjeeling tea industry, had stopped reporting for duty from December 23 as the management had failed to clear dues. Last Wednesday, Anit Thapa, general secretary of the Morcha (Binay camp) and also the chairman of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) asked workers to run the garden and said the party was now pursuing the concept of “hamro ghar, afnai bhar (our house, our onus).” Trade leaders of the Binay camp said workers were now running the garden independently while the management said they had not shut the garden and hence workers were under the management. Workers’ cooperative unions have been formed in “closed gardens” but this is a first for a garden that the management claims was “not closed.” Amar Pal Singh Dahiya, garden manager, said workers were paid by the committee and called this a “dangerous precedent”. “We have written to all authorities concerned on this, including unions,” he added. Planters of Darjeeling tea industry said this was “a double-edged sword.” “While this will act as deterrent against those owners who close gardens during non-plucking period and then open during production, leaders running the show for political gains will do more harm to the industry in the long run,” a planter said. Another planter said that running a garden on this model was not sustainable. “Issues like trademark, licensing, marketing are important for long-term sustainability.” Rival party GNLF alleged that the development at Longview was an outcome of one-upmanship between the two factions of Morcha led by Bimal Gurung and Anit Thapa camp. Leaders of the Anit Thapa camp disagreed. “The workers were facing huge economic hardship. The day we decided to run the garden on our own, the management cleared Rs 15 lakhs in workers dues. Why couldn’t the management pay the dues earlier? A number of earlier meetings on clearing workers due had earlier failed,” said Mani Raj. Asked whether the workers model would now be firmly established in Longview, Mani Raj said that everything would depend on the management’s moves. PMO on auction hub The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) has instructed two officials one each from the central and the state government to take necessary initiatives for reopening the North Bengal Tea Auction Centre in Jalpaiguri. The centre that was opened here back in 2005 is closed since 2015 due to poor inflow of tea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
28-02-2021||West Bengal||EC shifts police officer with fair record||The Election Commission of India has replaced additional director-general (law and order) Jawed Shamim with director-general of fire and emergency services Jag Mohan within 24 hours of announcing the Assembly poll schedule in Bengal. Mohan, a 1991 batch  IPS officer, will now coordinate with the Election Commission on behalf of the state for deploying forces in the forthcoming Assembly polls and monitoring logistic arrangements for the central forces to be sent to the state. Shamim, a 1995 batch IPS officer, will  be posted as the DG of fire and emergency services. He had taken over as ADG (law and order) only on February 8. “On Saturday morning, the ECI had sought names for the post of ADG (law and order) and in the evening, the ECI issued the order to bring in Jag Mohan to the post to replace Shamim,” said a senior government official. Shamim, known as an upright officer, had earned accolades from the Opposition for strictly handling law and order across Salt Lake and its adjoining areas during the fifth phase of the 2016 Assembly polls. He was then the commissioner of the Bidhannagar police commissionerate. “No political party has ever had anything to complain about Shamim because of his deft handling of situations,” said an IPS officer senior to Shamim. Shamim was brought in to the post of ADG (Law and Order) on February 8 by the state government, replacing Gyanwant Singh and  keeping the forthcoming elections in mind. Not only Shamim, a series of IPS and IAS officers, including the police commissioner of Calcutta, were transferred by the state government before the polls were announced. The changes, sources said, were made by the state government in order to make the ECI think twice before removing officers once the model code of conduct is put in place. Usually, the poll panel shifts key officers who have spent considerable time in a particular post. The state government had posted non-controversial officers in important positions and removed officers against whom the Opposition parties, particularly the BJP, had complaints, said an official. The official added that if the poll panel removed an officer ahead of the polls, it would hurt the morale of the state’s bureaucracy. “This is the reason Soumen Mitra, a 1988 batch IPS officer, was made the city police chief, Shamim was made the ADG (law and order) and Supratim Sarkar, a 1997 batch IPS officer, was made the police commissioner of Bidhannagar,” said a senior bureaucrat. No reason has been stated till Saturday evening for the transfer of Shamim. Suvendu Adhikari, who had switched to the BJP from Trinamul, had demanded at a rally in Hooghly the removal of all top Nabanna officials and alleged that they often interfered in the election process. The BJP leadership has complained against Mitra, Calcutta’s new police commissioner, for not offering them a hearing. Mitra had earned critical appreciation for holding a violence-free poll in 2016 in Calcutta as the then chief of the city police force. During the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the poll panel had transferred 70-odd officers, including the then city police chief, and a number of district magistrates and superintendents of police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
28-02-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati authorities refute charges of confining teachers for six hours||Visva-Bharati authorities on Saturday refuted the charges of confining teachers for six hours on Friday to try and “forcibly grab” a copy of a mass petition to the Prime Minister and the President on the varsity’s state of affairs, and said it was a series of meetings to discuss teacher absenteeism and other issues. A varsity news release, along with identical undertakings by 10 English teachers, claimed on Saturday that VC Bidyut Chakrabarty had called the meeting on Friday. It claimed that teachers of the English department were initially reluctant to admit they were absent on campus during the VC’s visit on Wednesday but later did so. The news release was shared by the varsity’s public relations officer Anirban Sircar to a media group on WhatsApp. “In order to discuss the issue of absenteeism, the Vice Chancellor called a meeting on the day he visited the department… initially they (English teachers) were reluctant to admit (on Friday) that they were absent; after sometime, they admitted verbally and finally they agreed to write that they were absent on that day…,” the news release stated. Later, Sircar in another WhatsApp message to the media said it did not take long to discuss the issue of absenteeism but there were many other meetings that lasted six to seven hours on Friday. He did not specify if all teachers of the English department were part of those meetings, or whether Chakrabarty was. A teacher of the English department said they were forced to sign the undertaking when a colleague fell ill during the confinement. “The varsity did not clarify in the news release why teachers were not present on campus on Wednesday. There was a pre-scheduled virtual meeting of the board of studies where interviews of 14 PhD scholars were held with experts from various universities. We signed the undertaking as we did not know how long the confinement would last,” a teacher said. “...The format (of undertakings) is the same but handwritings differ. Is it possible for senior teachers to write identical undertakings if they’re not dictated?” asked a professor. On Friday, two physics teachers had filed a police complaint accusing the varsity of illegally confining colleagues. They received showcause notices on Saturday. Their head of the department Manas Maity was removed from his post. Insiders said authorities suspected Maity was involved with the drive to send a mass petition to Narendra Modi and Ram Nath Kovind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
28-02-2021||West Bengal||NHAI opens bypass hour before Election Commission of India announces election dates||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) opened a 10km road that will bypass Islampur — the second most important town in North Dinajpur district — along NH27 on Friday, an hour before the Election Commission of India announced election dates for Bengal and four other states. Both Trinamul and BJP leaders have claimed credit for the bypass that connects Aliganj with Iluabari, localities on both ends of Islampur. BJP leaders said their government finished the project and is carrying out four-laning work of NH 27, the principal highway that connects northeast with rest of the country. Trinamul leaders, on their part, said Mamata Banerjee’s intervention in clearing land hurdles helped the bypass become a reality. “The project was pending for over 15 years and the bypass is because of her (Mamata),” said Kanaialal Agarwal, North Dinajpur district Trinamul president. “The bypass was supposed to be inaugurated on Saturday. However, as there were indications that poll dates would be announced on Friday evening and the model code of conduct would immediately come into force, the road was opened for traffic on Friday afternoon,” said an NHAI source. In North Dinajpur, the bypass was a longstanding demand of residents so that congestion in Islampur town, that has grown on both sides of the highway, would ease. Till now, the entire traffic to Siliguri and beyond would move through the town, choking the roads and causing accidents. The plan to build the bypass, a part of the east-west corridor project — a four-lane NH27 that would connect Porbandar of Gujarat with Silchar of Assam — was drawn way back in 2003. But the project suffered for over 15 years over land acquisition snags. In 2016, Mamata took the initiative to clear land hurdles. State tourism minister Gautam Deb was instructed to sit with land-losers and resolve their issues, including that of compensation. Finally in 2017, work on the bypass commenced on the outskirts of Islampur. Residents and transporters are elated. Plabon Pramanik, Uttar Dinajpur Bus & Minibus Owners’ Association, said his buses would take 90 minutes to cross Islampur town. “Now with the bypass, trucks and other vehicles which do not need to enter the town will use this alternative,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
28-02-2021||West Bengal||To Brigade, with a lesson learnt during lockdown||Somnath Majumdar, 22, from Nadia’s Santipur and a staunch BJP supporter till the pandemic hit the country last March, will be in the Brigade Parade Grounds on Sunday to demand a “bikolpo (alternative)” in the form of the fledgling Left-Congress-ISF alliance. As he puts it, last year’s pandemic-induced lockdown changed the life of a waiter in a Pune bar. “I had to come back to Bengal as I lost my job.… And as I lived in penury for months and local BJP leaders turned their faces away when I sought their help, I realised that poor people like me can rely only on the Left,” said the youth who had actively campaigned for the BJP before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “I am a Left supporter now as I got help only from the CPM during the lockdown.… I am telling people to join Sunday’s rally because we need an alternative (in Bengal),” he added. A day ahead of Sunday’s meeting at the Brigade Parade Grounds, to start at 1pm, Left leaders were banking on people like Somnath who had been helped by the Left’s outreach activities during months of lockdown. “Reports from the districts suggest that we alone will bring around 7.5 lakh people. The Congress and the ISF will also bring people,” said Left Front chairman Biman Bose, confident of a a million-plus turnout in the show-of-strength rally. The last time the Left organised a show in Brigade was before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and the one before that was in 2015-end, when the CPM’s organisational plennum was held in Calcutta. “Organising a programme in Brigade has become very difficult these days, but we had to try and put up a show as it is a matter of survival for us,” said a senior CPM leader. Given the depleted organisational strength of the Left, which bagged little over 7 per cent vote in the last Lok Sabha polls, and the realities of the pandemic-hit economy, getting 10 lakh people — estimates done by Calcutta Police suggest a turnout of around 4 lakh people is enough to fill the Brigade — would be easier said than done for the Left, Congress and ISF alliance. However, the organisers of Sunday’s show are hopeful of a packed Brigade. “A large section of the poor were helped by the 650-odd community kitchens we set up across the state. These kitchens provided free food during the entire lockdown. Along with these kitchens, 29 canteens were set up where food was sold at a nominal cost. All these will hopefully pay off,” said a CPM state committee member. There is little doubt that the turnout figure will be watched very closely. This is the first time that the Left will hold a Brigade along with the Congress and a fledgling force, the ISF. Opposition leaders like Bihar’s leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav and Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel are likely to speak in the rally too. “I can’t tell you if it will be historic or not, but Sunday’s show will indeed be unique because this is going to be the first time that Left and Congress leaders will be sharing a political dais at the Brigade...Then, there will be leaders of the ISF,” said a CPM insider. Leaders from the Left and the Congress have shared the dais at the Brigade before back in 1955 when Nikolai Bulganin and Nikita Khrushchev arrived in India on November for the first official visit of Soviet leaders after 1947. “Over two million people were there and leaders like Jawaharlal Nehru and Jyoti Basu shared the dais... But that was an apolitical programme,” added a CPM old-timer. Many political pundits have already written off the poll prospects of the fledgling alliance and called the Bengal polls a Trinamul-BJP contest. “The success of Sunday’s rally will determine if we can effect a turnaround,” said a CPM leader. Buddhadeb message Former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee released a message clarifying his health would not permit him to attend the Brigade rally. He also expressed his pain at missing such a big event at the Brigade. “The psychological pain to miss out on a big meeting like this is inexplicable. My comrades are fighting in the streets and I’m obeying my doctors because of my medical conditions....A meeting is on at Maidan and I’m stuck in my house is something I could have never imagined. I wish the meeting a success,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-182
