01-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tuskless jumbo carcass puts officials on alert||The carcass of an elephant with missing tusks was located at Sirum jungle on Monday morning, thereby, putting the ground level staff of the forest officials in the Chandil forest range on red alert. The forest, which lies close to the West Bengal border, falls under the Nimdih thana area in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district is about 60 kilometeres away from Jamshedpur. The forest department is on high alert, as the tuskless carcass suggests the possibility of a gang of poachers still being active in the Chandil forest range. Talking about the incident forest range officer of Chandil, Ashok Kumar maintained that the circumstances under which the elephant died are unclear. But it was certain that the tusks were missing from the carcass. “We are not very clear about who killed the tusker. We still need to ascertain if it was killed by poachers or villagers. But some people with a criminal bent of mind certainly cut off its tusks, in the most unprofessional way. We have put the forest guards on alert so that no tusker may fall victim to such cruelty,” said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. The range officer added that an autopsy would be performed to ascertain the cause of its death. He said, “The elephant’s viscera have been sent to the Ranchi-based forensic science lab for an examination so that the cause of death can be ascertained.” He added, “As the carcass was about a fortnight-long, the age of the killed elephant could not be ascertained.” According to him, it could take a month for both the autopsy and viscera examination report to be ready but they had already begun to trace people involved in sawing off the tusks. He said that the tusks had been cut in the most unprofessional manner; hence it could be the work of locals. He added that these individuals could be easily traced. The spot where the tusker was found lying dead is about 100 feet away from Purulia’s Madha range. For the uninitiated, a large number of elephants from the Madha range tend to cross over to the Sirum jungle in Jharkhand and vice-versa regularly. According to sources in the forest department, paddy is cultivated in a small patch of rayati land which lies between Sirum jungle and Madha range. They suspect villagers having poisoned the tusker to prevent a herd of elephants from destroying the standing paddy crops. They believe that the villagers might have sawed away the tusks after the elephant died. “Chandil forest range falls under territorial forest area. Hence, there is no provision for engaging forest protection volunteers (FPVs), unlike the adjoining Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary. The forest department has to depend largely on the forest guards to protect wild elephants in the range area. In the Dalma wildlife, the forest guards and FPVs work in tandem for the protection of the wild elephants, thereby making the chances of foul play negligible,” said an official posted at the Chandil forest range.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-218
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad traders get extortion threat from alleged PLFI rebels||Four computer traders from Dhanbad have received extortion threats from alleged People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI) operatives on Sunday, November 29. They demanded Rs 50 lakh from each one of them for the expansion of PLFI. The computer traders, City Computers ‑ Vishal Kumar, owner of Jhajharia Computer ‑ Vikash Agarwal and owner of Agarwal Computer ‑ Tinku Agarwal and his elder brother Govind Agarwal, received WhatsApp messages on their mobile phones in the name of a banned organisation, PLFI. Office bearers of different trade bodies including the Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce & Industry (FDZCCI) and Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association (JITA) have expressed concern over PLFI’s extortion messages sent to the four computer traders. FDZCCI held a meeting at Purana Bazar under the chairmanship of Chetan Goenka, president of FDZCCI on Tuesday to discuss on this issue. During the meeting, participants expressed their concern over the incident and demanded immediate investigation and arrest of people behind the mischief. “The traders can’t work properly in fear. Whether some banned organisation or some local goons are trying to use the name of this outfit for their advantage needs to be investigated and exposed,” said Prabhat Surolia president of Bank More Chamber of Commerce, a participant of the meeting. He added that they (traders) have decided to meet senior police officers to demand action against those involved. Echoing similar sentiments, Ajay Narayan Lal, vice-president of FDZCCI said, “We will be meeting Dhanbad SSP, Aseem Vikrant Minz in two-three days. We will be demanding for strict action to be taken against those behind the incident after police investigates into the matter.” “The way in which the four traders have been sent WhatsApp messages demanding for money extortion is similar to the previous incident. A jewellery shop owner of Bank More, Tripurari Burnwal, had been sent a similar message in September, following which his shop was robbed on September 26,” informed Lal. He maintained that the traders are expecting some breakthrough by the police very soon. The sender of the message has also threatened to take severe actions if the traders failed to pay the extortion money. The traders later lodged an FIR in Bank More Police station against the unidentified people. Dhanbad ASP, Manoj Swargiyar, while talking to media, said, “A similar extortion threat had been given to the traders in Ranchi the name of PLFI. We are in the process of arresting those behind the incident after identifying them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-219
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||TPC subzonal commander surrenders in Chatra||Udesh Ganjhu alias Sukul, subzonal commander of Tritiya Prastuti Committee (TPC) who was carrying a reward of Rs 5 lakh on his head surrendered in front of senior police and Cobra officials in SP office of Chatra on Tuesday. He also handed over a USA-made MI series Springfield semi-automatic rifle and 150 live bullets. Udesh surrendered in front of the superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha, Cobra battalion commandant Pawan Badan and ASP (Operation) Nigam Prasad. Jha said Udesh was looking after Chatra and Latehar district. A total of eight FIRs are registered against him in various police stations of Chatra. He was wanted in cases of murder and violence by Chatra, Latehar, and Palamu police. Jha said that the state government will ensure education for the children of Udesh. He also said that Udesh will get all other facilities as per the surrender policy. As part of the surrender policy, a cheque worth Rs 5 lakh was given to Udesh's wife Urmila Devi. Udesh said he joined TPC after being misguided by the top leaders. He said he was fed up with the bloodbath and violence followed by the chase of police. He appealed to other cadres also to surrender and return to the mainstream of life. He was in TPC for a long time and married Urmila in 2005. He has three sons namely Abhinandan Kumar, Suman Kumar, and Prince Kumar. He also informed that after his surrender, TPC is having Shashikant as zonal commander and five subzonal commanders working under him. Jha warned the extremists that if they did not surrender in the coming days then they would have to be ready to face the actions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-219
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||Baghmara MLA stands with Sindri protesters||A day after the chakka jam turned violent in front Sindri’s ACC Factory, Dhullu Mahto, BJP MLA from Baghmara organised a press conference to accuse the police and administration of taking unilateral action to control the mob. He has even demanded a comprehensive probe into the issue. Talking to the media, Mahto said, “We need to look at things logically. If the agitators had been demonstrating before the factory for over five hours (10 am to 3 pm) then why would they turn violent after having a successful talk with the administration?” He claimed that those who had participated in the dharna were not in the stone-pelting incidence. “The district administration should probe into the incident to find out people involved in pelting stones. No action should be taken against the poor who have lost their land to the factory and were demanding jobs as compensation,” said Mahto. He maintained that not many would willingly give away their land for the sake of industrialization, if the unilateral action will be taken by the administration. “Those stationed at the ACC headquarter in Mumbai are unaware of the misdeeds of their local administrative set up at Sindri. These local officials are hands in gloves with the local goons. As a consequence, only a selected few are benefitting from the perks,” charged Mahto, while demanding an impartial inquiry to unearth the truth. “I have been working for the rights of the deprived, marginalized, exploited, and the oppressed. No pressure can deter me from doing my work,” thundered Mahto. Notably, Dharmajit Singh, district president of Tiger Force, a youth organisation, who had led yesterday’s agitation at Sindri and had later participated in a dialogue with Surendra Prasad, sub-divisional officer, inside the cement factory, said, “A fight for a genuine cause can’t be suppressed by caucus which is operating in the factory in name of a labour union.” Several police officials got injured when unidentified people pelted stone. Police have arrested around 11 persons, including four women, for participating in yesterday’s chakka jam. They have also lodged an FIR against 25 people, including those arrested. A probe has been initiated to identify individuals involved in the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-219
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jayant Sinha demands release of funds for 500-bed hospital in Hazaribagh||Former union minister of state for civil aviation and Hazaribagh MP, Jayant Sinha shot a missive to chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday requesting him to release the fund for the construction of a 500-bed state-of-the-art hospital in Hazaribagh. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone for this hospital in February 2019, when he came here to inaugurate the newly constructed medical college, a promise made by Sinha when he fought election for the first time in 2014. Due to lack of fund, this hospital construction work came to a halt. Sinha said the total budget to construct this hospital is Rs 509 crore and the state government will have to bear the entire expense. He said in the first phase, the state government had to release Rs 140 crore, but only Rs 10 crore was sanctioned for the purpose. Sinha said due to the ongoing pandemic and to cater to proper health facilities, this hospital needs to be constructed as soon as possible. He also added seeing the importance of this project, the union government has cleared all hurdles for completion of this ambitious project. Sinha stated that the people of his constituency which comprises Hazaribagh and Ramgarh district are dependent on Ranchi for emergency health services. In his letter to Soren, Sinha requested him to sanction the rest of the amount of the first installment of Rs 140 crore, as work has come to a standstill and fund is required to restart the work again in this important project. The hospital will be constructed on the campus of the medical college at Lake Road in Hazaribagh.  Last week, targeting the state government, he said the national medical commission refused to give permission to take fresh admissions in the MBBS course due to lack of proper infrastructures at three new medical colleges of the state including Hazaribagh. Sinha also said such negligence hit hard on the future of aspiring doctors of this state. When the BJP government was there in the state, all required steps were taken at that time after which permission to take admission was given. On health minister Banna Gupta's allegation that the union government is doing politics in medical colleges’ issue, he said instead of wasting time, they should ensure maintaining the infrastructures as asked by the commission. “Instead of taking a fast decision on changing the name of the three colleges, the government should have plugged all loopholes to upgrade these important institutions,” stated Sinha. He also said due to the state government only, the ambitious project to develop Hazaribagh aerodrome failed to gain momentum. The state government did not acquire the land for which they will have to cough up Rs 250 crore and they failed to do this, added Sinha. He also stated that only centre sponsored projects are running properly in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-219
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||World AIDS Day: Tatas focus on long-distance truckers  ||Tata Steel Foundation, which has been running an activity-filled awareness campaign among long-distance truck drivers about safe sex practices, released a report on World AIDS Day on Tuesday, indicating that it had reached out to over 53,000 drivers this fiscal. "Due to frequent mobility, truck drivers lack access to general healthcare and low contact with HIV intervention programmes also restrict their access in seeking general healthcare and STI and HIV care. Thus, it is important to work with the trucking community for awareness and prevention of HIV among them,” said a statement issued by Tata Steel Foundation. For the last few years, Tata Steel Foundation has worked with long-distance truck drivers and helpers to get them tested for HIV at the Integrated Counselling and Testing Centre (ICTC). The project is being run at five truckers’ halt points at Jamshedpur, Dimna, Burmamines, Jugsalai and Baliguma. Last year (FY 2019-20), the foundation report suggested, around 56,000 truckers were reached through clinical care and awareness programmes. In collaboration with Tata Motors’ Parivar Kalyan Sansthan and Family Planning Association of India (FPAI), the foundation also conducts health camps and eye camps for drivers. Every year on World AIDS Day, rallies, nukkad natak (street plays), quiz competitions are organised. But this year no events were held due to the pandemic. Various social outfits, and the Scouts and Guides, which usually brings out an awareness rally in the steel city to mark the day, cancelled their programmes this time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-219
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||Activists ask Uddhav to ensure Swamy is treated with dignity in jail||Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a network of rights organisations and activists, has appealed to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to ensure that Father Stan Swamy (83) was treated with dignity and that he had access to all amenities in jail. In a letter dated November 30, but released to the media on Tuesday, the mahasabha also appealed to the state government to arrest the “actual perpetrators” of violence at Bhima-Koregaon in January 2018 -- it named two leaders belonging Hindu organisations -- and ensure speedy trial of the case. “This is to bring to your attention the current health condition of 83-year-old Father Stan Swamy, currently lodged as an undertrial in the Taloja jail. He is a Parkinson’s patient with severe tremors in both his hands. As a result, he has trouble drinking water from a glass, taking baths and washing clothes on his own. He also has a serious hearing problem and needs hearing aids in both ears. He was operated twice for hernia in the recent past,” read the letter, a copy of which has also been sent to Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren. Swamy was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on October 8 from his residence in Ranchi in the Bhima-Koregaon case. “He carried along with him some medicines for chronic illness. He also carried a steel-straw sipper, which was necessary for him to drink any liquid food item. But he was not allowed to take his sipper with him inside the jail,” the Mahasabha noted in the letter. “We would also like to bring to your notice that jail authorities refused to allow Swamy access to warm clothes sent by his family. This is a serious violation of basic rights of an elderly person with disability. While the NIA and central government continue to harass activists through the Bhima-Koregaon case, it is also the responsibility of the Maharashtra government to ensure amenities and dignity to the undertrial activists,” the Mahasabha said. Jail authorities, it has been reported, provided a sipper to Swamy on November 29 after condemnation from various quarters. “We appeal to the Maharashtra government to ensure all amenities including warm clothes, health support and dignity to Swamy, considering his age and illness. Swamy is a valued and public-spiritedness citizen who has worked for Adivasi rights since decades in Jharkhand. We have the highest regard for him and his work,” the Mahasabha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-219
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||Paddy procurement begins, 1.42 lakh farmers already enrolled||Jharkhand launched its paddy procurement process for the 2020-21 kharif season in Ranchi on Tuesday as per the minimum support price (MSP) decided on by the state cabinet last month. State food and civil supplies department director Vineet Tirkey said as many as 23 procurement centres had been set up in Ranchi district. “We are officially starting paddy procurement from today (Tuesday). Ranchi is the first district to start, but remaining districts will also operationalise procurement centres by this week,” he said. This year, the state government has fixed a target to procure 4.5lakh metric tons from 1.60 lakh farmers. To encourage farmers to sell their produce at government centres, rather than to middlemen at throwaway prices, the state government has also promised to pay 50 per cent of the price to farmers on the spot through direct benefit transfer. As per the department’s data, 1.42 lakh farmers have so far enrolled themselves across districts to sell paddy. Tirkey said the numbers were more than last year’s enrolment figures and were likely to surpass this year’s target in another two weeks. “About 1.39 lakh farmers had enrolled themselves for selling paddy last year. This time, 1.42 lakh farmers have already enrolled in 24 districts. The enrolment process will end on December 15 by which time we expect to cross this year’s target,” he said, adding that around 310 procurement centres had been set up in all 24 districts. Last month, the state cabinet fixed a minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,868 per quintal for normal paddy and Rs 1,888 per quintal for grade A quality along with a bonus of Rs 182 per quintal. Tirkey said the Food Corporation of India (FCI) will run procurement centres in Latehar, Chatra and Garhwa districts while the state food corporation would handle procurement in the remaining districts. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said block development officers (BDOs) had been directed to keep strict vigil and undertake a regular inspection of procurement centres to prevent any wrongdoing. “Also, everyone has been asked to ensure strict compliance of Covid-19 safety norms at centres during the procurement processes,” he said, adding that six rice mills had been empanelled in the district for processing the procured stocks. “At the rice mills, closed-circuit television cameras (CCTVs) have been put up and magistrates have been deployed to keep a watch on the entire process to plug leakage,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-219
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||Health minister advocates voluntary AIDS test by couples before marriage||On the occasion of World AIDS Day, state health minister Banna Gupta urged couples belonging to the progressive section of society to get tested for HIV before tying the nuptial knot and set an example for others, his advice coming at a time when Jharkhand has seen a steady increase in the number of HIV positive cases. “Educated and progressive people must volunteer to get tested for HIV before getting married. By doing this, they will not only ensure safety for themselves but also set an example for the people belonging to lower sections of society,” Gupta said while addressing an event commemorating World AIDS Day on Tuesday. As per figures with Jharkhand AIDS Control Society, the number of HIV positive individuals in Jharkhand has increased in the past couple of years. In 2018, as many as 21,400 people were HIV positive in the state, and by 2020, the number shot up to 25,757. “The only way we can prevent further spread of the disease is by spreading awareness. And AIDS awareness should not only be confined to school curriculums but also be practiced in daily life,” said Gupta, adding that the taboo around conversations about sex has to come to an end, especially in rural and semi-urban areas. “Three-month pregnant women should also get themselves tested for HIV,” he added. Adolescents, he said, have to be told that sexual intercourse was a natural activity and that protected sex was important for population control and prevention of various diseases. “We are running awareness campaigns in schools and colleges, but it was also important for parents to talk freely about the risks of unprotected sex,” he said. The health minister also expressed concern about the unsafe use of syringes by youths addicted to drugs, fearing that it might cause an increase in cases of HIV. “While doing drugs in itself is illegal and hazardous to health, the people using syringes for taking drugs put many others at risk of getting infected by HIV virus,” Gupta said. He admitted that it was the government’s duty to ensure the safe use of syringes at hospitals and health clinics across the state. Commoners, he said, should become more aware of the safe use of syringes for blood tests and administering of injections. “Lack of awareness also leads to misinformation about the disease, which eventually triggers discrimination against people battling AIDS. Spreading awareness will ensure better treatment of AIDS patients in the society,” said Gupta. The Joint Director of Jharkhand AIDS Control Society, Dr. B.C. Bhagat, said that HIV-positive people were also at a higher risk of getting infected by the Covid-19 virus as HIV weakens the immune system of patients. World AIDS Day is observed on December 1 every year to spread awareness about the disease and extend support to the people suffering from it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-219
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tourist flow to Maithon gradually increases||With the onset of the winter season, the tourist flow in Maithon Lake sees a good start which in turn has brought cheer in the faces of the boatmen and roadside shopkeepers. The local villagers of Maithon engaged in managing their living through the seasonal income during the winter, however, are keeping their fingers crossed over the possibility of further deterioration of Covid-19 situation which might stimulate further restrictions from the government. The maximum rush at Maithon, comprising of 15712 feet long and 165 feet high Maithon Dam lying over Barakar river and the Maithon lake spread over 65 square kilometers, along with the millennium park and the famous Kalyaneshwari temple is witnessed during the month of December-January every year. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Vishnu Bauri, a resident of Goghna Village of Maithon, ekes out his living by carrying out boat riding, said, “Though the maximum rush at Maithon is recorded during December-January but the off-season income is also good as many tourists from various parts of the country, particularly from Bengal visits here lean season as well.” “We are happy that we are witnessing some tourists since last one month which is likely to go up within a week. However the tourist flow is less than 50% compared to last year,” added Bauri who is also a member of the self-help group of over 70 boatmen, Matsya Gandha which operates the boats here. “We pray to God every day to keep the Covid-19 situation under control otherwise it will lead to the tightening of the government norms which in turn will cause a further drop in footfall of tourists,” said Bauri and added that their income during the peak season is around Rs 3,000 - Rs 4,000 per day which dips down to Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 during the lean season (off-season). Prem Mahto, another boatman of Kalibasti locality of Maithon said, “We had zero income during the first six months of lockdown due to the restrictions and even after the permission very few people visited the tourist places.” He also added that Covid-19 testing for all persons entering into Jharkhand from Bengal at Maithon also deterred tourists from other parts from visiting Maithon. “The local visitors of adjoining places even if opt for boating goes for a smaller trip around a nearby island for a fare of Rs 200 per person while only a few opts for the longer trip of all around the lake at Rs 600 per person,” said Mahto and added that their main income depends on outsider visitors. Similar is the reaction of around 80 shopkeepers selling beverages, fast foods, chats, and pakora. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Dilip Singh, owner of Lakshmi Chat stall said, “We had faced the worst days of our life during the first six months of lockdown from March 22 to September 22 due to almost negligible footfall but things have slowly started improving. We are also observing all the precautions to not let the situation go out of our hands and request visitors to put on their masks and always follow the social distancing norms.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-219
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI receives re-accreditation from AMBA||The XLRI or Xavier School of Management, one of India’s premiere B-schools, has been re-accredited by the Association of MBAs (AMBA), with regard to its three flagship programs including the PGDM (BM), the PGDM (HRM) and the Executive PGDM (General). With the accreditation, all current students and alumni of XLRI will be able to join the 55,000 global community members of AMBA from more than 150 countries. This community brings business school leaders from all over the world together to exchange insights, attend sessions relevant to business, leadership, and access to the latest research along with networking opportunities. An accreditation from AMBA represents the highest standard of achievement in postgraduate business education. The association’s rigorous assessment criteria makes sure that only the best programmes that demonstrate the best standards in teaching, curriculum, and student interaction achieves AMBA accreditation. “XLRI is a prestigious business school and one which is recognized globally for its quality. I am delighted that the School has achieved re-accreditation and look forward to working with the school in the future”, Andrew Main Wilson, chief executive of the AMBA and the Business Graduates Association (BGA) said. Expressing happiness over the accreditation, Fr. P Christie, director of XLRI, said, ““We are delighted that our institution has been awarded re-accreditation by AMBA’s International Accreditation Advisory Board. AMBA accreditation is international in scope and reach. AMBA works under the belief that accredited programs should be of the highest standard and reflect changing trends and innovation in postgraduate management education.” “Its accreditation process reflects this commitment to fostering innovation and demanding Business Schools to perform at the highest level continually and is earned only by the best programs. XLRI, with its singular philosophy of Magis, i.e., the pursuit of excellence in all endeavours, has continually focused on three interrelated areas: academic excellence, personal values, and societal concern. Our flagship PGDM programs are regularly revised to enable students to meet the business world's transformational business challenges and expectations,” he added. He further informed that this year, the XLRI extended its branch by establishing the new XLRI campus in the Delhi-NCR region. The re-accreditation, he said, will further enhance the credibility of the management programs offered by XLRI to prospective Indian and international students. “It will also help recruiters acquire the top talent, and future business leaders know that our graduates have received the highest quality and the most relevant management education. Our institution has spared no effort to make the curriculum world-class and deliver it most effectively. This achievement is the result of continuous hard work and support by our faculty members, employees, students, and alumni, and we worked as a singular body with a sense of purpose for the greater common good of the society at large,” Christie said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-219
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||Murder accused sets motorcycle on fire at victim’s house||Just over a month following the death of a 19-year-old Uttam Kumar Sahu at the hands of his cousins at Daiguttu in Mango, some unidentified miscreants set a motorcycle on fire at his house during the early hours of Monday. The teenager was allegedly stabbed to death on October 16. The bike, which belonged to Uttam’s father Madan Sahu, was parked on the residential premises at night but was found charred on Monday morning. Sahu has lodged a complaint with the police at the Mango thana and has accused his elder brother Nandlal and nephew Sumeet Sahu alias Pachina of committing the arson, setting the bike on fire. Someone had entered into the premises by jumping over the boundary wall, leaving behind footprints on the wall. On receiving the complaint, a police team visited the spot and inspected the crime scene. "A motorcycle has been set on fire at Madan Sahu's house in the early hours on Monday.  We have also found several footprints on the wall, suggesting that those involved in the crime must have entered by escalating the boundary wall. We are getting the footprints examined by a team of forensic experts," said OC, Mango thana Vinay Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. He also informed that in connection with the Uttam Sahu mirder case, three persons were arrested and sent to jail. However, Nandlal Sahu and his son Pachina, who are also named accused in the case, are still absconding. "We are trying to arrest the two accused and will initiate a process of `kurki-jabti' (attachment of property) by praying in the court if the duo are not arrested soon," said the OC. The late teenager was the only son of Madan, and was stabbed to death in front of his house at Teli Line in Daiguttu in October. A property dispute between Madan Sahu and brother Nandanlal Sahu was the reason behind the murder. However, this was not the first time the family faced such issues after the murder. About a fortnight ago someone launched a gun attack on Sahu’s house, leading him to lodge an FIR with the police. The police had subsequently carried out a probe and claimed that there was no trace of the firing. Madan's daughter Sujata Kumari said that after her brother was murdered, they had to live under fear as Nandalal and his son Pachina seemed to have turned blood-thirsty. "First Nandlal and his sons killed my brother and now they are resorting to frightening us by sometimes opening fire at our house and sometimes setting our property on fire. Nandlal actually wants us to flee from the house and now we are completely depending on the action by the police," Sujata told The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-220
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||Active Covid cases down to 2000 in a day that sees 288 recoveries||The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand dropped close to 2000 on Monday as at least 288 Covid patients recovered from the infection in the past 24 hours against 167 fresh cases of infection surfacing during the same period, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. On Monday, as many as 2016 people were battling the virus in Jharkhand. As per government data, more than half of the active cases in Jharkhand were from East Singhbhum and Ranchi – two of the worst-affected districts in Jharkhand in terms of Covid cases and fatalities. As many as 59 people were found infected in Ranchi on Sunday, while 106 patients recovered from the infection here, bringing the number of active cases down at 734. East Singbhum, on the other hand, reported 22 fresh cases against 23 recoveries. The number of active cases in East Singhbhum was 306 on Monday night. At least four districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 on the day, while 14 districts reported a single-digit-spike in the Covid caseload, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Monday evening stated. Meanwhile, one more Covid-19 patient, a resident of Dhanbad, died during treatment on the day, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 964, the NHM bulletin stated. So far, Dhanbad has reported 91 Covid casualties, while East Singhbhum and Ranchi have reported 351 and 195 fatalities respectively. Among other districts, Bokaro reported eight fresh cases, while Dhanbad reported nine cases. At least 17 fresh cases surfaced in West Singhbhum and 12 people were found infected in Saraikela, revealed government data. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 30,813 people and around 0.50 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 41.93 lakh people and tested 41.78 lakh of them. Of the nearly 42 lakh people tested, at least 1,09,151 were found Covid positive and 1,06,171 of them have recovered. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.39 per cent. The doubling rate of the viral infection in the state was 428.14 days against the national doubling rate of 178.70 days. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.88 per cent, while the recovery rate was 97.26 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-220
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||JMM to meet  LS Speaker on Sarna code ||Members of the ruling UPA alliance in Jharkhand have decided to meet Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla over the inclusion of Sarna Adivasi religion code in 2021 Census. “A delegation of senior JMM leaders, including our MP (Rajmahal MP Vijay Hansdak) and several MLAs will be seeking an appointment with Lok Sabha Speaker (Om Birla) and place before him the necessity of including Sarna/Adivasi religion code in the 2021 Census for safeguarding the identity of tribals across the country and Jharkhand. We are waiting for the announcement of the next Lok Sabha session and would meet the Speaker soon after the commencement of the session,” JMM general secretary and spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharjee said. The JMM leader also called upon the BJP MPs, who comprise a majority in Jharkhand, to come forward and join hands with the JMM on this issue. “The NDA has 12 MPs and they should also join hands with us in requesting for the inclusion of the Sarna/Adivasi religion code in the Census 2021 if they are serious about this issue,” Bhattacharjee said. State Congress executive chief Rajesh Thakur said they would be meeting their senior party leaders in Delhi on this issue. “As soon as our state president (Rameshwar Oraon) gets well, we will be seeking a meeting with party state in-charge R.P.N Singh and meet our senior leaders in Delhi and request them to support inclusion of Sarna/ Adivasi religious code in the 2021 Census in Lok Sabha,” Thakur said. The Jharkhand Assembly unanimously passed a resolution for a ‘Sarna Adivasi’ religion code in 2021 Census in a special one-day session earlier this month and send it to the Centre for consideration. Chief minister Hemant Soren had then claimed that a separate Sarna Adivasi religion code would facilitate a proper analysis of the tribal population in Jharkhand, ensure that they continue to derive benefits enshrined under the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution and avail special financial assistance from the Union government. He had said the move would also help in the conservation of tribal language, custom and culture. He had also expressed apprehension about the decreasing tribal population growth in Jharkhand in the absence of a separate Sarna code. Tribal groups of Jharkhand have been agitating for more than two decades and, earlier this year, threatened to boycott the 2021 Census if Sarna as a separate religion code is not included. They claim that with the Centre dropping the “Others” option from the religion column for Census 2021, Sarna adherents would be forced to either skip the column or declare themselves members of one of the six specified religions — Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Buddhist, Jain and Sikh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-220
01-12-2020||Jharkhand||CRPF jawan shoots self with AK-47||A 50-year-old jawan of 197 battalion of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service self-loading rifle (AK-47) at iron-ore mining hub of the region in Jharkhand’s Karampada at the Maoist-affected Saranda forest area of West Singhbhum district, on Saturday early morning, over 200 km south of capital Ranchi. The deceased jawan has been identified as an assistant sub-inspector in the CRPF, Umeed Singh, a native of Churu district of Rajasthan and was deputed at the Karampada base camp of 197 battalion of CRPF for over two years. Though no suicide note has been recovered from the place of occurrence but police sources claimed that the jawan was depressed over family issues. “We rule out work related pressure as the reason for the suicide as there has not been much movement of Maoist in the region off late. We have not received any suicide note from the place and have informed the relatives of the jawan about the incident and only after they arrive at the site we can know the exact reason for the suicide. Colleagues, however, claim that he was staying depressed over some family issues for the last few days. “Today morning as usual he completed his morning ablution and all of a sudden there sounds of gun shots and jawans rushed to Umeed lying in pool of blood with his service lying near him. He was rushed to the nearby Kiriburu hospital where he was declared brought dead,” said Kiriburu police station officer-in-charge, Ashok Kumar. The body has been sent for post-mortem to Chaibasa Sadar Hospital and the last rites would be performed after the arrival of the relatives. “We have gathered that he had been in training at Delhi for a long time and was deployed at Karampada two years ago. His elder son is in railway and daughter was also married, but still he was tensed over some family issues,” said a CRPF official requesting anonymity. CRPF officials have informed senior officials at Chaibasa and also in Delhi about the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-220
