02-12-2020||Jharkhand||Two brothers arrested for theft||A major breakthrough came for the Jamshedpur Police, on Wednesday, for a complicated theft case involving close family members. The suspected duo – Abhishek Chaudhury and Vishal Chaudhury have been arrested, after the police recovered cash (Rs 10,15,000) and gold ornaments from the residence of Vishal’s girlfriend, in Jugsalai. The brothers in their early twenties, had been arrested after the police had registered an FIR on the basis of a case lodged by Devendra Chaudhury, at the Jugsalai Police Station on November 28, against his brother Surendra Chaudhury and his family. Sharing the details, senior superintendent of police, M Tamil Vanan said Chaudhury, in his complaint, had maintained that cash worth Rs 12 lakhs and gold ornaments had gone missing from his Jugsalai residence, when he was out of town for some work. However, the lock of his residence was intact even after the theft. “As there was no outsider in the house, Devendra suspected his brother Surendra Chaudhury, his wife and children to have committed the theft. On getting the FIR we set up a special team to get the case investigated,” Vanan said. “Led by the deputy superintendent of police (law and order) Alok Ranjan, the team first interrogated Surendra Chaudhury and his wife, but failed to get any clue. Subsequently the team interrogated Surendra’s two sons,” he added. The police officer said that Vishal was really close to his uncle and would often drive his car as well. “On being interrogated intensively, Vishal gave in and confessed to his crime. He divulged that he persuaded his elder brother Abinash to help in committing the theft at his uncle’s house. After taking the cash and jewelry, he had kept them at his girlfriend’s house at Jugsalai,” Vanan informed. “On cracking the case, the police led Vishal to his girlfriend’s house and recovered Rs 10,15,000 and the jewelries, which included a gold necklace, gold chain, two sets of earrings and two sets of gold rings on Wednesday,” he told reporters. According to the police, Vishal had complete knowledge about his uncle’s business and was aware of the fact that he kept a large amount of money at home, therefore he had planned to commit such theft and was just waiting for an opportunity. “As Vishal was close to his uncle, he had access to the keys of the house as well as the wardrobe. He had even made duplicate keys of the house and the steel wardrobe. When the victim, who is a bachelor, went out of the house, the accused executed his plan,” said a police official who was also a member of the special team. The two brothers have been sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail after having undergone a Covid-19 test and being produced before a judicial magistrate late in the afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-217
02-12-2020||Jharkhand||Minister steps in to clear the air on paddy procurement||The ongoing paddy procurement process in Jharkhand encountered a minor hitch on Wednesday when the state food minister’s comment about moisture content in crops led to an impression that the process had been halted, prompting the Opposition BJP to try and make quick capital out of the controversy. Rameshwar Oraon set the record straight soon after, clarifying that his concerns about moisture content, was aired partially by a television news channel and hence misunderstood. He said the procurement process was on, but that he had only asked officials to ensure good quality crops were bought. Oraon said, “Paddy procurement process has been started. But my concern is that officials shouldn’t buy in haste to meet the target and farmers too shouldn’t be in hurry to sell them at government centres unless the harvest stocks were totally dry.” The minister explained that crops retained moisture after harvest, and it took two-three weeks for them to dry. “If we buy moisture laden stock, overall quantity is reduced once it has dried. As a result, even though we would have paid full money to the farmer, we will get less stocks. The money that the government is paying as minimum support price (MSP) to farmers is also public money and shouldn’t be wasted,” he said. The state government kicked off paddy procurement process from Ranchi on Monday by setting up 23 centres in the district stating that other districts too would operationalise paddy centres within this week. However, the minister’s comment, aired by a local electronic channel, was construed as an admission that the government had halted the paddy procurement process for 15 days. But Oraon got wind of the confusion early and issued a clarification. He said his only advice to officials of the food and civil supplies department was to be vigilant and ensure there was no loss of government money. This year, the state government has fixed a target of procuring 4.5 lakh metric ton paddy from 1.60 lakh farmers. About 1.42 lakh farmers across all the 24 districts have so far enrolled with the government to sell their produce. The Opposition BJP was quick to step in. State party president Deepak Prakash threatened to hit the streets to prevent the government from stopping procurement. “We have credible information that the government has stopped the procurement process within a day of its start,” he said in a statement. “This exposes the grand alliance’s anti-farmer stance. In the past, it has stopped several pro-farmer policies launched by the previous BJP government. At a time when farmers need more assistance amid the pandemic, the Hemant government is forcing farmers to sell their produce at throwaway price,” he added. The state BJP’s aggressive defence of farmers’ rights came at a time when the Narendra Modi government is faced with the wrath of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and elsewhere who have mounted an unprecedented campaign against the new farm laws in Delhi. The Jharkhand government has also criticised the new laws, describing them as an attack on “annadatas”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-217
02-12-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city caps wedding guests at 200 only  ||The East Singhbhum district administration has decided to allow only 200 guests at wedding receptions, the cap imposed after blatant violation of Covid safety norms at recent gatherings. "Such a decision has been taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The host should also ensure that those attending the parties follow social distancing and other Covid norms or else necessary action would be taken as per provisions of the Disaster Management Act," said a district administrative official. East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar has passed on the instructions to all hotels, banquet and community halls, especially those that are taken on rent for hosting wedding receptions. Kumar said the administration was forced to impose curbs after it was observed that those who were attending weddings were ignoring safety protocols, thereby risking the spread of the virus. The deputy commissioner has also issued instructions to all officials to keep a watch on wedding ceremonies so that the guidelines are not violated. This is peak wedding season, expected to continue till mid-December. As per the directives issued by the office of deputy commissioner, party hosts would have to keep chairs 6 feet apart or to arrange them in circles at a distance of 6 feet from each. Also, thermal scanners, hand wash facilities and sanitizers would have to be arranged for use at the entrance and exit of venues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-218
02-12-2020||Jharkhand||Salaries not paid for months, JMADA employees stage protest ||Over 50 employees of the Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) on Wednesday sat on a dharna outside the office of the managing director of the civic body, at its Luby Circular Road based headquarters in Dhanbad. The protesters agitated against a host of demands including the pending salary payment, disbursement of arrears to retired employees and so on. The sit-in was triggered when JMADA Managing Director Dilip Kumar denied permission to meet a delegation of employees, who sought to discuss with him the long-pending issues related to the payment of their salaries among others. Talking to reporters on Wednesday, Raju Balmiki, the President of the JMADA unit of Janta Mazdoor Sangh (Kunti Faction) said, “It is for the first time in the recent memory that the employees have not been paid salary ahead of Chhath.” “The response of the Managing Director to the employees, who are deprived of their salary for 46 months, is really distressing as during the recent talk with us he said that they can’t pay the salary regularly. He said that the employers had paid salary ahead of Durga puja so there is no fund left to pay the salary ahead of Chhath again” said Balmiki, a fourth grade employee of JMADA. “Whenever we demand payment of our pending salaries the authorities make excuses of non-payment of funds from the government. We wanted to know from authorities when actually the fund is expected to arrive,” he added. Rakesh Singh, General Secretary of the same organisation, said, “The civic body administration is always making excuses regarding the poor financial situation of JMADA. We wanted to know how this situation can improve because it is very difficult for the employees to sustain their families due to non-payment of salary.” “We had a meeting with the participants of the dharna, during which we assured them about the steps being taken to ensure further payment of salary to the employees. We also explained the financial constraints with us,” Indresh Shukla, Executive Engineer cum Technical Member of JMADA, said. “We will make the payment as soon as we get funds from different sources, including the government,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-218
02-12-2020||Jharkhand||RMC website still defunct, property tax-payers left high and dry||The official website of Ranchi Municipal Corporation hasn’t been functioning since August, forcing residents of the state capital to either pay property tax in person at the RMC office or shell out hefty fine as, despite assurances, RMC hasn’t been able to resume online payment facilities. Ranchi deputy mayor Sanjiv Vijaywargiya on Wednesday promised residents that the website would be functional within the next 10 days. However, highly placed sources in the RMC said the hand-over process from a former third-party agency to a new agency was causing the delay in resumption of online tax payment. The fear is that the process may take longer.  RMC had promised to resume e-payments by October. But as of Wednesday, the website was still undergoing a “software update”. After the JMM-led alliance came to power in the state in December last year, the Hemant government decided to rope in a new third party agency, Shree Enterprises, for tax collection on behalf of RMC. Sparrow, an agency which was doing the job during the former Raghubar Das-led government, was shown the door. “The website is undergoing software update since we roped in a new agency for tax collection,” said Vijaywargiya, adding that property holders could still visit RMC office and pay tax in person until the website is functional. However, property owners who hadn’t paid their tax yet would have to pay a penalty along with their holding tax irrespective of the reason for the delay in payment of tax, Vijaywargiya said. The decision of not giving relaxations on tax penalty comes at a time when the government has been encouraging people to stay indoors and use online modes of payment in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The RMC had suggested to the government to waive penalty on holding tax during the nationwide lockdown, but the government did not agree, Vijaywargiya said. The RMC, he added, did not have the authority to take a call on rebates and penalties on taxes without getting the government’s consent. The Jharkhand government has been dealing with a funds crunch since the beginning of the year. While ministers in the Hemant Soren Cabinet were pondering upon ways to generate revenue, the Covid-19 pandemic aggravated the crisis. Under the circumstances, the state government was not willing to lose any more revenue, even if in the form of tax penalties. Prithwi Kumar Das, a resident of an apartment complex in Morhabadi, said that he could not even check the amount he had to pay as holding tax as the RMC website was defunct. “If online payment resumes today, I will immediately pay my holding tax. But charging a fine after not providing the option to pay taxes online is wrong on RMC’s part,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-218
02-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad-Bengal train services resume after 8 months||The Asansol-Dhanbad MEMU (63543/63544), running between the two towns, and the CoalField Express (12339/12340) have resumed their services from Wednesday after being suspended for 254 days due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown and a subsequent halt in rail operations. Street vendors, office goers, students and small time traders are rejoicing at the move, as they can now easily connect to different parts of Bengal including Asansol, Durgapur and Calcutta from Dhanbad. Talking to The Telegraph Online at the Dhanbad Railway station on Wednesday, Sumit Bhattacharya, an Asansol resident, said, “I came here at Dhanbad at my in-laws’ place two days ago on bus and came to know about the restoration of Asansol Dhanbad MEMU train afterwards. I booked the ticket yesterday (Tuesday) to return to my native place at Asansol to avoid the bus journey,  which is expensive as well as causes a lot of exhaustion.” The Sunshine Steel Pvt Ltd. employee boarded the train from Dhanbad at 8 am to reach Asansol at 9:50 am. Pramod Kumar, a student residing at the Sijua area of Dhanbad, appeared to have similar opinions. “The train journey is quite comfortable.The best part is that there is no usual rush in the train as only limited tickets have been sold for the second seating arrangement,” he said, as he boarded the train on Wednesday morning at Dhanbad to reach his maternal uncle’s place at Asansol. “The restoration of the train after more than eight months has provided great relief to the people like us who were compelled to make expensive, unsafe and uncomfortable journeys on bike or in buses,” Vishnu Mandal, a resident of Kalubathan in Dhanbad, said. Mandal reached the Dhanbad railway Station at 9:30 am in the Asansol Dhanbad MEMU to join his duty at a local factory in the town. The Asansol Dhanbad MEMU passenger will depart for Asansol daily at 8 am to reach Dhanbad at 9:30 am covering a distance of 58 km and making  stoppages at 11 intermediate stations. These include Barachak, Sitarampur, Kulti, Barakar, Kumbardubi, Mugma, Thapar Nagar, Kalubathan, Chhota Ambona, Pradhankhanta and Dokra halt. The same train will leave Dhanbad at 9:50 am to reach Asansol at 11 am. Another journey of the MEMU train from Asansol will begin at 6:10 pm to reach Dhanbad at 7:25 pm. The CoalField Express, running between Dhanbad and Howrah, also made its first journey after the lockdown from the coal town at 5:55 am on Wednesday. It reached Howrah at around 10:30 am. On the opposite route, the train will start from Howrah at 5:20 pm to reach Dhanbad at 9:40 pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-218
02-12-2020||Jharkhand||Bharat Coking Coal turns its back on polluted Dhanbad||Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board’s ultimatum notwithstanding, Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) has not taken any visible steps to improve air quality in and around Dhanbad in the last one and a half years. BCCL is yet to procure mechanical dust sweepers, or static and/or mobile dust sprinklers. Roads have not been “green-walled” as per the pollution board’s instructions. Also, the display board of JSPCB’s lone air quality monitoring station at Digwadih in Jharia has been lying defunct since the last four months. And funds to the tune of Rs 3 crore provided by the pollution board to Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) in January to launch a massive tree plantation drive and begin mechanized dust sweeping of roads are lying unutilised. The lack of urgency is staggering on the part of both the civic body and the PSU as Jharia and Dhanbad are among the worst polluted towns of the country. Yet, Dhanbad is among 102 cities/towns under the National Clean Air Programme, under which pollution levels are to be curtailed by 35 per cent in three years. Member of Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board Rajiv Sharma said, “The situation is indeed pathetic as no step is in sight to control the situation. We will be discussing all the issues during Thursday’s meeting of JSPCB scheduled in Ranchi.” Jharia based environmentalist Manoj Singh said, “We were very hopeful after the June 11, 2019 meeting of JSPCB in Ranchi after which BCCL prepared a Dhanbad Action Plan. As per the plan, the PSU was to undertake a massive tree plantation drive on mines overburden, establish a 24x7 air quality monitoring station in various areas and install static sprinklers at some of the polluted street corners of Dhanbad.” None of these steps, however, were taken, he said. “People are compelled to inhale the polluted air and become victims of various breathing related diseases like bronchitis, tuberculosis, etc,” said Singh, who is founder of social organisation Green Life. Regional officer of JSPCB in Dhanbad Ram Narayan Chaudhary blamed procedural delays with regard to issuing tenders for the purchase of equipment like mobile dust sweepers and continuous air quality monitoring stations at BCCL. “However, some tree plantation has already been carried out at many mines overburden sites,” he said. Chaudhary claimed that the air quality monitoring station of JBSPCB at Digwadih was able to record data, even though it had suffered a display issue. “Only the on-screen display system isn’t functioning. But the data is being fed to the Central Pollution Control Board regularly,” he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-218
02-12-2020||Jharkhand||Two years on, honey plant at Latehar remains non-operational||The honey processing plant set up at the densely Maoist-infested, remote locality of the Domakharn village under the Garu block continues to be non-operational even after two years of its inauguration. Abu Imran, the Deputy Commissioner of Latehar, a district which covers Domrakharn, said the issue has been brought to his notice and he has directed the BDO of Garu, Tutu Dilip, to find out the reason why no work had started in the honey refining plant in all these years. He informed that according to the preliminary reports, a possible lack of infrastructure was keeping the plant non-operational. The executive engineer of electricity claimed that there was no issue of power supply in the area, and neither was water, Imran said. The plant was set up to collect honey for processing, the DC said. The Jharkhand Marketing Cooperative Federation had, in 2019, offered financial aid to set up the plant, Tutu Dilip informed, adding that he has no idea what the estimated cost of the plant was. Garu Madhu Sah Van Utpadak Sahyog Samiti was the user agency for this plant, but they have shown no interest in starting any work here. Though Domakharn is a remote area with no cell phone connectivity and a Maoist hotspot, the Garu block, which encompasses the area, is rich in honey and kendu leaves used for making bidi in Uttar Pradesh. The distance between Latehar district town and Domrakharn is around 60 kilometers. S Oraon, a tribal residing at Garu, informed that the women of his community refused to collect honey for the plant as they were not sure of the wages they would be getting for their work. According to sources, big companies have their agents in the area, who collect honey straight from the tribals, and then send it to UP for aggressive marketing. The locals say that Maoists rely upon honey hugely, as they try to increase their immunity by consuming it. According to them, the rebels use it to shield themselves from Covid-19, as no one including the police has ever heard of a Maoist suffering from the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-218
02-12-2020||Jharkhand||TMH widens special service programme for senior citizens ||Tata Main Hospital in Jamshedpur has decided to widen the ambit of its special services for senior citizens by reducing the age limit of beneficiaries to 75  from 80 and open up the service to more people in the time of the ongoing pandemic. "TMH has always strived to extend its support to senior citizens and will continue to strengthen the patient experience, " said a statement issued by the hospital administration on Tuesday evening. It said the elderly would continue to have direct access to the pharmacy, pathology lab, cash counter, and report collection counters. As of now, senior citizens need not pre-book appointments on phone or intranet or TMH Vishwas App for OPD consultations. As per the initiative, which came into effect from Tuesday, all patients above 75 years would receive a "logo sticker" from the TMH Helpdesk. The dedicated tag line for elders is "Vishwas Saath Ka". The special assistance service has been launched to ease visits of elders to TMH and promote customer experience, the hospital said. Elderly patients would need to collect their stickers from the TMH Helpdesk for easy identification. The hospital staff would assist them with appointments and they would be seen by doctors on priority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-218
02-12-2020||Jharkhand||Active Covid cases down but casualties on a steady rise in Jharkhand||While the number of people battling the Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand dropped below 2000 by the end of Tuesday, at least five more patients died of the lethal infection across the state on the day, taking the Covid toll up at 969, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As many as 181 fresh cases of infection, including 81 from Ranchi alone, surfaced in Jharkhand on the day, while at least 227 patients recovered from the infection. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 1,965 people were battling the virus across the state. At least three districts – Sabhegbanj, Pakur and Khunti – did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on Tuesday. However, at least 18 cases surfaced in East Singhbhum and 14 in West Singhbhum in the past 24 hours. Barring Ranchi, East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum, no other district reported a double-digit-spike in Covid cases on the day, stated the NHM bulletin. As per government data, at least two people died of Covid-19 in Bokaro on the day, while East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and Saraikela reported one death each. East Singhbhum has so far reported 352 Covid fatalities, while 195 Covid patients have died in Ranchi. These two districts account for more than 50 per cent of the total Covid casualties in Jharkhand. The number of active cases dropped in Ranchi as well as East Singhbhum as both the districts reported more recoveries than fresh cases. At least 29 patients recovered in East Singbhum against 18 fresh cases, while 93 patients recovered against 81 fresh cases in Ranchi on Tuesday, government data stated. As per government records, these two districts also account for more than half of the active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand. At least 726 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi and 295 people were infected in East Singhbhum. The government on Tuesday tested swab samples of 27,307 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers in the state have collected swab samples of 42.33 lakh people and tested 42.15 lakh of them. While 1,09,332 people were found infected in the state, at least 1,06,398 of them have recovered, highlights government data. The government puts the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand at 97.31 per cent. The growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand also dropped to 0.15 per cent on Tuesday against the national average of 0.37 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 449.42 days, while the national doubling rate of Covid-19 infection was 188.05 days, reveals the NHM bulletin. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.88 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-218
02-12-2020||Jharkhand||A football contest that will get you a goat in Jharkhand||The khassi tournament that is popular in rural Jharkhand where a khassi, a castrated goat considered best for feasting on mutton, is given as prize has reached the outskirts of state capital Ranchi. The residents of Namkum Basti witnessed the final of a football tournament on Monday when the winning team, Prakash Club of Samlong area of Ranchi, was given a khassi weighing 25 kg as the prize. “The runners-up, Yuva Club from Garhi village, got another khassi weighing 20 kg,” informed Sonal Kachchap, treasurer of Gram Vikash Samiti of Namkum Basti that organised the tournament, adding cups and medals were also given to the best players in different categories. In total, 16 teams participated in the tournament and each of those had to pay an entry fee of Rs 3,100, he further informed, adding a khassi of lesser weight was also given to each of the rest two semi-finalists. “It was an exciting match with both the finalists locked in a goalless draw Prakash Club won by 3-2 goals in penalty shoot-out,” he further informed. “There was another similar tournament organised at Raja Ulatu village final match of which was played on Sunday,” informed Rajesh Kachchap, Congress MLA of Khijri who was chief guest and gave away prizes on both the occasions, adding such tournaments are often organised in rural areas in his constituency. “Khassi tournament, both for football and hockey, is very popular in countryside and there’s hardly any of us who didn’t play it those days,” reminisced Mohammed Halimuddin, 70-year-old secretary of Ranchi District Football Association. At some places, these are organised in a big way and prize money of Rs 1 lakh and Rs 50,000 were given to the winners and runners-up, besides a motorbike to the best player, in a tournament held in Chakradharpur a few years ago. These tournaments are also sometimes organised on a single day when the qualifying matches are held in smaller formats of 15 minutes or half-an-hour duration before the final on the same day followed by a feast in the evening. Such tournaments are also organised on festive occasions such as Christmas when many take leave to return home. Such persons pool money or accept entry fees for organising the event and buying khassi for prize. There were reports that those who were away from the state for earning a living also organised such tournaments in places like Vasco da Gama in Goa. These khassi tournaments, however, also faced criticism at times. When the Jharkhand team could not win a single match in the qualifying round of Santosh Trophy in 2015, some felt the players were concentrating on small format matches of khassi tournaments and could not hold on in the 90-minute format. “That’s true,” agreed Halimuddin, adding many of those concentrating too much on small format matches for easy money could not maintain the required stamina for 90 minutes. Still, khassi tournaments remain as popular as before.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-218
