03-12-2020||Jharkhand||12 workers injured in Brahmaputra Metallics plant blast||Six technicians were severely injured when an explosion took place at Brahmputra Metallics Ltd, a sponge iron plant in Kamta of Ramgarh’s Gola block, on Thursday. The blast occurred due to a gas leak in the sponge iron plant, a noted industrial establishment of state. According to the eye witness, around a dozen of the employees, all technicians have sustained injuries. The injured workers were first taken to Chittaranjan Hospital, where they were given the necessary first aid, before being rushed to Ranchi’s Devkamal Hospital. Out of the six technicians, who have sustained serious injuries, three of them are in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the Ranchi hospital. Around nine of the injured workers have been admitted here. Locals have alleged that there was complete chaos in the plant when the explosion took place. They even accused the company of not maintaining the safety standards inside the plant. The ambulance too arrived late to ferry the injured to the hospital. A team of police led by DSP head quarter Prakash Soy reached the accident site in factory to investigate. Soy said, “The injured individuals are being treated at Devkamal hospital, Ranchi. We have begun out investigation. Once we are done with the investigation we will take legal action if needed.” Local Congress leader Sudhir Manglesh accused the company of ignoring safety standards. “In 2018, there was an explosion in the factory, in which one worker was killed. In another accident, one person had to be amputated. Today again a major accident has taken place. The factory management should provide proper treatment to those injured. These people should also be compensated.” Human resource head of the company Anjani Kumar, when contacted said, “The accident took place unexpectedly. We are busy providing medical treatment to the injured. Company will provide all the help to them. It is an unfortunate incident. We are present in Devkamal hospital to help the injured.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-216
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||Special people observe black day,  protest with begging bowl||The disabled persons of the district on Thursday took part in a unique protest as they hit the streets with begging bowl near the district collectorate at Sakchi. Around 50 physically disabled persons under the banner of Akhil Bhartiya Viklang Adhikari Sangh sat with begging bowl along the Subarnarekha Link Road near the district collectorate. The protest, in which the agitated disabled persons demanded advance pension, began at 10.30 am continued for over two hours. “We chose today for the protest as it is the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. During the lockdown in March, the Centre had announced to give three months pension in advance to all persons with disabilities. But, we are yet to get the advance pension. This has led to hardships and acute financial crisis for the disabled,” said Deepak Kumar, secretary of Akhil Bhartiya Viklang Adhikari Sangh. According to Kumar, persons with disabilities also observed a black day on Thursday. Later, the outfit submitted a memorandum highlighting their demands at the deputy commissioner's office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-216
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||CCTV cameras in Steel City parking lots to curb vehicle theft||Thanks to Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), vehicle parking will be a lot safer in Steel City now. The civic body, JNAC, is all set to have surveillance cameras and barricades installed in parking lots across the city. The move to put parking zones under surveillance aims to curb the menace of vehicle theft, which has been on the rise of late. Significantly, the civic authority has put up a drop gate at one of the parking areas in Bistupur to assure owners that their vehicles are protected. City Manager, JNAC, Sandeep Kumar Singh, while explaining the need for such initiatives, said that the move to put up barricades and have CCTV cameras installed to provide enhanced security to the vehicles parked. “We have over a dozen parking lots in Bistupur, Sakchi, and Kadma area. We are going to put up barricades wherever necessary and also have CCTV cameras installed. The parking lots will have barricades. And owners will be allowed to park their vehicles through the drop gates only. This arrangement is going to provide more protection to the parked vehicles,” said the City Manager while talking to The Telegraph Online. Singh said that Bistupur and Sakchi had the most parking areas, whereas Kadma market had only one. “All the parking zones will have surveillance cameras, which will be monitored by the concerned police station. In case of theft, the CCTV footage could be used to trace the thieves easily,” he said. Parking tender for the financial year 2019-20 had ceased to exist, post-March 25, 2020 as no one used public places for parking their vehicles during the lockdown period. But with the lockdown being lifted, in phases since August, city life is returning to normalcy, made the civic body float parking tender once again. But with incidents of vehicle lifting shooting up forced them to cancel the parking tender based on the old pattern. JNAC has made several new provisions which includes the installation of CCTV cameras and putting up barricades around parking lots. Contractors have been allotted to all the parking lots across the city. An official working with one of the parking contractors, Shail Engineering, said, “As per the new system, vehicle riders have to collect parking slips at the entrance and while leaving the place, they have to hand over the slip to the parking men at the exit. The security system will be further enhanced when the parking area will be covered by the CCTV camera,” said the official while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-216
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||CM rewards class 10, 12 toppers with Rs 1 lakh each||Chief minister Hemant Soren felicitated toppers of class 10 and 12 board exams on Thursday by presenting cheques worth Rs 1 lakh to each student for meritorious performance and also presided over the launch of two digital teaching platforms to improve the quality of online education in government schools. Hemant assured the government’s support to all the meritorious students of Jharkhand, asking them to aim high and strive for success in academics. “The government stands by your side. We will support meritorious students of our state in achieving success. Very soon, the government will also provide foreign scholarships to students of our state,” he said. This year, more than seven lakh students appeared for class 10 and 12 exams conducted by Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC), Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISC) in Jharkhand. On July 22, the Jharkhand Cabinet decided to give away cash awards of Rs1 lakh to each of the toppers of class 10 and class 12 in a bid to encourage them to pursue higher goals. As per a document shared by the HRD department, as many as 38 students were felicitated. The government launched two digital platforms – Digi School and Learnytic 2.0. While Digi School will be used for online classes for students of classes 1 to 8, Learnytic will make online education easier for students of class 9 to 12. Through the Learnytic app, students will get access to e-books, sample question papers with answers, and audiovisual aids, something that was ill now restricted to private schools of Jharkhand. Officials of Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) said the apps were much needed for government school students as online classes using WhatsApp were quite challenging for teachers. Students will have to get registered on the two apps, using their school credentials, and get access to all the study materials. Besides giving away cash prizes to toppers, Hemant also felicitated at least eight government school students, who found berths in IITs and medical colleges after preparing through Jharkhand’s Akansha project. Under the project, the government provides free coaching to meritorious students of government schools to help them crack JEE and NEET exams. Hemant also conferred Mukhyamantri Swaccha Vidyalaya awards to nine schools for maintaining cleanliness and hygiene on campuses. Representatives of Government Public School, Kutmu, Lohardaga; Government Public School, Gopalpur Deoghar; Rajkiya Madhya Vidyalaya, Kaswagarh, Bokaro; Government Madhya Vidyalaya Lohardaga; Rajkiya High School, Amlabad, Bokaro; Yogada Satsang High School, Jagganathpur; KGBV Senha, Lohardaga; Samarth Residential School, Golmuri, Jamshedpur and Saraswati Vidya Mandir School, Gumla were felicitated by the CM at project building in Ranchi. The schools were awarded with cheques ranging between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 2 lakh depending on their performance. Due to Covid-19 restrictions, another 110 schools, which were supposed to get felicitated in Ranchi, were given the awards at ceremonies organised in their respective districts on Thursday. “Due to Covid-19 restrictions, all of you could not attend the event. However, I thank everyone participating in the ceremony via online platforms for joining us today,” said Hemant. Talking about the glorious past of some of the reputed schools in Jharkhand, Hemant said that Netarhat School in Latehar had produced more than 2000 IAS officers. “We feel proud that schools of such high stature are imparting education to our children,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-216
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||Leaders, local residents pay tributes to Tundi MLA ||Political leaders including AJSU supremo Sudesh Mahato, Giridih MP Chandraprakash Chaudhary and locals of Dhanbad on Thursday paid tributes to former Tundi MLA Raj Kishore Mahato, who passed away at the age of 75 on Wednesday while undergoing treatment at the Asian Durgadas Jalan Memorial Hospital. The leader died at around 8:30 pm on the day. The politician joined active politics following the death of his father Binod Bihari Mahato, who was the founder of JMM, and contested the parliamentary election in 1991 to win a seat at Giridih. He later won the assembly election from Sindri on a BJP ticket in 2009. Following his win at Sindri, Mahato contested the assembly elections from Tundi in 2014 on an AJSU ticket to win it. However, he could not prove himself during the last polls, and lost the Tundi seat to JMM’s Mathura Prasad Mahato. Raj Kishore graduated in Mining Engineering from Indian School of Mines (now IIT (ISM)) in 1968, and later went on to earn his LLB degree from Chotanagpur Law College in 1975. The former Tundi MLA also served as the chairman of the state Legal Commission after his loss in the last assembly polls, to concentrate on educational and social work under the banner of Binod Bihari Mahato Smarak Samiti. AJSU supremo Sujesh Mahato, who arrived at Raj Kishore’s Professor Colony residence at Chiragora to pay his last respects, told the media, “We have lost our guardian in his death.” “The state has suffered a great loss in the demise of Raj Kishore Mahato, who propagated the ideals of his father,  Binod Bihari Mahto, throughout his life. A void has been created following his death,” he further said. Giridih MP Chandraprakash Chaudhary was also among the ones who arrived at the deceased leader’s house. Tundi MLA and former land revenue minister, Mathura Prasad Mahato also reached his residence on Thursday morning to console his family members. “He was a man of principles who never compromised his principle for the sake of political or personal gains,” he said. Dhanbad MP PN Singh, said, “Rajkishor Mahto, like his father Binod Bihari Mahato contributed hugely in the development of educational institutions in the district.” Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha said, “He was an intellectual leader and carried forward the social work and educational activity of his father in true spirit.” “I am personally shocked over his death as he was my political guru and I started politics under his guidance,” said Sindri MLA Indrajit Mahato, while expressing grief over Raj Kishore’s death. The former MLA’s body will be cremated on Friday Baliapur Mukti Dham where several prominent leaders of the state, including the state chief Hemant Soren, are likely to be present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-216
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||Parents say thank you to special teachers ||As the world celebrates International Day of Persons with Disabilities on December 3, parents of children with disabilities in Jharia expressed their gratitude to the special teachers of a government-owned resource centre for the disabled children. The teachers of the centre took the extra effort to continue the training and exercise session for these children even during the lockdown by reaching their houses. The resource centre was established under the education programme of Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan. Manoj Singh, physiotherapist of the Jharia-based resource centre, and Akhlaque Ahmad, special educator-cum-speech therapist, during the lockdown, didn’t allow the training and exercises to be discontinued even for a single day for over 20 cerebral palsy affected and autistic children. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Singh said, “Though altogether 109 children are registered at our centre, we were greatly concerned about the well-being of around 20 cerebral palsy affected children, ever since the imposition of lockdown. We used the smartphones to make video calls explaining the exercises and even sent videos of exercises to be carried out regularly through WhatsApp.” “With the gradual passage of time and improving Covid-19 situation, we started visiting the house of some students occasionally and provide training to them,” further said Singh. Echoing sentiments, Akhlaque Ahmad, said, “We also carried out training in basic hygiene and cleanliness about these children which is quite crucial for their health.” “For some children of the economically backward section of the society, whose parents could not afford to have smartphones to avail the online exercise lessons, we had to visit their home and give them the lessons,” said Ahmad. Hasina Khatoon, grandmother of a cerebral palsy affected student, Sajjad Ansari (12), who accompanied her grandson during a programme for the International Day of Persons with Disabilities organised at the resource centre on Thursday said, “My grandson could not walk properly and used to fall while walking and also profuse saliva secretion used to take place. Ever since he started training at the resource centre the condition of Sajjad improved a lot and now he plays cricket with the other children of the locality.” “We are grateful for the help carried out by the teachers of the centre and particularly, Manoj Singh sir and Akhlaque sir who continued the training all through the lockdown and even took the pain of sometimes visiting our house to clarify the exercise steps,” said Khatoon, whose son Imtiyaz Ansari is a daily wage earner. Sima Devi, the mother of 15-year-old cerebral palsy affected girl Pammi Kumari, said, “We were very disappointed seven years ago when we admitted our daughter to the centre as she could even stand on her own properly but the dedicated efforts of teachers did a miracle for her. Now she not only runs but also sings devotional songs during some of the religious programmes at a nearby temple.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-216
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||Sex toys, arms & ammo recovered from rebel hideout||Security forces on Thursday recovered a huge cache of arms and ammunition and sex toys from a Jharkhand Jan Mukti Parishad (JJMP) hideout in Palamau after a brief gun battle with the rebels, police said on Thursday. During a search operation, security forces recovered one AK-56 rifle, three magazines, a country-made pistol, about two dozen cartridges, 8 cell phones, a couple of walkie talkies and notebooks. A CRPF officer said that they also found a polythene sheet which meant that the rebels had spent considerable time there. However, the appearance of sex toys at the hideout of Left Wing Extremist (LWE) group has surprised police. “We found one sex toy with a vibrator at the JJMP hideout. The group has both men and women as cadre, many of whom we saw flee,” said Palamau SP Sanjeev Kumar. JJMP is a splinter CPI (Maoist) group, which is active in parts of Jharkhand. As per records with the Union home ministry, it is one of the 17 splinter outfits in the state, involved in extorting levy from businessmen and killing villagers. Police say that JJMP rebels do not follow the ideology of the CPI (Maoist), the main rebel outfit in Jharkhand. The raids on Thursday were conducted at Salamdiri under Panki police station, a little over 100 km north-west of capital Ranchi, after the CRPF and police acted on a tip-off based on credible intelligence. Commandant of the CRPF’s 134 battalion A.D. Sharma said the encounter took place around 9.45 am and lasted for 10 minutes before the rebels, around a dozen or so, fled. Police failed to nab any of the rebels. “We have made recoveries, but the insurgents fled the spot. Our operations will continue in the area, and the rebels will be caught soon,” said the Palamu SP. As per data with the MHA, at least 19 of 24 districts in Jharkhand are LWE affected. Apart from the CPI (Maoist), splinter outfits like JJMP, Peoples Liberation Front of India (PLFI) and Tritiya Prastuti Committee (TPC) are active in various pockets of Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-216
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||Left parties back farmers, plan road blockade in Jharkhand||Left parties and social groups linked to them have announced statewide road blockades on December 10 in solidarity with protesting farmers, who are camping on the borders of Delhi in support of their demand to repeal the new farm laws enacted by the Narendra Modi government. As a prelude to the December 10 blockade, Left parties will also hold candlelight processions across district and block levels. Days earlier, on December 5, they will hold block-level demonstrations. A decision to this effect was taken at a joint meeting, held between representatives of CPI, CPM, CPI (M-L), Marxists Coordination Committee (MCC) on Wednesday, CPM state secretary Prakash Viplav said in a statement on Thursday. He claimed members of the ruling coalition, namely, JMM, Congress and RJD, would also support the protests. Viplav called the new farm laws pro-capitalist and anti-farmer. “The farm and labour laws brought by the government are totally pro-capitalist, no wonder the Modi government tries to justify its stand. If farm laws are for the farmers, why are so many farmers on the streets?” he said, adding that the country was united against privatisation of farmland. “In solidarity with lakhs of protesting farmers, we have also decided to hold chakka-jam on December 10. However, throughout this week, different groups will be staging demonstrations and marches across the state in the run-up to the statewide chakka-jam,” he said. CPI state secretary B.P. Mehta said that the way farmers were beaten up during the protest showed how nervous the Union government was. “We condemn such attacks on farmers,” he said. The state’s ruling coalition government, headed by Hemant Soren, has already expressed his views on the legislations by calling them black laws. Reacting to the ongoing protests by farmers in Delhi, Hemant told reporters that he felt sorry for annadatas. “Those who feed the country and are considered as the main drivers of the nation’s economy are today forced to fend for their rights on streets. In the current regime at the Centre, farmers, marginalised, labourers and the likes are constantly under threat,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-217
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI's Samarthya hosts Reflections-2020 on virtual platform||Samarthya, the student body of XLRI which help school students realise their potential by focusing on social and emotional learning, successfully conducted the annual event  ‘Reflections -2020’ virtually on Thursday. The event was organised on the topic ‘Mental Health and the Pandemic: Its implications and how to cope’. ‘Reflections - 2020’ emphasised the importance of mental health, especially during these challenging times, and initiated discussions amongst students, teachers, and parents on various issues that affect school children, like their social connections, physical health, and performance in studies. It is imperative to help students and their families deal with the anxiety and confusion that the current pandemic has brought about. The event saw participation of over 150 students from three different city schools - Dayanand Public School, DAV Public School, and Tarapore School. To fight the negative impacts of this pandemic and ensure mental well-being, school students were engaged in various fun-filled interactive activities. The activities helped to better understand emotions and cultivate good mental health practices. Even the school teachers and parents who participated in the event got valuable insights on identifying difficult emotions and their impact on the kids. Some of the common questions the school children asked during sessions were, “I'm always worried about doing well in school”; “How do I cope with the academic pressure?”,” How do I identify and work on my emotions and feelings”. To debunk the myths about mental health, an interactive quiz session was conducted. Participants were asked to assess how they felt during a particular situation with the help of a thought record worksheet; they could easily pinpoint emotions and work upon alternative thought processes they can adopt. It helped the students understand various existing misconceptions about mental health and the stigma attached to a person suffering from these issues. Several engaging activities were conducted to make the children comfortable in sharing their thoughts about the topic. A video explaining mental health issues amongst students and what they can do to get support from each other was shown and discussed with the students to help break the stigma. The students could relate well to the instances shown and even cited examples of some of their favourite celebrities who have talked about their mental health. The guest speaker of the event, Pooja Mohanty, a psychotherapist associated with the B-school commented, “The unfortunate pandemic which the world suffers from today has shifted our mental make-up to complexity and confusions. Yet, borrowing from the spiritual teachings and even from modern science today, we understand that there basic interconnectivity in everything, and nothing happens without our participation. Therefore, it is wise to keep our sanity at the deepest inner level with peace and harmony even though the outer world may seem sinking and a total mess. That is exactly how one feels in the awakened state. To feel this wonderful sense of peace, there is a requirement for our transformation. This revolution happens neither in our perceived futures or in our memorised pasts; it finds you peace only here and now in your being in the present moment.” Notably, Samarthya is an initiative taken by the students of XLRI to help school students realise their full potential by focusing on their social and emotional development. It is the youth wing of the Centre for Education Management, Leadership and Research (CEMLR) at XLRI. Since its inception in 2012, Samarthya has conducted various activities to aid students in unravelling their intrinsic capabilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-217
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||Marching orders for vendors to free up Sakchi market  ||Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) banned vendors from footpaths at Sakchi market on Thursday and asked them to set up shop at near-by Ambagan ground. The move, said sources in the urban civic body, was initiated to make it more convenient for shoppers to move around in the congested market area and to reduce the threat of transmission of the coronavirus. Around 200 footpath vendors, who have been selling various products at the Sakchi market for several decades, have now been told to move to Ambagan ground renamed as Netaji Subhas Maidan. On Wednesday, the district administration had carried out an eviction drive at Sakchi market, dismantling makeshift shops and seizing commodities sold by footpath vendors. Vendors on footpaths add to the risk of transmission of the virus, said JNAC city manager Ravi Bharti. “Vendors attract a large number of customers. People come to buy daily-use products from them. Most fail to follow social distancing norms,” he noted. The JNAC official said Mangla Haat, the weekly market of vendors held every Tuesday at Sakchi, would also be suspended. Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI) has appealed to footpath vendors to conduct business at the Ambagan ground. "This will help in avoiding crowds at the Sakchi market which is already congested," said Bharat Vasani, the SCCI vice-president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-217
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi enforces 'no tobacco' rule near schools||Close on the heels of a government decision of tightening the noose around tobacco trade in Jharkhand, the Ranchi district administration has started demarcating areas around schools as tobacco-free zones. In the past 48 hours, areas falling in 100 meter radius of at least 55 schools in the State capital have been marked with “yellow lines” to indicate that the sale and consumption of tobacco products in the said areas was prohibited, officials from the district administration said on Thursday. “Legal actions will be taken against people found selling or consuming tobacco products in the demarcated tobacco-free zone around educational institutions,” said Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan. The Jharkhand government has imposed a blanket ban on pan masala and gutkha across the state and also come up with the provision of issuing special licences to tobacco traders in Jharkhand recently. A government order issued earlier this week also stated that government employees in Jharkhand will have to sign an affidavit vowing not to consume tobacco products. The campaign of making the vicinity of educational institutions tobacco-free will be run extensively across the district this week, officials said, claiming that one of the major objectives of the campaign was to discourage the use of tobacco products by minors and students in their early twenties. The deputy commissioner has directed officials to cover all the government and private schools across the district in the next couple of days. The district administration will also hold meetings with representatives of various schools in the city to ensure that they spread awareness about the hazardous impact of tobacco on health and environment, officials said. The sale and consumption of tobacco products in the vicinity of educational institutions has been banned under the Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003. However, the sale of tobacco products continued unabated near some of the reputed schools in the state capital despite the ban, sources said. Many stationary shops and small cafeterias have been selling cigarettes to school students in the vicinity of educational institutions here. Meanwhile, the administration in the state capital has also launched a special drive to put a check on the entry of banned tobacco products in Ranchi district from neighbouring districts, officials said. Following an order from the Ranchi deputy commissioner, officials slapped fine worth nearly Rs.40,000 on tobacco traders selling loose cigarettes and banned pan masala in rural and urban areas of the district in the past 48 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-217
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||Covid test prices slashed in Jharkhand||The government on Wednesday slashed the price of Covid-19 tests conducted by private laboratories in Jharkhand, bringing the maximum price for an RT-PCR test down at Rs.800 and that for Rapid Antigen Test down to Rs.150, a notification issued by National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per the notification, the price of CBNAAT test was capped at Rs.2,200 while the price for TrueNat test was set at Rs.1,100. However, the standard price for Covid-19 test in the state will be Rs.800 as RT-PCR is the most commonly used process for Covid-19 tests in Jharkhand, health officials said. Jharkhand on Wednesday reported at least 206 fresh cases of infection against 262 recoveries, data compiled by the health department stated. While the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped in the state in the past 24 hours, the virus claimed at least two more lives, both from Ranchi, during the same period. The Covid-19 toll in the state jumped to 971 on the day, while the toll in Ranchi alone reached 197, highlighted a bulletin released by the NHM. However, the number of active cases dropped in Ranchi as the district reported 85 cases against 98 recoveries. As per government data, at least 709 people were battling the virus in Ranchi by Wednesday night. At least four Jharkhand districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on Wednesday, but Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and Bokaro reported a double-digit spike in cases. At least 20 cases surfaced in East Singhbhum against 18 recoveries, taking the active cases there up at 296. Dhanbad reported 18 cases against 20 recoveries, while Bokaro reported 11 cases against 20 recoveries. The government on Wednesday tested swab samples of 21,114 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 42.58 lakh people and tested around 42.40 lakh of them. As many as 1,09,538 people have been infected by the lethal virus so far in Jharkhand while 1,06,660 of them have recovered. As per government data, as many as 1907 people were battling the virus in Jharkhand on Wednesday night, and more than half of them were from Ranchi and East Singhbhum districts. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.15 per cent against the national average of 0.35 per cent, highlights government data. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 459.72 days against the national doubling rate of 196.72 days. The Covid recovery rate in the state was 97.37 per cent, while the Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.88 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-217
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||Two wedding guests sitting on bus roof electrocuted to death||Two wedding guests were electrocuted to death while another was injured, when a group of invitees perched on top of a bus ferrying all the guests to the venue came in contact with a hanging high tension electric wire in Jharkhand's Palamu district on Wednesday, said the police.
The incident took place near Jamua bridge in Manatu area when a group of people was going to attend a wedding at a temple by bus. Around 10 people were sitting on the roof of the bus when around three of them came in contact with a high tension wire that was hanging on the road. One of the guests who died on the spot was the groom’s uncle. The second person succumbed to his injuries a little later in a hospital, said the police.
The third person was also admitted to the same hospital. According to the police, his condition is also not stable. The dead bodies of the two individuals have been sent for autopsy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-217
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||IIT-ISM offers warm clothes to the poor||Budding techies and staff of the Indian Institute of Technology-Indian School of Mines have come forward to help the underprivileged in the coal belt who spend nights in the winter (minimum temperature dipping to 12 degrees) without the comfort of warm clothes. Members of the Centre of Societal Mission (CSM) unit of the IIT-ISM started a clothes donation drive in November. The members distributed the first lot of warm clothes to the poor on November 28 at a shanty near Barwadda, around 6km from their Dhanbad campus. The CSM was established in 2015. “We donated over 250 warm clothes to the poor residing at Malhar Basti near Barwadda. The clothes were donated by residents of the IIT-ISM campus during the drive conducted by us in October-November. We will be distributing clothes on every weekend in December amongst the poor residing in various slums who cannot afford expensive woollens,” said Sanjeev Sahu, head of the CSM unit of IIT-ISM. Malhar Basti is inhabited mostly by street vendors who have been worst affected due to the pandemic-induced lockdown this year. “Unlike earlier years, we have very few students as most of them are not at the campus. However, we were determined to do something for the poor. Our staff at CSM pitched in and an NGO, Sahayata Ek Achchi Soch, comprising members of IIT-ISM non-teaching staff, also helped us in the distribution work in Malhar Basti. We will be taking their help in the distribution as well as for collection of clothes throughout the month,” said Sahu. The IIT-ISM staff have also extended their support to the clothes donation drive. “We are privileged to be enjoying the comforts and would like to do our bit for the downtrodden and underprivileged. Hence, we have decided to donate our warm clothes for this drive,” said Rajni Singh, associate dean, media and branding, IIT-ISM, Dhanbad. There are over 300 staff and faculty residing at the IIT-ISM campus who will be donating their warm clothes for this drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-217
03-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tobacco check for government jobs in Jharkhand||Those seeking government jobs in Jharkhand will from next April have to submit affidavits declaring they would not consume tobacco products in office or outside. Stringent checking will be conducted at the state’s borders to prevent the entry of tobacco products for sale. (Individual visitors from other states are not banned from carrying their cigarettes or pan masala.) These were among decisions taken at a meeting of the state tobacco control coordination committee in Ranchi on Tuesday. In April this year, the Jharkhand government had banned the sale and use of all forms of tobacco — including cigarettes, beedis, pan masala, areca nuts, khaini and zarda — fearing their users’ tendency to spit would spread the coronavirus. Tuesday’s meeting, chaired by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, resolved to ensure compliance with the ban as well as the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (Cotpa) 2003. The 2003 act, passed by Parliament, prohibits the advertisement of tobacco products in India and mandates the regulation of their production, supply and distribution as well as trade and commerce in them. “The committee has decided that from April 2021, anybody getting employment in Jharkhand’s government sector would have to submit an affidavit against consuming tobacco products not only in office but also outside,” the state’s nodal officer for the national tobacco control programme, L.R. Pathak, said. “The state personnel department has been asked to frame the rules at the earliest so that the decision can be executed while filling vacancies from April next year.” The deputy commissioners of the state’s 24 districts have been directed to ensure strict checking at all entry points from Bengal, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Bihar with the help of the commercial tax department. All tobacco products being brought in for commercial purposes will be confiscated at these checkpoints. “Since April this year, the sale of tobacco products has been banned in Jharkhand. However, after the unlock, there have been reports of tobacco products being brought in clandestinely from neighbouring states in commercial vehicles and being supplied to stockists in the bigger cities,” Pathak said. “They (stockists) sell it through their networks to other outlets. We want to break this supply chain.” In April, the state government had used its powers under the Disaster Management Act 2005 to ban the “sale and use of tobacco products in public places till further order”. It had warned that violation would bring a jail term between six months and two years, or a fine of Rs 200 or both, under Section 188 of the penal code. The Global Adult Tobacco Survey 2017 (GATS 2) shows that nearly 38.9 per cent adults in Jharkhand use tobacco in some form, said Deepak K. Mishra, executive director of the non-profit Socio Economic and Educational Development Society (Seeds) and member of the state tobacco control programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-217
