04-12-2020||Jharkhand||Telmacho bridge connecting Dhanbad and Bokaro closed for repair work||The vehicular movement on the 325-meter-long Telmacho bridge has been completely suspended from Friday for the repair work of the bridge. The movement of all kinds of vehicles including heavy vehicles like bus, truck, tipper, trailer and other smaller vehicles like SUV, motorcycles has been suspended for two days, December 4 and 5. The Telmacho bridge on the Damodar river connects Dhanbad and Bokaro. Confirming the development, Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh said, "All traffic between Dhanbad and Bokaro has been diverted on Birsa bridge passing through Digwadih and Mohalbani area of Dhanbad for the two days during which the maintenance as well as load testing work of the bridge will be carried out.” “The other alternative route for movement is a diversion ahead of Mahuda More through Telmacho village and it can also be used for vehicles heading towards Chandrapura in Bokaro,” said Singh. This is the second suspension of traffic on the Telmacho bridge since 2017. A comprehensive repair of the bridge was carried out from September 13 to September 22, 2017, after suspending traffic for 10 days. All this, as the bridge had developed crack on March 6, 2017, on three different places between pole number 1 and 3 as a portion of the bridge fell. Established in 1984 on river Damodar, the Tel is the main connecting link between Dhanbad and Ranchi through Bokaro through which more than 30,000 small and large vehicles pass through the bridge every day. Before the comprehensive repair of 2017, minor repair work on the bridge was conducted on August 9, 2015, during which the traffic was diverted. At present, all heavy vehicles including buses and trucks running between Dhanbad and Bokaro pass-through Chandankiyari crossing through the Birsa bridge on river Damodar in Amlabad area of Damodar, which is 15 km longer than the Dhanbad-Bokaro distance through Telmacho bridge. The heavy vehicle movement remained diverted for more than six months from March 6, 2017, to September 22, 2017 till the completion of comprehensive repair work and only the movement of cars, SUVs, bikes were allowed from the Telmacho bridge while other vehicles movement remained diverted on Birsa bridged. Shankar Singh, manager of a pharmaceutical company- marketing division in Dhanbad said, “I had to cancel the doctor’s appointment in Bokaro for two days on December 4 and 5 due to the suspension of traffic on Telmacho bridge as it would have been an arduous journey travelling through the Birsa bridge through Chandankihyari.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-215
04-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel’s Green School makes a mark during pandemic||Tata Steel under its flagship Green School Project reached out to more than 7,300 students and teachers in the past eight months, spreading awareness about climate change and the importance of sustainable development model. Climate education and its awareness is a critical instrument in the global strategy to address the environmental impacts of climate change. To address the challenges posed by the pandemic in reaching out to the school community, Tata Steel leveraged the digital platforms like websites, mobile applications, and social media to continue this outreach program and connect with the green crusaders. The online initiatives involved virtual seminars and hands-on training workshops, digital competitions, self-learning series in the form of audio-video learning capsules, and more. The Green School Project, a joint initiative of Tata Steel and TERI, involves the school fraternity to bring about a change using climate literacy as an effective tool. It promotes environmental stewardship to enhance critical and interdisciplinary thinking through formal and informal modes of teaching. The project is being implemented in various schools at a grassroots level in the operational areas of Tata Steel in Jharkhand and Odisha and has touched the lives of more than one lakh students, teachers and community members since its inception. Pankaj Satija, chief regulatory affairs, Tata Steel said, “People form the core of bringing about transformative change needed to create an equitable and green future for coming generations. A sustainable ecosystem requires all sections of the society including community, corporates, NGOs, government, and especially students, to come together to #ActforNature and work towards a sustainable tomorrow by following a holistic approach.” Students and teachers took up homebound ‘Community Impact Projects’ like making paper bags, wealth out of waste, installing bird nests and bird feeders, etc. to bring about the change in the society. As many as 20 project schools across Noamundi, Joda, Jajpur, Jharia and West Bokaro and six project schools of Angul along with 36 schools across six panchayats implemented these community impact projects. Pradeepta Kumar Das, a teacher at Tata DAV Public School in Noamundi said, “I feel extremely glad to share my experience of the online activities. Undoubtedly the way TERI is conducting the activities with students and teachers in the pandemic situation is quite praiseworthy. The students are extremely happy and enthusiastic to take part in this program. They are taking part in the project with heart and soul. I am thankful to Tata Steel and TERI for such an innovative way to involve the students and teachers in this program. Being a part of this project, I feel proud and happy. This will be very helpful to the students, teachers and the environment.” The ‘Green pedagogy’, designed under the Green School project, operates with an objective to develop systemic thinking, participatory learning, and creative thinking for face future scenarios. The Green School Project was launched in April 2017 with select schools with an overarching goal of creating amongst students, awareness on climate change and the ways in which a sustainable lifestyle can help mitigate the adverse impact of climate change. This is achieved by promoting environmental stewardship through both classroom and outdoor activities like teachers training workshops on digital pedagogy, development of green curricula, community impact projects, outdoor educational activities, development of Information Education and Communication (IEC) resources for joyful learning activities. In September last year, Phase-III of the project was launched to expand to more schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-215
04-12-2020||Jharkhand||Manika MLA does a Sonu Sood, turns saviour for bereaved tribal family||Ramchander Singh, the Congress MLA of Manika in Latehar district of Jharkhand, is being dubbed as the local version of Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, who in recent months has gained popularity for helping migrant workers reach home during the lockdown. In Jharkhand, Singh has done near identical work by arranging two air tickets for a bereaved primitive tribal family of Netarhat in Latehar district. Singh said the tickets will help the family of Bahadur Kissan of Sarna Toli to reach a remote area of Pathar Kanni under Assam's Karimganj district. Since the last three days, the mutilated body of Kissan, the sole breadwinner of the family, is awaiting cremation in the state. The man had met with a road accident, resulting in his death, in Pathar Kanni where he worked as a daily wager. And his family wanted his body to be brought down to Netarhat. Singh said he spoke to the Deputy Commissioner of Laterhat, Abu Imran, and discussed ways to bring back the body to his home. “The tribal died some 1,600 kilometers away from Netarhat and his bringing body, which was all crushed and mutilated, by road would have meant a journey of 40 hours or more,” the MLA said. Understanding the difficult journey, the family then wished to travel to Guwahati, and accordingly, two air tickets were arranged for them. One of the two travelling to Guwahati, Ram Raju, is an Assamese residing in Netarhat. He is being sent to accompany Abhas, the nephew of the deceased, who is going to perform his last rites. The MLA praised Imran for his help in enabling him to send the family to Assam. Bahadur Kissan has no son, but four daughters named Sarita,  Sabita, Amita and Amrata, Rekha Devi, an activist said. While Sarita is the only married daughter, her mother Budhmaniya Devi is an ailing woman, Rekha added. “This family needs urgent food and pension cover from the Latehar administration,” the activist demanded. Singh said that the family will reach Guwahati on Friday night, and acknowledged the efforts of some ‘good souls’ who helped in meeting this expenditure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-215
04-12-2020||Jharkhand||Police release photos of PLFI chief, henchmen||Jharkhand police on Friday released photos of Dinesh Gope, the chief of People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI), and six operatives of the breakaway faction of CPI (Maoists), seeking information about their whereabouts and also announced cash rewards for those who provide tip-offs. An official statement from police headquarters read: “Anyone having clues about these PLFI rebels and their illegally amassed properties may inform DIG (Ranchi) at 9431706118, Ranchi SSP (9431706136), Khunti SP (9431706116), Gumla SP (9431706376), Simdega SP (9431116444) or Chaibasa SP (9431706451). The identity of the informants will strictly remain confidential and those giving successful tip-off will be given the entire cash amount registered against the rebel.” PLFI supremo Gope, who is wanted in over dozen cases of arson, extortion, and murders, among others, in Ranchi, West Singbhum, Simdega, Gumla and adjoining districts, is carrying a reward of Rs 25 lakh on his head. The six PLFI rebels on the state police’s most wanted are Jiden Guriya with a Rs 15 lakh reward on his head, Tilkeshwar Gope, alias Rajesh Gope, with a reward of Rs 10 lakh, Awadesh Kumar Jaiswal, alias Abodh Kumar Jaiswal, alias Chuha, alias Bihari, with a reward of Rs 2 lakh. Also, Ajay Purti, Sanichar Soren and Mangra Lugun are carrying rewards of Rs 2 lakh each on their heads. Awadesh is from Nalanda (Bihar), Sanichar from Gumla, Mangra from West Singhbhum and the rest are from Khunti district. An officer said the move to release pictures is a part of the police’s drive against the extremist forces. “While police are constantly undertaking anti-Naxalite and anti-PLFI operations, it is now seeking public support to flush them out from the state. The Covid-19 induced nationwide lockdown has dented the flow of illegal money to rebel camps. As a result, they are now trying to instil fear among people by resorting to extortion for sustenance. Without enough resources, they are even trying to set up bases near urban pockets using different covers and this will be the right time to hit them hard,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-215
04-12-2020||Jharkhand||State ready with a new tourism policy to create local jobs ||The state tourism department has drafted a new tourism policy aimed at encouraging private investments to boost tourist circuits and generate local jobs locally after concluding that the one framed by the former government of Raghubar Das in 2015 had failed to achieve similar objectives. “The draft of the New Tourism Policy 2020  is ready and has received an in-principle nod from chief minister Hemant Soren,” an official of the department said on Friday, adding that work on it had begun soon after the Hemant Soren government took office in December last year. Referring to some of the salient features of the policy that is yet to be put in the public domain, the official said, “The policy has the provision of providing 30 per cent subsidy, or Rs 10 crore _ whichever is lesser _ on capital investment of a private party. If the investment is made in a tribal area, then there’s an additional 5 per cent subsidy.” He noted that the 2015 tourism policy failed to bring any private investment and whatever projects were rolled out in Jharkhand during the time were done with government funds. “Private players were roped in to develop projects on an outsourcing basis. This model can’t be sustainable unless investments are encouraged to take place in this sector for building parks, amusement options, hotels and so on. The new policy aims to be forward-looking, wooing investors to create all-round facilities for tourists,” said the official who has been involved in drafting the new policy. The 2020 policy also aims to create employment opportunities for an estimated 75,000 to one lakh people. As per statistics available with the tourism department, around 3.5 crore tourists had visited Jharkhand in 2018-19 of which around 1.50 lakh were foreign arrivals. Figures of 2019-20 are yet to be released. “The tourism and hospitality sector is the biggest job-creator, besides contributing to state earnings. One of the provisions of the new policy is to set up a tourism security force (TSF) that will act as facilitators for incoming tourists, take care of their well-being and double up as guides,” he said. The state tourism sector has been divided into 12 parts for specific interventions and plans. These include religious tourism, eco-tourism, cultural tourism, rural tourism, craft tourism, adventure tourism, weekend getaway, film tourism, water sports, recreation tourism, wellness tourism and mine tourism. “Also, there is a plan to geo-tag every tourist point, document the place and put it out along with available facilities on a single-window platform so that it can act as a ready reckoner for visitors. It will also help the government keep a track of every incoming visitor, their movement and their well-being from safety and security point of view,” he said. State tourism director A. Dodde said the new policy would be tabled in the cabinet soon. “We presented the new policy before the chief minister and chief secretary on Thursday and received an in-principal go-ahead,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-215
04-12-2020||Jharkhand||HC asks Birsa jail to file detailed report on Lalu’ phone use||Jharkhand High Court has sought a detailed report from prison authorities in the wake of reports of alleged violation of the jail manual by incarcerated RJD supremo Lalu Prasad, convicted in cases related to the Rs 970 crore fodder scam. While hearing a case pertaining to the appeal filed by Lalu seeking squashing of his remaining jail term in connection with the Dumka treasury case involving the illegal withdrawal of Rs 3.13 crore on Friday, the court of Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh asked jail authorities to submit a report before the next hearing on December 18. Jail authorities were also asked to furnish provisions for providing attendants to a convict and their opinion on frequent reports of violations. To a question on who allowed Lalu to be shifted to RIMS director's bungalow, additional advocate general Ashutosh Anand said it was done as per SOPs fixed by the hospital authorities and the state government in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. During the hearing, CBI in its plea before the court accused Lalu of using a phone despite being in jail and cited news reports of him allegedly trying to lure BJP MLAs of Bihar ahead of the Speaker’s election last month. The central agency also told the court that it had filed a fresh FIR against Lalu in this connection. A purported audio clip of Lalu’s alleged conversation over a phone provided to him by his attendant at the RIMS director’s bungalow had gone viral on social media. Lalu was later shifted back to the paying ward of the state-run hospital by the Ranchi district administration following widespread criticism and protests by the Opposition BJP. Citing news reports, CBI also alleged that Lalu continued to meet party workers and people whenever he wished, dubbing it a violation of jail manual. Notably, Birsa jail authorities, in response to a showcause notice issued by Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan last week, pinned the blame on Ranchi policemen on duty for the lapse. Birsa jail said ensuring security and the implementation of the jail manual outside the jail was the responsibility of district police. On November 27, the high court had deferred Lalu’s petition for bail and suspension of sentence. The RJD chief’s counsel, Prabhat Kumar, said in his plea for bail on health grounds that of the seven-year sentence his client was awarded in the Dumka treasury case, he had already spent 3.5 years in jail. Lalu has been in custody since January 2018 and is currently undergoing treatment for various age-related ailments at RIMS. He was shifted to the director’s bungalow for fear of infection in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic in August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-215
04-12-2020||Jharkhand||Maithon hostel made for National Games lies in ruins||Years after its construction in 2011, the 250-bedded four-storey sports hostel developed during the National Games that year, is lying in a poor shape due to poor maintenance. Developed at a cost of Rs 3.66 crore worth of public money, the hostel is neither being used for sports activities, nor for tourism promotion. In 2011, the National Games were hosted by Jharkhand, and several water sporting activities including Kayaking -Canoeing, Triathlon and Rowing were held at the Maithon lake from February 21 to 25 that year. However, in a stark contrast to those days, the building lies abandoned, with thieves stealing doors and windows from its premises. In addition to the hostel, out of the 26 rowing boats that were procured by the National Games organising Committee in 2011, 13 were seen lying in a damaged condition. Three of them were somewhat restored, with the other 10 being beyond repair. Some of these were also stolen in a February 2014 incident. The electronic scoreboard constructed near the hostel to flash the scores of the participants has also been lying damaged. “We have written to the district administration and State Art, Culture, Sports and Youth affairs department more than 100 times to hand over the infrastructure to us so that regular training for water sports can be carried out. But all our communications were left unanswered,” said Jubair Alam, while talking to The Telegraph Online. Alam is the Vice President of Dhanbad District Olympic Association, and also acted as the joint organising secretary of the Dhanbad events of 34 National Games in 2011. “In fact the hostel and its adjoining infrastructure developed in 2011 could have been used for developing slalom course which in turn would have added to more tourist attraction of the site,” he added. Expressing sadness, former Nirsa MLA Arup Chatterjee said, “The magnificent infrastructure developed at one of the best locales of Jharkhand is lying on death bed due to administrative apathy and typical red tapism.” “Though several organisations including the Maithon Power Limited (MPL), Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) and some private hotels had expressed interest to take the hostel, impractical pre-conditions fixed by the government, such as the exorbitant security money and rent, propelled these them to retract,” he added. He further said as the hostel lies in extremely dilapidated state due to poor upkeep and many organisations are not keen on taking its charge as a huge amount of money would be needed to repair it. Executive Magistrate and the officer-in-charge of sports of Dhanbad, Kumar Bandhu Kachhap, said, “Though I am not aware about the 2011 hostel lying in such a bad shape, but if true, I would soon visit the site and initiate a handover process. I will also look into its further development as a water sports training facility because it is one of the best locations to do so.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-216
04-12-2020||Jharkhand||New Covid cases outnumber recoveries in Jharkhand||The Covid toll in Ranchi reached 200 on Thursday as at least six more patients, including three from the State capital, died of the lethal infection in 24 hours, taking the total count of Covid casualties in Jharkhand up at 977, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. While Covid fatalities continued to haunt Jharkhand on the day, the fresh cases of Covid-19 infection also outnumbered the recoveries, causing a marginal rise in the count of active cases of infection. As per government data, as many as 1926 people were battling the viral infection across the state on Thursday. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 233 people, including 85 from Ranchi alone, were found infected on the day. On the other hand, at least 208 Covid patients recovered from the infection, but the number of active cases shot up in Ranchi as only 41 patients recovered here. There were 751 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Ranchi on Thursday, the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. At least 297 people were undergoing treatment for the infection in East Singhbhum, which has the second-highest Covid tally in the state. While Ranchi reported three deaths, East Singhbhum, Hazaribag and Bokaro reported one Covid casualty each, taking the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand up at 0.89 per cent on Thursday. Gumla did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day, but Ranchi, East SInghbhum, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Ramgarh and Hazaribag reported a double-digit-spike in the Covid caseload. Dhanbad reported 28 cases against 24 recoveries, while Bokaro reported 11 cases against 13 recoveries. At least 16 people were found infected in Hazaribag and 10 people were found infected in Ramgarh. The government on Thursday tested swab samples of 22,786 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 42.83 lakh people and tested 42.65 lakh of them. Of the over 42 lakh people tested, as many as 1,09,771 were found infected and at least 1,06,868 of the infected people have recovered, states government data. As per the NHM bulletin released on Thursday, the growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.34 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in the state was 443.64 days against the national average of 204.43 days. The recovery rate in Jharkhand was higher than the national recovery rate of 94.10 per cent. The state’s recovery rate on Thursday was 97.35 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-216
04-12-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren plea on medical colleges||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, in a letter written on Wednesday, requested Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to reconsider the decision of the National Medical Council (NMC) to stop admission process in three newly-formed medical colleges of the state. “I have spoken to the Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhanji,” Soren tweeted on Thursday, adding he requested the Union minister to reconsider the matter that involves future of the students. The NMC had earlier decided to stop admission of students in three newly-formed medical colleges located at Hazaribagh, Palamau and Dumka for the academic year 2020-21, citing lack of infrastructure and faculty. These medical colleges were sanctioned by the Centre under a centrally sponsored scheme. While the Union health and family welfare ministry had sanctioned Rs 340 crore for the purpose, the state government also released Rs 392.88 crore for establishing those colleges by upgrading the existing district hospitals in Hazaribagh, Palamau and Dumka districts. Those were also inaugurated by the Prime Minister last year. Earlier, Soren had also written to the NMC chairman Dr Suresh Chandra Sharma on November 5 and requested him not to stop admission process in those colleges. But approached the Union health minister again when no positive response was received. In the letter he wrote to the Union health minister on Wednesday, Soren said that the Medical Council of India had permitted admission of 100 students in each of those medical colleges and admission process for 2019-20 was completed. The admission process had also begun this year after the results of national eligibility cum entrance test (NEET) was declared for 2020-21, he added. But the NMC meanwhile ordered, on the basis of some infrastructure and faculty deficiencies, that there will be no fresh admission into those colleges for 2020-21. “This has sent a shockwave among the aspiring students of this poor, backward and tribal state,” Soren said, adding these colleges are located in aspirational districts where the Union government was keen to improve education system and the Niti Aayog was monitoring in all spheres. “The state is fully aware and committed to fulfilment of the NMC norms. However, certain finishing work in building infrastructure and installation of equipment and furniture etc could not be completed due to the lockdown imposed in March,” he further informed, assuring those would be done by December 15. The vacant positions of senior and junior residents and other para-medical staff was also being addressed, Soren further assured the Union health minister, adding the government was facing certain constraints in filling up the vacancy of professors “as eligible candidates are not willing to work in those backward districts”. “We are in the process of making certain amendments in the recruitment policy so that these vacant positions of senior faculty could be filled up at the earliest,” Soren further assured. While assuring that the state government would resolve the issue at the earliest, he requested Harsh Vardhan to consider his request for not stopping admission in those medical colleges “in the interest of aspiring students”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-216
