05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Steel City to have a Covid-19 vaccine storage facility soon||Within a week of Prime Minister Narendra Modi laying down the roadmap for the Covid-19 vaccine in India during his meeting with the chief ministers of various states, the health authority of Singhbhum district, have sprung into action. They are now converting a godown into a massive vaccine storage facility in Steel City. Located at the Old Civil Surgeon office premise, on Dhalbhum Road in Sakchi, this facility will be having a walk-in cooler and a walk-in fridge. “We are setting up a storage facility as per the instruction and guidelines of the Union Health Ministry. The facility will be up by the end of December,” said district civil surgeon, Rajendra Nath Jha while talking to The Telegraph Online. He maintained that the vaccine for Covid-19 will be available anytime in January 2021. Hence the government of India has instructed all of them to have a storage facility with a cold chain maintenance system ready by the end of the month so when the vaccine consignment reaches Jamshedpur, then they don’t face any problem. When asked about the capacity of the storage facility stated that he couldn’t comment on the same as the size of the vaccine’s vial has not been specified. “We are converting a godown measuring 20 ft by 10 ft at the old civil surgeon office premises into the storage facility. It will have a walk-in cooler and walk-in fridge in it. It aims to stock the vaccine needed for the entire East Singhbhum district,” said the civil surgeon. Interestingly, at a time when the district health officials are gearing up for a vaccination drive against Covid-19, the number of cases is continuing to drop. On Friday, samples of 2,378 suspected Covid patients were examined in the Jamshedpur, of which only 19 tested positive. With 19 new cases, the total number of Covid cases in East Singhbhum district rose to 16,886. Meanwhile, a 62-year-old woman, a resident of Kadma area died of Covid-19 at RIMS on Friday night. The deceased was earlier admitted at the MGM Medical College Hospital’s Covid ward from where she had been referred to RIMS on Sunday. With her death, the total number of Covid-19 deaths has shot up to 372. The localities from where 19 new cases of Covid-19 have been reported from Bistupur, Bagbera, Govindpur, Sonari, Kadma Mango, and Baridih. Despite the number of Covid-19 cases declining, the district administration has tightened its noose on the people not wearing masks or flouting social distancing rules. Those breaking the rules are being slapped a penalty of Rs 500. There is also a blanket ban on marriage procession.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-214
05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi IAS officer Ranendra Kumar wins literary award||IAS officer Ranendra Kumar, who is more popular as a Hindi writer, will receive the Sri Lal Shukla Smriti IFFCO Sahitya Samman this year for his contribution to literature. Ranendra (60), who uses his initial as a writer, will receive, besides a citation and a memento, a cheque for Rs 11 lakh as the 10th recipient of the prestigious award, instituted in 2011, at a function in Delhi on January 31 next year. “Ranendra has chosen tribal life as the theme of his writings and deeply observed social, economic and cultural changes the tribal society underwent in this age of globalisation,” the selection committee observed in a release issued on Saturday. Besides a number of collections of poems and short stories, Ranendra has edited a four-part Jharkhand Encyclopedia and has three novels to his credit. While his first novel, Gungi Rulai ka Chorus, was published in 1988, the second, Global Gaon Ke Devta, was published by Bharatiya Gyanpeeth in 2006. His third novel, Gayab Hota Desh, was published by Penguin Books in 2014. “Thank you, thank all,” said Ranendra when the Telegraph Online contacted him on Saturday. He said he would go to Delhi to receive the award personally. This, however, is not the only award he has won. Ranendra won the J C Joshi Smriti Janpriya Lekhak Samman in 2010 for his novel, Global Gaon ke Devta, the Banarasi Prasad Bhojpuri Samman in 2013, the newly instituted Vimla Devi Smriti Samman and the Banmali Katha Samman in 2019. “Ranendra is one of those rare non-tribal writers who took immense interest to understand tribal issues and express them in his writings,” said Mahadev Toppo, another well-known Hindi writer. As director of Ranchi’s Ram Dayal Munda Tribal Research Institute, Ranendra also organised events to give a platform to deserving tribal writers and artists from across the country, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-214
05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Left parties, Congress stage protest across state against farm laws||The left parties and social outfits affiliated to them in the state held candlelight and torch processions in different districts and block headquarters on Saturday evening as a prelude to their upcoming state-wide chakka jam on December 10. The state-wide strike is against the new farm laws introduced by the union government which has triggered nationwide protests demanding for its rollback. In Ranchi, members of CPI, CPM, CPI (M-L), Marxists Coordination Committee (MCC) staged a dharna at Albert Ekka Chowk in the evening and similar processions were held across the state, they claimed. Dubbing the farm laws as anti-farmer, the protestors rented slogans of revocation of the laws. CPI’s district secretary Sukanth Lohra said that they will continue to fight till the ‘black laws’ are withdrawn. “The union government has forced lakhs of farmers in the country to come out on streets to fight for their survival. The recent laws are pro-capitalists and farmers are waging a war this time for their existence. We stand in solidarity with their fight and have planned different protest programmes throughout this week in the run-up to our state-wide chakka jam on December 10,” said Lohra. CPI-M state secretary Prakash Viplav has called everyone to oppose the new farm laws in the interest of the nation. “The new laws are in no way pro-farmers. The continued deadlock in negotiations between the union government and protesting farmers in Delhi is testimony to the fact that farmers are unhappy. If the union government was serious towards farmers’ interest, they would have promptly agreed to all the demands made by the farmers,” he said. Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC), part of the ruling coalition government in Jharkhand, too separately held state-wide dharna programme across all the 24 districts on Saturday morning on this issue. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon said that their party has held several agitation programmes both nationally and in the state ever since these laws were ‘unconstitutionally’ passed by the parliament. “In Jharkhand, we held several protest marches and demonstration over the last two months, demanding for its rollback. Today’s dharna was in continuation of our ongoing agitation. Congress has always fought for farmers and their rights and our stir will continue till they are taken back,” said Oraon, adding that while the union government through its new farm laws were trying to phase out minimum support prices (MSP), their regime in Jharkhand has, for the first time, provisioned on-spot 50% payment to farmers in lieu of their paddy sale to encourage more farmers turnout at the government procurement centre to get legitimate MSP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-214
05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Gumla woman killed on suspicion of practising witchcraft||A woman on Friday was axed to death on suspicion of her practising witchcraft, at Koinara village under Sadar police station in Gumla district, which is around 120 kilometres from the state capital. The victim, in her 60s, was found lying in a pool of her own blood late on Friday night, by locals, who alerted the police. She was identified as Karmi Oraon, officer in-charge of Sadar police station in Gumla, Vimal Kumar told reporters. He informed that the deceased’s son Vir Oraon has lodged an FIR against a local, Feku Oraon, and two other unnamed persons for killing her mother on charges of practising witchcraft. “We are probing his charges and trying to trace the accused,” Kumar said. He added that family members of a youth in the village, who died last month, accused Karmi of doing black magic on him. Tension prevailed between both the families since then. “As per information so far, accused Feku happens to be the brother of the youth who died last month due to some ailments. He is at large,” the officer said. According to information, the woman had gone to the village pond on Friday evening to take a bath and wash clothes, but did not return till night.  Her son, who works as a labourer, along with other villagers began searching for her and discovered the body near the waterbody. She was found with a wound on her head, caused by an axe, that led to her death on the spot, police said. Murders related to black magic or grounds of suspicion of its practice are common in Jharkhand. According to state police data, around 123 people, including women were killed on charges of witch-hunting and sorcery between 2016 and 2019 alone. While the state has put in place a law titled Prevention of Witch (daain) Practices Act, 2001, a few years back to curb the menace but it has remained ineffective owing to minimal penalty. As per the Act, anyone who harms or brands a person by identifying them as a witch is liable to face action amounting to a fine of Rs 1,000-2,000 or imprisonment of three months to one year or both.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-214
05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Over 60 per cent seats, meant for the poor in private schools, go abegging||Around 60 per cent seats reserved by law for underprivileged children in private unaided schools were left unused in the last academic year (2019-20) in seven Jharkhand districts, including Ranchi, the state education department has revealed in reply to Right to Information (RTI) query. On Saturday, Association for Parivartan of Nation, the NGO that filed the RTI application, released details of the findings pertaining to seven districts, namely Ranchi, West Singbhum, East Singbhum, Bokaro, Godda, Seraikela-Kharsawan and Garhwa. “The seven districts have 184 schools with 3,541 seats in all. Of the 3,548 applications received from families of underprivileged children [under Section 12 (1) (c) of Right to Education Act] only 1,471 was approved. As a result, 2015 seats remained vacant, which is 60 per cent, and this after 10 years of this significant act coming into force,” said Hasan Al-Banna, president of the NGO. In Ranchi, 74 per cent seats were vacant. “As many as 1,679 applications were filed for admission under RTE of which only 188 were approved. This means out of 713 seats, 525 remained vacant,” said Kareem Ansari, a member of the outfit. Similarly, in East Singhbhum 820 out of 1,651 seats remained vacant while in West Singhbhum 102 remained unused out of 189 seats. Out of 608 seats in Bokaro, 418 remained vacant. Garhwa, Seraikela and Godda had 55, 112 and 38 vacant seats out of 158, 153 and 69 seats respectively. “Interestingly, the government received more applications than the number of seats. For the 3,383 seats available in private schools, 3,578 applications were filed. However, the government rejected 62% of these applications. Many eligible families who had pinned their hopes on securing admission for their family were sorely disappointed to find that their applications were rejected without reason,” said Hasan. Section 12(1)(c) of RTE clearly spells out that private schools shall admit in class 1 (or pre-primary) at least 25% children belonging to weaker sections and disadvantaged groups in the neighbourhood and provide free and compulsory education till its completion. The data also revealed that among districts, Ranchi is the worst performing with 89% of applications rejected. Godda and Bokara had more than 50%  applications rejected and more than half the seats vacant. Of the data available, East and West Singhbhum are the best performings. But several districts had a suspiciously low number of private schools registered or do not provide any information. Giving an example of a parent, Hasan said, “One Fauziya Perween of Ranchi, whom we interacted with, said they had filled the online application for their son Umar Farooque's admission in Class 1 in a private school on the website dseranchi.com. But despite giving all required documents their son did not get admission. No one gave any substantial reasons for the rejection.” Hasan wondered why the percentage of rejected applications was so high? “The high rate of rejection costs many underprivileged and deserving children their right to education and possibly their chance at a better future.” Sneha Shahdeo, another member of the outfit said, “This trend is being witnessed at the national level too where private schools are becoming highly hierarchical and segregated. We urge the state government to immediately initiate a transparent application process before the next academic year 2021-22.” On his part, Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said that during a review of the district education department on December 1, he had asked officials to set up help desks at all private schools and the district collectorate to ensure grievances of applicants were addressed so that enrolments under RTE could be increased ahead of the next academic year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-214
05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Centre grants Rs 2.5 lakh to former international cyclist||The central government has granted Rs 2.5 lakh to former international cyclist Swaran Singh, who is currently working as a security guard at Vijaya Homes, a residential complex in Baridih township of the steel city. He received the money three days back. The 70-year-old Singh, who lives alone at a slum in Baridih, represented the country in the 1970 Asian Games in Bangkok. Former Jharkhand Cycling Association (JCA) secretary Satbir Singh Sahota said the Centre has granted monetary assistance to Singh on the request from the Cycling Federation of India (CFI). “The central government acted on a mail sent by us to the CFI, which took up the matter with Sports Authority of India (SAI). The money has already been credited to Singh’s bank account,” he informed. Singh said he was extremely thankful to the central government for the financial aid. “I am very thankful to the government as well as the CFI for understanding my problems. It is a timely aid which will somewhat help me meet some urgent expenses, including medical issues of my ailing daughter,” the former cyclist added. Singh earns a salary of Rs 10,000 out of which Rs 2,500 is paid towards rent. After taking voluntary retirement from Tata Steel, Singh started a transport business but incurred loss and had to sell shares of his ancestral house in Birsanagar to sustain his family which includes his wife, two daughters and a son. According to him, the government should always come forward to help struggling sportspersons by providing them jobs and financial aid. “I am also thankful to the sports fraternity of Jamshedpur for helping me out. Cyclists from the US and Punjab have also assisted me financially,” Singh said. Cyclists from the steel city have helped Singh by pooling in Rs 55,000 which was handed over to him in May. Moreover, Randhir Singh, an ex-national cyclist who lives in Baridih-based Vijaya Homes, generated around Rs 20,000 through his friends and well-wishers, also chipped in with aid. Two ex-Loyalians, who live in Canada, also helped Singh with Rs 1 lakh. Amar Singh, an Arjuna awardee and a former manager with Tata Steel sports wing, generated an amount of Rs 1 lakh through contributions from ex-Haryana cyclists Pyara Singh and Amarjit Singh earlier this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-214
05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Weathermen hint at a further drop in minimum readings||Jharkhand is expected to get colder in the coming days with the clear and crisp weather leading to a further drop in minimum readings in the next 48-hours, weathermen indicated on Saturday. Several areas of the state, including Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Daltonganj, have already been witnessing a fall in minimum readings due to the northwesterly wind flow. Most parts of the state saw clear skies and low humidity levels on Saturday, both conducive to lower mercury readings. Similar conditions are expected to prevail for at least the next 72 hours before the temperature moves northward due to the return of easterly winds around December 9, which will occur as a result of an approaching western disturbance. Ranchi on Saturday recorded 11 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal. Bokaro too recorded mercury readings of around 11 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal. The mercury nosedived to 10 degree Celsius at Kanke on the outskirts of Ranchi on Saturday. Daltonganj recorded a minimum temperature of 10.9 degrees on Saturday, one notch below normal. Jamshedpur witnessed minimum readings of 13 degrees Celsius. The minimum readings plummeted to around 11 degrees Celsius in Dumka and its adjoining areas in Santhal Pargana region on Saturday. Night temperatures hovered between 11-12 degrees Celsius in Dhanbad, Hazaribagh, Simdega, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan. "The Celsius is dipping because of north-westerly winds which usually leads to plummeting night readings," said Abhishek Anand, Deputy Director of  Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He said that the chill would last for another 72 hours at least due to the dominating north-westerly winds. After that, the wind pattern is expected to change to easterly, which will bring moisture into the atmosphere, he explained. The forecast also ruled out the possibility of cloud formation owing to local effects and systems over the Bay of Bengal for at least the next three days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-214
05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Palamau does a count of frontline health workers ||The Palamau administration has started preparing a list of frontline workers, doctors, nurses and other such personnel, following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement that a Covid-19 vaccine may arrive in the country within a “few weeks”. The administration is keen on getting on getting frontline health workers vaccinated first as per the directives of the Centre. Deputy Commissioner of Palamau Shashi Ranjan said, “We have with us a list of 9,372 frontline workers who carried out the tough task of fighting the coronavirus from its beginning, and during its peak as well. We have asked private hospitals and health institutes in our district to give us their lists of frontline workers. We expect the total count to be well within 12,000 to 13,000.” “No frontline worker will be left out of the list,” the DC guaranteed. He also explained that Palamau district reproductive child health officer Dr Anil Kumar Singh has been instructed to keep cold chain, cold box, deep freezers, ice land refrigerators and vaccine carriers ready and functional to receive and store Covid-19 vaccines when they arrive. Singh said, “Palamau district has a total of 14 cold chains.There is one cold chain each at the 10 community health centres. Apart from these 10 cold chains, there is one cold chain each at Daltonganj, urban area, Haidernagar and at Kishunpur.” The functionality of these cold chains is being overseen by the National Cold Chain Management Information System, under the Union health ministry. On the other hand, the number of vaccinators in the district is around 125, with a fleet of 165 ANMs ( auxiliary nursing midwife). “Immunisation and vaccination are just two things. There is a thin wall between the two. Immunisation of children can’t be stopped even when Covid-19 vaccination will be underway,” Singh explained. According to sources, the Palamau district, in its cold chains, stores 1,50,000 doses of polio vaccines, and when the bulk of Covid-19 vaccines arrives, maintenance will be taken care of. “We hold 1,50,000 doses of the polio vaccine. We will make space for Coronavirus vaccines as well,” the child health officer said. “We have chalked out a huge plan for January 17 when the country as well as our district will be observing the National Immunisation Day. There will be a massive drive to immunise our children across the district on the day,” the DC said. Asked if the district has sufficient auto-disable syringes, Singh said, “We expect more to come with the coronavirus vaccines. A disposable syringe is useless for all purposes after it is used once.” On the issue of cold chains, deep freezers and other such equipment getting damaged due to fluctuating electricity supply, Singh informed, “In our lingo it is called sickness rate of these tools. The national average is 2 per cent. However, in Palamau the sickness rate is 1.3 per cent. We remain really alert regarding machinery not becoming sick for fault in electricity supply.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-215
05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19 vaccine: State readies storage, distribution logistics||The state government in Jharkhand started preparing for distributing and transporting a Covid-vaccine once it is made available, which the Centre claimed should be within weeks. In the first step, the Hemant Soren government has identified around 1 lakh health workers, employed in private and public sectors, for the vaccination programme, officials from the health department said on Saturday. In adherence to the directive from the Union ministry of health, frontline workers in Jharkhand, especially those working in the health sector, would be provided with the vaccine on priority, said state National Health Mission (NHM) director Ravi Shankar Shukla. “We have already started the process of preparing for the distribution of the vaccine across the state. All steps will be taken in accordance with the directives we get from the ministry,” said Shukla, adding that Jharkhand has the experience of vaccinating around 1 crore individuals over a couple of months and the facilities have improved since the last vaccination drive was conducted in the tribal state. While cold chain infrastructure in the state was adequate for routine immunisation, an increased demand for Covid-19 vaccine may require additional facilities and extra effort, a highly placed source in the health department said. As per figures with the health department, Jharkhand has one state vaccine store, two regional vaccine stores, 24 district vaccine stories and at least 247 sub-district cold chain points. Besides, the government is establishing a new regional vaccine store in East Singhbhum, which would help run immunisation programmes against the Covid-19 virus. A document of the state health department highlighted that the government had identified at least 30 new cold chain points for storage and distribution of a Covid-19 vaccine. The Centre has also assured the state a supply of additional ice lined refrigerators (ILR) for the purpose of vaccination, sources said. The availability of cold storage and transportation of the vaccine in vehicles that can maintain a below freezing point temperature are crucial as most of Covid-19 vaccines are said to be effective only at sub-zero temperatures. Jharkhand has also completed state level training of trainers in collaboration with the National Cold Chain and Vaccine Management Resource Centre (NCCVMRC) on cold chain management for the vaccination process. Currently, the training is going on at the district level. Besides, at least 21 of 24 districts in the state have conducted district task force (DTF) meetings to plan the immunisation process. The government has conducted two rounds of Indian public standard health (IPHS) survey and the result of the third round in expected by the middle of December, health officials said. Three vaccines are in various stages of clinical trials in India and experts believe that a Covid-19 vaccine could be ready in a few weeks, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday during a virtual all-party meeting. While Jharkhand is among the states where Covid-19 cases gradually dropped after peaking in September, it still reported more than 1 lakh cases of infection. The number of active cases in the state has dropped significantly this month, but the government may still have to deal with high demand for the vaccine, even in the interiors, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-215
05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Fresh Covid cases outnumber recoveries for second consecutive day in Jharkhand||Fresh cases of Covid-19 infection outnumbered recoveries for the second consecutive day in Jharkhand on Friday, causing a minor drop in the Covid recovery rate and a rise in the number of active cases across the state as well as in Ranchi, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 219 fresh cases of infection, including 94 from Ranchi alone, surfaced in the state on Friday. On the other hand, as many as 206 patients recovered from the lethal infection on the day. After Friday's test results, the number of active cases in Jharkhand stood at 1938, while that in Ranchi was put at 764 by the NHM. The number of active cases also increased in East Singhbhum and Dhanbad as both the districts reported fewer recoveries than fresh cases on the day. East Singhbhum reported 19 cases against 17 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 24 cases against 10 recoveries on the day. There were 298 active cases in East Singhbhum by the end of Friday. As per government data, Ranchi and East Singhbhum account for more than half of the active cases of Covid-19 in Jharkhand. At least four districts –Latehar, Saraikela, Simdega and Lohardaga– did not report even a single case of infection on Friday, while as many as 14 districts saw a single-digit-spike in cases. Meanwhile, one more Covid-19 patient, a resident of Ranchi, breathed his last on the day. Friday's findings take the Covid toll in Ranchi alone to 201 and that in Jharkhand to 978. The government on Friday tested swab samples of 21977 people and around 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the state has collected swab samples of over 43 lakh people and tested 42.92 lakh of them. The Covid tally in Jharkhand by Friday night was 109990. As per government data, the recovery rate in the state was 97.34 per cent, while the mortality rate was 0.88 per cent. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.33 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 440.82 days against the national average of 208.12 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-215
05-12-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro General Hospital’s sanitation workers go on indefinite strike||The contract workers who are serving as sweepers, cleaners and others in Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) have gone on an indefinite strike demanding to restore the ESI facility for them, which was suspended due to non-payment of the contractor for the past four months. The negotiation talks initiated by BGH management failed to pacify the issue. The protestors on Friday staged a demonstration in front of the office of executive director (ED) of BGH under the banner of Jai Jharkhand Majdoor Samaj (JJMS). JJMS is a wing of ruling party Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM). However, the issue has bagged political colour as JMM city president, Mantu Yadav with cadres holding party flags also sat on the dharna. The strike of sweepers has however affected cleanliness in the BGH as garbage and medical wastes were not removed in many wards. BGH sources said that there were about 200 patients admitted in different wards while 14 positive patients are in Covid ward and critical care unit. BGH run by Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) is a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) and a dedicated Covid-19 Care Centre. The workers were agitated since the past few months as their contractors are not paying them ESI, provident funds, Earned Leave (EL) and bonuses. Things worsened on Thursday when a sweeper Gopal Dome who is ailing from kidney disease is facing difficulty in getting better treatment due to lack of ESI. JJMS general secretary B K Choudhary said, “Without ESI how will Dome afford the costly treatment.” “We have given several reminders to BGH management to restore the ESI facility, but the officials never paid heed to it. Dome is not the only sufferer. Wife of another worker K Karmakar is also sick and cannot afford a better treatment in absence of ESI. Our demand is that BGH provides treatment to these patients as because of their ignorance ESI has not been paid by the contractor,” he added. Yadav also said, “This state is under JMM rule. JMM cannot tolerate the exploitation of workers. Even after knowing that the contractor has not renewed or paid for ESI and other benefits of workers, how did the BGH management pay and clear the contractor’s bill. There is something wrong. If anything happens to Dome due to lack of treatment, BGH management should remain ready to provide a job to dependents.” Patients are facing difficulty with waste littered everywhere. BGH management said the things are under control as they are using other manpower in removing wastes from the ward. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “Efforts are laid to pacify the issue soon”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-215
