06-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tribal groups block roads, trains to demand Sarna code||Members of various tribal bodies took to the streets and blocked railway tracks across Jharkhand on Sunday, threatening to resort to violent protests if the NDA government at the Centre does not give its nod to the Sarna religion code resolution passed by the Hemant Soren-led government in Jharkhand. Tribals, under the banner of three major organisations -- Central Sarna Committee, All India Tribal Development Council and Adivasi Sengel Abhiyan – blocked railway tracks at Gangaghat railway station under Angada block disrupting movements of trains in crucial Muri-Ranchi section. The protestors also staged protests at Irgaon station on the Ranchi-Lohardaga section. The tribal outfits also disrupted vehicular movement on various national highways and state highways. The protestors blocked roads at entry points of national highways in the state. Central Sarna Committee president Phulchand Tirkey said, “We have been demanding a separate Sarna code since several decades, and the state has also approved it. We will resort to violent protests if the Centre delays the process from here.” On November 11, the Jharkhand Assembly unanimously passed a resolution seeking the inclusion of Sarna as a separate religion in the upcoming 2021 Census. The resolution passed during a special one-day Assembly session, has been sent to the Centre for approval. Opposition parties gave a proposal demanding a discussion on the resolution, which State Assembly Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahato accepted and later the Bill was passed in the House. Even on Saturday, various tribal outfits took out processions with torches in support of the Sarna code to try and expedite the process by the Centre. Sarna code has been a long-pending demand of the tribal community in Jharkhand. Several hundred members of the tribal community from Jharkhand staged a protest at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi on February 18 demanding a separate Sarna Code in the 2021 census. Sarna followers are nature worshippers who do not consider themselves Hindus and have been fighting for a separate religious identity in India for decades. Lakhs of tribesmen who were born in Sarna-following families got converted to Christianity over the past century after the advent of the missionaries, claim tribal gurus. These tribesmen have also been at loggerheads with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) for tagged as Hindus by the saffron outfit. In 2014, thousands of Sarna followers handed over a memorandum to then Union minister P Chidambaram and demanded recognition of Sarna as a separate religion. The crusaders back then had also staged a protest at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi, but their pleas went unheeded. In 2015, about 30,000 tribesmen held a nationwide campaign for the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-213
06-12-2020||Jharkhand||State Cong tells party men to get ready for Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh||Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC) directed its cadres in the state on Sunday to get ready for Tuesday’s Bharat Band and stand in solidarity with lakhs of farmers who are protesting across Delhi borders since November 26 against the new farm laws. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon directed party workers to come out on the streets with full vigour to make the bandh successful. In a communiqué to workers, he directed, “The party stands with the farmers and their rights and hence everyone is mandated to make the bandh a grand success for everyone’s collective demand of the rollback of the new farm laws. “Despite the harsh winter and police atrocities against protesters, lakhs of farmers have gathered at the national capital to fight for the cause. Congress, which has always worked for farmers and their causes, should also rise to the occasion by making the bandh a success.” After the fifth round of talks on Saturday between farmers' leaders and the Centre failed to break the ice, farmers’ unions announced a Bharat Bandh to iterate their demand of repealing the new laws. Nationally, Congress, TRS and Left parties have already extended support to the Tuesday’s bandh. Congress, which is part of the state’s ruling coalition government along with JMM and RJD, has already held several independent demonstrations and agitations in Jharkhand against the new laws since September. On Saturday, too, the party held a dharna in Ranchi demanding their rollback. Simultaneously, Left parties and social entities backed by them are also running campaigns against the farm laws daily. On December 10, Left announced a statewide bandh claiming to have the backing of all three parties of the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-213
06-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad demands resumption of train to Alleppey||The residents of Dhanbad and particularly patients visiting the Christian Medical College and Hospital at Vellore are facing a lot of difficulty due to the delay in the restoration services of Dhanbad Alappuzha Express. The Dhanbad Alappuzha Express runs between Dhanbad and Alappuzha through Katpadi (Vellore). Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Rajesh Kumar Gupta said, “We demand immediate restoration of the train as the health care facilities of towns like Dhanbad are largely dependent on the facilities of the south Indian cities including Chennai (Apollo Hospital Chennai) and Vellore (Christian Medical College and Hospital).” “Recent reports of Covid-19 tests of the patients carried out at the railway station and particularly the report of last four-five days indicated zero positive cases and thus it indicates the lessening of the Covid-19 crisis, so I do not think that there is much risk involved in the restoration of the train,” stated Gupta. “The resumption of Dhanbad Alappuzha Express, on the other hand, will prove as life-saving for hundreds of patients of the economically backward section of the society who are suffering due to the suspension of the train services since the lockdown,” said Gupta, who is also the member of Divisional Railway Users Consultative Committee of Dhanbad. He added that they also demand the restoration of all local passenger trains so that the people can have some relief. Echoing sentiments, Pintu Kumar Singh, district president of Janata Dal (U) and member of Zonal Railway Users Consultative Committee, said, “The restoration of Howrah Mumbai Mail since December 1 has provided much-needed relief to patients travelling to Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai. Now, we hope that the railway board will also give permission for the restoration of Dhanbad Alappuzha Express by the end of the month.” “I had raised the issue with the top railway officials on several occasions and they have assured restoration of train services by December end,” informed Singh. Notably, the six bogeys of the rack of Dhanbad Alappuzha Express have already been prepared at coach depot of Dhanbad Railway Station. The Dhanbad Railway Division is only awaiting the nod of the division to restore the train and sending repeated reminders to East Central Railway Headquarters at Hajipur in this regard. Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway, Akhilesh Kumar Pandey said, “We have raised the issue or restoration of Dhanbad Alappuzha Express with East Central Railway authorities on Sunday also but since there is no notification by the railway board, we can’t run the train immediately. We will run the train as soon as the railway board’s nod comes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-213
06-12-2020||Jharkhand||Another team of mahouts from Bengal reaches Chandil ||About a fortnight after a 14-member team of Mahouts arrived from Bengal’s Bankura district to Chandil, for removing a menacing herd of wild elephants from there, another team reached the same area on Saturday evening. A second herd of 25 elephants reached the human habitats near the Chandil forest range, due to which the Forest Department had to call in the elephant drivers. The total number of migratory elephants in the area has increased to 48. The forest department was also determined to tackle the menace caused by the elephants effectively, as local drivers have stopped working after their leader was killed by one of the mammals near Balidih village near the Bengal border on November 20. Chandil forest ranger Ashok Kumar said there are three herds of 48 elephants at the moment, which are anchored near the human habitats in Nimdih and Ichagarh blocks under the Chandil forest range in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district about 45 kms away from Jamshedpur. “Earlier in the third week of November, there was a single herd of five elephants, which was moving close to the human habitats of Balidih and Dhunaburu villages. But later the number of elephants in the herd swelled to 17, after a dozen more wild mammals joined them. The situation got worse as a herd of 25 elephants, inclusive of five calves, has come from Chaibasa jungle to Ichagarh and are damaging paddy crops as well as houses,” Kumar told The Telegraph Online. He added that apart from these two groups, another herd of six elephants have joined in, likely from the Tamar jungle. “The herd of 25 elephants has been causing damage to the crops and houses since the past one week, leading us to engage the Mahouts from Bankura to drive it away toward Kharsawan so that it may return to the Chaibasa jungle,” Kumar said. However, according to him, despite much efforts the mahouts could not drive them away. “This was the reason that we had to call in another team of mahouts from Bankura,” he added. Kumar informed that the 14-member team arrived soon after their request on Saturday evening, and were sent to Ichagarh, where they have started working jointly with the other team to drive away the mammals on Sunday morning. The forest ranger said that unlike the locals, mahouts from Bankura were brave and could work effectively. He revealed that during the day, the Bankura team uses firecrackers and at night, they resort to ‘mashals’ (lanterns) to drive the animals away. On the other hand, the locals tend to drive away elephants from a distance and use just firecrackers for their work. Kumar, while giving details about the largest herd, said that out of the five calves, one is very small and that was the reason the group was not moving fast. “Elephants tend to keep pace with the small calf's movement irrespective of the pressure mounted on them.  But still both the teams from Bengal have started the work as moving them from the Chandil forest area is our first priority,” the ranger said. Kumar further told that after this group goes, the mahouts will work on driving away the herd of 17 elephants, and subsequently the smallest one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-213
06-12-2020||Jharkhand||Wild elephants damage crops in Nepura village of Dhanbad||Two adult elephants separated from a herd of 20, damaged a huge amount of crop lying in the stackyard (granary) in Nepura village of Lukaiya Panchayat under Tundi block during the wee hours of Sunday. Nimai Mandal, a farmer who owned the stackyard said, “The residents of our village are living in a continuous state of fear due to elephant attacks. We came to know about the incident in the morning when we were informed about the damaged boundary wall of the stackyard and found crop worth more than Rs 20,000 lying damaged.” “We informed the forest department officials in the morning about the elephant causing damage but the process of providing the compensation is too lengthy and frustrating,” charged Mandal. Dhanbad divisional forest officer, Bimal Lakra said, “Our team, equipped with a vehicle, of more than a dozen torchmen are on the job in the area tracking the movement of the two elephants which are roaming in Tundi since the last ten days after reaching here from Nirsa.” “Our main focus is to restrict the activity of the elephants in deep forests and avoid human-elephant contact,” said Lakra and added that the elephants reached here from Jamtara. “The elephants in herd generally have a social kind of behaviour and rarely interfere in the villages but once separated they behave in a bit unpredictable manner,” said Lakra and added that tracking the movement of such elephants separated the herd is also a little difficult. “Our team deployed in the area is in contact with the local villagers and rushes to site as it gets information and drives away the elephant to the forest areas,” said Lakra. “We are also advising people not to obstruct in the movement of the elephants as generally, they walk during the night and take rest in the day time. We have also created some conducive situation in the deep forests of Tundi to ensure that the tuskers remain confined to the forest only and do not stray away towards the human habitation,” said Lakra and added that they have developed two check-dams in Tundi last year ahead of monsoon to ensure that the elephants get enough water for their consumption in the forest itself. “Sometimes the herd reaches to the villages to find water in the ponds but the presence of sufficient water in the forest will help to avoid their movement towards villages,” explained Lakra. Regarding the compensation, he said that it will be provided soon after submission of the form by the victim farmer and the verification of the claim made by our team. Notably, one of the elephants also attacked Ravilal Marandi, a 71-year-old farmer in Laghata area of Nirsa block on November 6 causing serious injury to him while he was on a morning walk near the outskirts of the village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-213
06-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad traders stage protest against holding tax imposition||Traders of Jharia are up in arms against holding tax imposition by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in Jharia circle. A meeting of Jharia residents was held on Sunday under the banner of Koylanchal Nagrik Manch during which they expressed protest against the imposition of same tax by different civic bodies including Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) and Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC). Talking to the Telegraph Online on Sunday, President of Jharia Chamber of Commerce, Amit Sahu alias Dipu Sahu who is also a founder of Jharia Chamber of Commerce said, “We have met different people’s representatives including Jharia MLA Purnima Singh; Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha; Dhanbad MP PN Singh over the issue of exorbitant demand of holding tax during last month but to no avail as only two days ago, a team of DMC carried out measurement of Dharamshala for the imposition of holding tax.” “Nowhere in the country, have two civic bodies applied the same tax but here in Jharia we are being forced to pay the same tax to different bodies,” said Sahu. Echoing sentiments, former councillor of ward number 37 of Jharia, Anup Sao said, “The difference between the holding tax rate of JMADA and DMC is huge as the DMC holding tax is more than five times the holding tax which is hitherto charged by JMADA.” “At a time when the income of everyone including the traders to servicemen have been badly affected due to retrenchment or recession such a huge tax will only compound the existing problem of the common people,” added Sao. “We want the Jamshedpur Model to the implemented in Dhanbad where instead of charging tax from the common people Tata Steel pays the tax to the Jamshedpur Utility Services Company,” said Sao. He also said as people in Jharia are compelled to face the brunt of the worst pollution in the country due to the reckless mining being carried out in various open cast mines of Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), the holding tax should also be contributed by BCCL in Jharia like the same is paid by Tata Steel in Jamshedpur. “On the one hand, the facilities are being withdrawn from Jharia in the name of being located in the fire area while on the other hand new taxes are being imposed,” said a furniture trader, Rajkumar Agarwal and cited the example of RSP College, a lone degree college of the town which has been shifted from Jharia to distant Belgarhia area of Baliapur block in the name of underground fire beneath the college ground in Jharia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-213
06-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi to activate 5 e-waste collection points on Monday||Residents of the state capital will no longer be saddled with old, non-functional laptops and mobiles as five e-waste disposal centres will be operational in Ranchi from Monday, thanks to Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC). RMC deputy municipal commissioner Sanjay Yadav said the e-waste collection points are at Nagababa Khatal, Harmu, Morabadi, Kantatoli and Khelgaon. “All the collection points are set up at mini garbage transfer stations of the areas. They will become functional from Monday. We will collect both e-waste as well as other domestic hazardous waste there,” he said, adding the move was aimed at streamlining the waste disposal mechanism in Ranchi. Yadav said that under the solid waste management rules 2016, all wastes have to be segregated under biodegradable and non-biodegradable categories for effective disposal and to prevent environmental hazards. “This apart, there are e-waste management rules of 2016 which mandates scientific disposal of electronic waste that we generate. So, we are now working towards streamlining all kinds of waste collection and their scientific disposal,” he said. From next month, RMC is planning to introduce a radio frequency-enabled identification (RFID)-based door-to-door collection system. The civic body is in the process of roping in a specialised agency from Rajasthan to execute the plan. “Soon, we are going to sign an MoU in this regard after which we will make a formal announcement. Under the new system, we will be able to track on a real-time basis, the status of household garbage collection every day. In Ranchi, there are about 2 lakh households where we will roll out the technology-enabled waste collection,” he said. Yadav said RMC was exploring expert agencies for disposal of collected e-waste items. “Initially, we will only start collection of e-junk and gradually we will tie-up with an agency to ensure its effective disposal,” he said. According to RMC estimates, Ranchi generates around 4,000-tonne e-waste every year. “The figures could be more given the rise in use of technology in everyone’s lives,” said another official. E-waste is an emerging environmental concern nationally. In Jharkhand, Tata Steel, with the help of its own utility firm, JUSCO, set up an e-waste centre in Jamshedpur in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-213
06-12-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant's Netarhat trip put off after copter snag ||Chief Minister Hemant Soren had to cancel his trip to Netarhat School in Latehar on Sunday owing to technical snags in the helicopter which was supposed to fly him there, the CM informed in a tweet from his official Twitter handle. As per the CM’s schedule shared by the CMO, Hemant’s visit to the school was aimed at reviewing the infrastructure. Speculations were rife that the government would announce new schemes to improve the quality of education in the historic school and bring it on the international map. Hemant, while felicitating the toppers of class 10 and 12 board exams recently, had said that Netarhat School has produced over 2000 IAS officers, and Jharkhand takes pride in having an institution of such high stature. Admissions in Netarhat School is done through special entrance exams. On December 5, around 2700 students appeared for an entrance exam in class 6 of the reputed school in 25 centres across the state. So far, the school was under Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) and Bihar Board during the days of united Bihar-Jharkhand. However, the students of this school will be able to appear for CBSE exams 2021 onwards. During a visit to Netarhat School back in November, Hemant had said that the school already has the reputation of producing some of the best IAS officers, scientists, engineers and doctors serving the country. Now, it was time to give the school an international identity, he added. “The government will provide all possible support to take the school to new heights,” Hemant had said. Built in 1954, the school is spread over 460 acres of land, which makes it one of the largest schools in India in terms of area covered. “Another trip to Netarhat School will be planned soon,” the CM wrote in his tweet on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-213
06-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jayant Sinha appeals to develop Hazaribagh as innovation park cum knowledge city||Former union minister of state for civil aviation and Hazaribagh MP Jayant Sinha on Sunday wrote to chief minister Hemant Soren requesting him to develop education hub Hazaribagh as innovation park cum knowledge city. Identifying a 50-acre plot situated between Hazaribagh Medical College and Vinoba Bhave University, he said the land was best suited for it as it was currently lying unused. Sinha said after formation of Jharkhand, Hazaribagh got developed as an educational hub with large numbers of students from different cities coming here to pursue various degrees, postgraduates and professional courses available here. Sinha said to give a better shape to the career of these students and time has come to develop Hazaribagh on lines of an innovation park cum knowledge city. "We can give the best infrastructures here to invite companies setting up their units as well as BPOs. This will generate job opportunities here making these students work in their state only putting a check on migration," he said. Sinha said the 50-acre plot is best for this purpose as it is situated between two big institutions namely Vinoba Bhave University and Hazaribagh Medical College. Sinha stated if the state government will work on his suggestion, this will be the first of its kind project anywhere in Jharkhand. Moreover, it will also become an example as well as a role model for other states as well, he added. Sinha said in 2019 general elections, he promised to develop Hazaribagh into a knowledge city and so now he has started taking steps in this regard. “I met the university senior officials a few days ago and discussed with them on this proposal. Discussions with them were very positive,” he said.  Hazaribagh already became an education hub and so it’s time to work on this project, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-214
06-12-2020||Jharkhand||Archery association to open its doors again||In a boost to archers who missed action in view of the pandemic, the Jharkhand Archery Association is set to resume its operations in February 2021, with already kicking off the required spadework. The institute has earmarked Jamshedpur, Bokaro and Ranchi to hold competitions among the sub-junior, junior and senior categories. The authority discussed the resumption of events and other issues in a meeting chaired bhai Association President and Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda at JRD Tata Sports Complex earlier this week. Munda has also held the role of the president of Archery Association of India (AAI), apart from being the state chief minister. Seraikela-Kharsawan District Archery Association secretary Suman Chandra Mohanty, who was present at the meeting, said they were seriously looking to resume competitions from February next year. “We are awaiting the state government’s Covid-related guidelines for resuming our programmes. We are told that the government would allow an assembly of 200, including players and officials, for a competition. The guidelines will be announced soon,” Mohanty said. Keeping in mind the criteria related to the guidelines, the authorities have decided to hold competitions for sub-junior, junior and senior separately at different venues, Mohanty, who is also the  joint secretary of AAI, said. “We have earmarked Jamshedpur, Bokaro and Ranchi for the state level championships. These venues would separately play host to the three competitions,” he explained. Earlier, the state championships involving sub-junior, junior and senior sections were held at a single venue and on the same dates. The official said that discussions regarding the spread of the sport across Jharkhand and channelising the skills of players were also held in the meeting. “Presently, archery is conducted in 15 districts but we intend to take the sport to rest of the nine districts, including Latehar,” he said. Separate officials will be appointed at the districts and data would be prepared of all the archers to give shape to the endeavour of the state archery outfit. Archers have found themselves deprived of activity ever since the activities were withheld due to the pandemic in March, and the association says it is important to bring them into action. “A sizable section of our archers are out of action for months now. In archery or any other sport, practice is key. By conducting state competitions the archers will find ample opportunity to try and fit into their groove once again,” an official of the Jharkhand Archery Association said. “The events will also pep up their confidence level and prepare them for other competitions to be conducted next year. The pandemic has already robbed our archers of a platform to showcase their talent. Covid has had a heavy blow on them,” the official, who wished to be anonymous, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-214
06-12-2020||Jharkhand||Covid: five districts report zero cases||Out of 24 districts in Jharkhand, at least five did not report any new case of Covid-19 on Saturday, while Ranchi and Dhanbad accounted for more than half of the close-to-200 cases recorded in the state over the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the health department showed. Of the 196 cases reported on the day, at least 80 were from Ranchi and 24 from Dhanbad. However, recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection in both the districts, bringing the count of active cases down. At least 106 Covid patients recovered in Ranchi and 32 recovered in Dhanbad, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM). According to government data, 288 patients in Jharkhand recovered from the infection,bringing the count of active cases down at 1,845. Dumka, Giridih, Gumla, Pakur and Koderma did not report even a single fresh case of infection on the day, state department data showed. East Singhbhum reported nine cases against 21 recoveries, while Bokaro reported 24 cases against 18 recoveries. At least 21 of the 24 districts reported a spike of less than 10 in the Covid caseload on the day, according to data. Meanwhile, one more patient, a resident of Ranchi, died of the infection on Saturday, taking the death toll up at 202 in Ranchi alone and that in the state to 979, the NHM further stated in its bulletin. East Singhbhum has reported 353 cases of fatalities triggered by Covid-19 infection so far, making it the highest among all districts. As per government data, at least 745 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi by the end of Saturday. The count of active cases in East Singhbhum was 286. Government figures highlight that more than half of the active cases in Jharkhand were saturated in only two districts – Ranchi and East Singhbhum. On Saturday, the government tested swab samples of as many as 23,221 people and a little more than 0.5 per cent of them were found infected. Health workers in the state have so far collected swab samples of 43.35 lakh people and tested around 43.19 lakh of them. While the Covid-19 tally in the state was 1,10,186, at least 1,07,362 patients have recovered from the infection, data shows. The Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand was 97.41 per cent against the national average of 94.30 per cent. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.88 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent, while the doubling rate was 442.34 days. The growth rate in India was 0.32 per cent and the doubling rate was 213.92 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-214
