07-12-2020||Jharkhand||Local gang robs Indian Bank operator||Barely 30 kilometres away from Dhanbad district headquarters, two, unidentified criminals looted Rs 45000 cash, a laptop, and 80 bank passbooks along with other documents from Indian Bank’s customer service point on Monday morning. The bike-borne criminals carried out the robbery at around 10.30 am when the operator of the Customer Service Point (CSP) of Indian Bank, Subhash Bauri, was trying to park his bike. The criminals, two in number, were speaking to each other in Hindi when they snatched the bag containing RS 45000, a lap and passbooks, besides a bio-metric machine and some ledger at gunpoint from the operator. They also threatened to shoot, when the man resisted the robbery attempt. A team of police from Madhuban police outpost, Dhanbad, led by officer-in-charge, Prabhat Ranjan Pandey, reached the site immediately after being alerted about the incident by local residents. Victim Subhash Bauri gave all the details to the police, following which the police have started conducting raids. The borders of the district have been sealed. “It seems like the criminals were waiting on the spot for me to arrive. No sooner did I park the bike at the CSP located inside the panchayat secretariat, one of them aimed the pistol at me, while the other snatched away the bag containing all the content, including cash,” said Bauri. He added that they fled away from the site in a black colour bike after snatching the bag. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, officer-in-charge Pandey, said, “We have lodged an FIR against the unidentified people based on the complaint lodged by the CSP operator, Subhash Kumar Bauri. We are also conducting raids based on inputs provided by the complainant and other people.” He added, “Both the secretariat and the CSP didn’t have CCTV cameras. Hence we have not been able to identify the criminals. But it seems to be the work of some local gang. We are conducting raids to arrest the crooks at the earliest. ” According to him CCTV footage of other shops in the area will be scanned by the police to get some clue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-212
07-12-2020||Jharkhand||Police nets a gang of professional criminals in Seraikela||In a breakthrough, the police arrested 10 professional criminals from different parts of Seraikela-Kharsawan district on Monday. Manoj Sarkar, wanted in connection with the murder of builder-cum-land dealer Ranjit Baij in February, was also arrested during this raid. During the arresting spree, the police confiscated seven pistols (including two 7.65 MM) and a large quantity of ammunition along with two cars and 10 mobile phones from those arrested. Talking about the breakthrough, Seraikela-Kharsawan superintendent of police, Mohammed Arshi, hinted at a timely tip-off playing a crucial role in having the criminals arrested. He also revealed that the gangsters were conspiring to commit some grievous crime in the Adityapur area sometime in the next two-three days. “Acting on the tip-off, we formed separate teams of police officers and had them carry out random search operations, especially at the police checking points across the district on Sunday evening.  During one such check, one of the police teams intercepted a car at Chowka and nabbed three suspected criminals, namely Domnik Samsung, Adhir Pradhan, and Dipu Ojha.  The team recovered two pistols from them.  During interrogation, the trio confessed that they had committed crimes in and around the district,” said Arshi while talking to the newsmen at Adityapur thana on Monday. The superintendent of police further revealed that based on information they got from the arrested individuals many more arrests were made from Kharsawan. The vital leads also helped the police officers recover fire-arms from them. On further interrogation, they admitted to having committed the crimes in an organised manner and that they were supposed to attend a meeting of the gang members in Adityapur where their leader Manoj Sarkar was also supposed to address them. Based on these leads, the police formed a network of cops to spread across, Nimdih block of the district, where Sarkar was staying at an undisclosed location.  Early on Monday morning, they succeeded in nabbing the gangster. “On being interrogated, Manoj confessed to having used his gang to settle railway contracts and also for real estate deals in both land sale-purchase in Seraikela-Kharsawan district and Jamshedpur.  He also confessed to having conspired the murder of Ranjit Baij at Adityapur in February, earlier this year,” said the senior police officer. Arshi also pointed out that Sarkar’s gang would influence the process of railway tender for any project starting from the Chakradharpur up to Kharagpur, and would bully the other contractors so that the tender would be bagged by his men. In lieu of the favour Sarkar and his men would get lucrative returns from the contractors concerned. Similarly, the gang would make itself of every land deal and would extort money from both the seller and buyer of the land. According to the SP, Sarkar had set up the new gang after the gangster Akhilesh Singh was arrested and his gang began to weaken. Those arrested during the raid have been identified as Manoj Sarkar, Adhir Pradhan, Domnic Samsung, Dipu Ojha, Gyani Kumar Sahu, Debabrata Goswami alias Debu Das, Shusant Pradhan, Santosh Banra, Totan Dutta, and Bijay Sahu. On Monday afternoon, after having the Covid test for the arrested criminals being performed all the arrested criminals were sent to Seraikela divisional jail following their subsequent production before a judicial magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-212
07-12-2020||Jharkhand||Expect commuting issues till noon, but markets likely to stay open||Commuting could be an issue while shops and markets may open late on Tuesday in capital Ranchi and other parts of the state as the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD government has extended full support to the Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ outfits against the new farm laws. On Tuesday, various political parties staged candlelight demonstrations at Ranchi’s Albert Ekka, appealing to one and all to ensure the success of the bandh. With chief minister Hemant Soren throwing his weight behind farmers by announcing the JMM’s wholehearted support for Tuesday’s strike, the state police and district administrations are on high alert to ensure maintenance of law and order amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic. Members of the transport and trade sectors in the state have so far disassociated themselves from the bandh, but many feared that they may be forced to close shops and establishments, given that the government is supporting the bandh. In Jharkhand, farmers are yet to hit the streets on their own, but the Opposition, mainly Congress and Left parties, have been holding series of protests over the last week against the new farm laws. Sources said the bandh would not impact industrial units in Jamshedpur and Adityapur in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. The coal sector has been exempted from the purview of the bandh, hence mining activity is expected to continue unhindered in Dhanbad. But attendance of workers in collieries might be lesser than usual. Public transport Jharkhand Bus Owners Association president Krishna Mohan Singh said they will continue with inter and intra-state bus services. “We held a meeting on Monday and decided to continue running buses on Tuesday unless circumstances compel us to halt. Several buses are booked in advance by marriage parties and we can’t cancel them. Moreover, no one has officially approached us to support the bandh. But, if any individual bus owner wants to stay off the road, he is free to do so,” said the head of the association that oversees the service of over 2,000 buses. Another office-bearer, however, apprehended that services could be disrupted for a few hours in the first half of the day. “Had the Opposition parties called a bandh, we would have expected that the administration would remain strict. But here, ruling parties are supporting bandh, which means even police will be cautious before wielding the stick on any vandals. So, expect lesser buses in the morning,” he said. In Jamshedpur, however, long-distance bus owners have decided not to ply their vehicles. "We do not want to take a risk though bookings are heavy due to the peak wedding season, " said Upendra Sharma , a senior functionary of Jamshedpur Bus Owners Association. In Dhanbad, inter-state and local bus services are likely to be affected as a majority of operators have decided not to ply their vehicles on Tuesday. Sunil Singh, joint secretary of the Bus Operators Association, said, “We have decided to not run buses in order to avoid any disturbance.” City transport Auto services, considered to be the lifeline for commuting in the city, may also be hit. Dinesh Soni, president of Jharkhand Diesel Auto Chalak Mahasang, said, “Officially, we haven’t issued a bandh call. But auto owners will only hit the road when they feel safe, depending on the situation tomorrow.” Around 8,000 autos, including diesel and petrol variants, serve the district. In Dhanbad, the first of the day is likely to see little or no transport options available. Although none of the auto unions has come out in support of the bandh, drivers are expected to hit the road only if there is no trouble during the day. Sunil Singh, president of Jharkhand Pariwah Mazdoor Union, said, “The union has not issued any instruction auto operators. We have left it to individual drivers.” Goods transport Ranchi Goods Transport Association (RGTA), an umbrella outfit covering seven districts including Ranchi, Gumla and Hazaribagh, is not supporting the bandh, since it is “politically motivated”. It has appealed to the district administration to provide security. Sunil Chauhan, the spokesperson of the association, said, “Like farmers, traders, transporters and others are severely hit by the Covid-19 lockdown. Hence, we can’t afford to be part of a bandh. We shall continue with transportation of goods and essentials. We appeal to district administrations to ensure our vehicles aren’t vandalised.” Trade bodies Federation of Jharkhand of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) has appealed to businessmen to ensure that markets stay open on Tuesday, citing the ongoing marriage season. FJCCI president Kunal Ajmani said traders had already suffered huge losses due to the pandemic. “This is the time for traders to do business. The marriage season is on. Hence, we don’t support the bandh,” he explained, adding that the administration must ensure safety and security of all. In Jamshedpur, the Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI) has also decided not to support the bandh. "This is the peak wedding season. The trader community which has already suffered huge losses due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown has therefore decided to stay away from the bandh as it will hamper their earnings, " said Bharat Vasani, general secretary of the trade body. Political parties Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said their party men would hit the streets since morning to enforce the bandh. They would also stage protests and dharnas across the state. “Farmers are our country’s backbone. We appeal everyone to stand in solidarity with them. We also appeal to everyone to observe the bandh voluntarily and support our farmers,” said Dubey. JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee echoed similar sentiments. “JMM has been against the new farm laws since the beginning and are fully behind farmer’s cause,” he said. Policing and security Jharkhand police spokesperson Saket Singh said they were on high alert in view of Tuesday’s bandh. “All districts have been asked to deploy personnel in sensitive areas, like national and state highways and railway tracks, to ensure law and order. Also, a special focus will be on ensuring Covid-19 safety protocols are followed in public places. We will keep an eye on social media too,” he said. Jamshedpur The East Singhbhum district administration has beefed up the security apparatus in view of Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh. "Elaborate police deployment will be made in strategic locations for preventing any untoward incident. Apart from city, security will be tightened from midnight in rural and bordering areas too," said Dhalbhum SDO Nitish Kumar. The Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Government Railway Police (GRP) have also been put on high alert. Dhanbad The coal capital is likely to see a marginal impact. Attendance in private and government offices in the coal capital is likely to be thin in view of Tuesday’s bandh. Transport is likely to be disrupted, at least in the first half of the day. But train services are not likely to be disrupted as the Dhanbad division of East Central Railway has decided to run all goods and passenger trains as usual. Dhanbad station master Ratnesh Kumar said, “We will run all trains originating or passing through Dhanbad. Necessary preparations have already been made in this regard.” The coal sector has been exempted from the strike.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-212
07-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dalma elephants return early from Bengal||A herd of 35 elephants, which had migrated from Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary to Bengal forests around five months back and was supposed to stay put in the neighbouring state till February next year, have come back early on Sunday. The herd, including tuskers and calves, slipped into the sprawling 192 sq km sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur, in the wee hours of Sunday and is presently stationed inside a jungle. The herd seems to have returned early in search of food. A forester said the elephants have taken a circuitous route to Dalma Sanctuary. The herd first stayed at Kharsawan for some days before heading to Saraikela and then to Chandil before coming home. “The elephants usually stick to their migratory corridor but the trend has changed this time,” he said. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra confirmed the early homecoming of the elephants. “Dalma jumbos usually leave for the jungles of West Medinipur and Bankura in Bengal in August-September and are back in January-February. The jumbos are welcome home,” he added. Besides coming home early, the elephants had also migrated to Bengal about a month earlier (in July). “The jumbos generally catch the corridor to Dalma after harvesting season ends in Bengal. However, elephants are moody animals and move as per their whims and fancies. More elephants should be back in the days to come,” another forester said. According to him, they have asked the trackers (village youths recruited as daily wagers to keep a tab on the movement of elephants and other animals) to keep an eye on the jumbos and inform about their movement to the forest range office in Jamshedpur. They have also been issued instructions to remain alert and prevent jumbos from venturing into villages inside the sanctuary. Forest patrol will also be intensified,” he informed. The villagers have already been handed over firecrackers and mashals (torches) to keep elephants at bay. The jumbos often barge into farms to damage standing crops which results in man-animal conflict. Meanwhile, a herd of 8 elephants wiped out vegetables from farms in Saparum village in Kharsawan in the wee hours of Monday. The villagers could not do anything out of fear and watched carrots, radish and harvested paddy being wiped out by the hungry elephants. Most of the villagers remained consigned to their homes at night. The forest team is trying to steer the herd back to the jungles. “We don’t come out of our homes late in the evening. The herd can attack us. The elephants are rampaging our farm,” said Shibu Tantubai, a farmer and resident of Saparum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-212
07-12-2020||Jharkhand||Alert driver saves the day after LPG tanker springs a leak||The driver of an LPG tanker which had developed a leak on Sunday night averted a disaster by parking the vehicle in a secluded spot on NH-2, about 17km from the district headquarters, and waited for a rescue team to arrive on Monday morning and transfer the gas to another tanker. The leak took place in the pressure valve of the Indian Oil tanker (HR 38 Q 7818) which had over 17 tonnes of LPG. It was travelling to Gorakhpur in UP from Haldia port in Bengal. The driver, Abhishek Paul, realised something was amiss at Gahira in Govindpur on NH-2. He parked the tanker in an area free of human habitation and called police. Soon, a police team and firemen arrived at the spot. The police informed Indian Oil Corporation after which it sent a rescue team from Durgapur in Bengal which transferred the LPG from the leaking tanker to other tankers. District fire officer Surendra Yadav said “The IOC rescue team was able to start transferring the LPG at 5 am on Monday. Two other vehicles were needed to transfer the entire stock. The whole operation was completed at 12 noon.” Yadav said they had sent a fire tender soon after being informed by Govindpur police about the leak. “Our team remained at the site till the completion of the entire draining out process of the LPG,” he said. The fire officer said that if needed they would have used a special fire tender that was equipped with foam which was required in case of an LPG fire. “We could have increased the number of tenders if required. In case of fire due to LPG leakage, we have tankers containing foam which is required to control such fires,” he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-212
07-12-2020||Jharkhand||BIT-Sindri hosts special training for poor students||BIT-Sindri has lined up a host of soft skill activities to enhance confidence levels of engineering undergraduates from villages, underprivileged students and first-generation English learners and boost their employability. The activities being carried out at the lone state-run tech institute include conducting diagnostic tests, holding remedial classes, carrying out curative courses, organising special lecture series, entrepreneurship workshops, etc. The activities are planned under the equity action plan of Phase III of central government-sponsored – Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme (TEQIP). It will be executed by different agencies and will begin with the diagnostic tests for 1st year students of underprivileged background in January 2021 to ensure their successful conversion (promotion) in 2nd year of B.Tech course by clearing all the subjects of 1st year. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Director of BIT-Sindri, Dharmendra Kumar Singh said, “As classroom activities are suspended in the institute since March 17 this year, some of the activities will be organised online. In fact, the series of special lecture series, entrepreneurship workshops are already under progress.” Dean of Academics of BIT-Sindri, Upendra Prasad said, “We entrusted the responsibility of conducting various soft skill development programmes to different departments. We also appointed separate coordinators for each of the module but for one module titled - Knowledge hold forth series - we will be hiring an external agency to guide students.” “Under the ‘Knowledge hold forth series’ we will be training on Indian Constitution; law and women rights; women and health issues; entrepreneurship and girls; food and nutrition for girls; yogasana and meditations; workshops; seminars; training; psychological and sports training,” further added Prasad. Upendra Prasad is also the coordinator of Phase III of TEQIP at BIT-Sindri under which the institute has been provided with a fund of Rs 10 crore for carrying out some soft skill development programme for the students and teachers besides carrying out some civil construction work. Teachers from respective departments will provide guidance in subject matter, as well as pedagogy, will be organised on a quarterly basis in order to ensure the teaching of weak students, helping students in learning their goals and to develop an understanding of equity and equality of rights. Notably, both top engineering colleges of Dhanbad BIT-Sindri and IIT (ISM) Dhanbad have been selected under Phase III of TEQIP. IIT (ISM) has also been made the mentor institute for BIT-Sindri and both the institutes have also signed an MoU for sharing of resources and infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-212
07-12-2020||Jharkhand||Prisoners learning to grow organic veggies at Birsa jail||Organic vegetables grown by prisoners at Birsa Munda Central Jail may soon be available in Ranchi markets if an initiative taken by the jail authorities in collaboration with Birsa Agriculture University (BAU) yield desired results, officials of the largest prison in Jharkhand said on Monday. A group of 50 prisoners, all serving life imprisonment in the Ranchi jail, have started undergoing classes on organic farming conducted by experts from BAU. The first such class was held on Monday, and in the next 10 days, prisoners will start planting seeds in around 4-acre land demarcated for organic farming within the jail premises, jail superintendent Hamid Akhter said. “An expert from BAU gave his first lecture to a group of 50 prisoners on organic farming. Once the initial training is done, the prisoners will start sowing seeds on fertile land within the jail premises,” said Akhter. Jail authorities also plan to seek a certificate from Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) confirming that the farming done at the Birsa Munda Central Jail was 100 per cent organic. “Once we get a certificate from the ICAR, we will be able to sell the vegetables grown here as organic vegetables in the market at a higher price,” Akhter said. For the special classes, the jail authorities have selected prisoners who were serving life terms to ensure that they can eke out a living through organic farming once they are released after serving 14 years of imprisonment, officials said. “It is difficult for prisoners to cope with the challenges of the outer world once they are set free after several years of imprisonment. We are hoping that prisoners who learn organic farming in jail will be able to earn money through farming once they are free,” said the jail superintendent. According to jail authorities, there are over 3,600 prisoners in the Birsa Munda Central Jail, and around 1,200 of them are convicts. The authorities are planning to focus on training the 1,200 convicts in the first phase of the initiative as they would be spending more time in the jail and will also be in need of a skill set for running livelihood once they are free. The chief executive officer of BAU’s business planning and development society, Siddharth Jaiswal, took the first class of prisoners on Monday at the jail. “We had asked the jail authorities to prepare a list of farmers who would be trained in organic farming. Minimum infrastructure is needed for organic farming and we are hopeful that with our assistance the jail inmates will do well,” said Jaiswal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-212
07-12-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro airport getting ready to start operations by 2021||Bokaro can hope to fly high from next year as the upcoming airport in the steel town is gearing up to host commercial flights to Patna and Calcutta. This will be the second airport under UDAN, the centrally sponsored regional air-connectivity scheme, after Deoghar airport which too is in the final stages of commencement. Last week, Airports Authority of India (AAI) announced on Twitter that Bokaro strip, being prepared at a cost of Rs 46 crore, is ready to host civilian flights. “Bokaro airport presently manages non-scheduled flights. Once civil operations start it will connect the steel city to Patna and Kolkata under RCS-UDAN,” the AAI said. The airport is owned by domestic steel major SAIL. In April 2018, SAIL signed a pact with AAI and the Union civil aviation ministry for using three of the PSU’s airstrips — Rourkela (West Bengal), Bokaro (Jharkhand) and Burnpur (Odisha) — under UDAN. Soon after, work began to revamp the Bokaro airport. The project included the construction of a terminal building with a peak-hour passenger capacity of 300 along with strengthening and re-carpeting the runway, apron and taxi track for ATR-72 aircraft. Now, two years later, about 25 per cent development work is pending owing to several challenges on the ground and the Covid-19 induced lockdown earlier this year, officials associated with the project said. “Work on the ATC tower, terminal building, isolated area and periphery road others are in progress. Once these get completed, we will obtain a licence from DGCA to begin flight operations,” said an official. He said in all probability, SpiceJet would a 72-seater flight from Bokaro. About existing hurdles, another official cited encroachments on a chunk of land in the Dundibagh area adjacent to the airport boundary and cutting and trimming of trees the vicinity. “Although encroachments were removed in the past, they resurface time and again owing to lack of enough surveillance in the area. We are in touch with the district administration for a permanent solution,” said the official, who is based in Ranchi. Infrastructure gaps have delayed Deoghar’s debut on the country’s aerial map despite Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri’s September announcement of commencing flights from the temple town from the first week of November. Recently, Deoghar deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri held a review meeting with all stakeholders to speed up pending work. The foundation stone of the Rs 401.34-crore Deoghar airport was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 25, 2018. It is being developed by the Airports Authority of India in collaboration with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Jharkhand government. Once ready, this will be Jharkhand’s second largest airport after Birsa Munda International terminal in Ranchi and will be suitable for operation of Airbus A-320 type aircraft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-213
07-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports less than 100 new Covid cases, seven casualties in a day||While Jharkhand reported less than 100 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on Sunday, the Covid toll in the state shot up to 986 as at least seven more patients lost their battle against the lethal virus in the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the state health department revealed. While Dhanbad reported two of the seven deaths on the day, Ranchi, Garwah, Palamu, East Singhbhum and Dumka reported one Covid casualty each. However, barring Ranchi and East Singhbhum, all the remaining 22 districts have reported fewer Covid casualties than 100, highlights government data. The Covid-19 mortality rate of the state also shot up at 0.91 per cent on Sunday from 0.88 per cent on Saturday owing to more than half a dozen deaths in the past 24 hours. The national Covid-19 mortality rate was, however, much higher at 1.50 per cent, highlighted the NHM bulletin. Only 92 cases, including 37 from Ranchi alone, surfaced on the day, while as many as 134 Covid patients recovered from the infection, highlighted a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM). The number of active cases of infection dropped down to 1796 after Sunday’s test results were out. As per the NHM bulletin released on Sunday night, at least 10 of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report even a single fresh case of Covid-19 on the day. While East Singhbhum reported 10 cases, only five fresh cases surfaced in Dhanbad. No other district reported a double-digit-spike in the Covid cases. The number of active cases of infection increased marginally in Ranchi, while it dropped in East Singhbhum as the two districts reported 30 and 27 recoveries respectively. On Sunday, the government tested swab samples of 16,121 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found to be infected. The state, however, still has around 20,000 swab samples pending for tests. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 43.56 lakh people and tested around 43.36 lakh of them. At least 1,07,496 of the 1,10,278 people infected by the virus so far have recovered, taking Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate to 97.47 per cent against the national average of 94.40 per cent. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.15 per cent against the national average of 0.32 per cent. It took 472.34 days for doubling of Covid cases in the state ag||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-213
