08-12-2020||Jharkhand||Police bust wife plot to kill forest officer husband ||In a dramatic move, the Hazaribagh Police saved a forest officer’s life, whose wife had plotted his murder by hiring three contract killers. Superintendent of Police Karthik S on Tuesday confirmed the arrest of the three killers, Naveen Rana, Indad Hussain and Mohammad Noman, who were paid Rs 90,000 in advance by the officer’s wife to execute the murder. The officer, a native of the Meru village near Hazaribagh, is posted at Gaya in Bihar and lives in a rented house with his wife. The police, according to Karthik, received a tip-off, based on which they put the trio’s mobile phones on surveillance. He further said that an investigation confirmed that the officer’s wife had an extra-marital affair with Naveen, one of the arrested youths, and hence they planned to kill him. The trio hatched the conspiracy after the woman agreed to pay them Rs 2 lakhs, out of which Rs 90,000 was paid in advance. With the officer's wife passing all information about her husband's movement, the trio started their journey to Gaya, making the police come on high alert. Karthik had made up a team led by sub-divisional officer Kamal Kishore and comprised other officers-in-charge of several police stations. This team started following the killers’ car, in which they had planned to go to Gaya. Their plan was to strangulate the officer in the night and his wife had agreed to keep the main door of the house open. The police team intercepted the car on Ranchi-Patna(NH-33) near Ichak Mor,14 kilometers away from Hazaribagh district headquarters and arrested the trio while they were on their way to Gaya on Monday night. They recovered gloves and the advance amount from the car. Karthik said that the officer’s wife escaped after getting the news of the arrest, and added that the police are looking for her to carry out further investigation. The arrested killers told the police that the wife was also eyeing the officer’s government job following his death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-211
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad markets see fewer buyers on bandh day  ||The Bharat Bandh called by farmers on Tuesday disrupted life in Dhanbad partially with fewer buses and autos on the road while business was hit in markets. Rail transport remained totally unaffected during the strike as all passenger and goods trains ran on schedule in the Dhanbad division of East Central Railway. The strike had zero impact on the coal sector as mining activities had been exempted.  Bandh supporters blocked roads at various places of Dhanbad town, including Naya Bazar, Birsa Munda Chowk, Purana Bazar, besides several suburban areas like Karkend, Govinpur and Katras. Bandh supporters led by Congress town president Ravindra Verma held a march from Birsa Munda Chowk and moved through various parts of the town like Bank More, Karbala Road, Matkuria, Naya Bazar, Station Road, Court More and Hirapur. Verma said the anti-people policies of the Centre were apparent in sphere of governance, including the changes in labour laws, commercialisation of mining operations and the introduction of farm bills. “All these measures are aimed at benefitting the capitalist forces in the country,” he said. Long-distance buses and inter-state buses did not operate from Dhanbad in the morning. A few local buses plied within the district. There were fewer autorickshaws on the road throughout the day. Rail transport was unaffected across the Dhanbad division that covers over 140 railway stations and halts. Movement of passenger and goods trains was normal. By and large, markets remained open in Dhanbad. But in pockets of Kendua, Karkend, Katras, Phusbunglow, bandh supporters forced many shopkeepers to down shutters. Business was poor through the day as there were fewer buyers. Patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry Rajesh Kumar Gupta said, “Although markets and business establishments remained open, there were fewer customers which meant business was poor.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-211
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||Bharat Bandh: a day of rallies, protests across steel city||Shops and other commercial establishments remained closed, long-distance buses stayed off the road and traffic within the steel city was disrupted as Bharat Bandh supporters held demonstrations at Sakchi, Bistupur and elsewhere in support of farmers. Bandh supporters, including those belonging to the Congress, JMM and Left parties, trade unions and Sikh outfits, hit the roads as early as 8am to enforce the day-long strike. While emergency services were exempted, banking and insurance services remained unaffected. Post offices and courts functioned as usual. Railway services under South Eastern Railway's Chakradharpur division were by and large unaffected. The East Singhbhum district administration had beefed up security in both rural and urban areas even as demonstrations were held in several places. In Bistupur, near the Postal Park, the number of agitators swelled after 12 noon as bandh supporters reached the area in tractors and motorcycles chanting slogans like “Jai Jawan Jai Kisan” and "Kendra Sarkar Kala Kanoon Wapas Lo". Public transport, like town buses and auto-rickshaws, stayed off the road till 3pm. Long-distance buses for Ranchi and other destinations did not ply fearing disruptions. District Congress president Bijay Khan, along with other party leaders, marched from Tilak Pustakalaya to Postal Park with placards and banners condemning the Centre's farm laws. Veteran trade union leader Rakeshwar Pandey also took part in a similar rally at Golmuri. Protest rallies were also taken out by Opposition parties at Baridih, Kadma, Sonari and Jugsalai. Members of the Sikh community took out a padyatra at Dimna Road in Mango, raising slogans against the Centre. Bandh supporters indulged in a fisticuffs with shopkeepers at Sakchi. Police had to intervene. Railway sources revealed that train services was partially affected at Jhinkpani and Talaburu in West Singhbhum under Chakradharpur division for half an hour from 2pm as bandh supporters squatted on tracks. The bandh failed to have any impact on industrial production. Industrial units in the steel city and Adityapur in adjoining Seraikela- Kharsawan district functioned as usual.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-211
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||JMM-Cong alliance claims bandh a grand success||The UPA described Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh against the new farm laws as a total success in Jharkhand, saying that the spontaneous support from various sections of civil society was testimony to the growing anger against the Centre for its anti-farmer and anti-people policies. But the Opposition BJP put up a brave face, claiming that life remained normal across the state. Former chief minister and BJP leader Raghubar Das said that neither farmers nor the “aam-admi” were concerned about a “political bandh”. Police said there were no untoward incidents reported from anywhere. In all, 368 protestors were arrested from Jamshedpur (125), Dhanbad (135) and Gumla (108), said an official. All three Congress ministers, namely, Rameshwar Oraon (finance and food and civil supplies), Badal Patralekh (agriculture) and Alamgir Alam (rural development), took to streets, riding e-rickshaws and marching on foot along Ranchi’s Main Road to enforce the bandh. A host of party MLAs also hit the streets. JMM’s working president and chief minister Hemant Soren, who extended his support to the Bharat Bandh, spent the day at Project Building working. His party workers held protests in groups at Albert Ekka Chowk and other parts of the city. Congress and Left party leaders hit the streets from 8am. Gradually, RJD, JMM, joined by some social outfits, including those belonging to Sikhs, held marches and demonstrations along Main Road, forcing business establishments to down their shutters till well after noon. Life in other parts of Ranchi remained unaffected even though there were fewer people and vehicles on the streets compared to a usual working day. Buses did not operate from Khadgara during the first half of the day. Jharkhand Bus Owners Association president Krishna Mohan Singh said that passenger turnout was low. “Some buses ran but there weren’t many passengers,” he said, adding that they would have run more buses had there been a demand. The number of autos and city buses were less on the road. However, attendance at government establishments was unaffected. “Almost all government officials own private vehicles. Hence, there was no issue about attendance. As it is, most offices are still functioning in a staggered manner,” said a forest department official. Markets remained open and did usual business, except at Albert Ekka Chowk and Main Road, which remained the epicentre of protests through the day. “The bandh was a total success across Jharkhand. In rural areas, many farmers voluntarily supported the bandh by keeping haats and mandis closed,” said Congress spokesperson Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo. He said the Congress would continue with protests against the farm laws until these were repealed. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee echoed similar sentiments. Quoting the chief minister, he said Jharkhand would lead the “ulgulan (rebellion)” in favour of farmers, labourers, and the marginalised in the coming days if the Union government continued to “work in favour of capitalists”. Former chief minister Raghubar Das called out the ruling alliance as “hypocrites”, accusing it of scrapping pro-farmer policies rolled out by his government in the last five years. “They have stopped Mukhyamantri Krishi Ashirward Yojana robbing scores of marginal and small farmers of government help. Not only this, the state government is deliberately delaying procurement of paddy grains citing moisture content, thereby forcing farmers to sell their produce at throwaway prices,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-211
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||Gourav Mukhi all set to sign for Mohammedan Sporting ||Gourav Mukhi may not be plying his trade for Jamshedpur FC this season but the controversial forward seems all set to don the famous black and white colours of Mohammedan Sporting Club in the I League. The Calcutta club is in talks with the 22-year-old Mukhi who is keen to make a comeback to the competitive fold. The talks between the two parties have reached the final stage, sources claim. Mukhi, who hails, from Jamshedpur and grabbed headlines after he scored his debut goal against Bengaluru FC in an Indian Super League (ISL) tie in Bangalore two seasons back, confirmed about his talks with Mohammedan Sporting and that he was serious to resurrect his career. “Mohammedan Sporting has contacted me and I am keen to sign on the dotted lines. I am working hard and want to make a comeback to competitive football,” Mukhi said. The All India Football Federation (AIFF) had suspended Mukhi for an age-related discrepancy on November 2018. The player got embroiled in the age-related controversy triggered by ISL's claim that Mukhi, at 16, was the youngest scorer in the tournament’s history when he scored his debut goal against Bengaluru FC in 2018. Later, the AIFF’s disciplinary committee imposed a 6-month ban on the player. Mukhi was suspended on the basis of contradictory statements about his actual age which was upheld by the AIFF verdict on the basis of the evidence presented by him, his own admission and statements of the manager of the under-16 AIFF academy in 2015. Mukhi has since completed the ban and is looking forward to displaying his brilliance on the pitch again. ISL franchise Chennai FC had shown interest in him but things didn’t move forward due to some unspecified reasons. The Calcutta club will certainly give him a platform which Mukhi needs the most at this time of his career. Sources revealed that Mukhi wants to forget the past and is keen to redeem his football career. “He (Mukhi) is working hard and is focussing on his fitness. He wants to start his career afresh and also concentrate hard on the game,” one of the sources close to the striker said. Mukhi, who stays with his parents at Harijan Bustee in Dhatkidih locality, was hoping for a berth in the Tata Steel-owned club JFC. However, the team management did not show any interest to retain him. Besides the JFC senior team, Mukhi has also played for the reserves side. It was his promising stint in the reserves side that earned him a promotion to the senior side. The forward has played four ISL matches for the Jamshedpur outfit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-211
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||Two workers trapped in flooded coal mine in Nirsa||Efforts are on to rescue two miners trapped inside an underground colliery after a borehole burst triggered flooding at the Mugma area of Eastern Coalfields in the wee hours of Tuesday. Senior officials of the district administration, including Nirsa BDO Vikash Chandra Rai and circle officer M.N. Mansoori, besides police led by Nirsa SDPO Bijay Kumar Kushwaha, were supervising rescue operations. Teams from Khudia colliery and ECL’s Mugma area and Sanctoria headquarters in Asansol are working together, trying to pump out water from the underground colliery. The miners who are trapped are Basia Maji (56) and Manik Bauri (58). Former Nirsa MLA Arup Chatterjee, who was at the site, said mining operations at the site were launched two days ago. “The colliery was lying closed since November 27 when there was a similar inundation. But no one was injured then,” he said. Chatterjee said a sudden burst in the borehole led to water flowing into the mine from an adjoining colliery leading to flooding around 3.30am. And although two other workers managed to escape, Maji and Bauri got trapped inside. “There is no record of a borehole in the mine survey record. Nor is it mentioned the mine map study carried out before the relaunch of mining activity in the colliery,” the former MLA revealed and wondered how the accident occurred. Chatterjee said even though rescue efforts were on, he would request the district administration and Eastern Coalfields to ensure the operation was speeded up so that the two miners could be rescued as soon as possible. Nirsa MLA Aparna Sengupta blamed the ECL management for being negligent about safety concerns. “We have been raising the issue of lack of safety gear, including boots, for the colliery workers. But the management did not respond,” she said. Nirsa circle officer M.N. Mansoori said he went to the site at 4am after receiving information about the inundation in the mine from Eastern Coalfields. “Four workers were underground when the incident took place. Of them, Samir Tuddu and Vikash Bhuian, somehow escaped unhurt,” he said. Mansoori said apart from the ECL rescue teams, another group of 25 workers had been engaged to drain out water from the mine. “Talks are on with NDRF to deploy a team of theirs to add to the efforts,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-211
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city doctors protest Centre’s Ayurveda order||A section of Jamshedpur doctors under the banner of the Indian Medical Association staged a demonstration near the Sakchi roundabout on Tuesday noon, against a recent Central Council of Indian Medicine (IICM) notification allowing Ayurveda surgeries. The protest was carried out by the doctors to create awareness about the nationwide strike on December 11 against the same issue. Adhering to Covid-19 protocols, the agitation was held in a small  group of 20 participants for two hours between 12 noon and 2 pm, when doctors carried posters with slogans against the notification. Over 5,000 doctors of Kolhan from three districts, East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan, will join the nationwide strike called by the IMA on Friday  against the IICM notification, which authorises post-graduate practitioners in specified streams of Ayurveda to be trained to perform general surgical procedures. The Jamshedpur wing of the IMA had earlier announced that they will join the strike and demanded withdrawal of the decision. “The notification by the Central Council of Indian Medicine  to allow the legal practice of surgeries by Ayurveda practitioners and the formation of four committees by NITI Aayog for the integration of all systems of medicine will only lead to ‘mixopathy’. We  demand immediate withdrawal of both,” said Dr Mritunjay Singh, secretary of IMA 's Jamshedpur chapter. He informed that doctors will stay away from OPD services during Friday’s strike. “All clinics, pathology laboratories, X-ray / ultrasound units, MRI and CT Scan centres will shut down for 12 hours, from 6 am to 6 pm. However, emergency services including ICUs, CCUs and Covid care centres will continue to function as usual as they have been kept outside the purview of strike,” the senior IMA functionary said. Doctors, who are members of the body, had assembled at the IMA building in Sakchi on Sunday to express their grievances over the order. “Doctors of all private and government hospitals will join the strike on Friday. Though the Ayush ministry has issued a clarification claiming the technical terms and the modern developments are a common heritage of mankind but IMA rejects the clarification,” another senior member of the association said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-211
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||State’s first post-Covid care centre comes up at RIMS||Jharkhand’s first Post Covid-19 Care and Counselling Centre has come up at the State-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi where expert doctors will address the residual symptoms in people who have overcome the viral infection but were still dealing with aftereffects of the lethal virus, doctors from RIMS said on Tuesday. Dr. Prabhat Kumar, the coordinator of the Covid-19 Task Force at RIMS said that the new facility will be a daycare centre, and not have beds. Expert cardiologists, physiotherapists, kidney experts, neurological experts and psychotherapists will provide consultation to Covid survivors with residual symptoms here depending on the nature and severity of their symptoms, added Kumar. “Many Covid survivors, especially the ones who had developed a severe infection, complain of residual symptoms even after recovering. At this new facility, they will be provided consultation to tackle the symptoms,” said Kumar, adding that experts at the facility will also teach breathing exercises to Covid-19 survivors for strengthening their lungs – the organ which the virus affects the most. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni had announced in October that post Covid care centres will come up at six government-run hospitals across Jharkhand. For the purpose, the government shortlisted RIMS in Ranchi, Tata Main Hospital in Jamshedpur, Bokaro General Hospital in Bokaro, Shahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital (SNMMCH) and Central Hospital in Dhanbad, and Sheikh Bhikhari Medical College and Hospital (SBMCH) in Hazaribag. The facility at RIMS will be open for patients from 10am to 11.30 am and from 3pm to 4.30 pm, doctors said. Patients who complain of serious residual symptoms of the infection will be referred to the concerned department after consultation at the facility. Doctors say that several Covid-19 survivors suffer from residual symptoms like shortness of breath, sore muscles, depression, anxiety, disturbed sleep cycle, poor digestion and even infections in the respiratory tract. Cases have been reported wherein patients developed fibrosis in lungs after testing negative for Covid-19, doctors said, claiming that post Covid care was as important as treatment during an infection. As per figures with the state health department, as many as 1,07,710 of the 1,10,457 Covid patients in Jharkhand have recovered from the infection. However, cases of deaths after testing negative for the infection have also been reported in the state. State Minority Welfare Minister Haji Hussain Ansari died of a cardiac arrest hardly 24 hours after testing negative for Covid-19 in October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-211
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||National Metallurgical Laboratory signs pact with IAF||The National Metallurgical Laboratory (NML) on Monday, in a major move entered into an agreement with the Indian Air Force (IAF) in the field of Research and Development (R&D). The NML is a leading Ranchi-based laboratory of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). A top level IAF delegation signed the MoU, which was led by Air Marshall Vibhas Pande and included senior officials of the NML. “During the visit, discussions were held on the areas of prime national interest in the field of materials, metals, corrosion science and other allied engineering domains with an aim to decide on aspects of collaborations between IAF and NML,” a spokesperson of the laboratory said. The IAF delegation stressed upon the requirement of improving the reliability and serviceability of their legacy assets, with emphasis on material informatics, substitution, life extension and indigenisation. The importance of refurbishment, reclamation, simulation of material behaviour and increasing the envelope of operations were brought out. The need for HR development through training, workshops and knowledge exchange were highlighted. The team of the IAF inspected the research and development facilities at the Burmamines campus of the NML. The National Metallurgical Laboratory is the third in the CSIR family that comprises 38 labs. It was formally inaugurated and dedicated for scientific research in India by Jawaharlal Nehru on November 26, 1950. The NML is one of the premiere, publicly funded research and development organisations of the country in the field of metallurgy and materials exploration. It is backed-up by state of the art infrastructure (both at laboratory and pilot plant level), substantial number of technology development initiatives available for commercialisation, intellectual property holding and research publications. In recent years, the laboratory has emerged as a leading technology provider to a number of industries, including start-ups. The NML has 125 scientists and highly skilled technical personnel, aiding its quality human resource.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-211
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||On bandh day, roti, roadblock and veggies||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-212
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||Recoveries outnumber fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand||As many as 214 Covid-19 patients recovered from the infection on Monday, while 179 people were found to be infected, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. Monday’s test results brought the number of active cases of Covid-19 infections down at 1,795. Ranchi reported 79 fresh cases of infection against 72 recoveries, while East SInghbhum reported 25 cases against 17 recoveries in the past 24 hours, the NHM bulletin highlighted. Besides these two districts, only Dhanbad and Bokaro reported a double-digit-spike in Covid cases. At least 13 people were found infected in Bokaro and 10 in Dhanbad. After Monday’s test results, the number of active cases in Ranchi reached 757, while the number of active cases in East Singhbhum rose to 276. These two districts account for more than 60 per cent of the active cases in Jharkhand. Barring these two districts, all the remaining 22 districts had less than 100 active cases of Covid-19 infection. Meanwhile, two more Covid patients, one each from East Singhbhum and Dhanbad, died during treatment on the day, taking the Covid-19 toll in the state up at 988, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. At least five of the 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day, the NHM bulletin revealed. However, barring Khunti, all other districts reported Covid-19 recoveries on the day. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 17,057 people and around 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 43.74 lakh people and tested 43.59 lakh of them. Around 19,000 swab samples were still pending for tests. Of the 1,07,710 people infected by the virus so far in Jharkhand, at least 1,10,457 have recovered, taking the recovery rate in the state up at 97.51 per cent. The Covid mortality rate of the state has increased marginally to reach 0.91 per cent, but it is still lower than the national average of 1.50 per cent. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.15 per cent against the national average of 0.32 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 473.96 days against the national doubling rate of 216.52 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-212
08-12-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren warns Delhi of ‘ulgulan’ on farm laws||Jharkhand chief minister and JMM executive president Hemant Soren has lent support to the Bharat Bandh call given by farmers and trade union outfits for repeal of the new farm laws on Tuesday and cautioned the Centre about the possibility of an “ulgulan” (rebellion). “Our farmers are the pride of our country. The Union government has hatched a conspiracy to make the owners of lands and food producers slave in the country and an ulgulan will take place in Jharkhand too against the Union government. JMM fully supports the Bharat Bandh call given to express solidarity with kisan annadatas,” Soren tweeted late on Sunday night. The word “ulgulan” was coined during tribal icon Birsa Munda’s rebellion against the British empire between 1899 and 1900. JMM general secretary and party spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharya, however, said that its party supporters would enforce the bandh in a peaceful manner. “Most of the people in the tribal state of Jharkhand know about the ongoing struggle and agitation of the farmers against the new anti-farmer laws enacted by the Union government. We expect most of the establishments to down their shutters voluntarily during the bandh period. Our party cadres will peacefully try to persuade them to down their shutters in case they do not do so. However, emergency services will not be affected,” said Bhattacharya. Almost all the ruling UPA alliance partners, including the JMM, the Congress and the RJD, along with Left parties and social rights outfits and farmers unions in the state, have joined hands to support the nationwide bandh. “We have been staging agitation and burning effigies of the Union government in different districts for the past one week and our party supporters will go out to enforce the bandh in the state,” said Congress state executive president Rajesh Thakur. The RJD and Left parties also took out torch rallies on Monday between Ranchi University and Albert Ekka Chowk in support of Tuesday’s bandh. Civil rights activist Arvind Anjum observed a daylong fast in Jamshedpur as part of the agitation by Sarva Seva Sangh (a pan-India socio-political organisation) on Monday to protest against the farm laws and express solidarity with the ongoing farmers’ agitation. “We are staging the daylong fast as part of the ‘annadata ke liye annatyag’ (fasting for food producers) programme of the Seva Sangh. Hundreds of Seva Sangh members are observing fast across the country and we will be supporting the bandh call on Tuesday,” said Anjum while fasting at his house in Jamshedpur. With the ruling parties coming out in support of the bandh, public transport is set to take a hit in Jharkhand. Three-wheelers and private cabs are also unlikely to hit the road. However, train services will run as usual. “Trains will ply as usual at their normal times and schedules under South Eastern Railway,” said SER chief public relations officer Sanjay Ghosh. Shopkeepers not supportive of the bandh call are adopting a wait and watch policy. “We are not in support of the bandh call as it is the marriage season and the market is reviving. However, we will wait and watch,” said Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries president Kunal Ajmani. The administration has geared up to maintain law and order during the bandh. State police spokesperson and inspector-general (provision) Saket Kumar Singh said, “Directive has been issued to initiate appropriate preventive and precautionary measure. All the forces have been alerted. Directions regarding maintenance of Covid-19 guidelines have also been issued. Directions for maintenance of vigil on social media have also been issued.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-212
