09-12-2020||Jharkhand||IOC helps Ranchi health centres get modern labour rooms||Ranchi district administration has signed an MoU with Indian Oil Corporation for setting up state-of-art labour rooms at primary health centres (PHC) in Nagri and Kuchu on the outskirts of the capital to facilitate safe institutional deliveries in rural areas as part of its endeavour to ramp up government health facilities. At a formal function on Tuesday evening, the oil PSU committed to initially spend Rs 10 lakh for the project under its corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities, officials said. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said the health has been identified as one of the core sectors by IOC to utilise CSR funds. “Health and education are two priority sectors identified by the district administration as CSR activities. Last month, at a meeting with representatives of private and public sector companies, we had spoken of our focus areas and asked them to channelise CSR funds accordingly,” he said. Ranjan said the administration had originally planned to set up modern labour labours in as many as four PHCs in the district. “But we are initially starting with two centres. We hope to get further cooperation from IOC for the remaining two PHCs in the coming months,” he said. IOC DGM Pramod Ranjan said they have been working with the district administration on various projects in Ranchi, which has been classified as an aspirational district by Niti Aayog. “The recent tie-up is only an extension of the ongoing cooperation,” he said,  adding that last week, IOC donated an ambulance to the district administration which will be stationed at Ranchi railway station, offering 24/7 free service to the needy. Ranchi civil surgeon VB Prasad said that under the aspirational district programme the district administration had signed an MoU with IOC in January for launching 24/7 ambulance services at the railway station. “We are starting with one ambulance,” he noted, adding that the ambulance would be under the care of the district civil surgeon’s office. Notably, the state health department is also focusing on strengthening basic health infrastructure at the grassroots level by roping in various public and private entities to run facilities and tide over the reeling crisis of manpower and resources. Taking the first step, the state chapter of the National Health Mission (NHM) on December 1 handed over the overall operation of a PHC in Chirkunda in Dhanbad district to Ranchi NGO Citizens Foundation. Health department officials maintained that NHM had signed an MoU with the NGO for taking care of 11 PHCs across six districts in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-210
09-12-2020||Jharkhand||IIT-ISM to better position, says chairperson||IIT (ISM), Dhanbad Chairperson of Board of Governors Prem Vrat on Wednesday spoke during an online event as the institute celebrated its 95th anniversary. The chairman asked the faculty members, students, researchers and deans to focus on innovation, incubation, creativity, creation of center of excellence, increasing placement and packages, doubling research among other things. Vrat, during his speech, said, “Foundation Day is an occasion for great celebration, it also provides an opportunity to introspect and find new opportunities and directions to consolidate its present achievement and develop strategies to exploit the potential multiplier effect that the brand IIT and brand ISM have to leapfrog at a faster rate to attain top ranks within the IIT system.” “As an IIT, it is an opportunity as well as a challenge because now we have to find a respectable place for IIT (ISM) in the ranking within the IIT system by leveraging its strengths and overcoming its weaknesses to exploit future opportunities that are present in the higher technical education system in the context of the New Education Policy (NEP),” he said. Several students and faculty members attended the event in both online and offline modes, the latter gathering at the conference hall of the administrative building of the institute. “I would like to appeal to the Director, faculty, staff and students to initiate in a mission mode,efforts to make IIT (ISM)Dhanbad in the ranking of top five IITs by the time it celebrates its centenary celebration in five years from now,” Vrat added. “Given the brand of IIT to brand ISM, I am optimistic that due to the multiplier effect of these two brands, we can achieve the fifth rank in the 23 member elite IIT system" claimed Vrat and added it shares similar legacy with IIT at Roorkee and BHU, Varanasi. "I am of the view that we can aspire to be after IIT at Bombay, Chennai, Delhi and Kharagpur and benchmark ourselves with the best practices of other IITs, particularly of IIT Kharagpur,” he said. “A committed task force can work on this mission and start by conducting SWOT analysis of IIT (ISM) Dhanbad and leverage its strengths and treat weaknesses as opportunities to improve,” said Vrat. “A time comparison of key performance indicators with IITs at Kanpur, Roorkee, Guwahati and BHU will help together with benchmarking with IIT Kharagpur,” he advised.. Director of the institute, Rajiv Shekhar and Managing Director, Epiroch Mining India Limited also addressed the function through online mode. Coal India Limited Director (technical) was also present as a guest of honour during the ceremony. In an offline event held at the conference hall of the institute, five employees, who completed 25 years of service, were given long service awards. A team of the Chemical Engineering Department composed of professor Aditya Kumar, Kalpita Nath and Poonam Chauhan was given the Inder Mohan Thapar Research Award (2020).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-210
09-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel awarded for contribution to sports through CSR||Tata Steel has been recognised as the best organisation contributing to sports through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) at the FICCI India Sports Awards, 2020. Tata Steel vice-president Chanakya Chaudhary received the award on behalf of the company at the India Sports Awards ceremony that took place on a virtual platform during ‘TURF’ 2020 -- 10th Global Sports Summit, on December 8. Sports, which has been an integral part of the company’s philosophy, was traditionalised by its first chairman Sir Dorabji Tata, who financed  India’s first Olympic team to Antwerp, Belgium in 1920. Tata Steel in India promotes sporting activities through its encouragement to professional sportspersons, amateurs and its own employees. “At Tata Steel, sports is a way of life. Tata Steel’s association with sports dates back nearly a century and is an integral part of its culture. The local community has always been at the core of the sports activities that Tata Steel supports,” Chaudhary said while receiving the award. “While sports has served as a unique link between Tata Steel’s business and the community outreach, its role in the company’s culture and identity has grown stronger than ever. Through its sports academies and training centres, the company has helped shape some of India’s iconic sporting talents over the years,” the vice-president said. “We are humbled with this recognition from India Sports Awards and it also re-affirms our commitment towards the development of sports and athletes,” he added. Six years ago, Tata Steel started the Tata Steel Kolkata 25K, a 25-km run that has a social cause at its heart – supporting the Tata Medical Centre, a cancer hospital in Kolkata. Tata Steel has also organised running events annually in Jamshedpur and Noamundi (in Jharkhand) and Bhubaneswar and Angul (in Odisha). This year, in view of the pandemic, the company organised its first-ever virtual run. In Jharkhand, it started various sporting academies including the Jamshedpur Athletic Club in 1927, Tata Youth Adventure Centre in 1984, Tata Football Academy in 1987, and Tata Archery Academy in 1996. The company stepped up to the national level when it established the Tata Athletics Academy in 2004. In 2017, the company for the first time stepped into the commercial side of sports when it started Jamshedpur Football Club which competes in India Super League. In the same year, it also came up with the Naval Tata Hockey Academy. Besides these academies. Tata Steel has also established training centres for 18 sports disciplines, including archery, athletics, badminton, basketball, boxing, cricket, chess, football, golf, handball, horse riding. Karate, kabaddi, roll ball, swimming, table tennis, tennis and volleyball. So far, Tata Steel has in its one  Padma Bhushan, 11 Padma Shrees, one Khel Ratna, one Dhyan Chand, six Dronacharyas and 42 Arjuna awardees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-210
09-12-2020||Jharkhand||Police arrest wife who planned to kill forest officer ||Hazaribagh Police on Wednesday arrested a woman who had hired three contract killers to murder her husband Sanjay Singh, a forest officer. They had on Monday foiled her plan by arresting the trio, including her boyfriend Naveen Rana. Police were looking for the wife, Rakhi Sinha, who had absconded after they arrested the contract killers who were on their way to Gaya to kill her husband. They were intercepted near Ichak More on Ranchi-Patna highway, and their car got seized. Rakhi had promised to pay Rs.5 lakh for this work and paid Rs.90,000 as an advance money. Police had recovered the amount, which the men had distributed among themselves. Officials said they got an input that Rakhi was in the house of her relative at Shivpuri Mohalla in Hazaribagh town, following which a police team was sent to arrest her. During her interrogation, she confessed to have hired the killers to murder her husband. Sub Divisional officer of Sadar, Kamal Kishore told The Telegraph online that Rakhi was arrested and she had admitted her involvement. He said she also told them that she was having an extra-marital affair with Naveen Rana, one of the arrested contract killers. Naveen told the police that he was a friend of Sanjay Sinha and had developed a relationship with his wife. He said both of them wanted to stay together and hence had planned to do away with Sanjay. Police have forwarded the three contract killers as well as Rakhi to Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Central Jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-210
09-12-2020||Jharkhand||IMD forecasts stormy weekend with rain from Sunday||Several districts of Jharkhand, especially those in the western, southern and central parts of the state, are expected to experience unseasonal rain from Sunday. Both IMD’s Ranchi and Patna Met centres issued bulletins on Wednesday forecasting rain in Jharkhand for three days from Sunday, December 13. “Jharkhand will be under the influence of a western disturbance passing through northern parts of the country, leading to formation of a cyclonic circulation. This would help in formation of clouds and moisture incursion into the atmosphere,” said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He said the impact of the western disturbance would be felt from December 11, Thursday. "The minimum temperatures in several parts of Jharkhand would witness a rise from Thursday due to the effect of the western disturbance passing through north-west India," said Anand. Ranchi Meteorological Centre predicted an increase in night temperatures by two to three degrees from Thursday. Weathermen at IMD's Patna office said that as the disturbance was approaching from the western side, it would bring in moisture from the Arabian sea. “The wind pattern over Jharkhand will change from north-westerly to easterly and this will subsequently result in a change in night temperature. The day reading is expected to witness a slight fall from Friday because of cloud cover,” explained a duty officer at the Patna Met Centre. Meanwhile, several areas of Jharkhand, especially the Kolhan region, experienced early morning fog, resulting in poor visibility. But visibility improved as the day progressed. The Met department also issued a fog alert in several pockets of Jharkhand in the next 24 hours. Met statistics revealed that Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of 12.1°C, two notches above normal, while Jamshedpur witnessed 12.6°C, a notch above normal. Daltonganj recorded 11.8°C, two degrees above normal. In Bokaro, Hazaribagh, Dhanbad, Deoghar, Seraikela-Kharsawan and West Singhbhum, the minimum readings stayed one to two notches above normal on Wednesday. Weathermen said the impact of the western disturbance and the associated cyclonic circulation was expected to stay till December 15 after which conducive weather conditions would prevail with the restoration of dry and crisp north-westerly winds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-210
09-12-2020||Jharkhand||Lessons for kids to deal with post-lockdown stress||Government school students in Jharkhand will soon be provided stress management classes to tackle post-lockdown anxiety and address behavioral issues that may aggravate once regular classes resume after several months, officials from the Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) said on Wednesday. JEPC has already started training around 8,000 teachers in child psychology and ways to tackle restlessness among children with assistance from Central Institute of Psychiatry (CIP), said state in-charge of quality education Arvind Kumar. “These 8,000 teachers will become master trainers and train other teachers using online mediums. Counselling of students will start before we resume regular classes at schools, so we can put a check on behavioral issues among children once schools reopen,” said Kumar. However, counselling sessions for students would not be restricted to the ongoing period of offline classes. Stress management lessons for students would become a part of the curriculum once regular classes resume, and every school would try and provide stress management lessons for an hour every day to the students. “We will continue providing stress management classes to students even after the schools reopen. Addressing psychological issues is a gradual process and psychological barriers cannot be removed overnight in one or two online sessions,” Kumar said. The JEPC has also issued SOPs to deal with mental issues among children once schools reopen, said JEPC director Shailesh Chourasia. Every government school in the state would have to follow the SOP, he added. The lockdown triggered mood disorders and behavioral issues in many children across the state, say psychiatrists. They fear that the transition phase from days of lockdown to normal days at schools will also trigger similar psychological issues among children. “Adapting to changes in lifestyle often triggers stress. Many students suffered from anxiety during the early days of lockdown as they found it difficult to adjust with the changes in their regular lifestyle,” said Dr Nishat Goyal, assistant professor at CIP. “Many students may have to deal with similar adjustment problems once they resume normal life, so counselling becomes important at this stage,” he added. So far, around 800 teachers have already been trained to impart stress management lessons in the first lot. More teachers would be trained in days to come, JEPC officials said. “We have selected teachers from each of the 24 districts for the training sessions in a bid to ensure that students in all parts of the state can get benefitted from counselling,” said Kumar. According to the school education and literacy department, there are over 44,000 government schools spread across Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-210
09-12-2020||Jharkhand||Divers join efforts to rescue two trapped in flooded coal mine||Eastern Coalfields engaged a team of divers from Cuttack on Wednesday to help rescue the two miners trapped inside a flooded coal mine at Mugma since Tuesday. The six-member team of divers, led by Captain Pranab Kumar Biswal, reached here at 7am and started work from 9am after studying maps of the Khudia colliery. Side by side, work to drain out of water from the inundated mine was also speeded up by deploying a third motor early morning. The miners, Basia Maji (56) and Manik Bauri (58), were trapped inside the mine in the Mugma area after a borehole burst triggered flooding in the wee hours of Tuesday. Former Nirsa MLA Arup Chatterjee, who visited the site on Tuesday to supervise rescue operations, said the burst in the borehole led to water flowing into the mine from an adjoining colliery, leading to flooding around 3.30am. And although two other workers managed to escape, Maji and Bauri got trapped inside. On Wednesday, a team of mines regulator Directorate General Mines Safety, led by Director Mines Safety (Central Zone) Murlidhar Mishra, arrived at the accident site and took details from the colliery officers and workers about the circumstances under which the mishap occurred. Khudia colliery project officer Shailendra Kumar, who was present at the site, along with safety officer C.K. Nayak and others, said, "When we informed the National Disaster Response Force team in Ranchi, they told us that they did not have expertise in mine rescue. Hence, we contacted the Cuttuck team of divers, many of whom are ex-Navy men and have expertise in tunnel rescue." Kumar said efforts to drain out water from the flooded mine were on. “We have decreased water levels in the mine by more than 40 metre since Tuesday,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-210
09-12-2020||Jharkhand||Coal town to get two new sports facilities||Dhanbad authorities are all set to complete work on two different sporting infrastructure facilities, a multisports complex at the Golf Grund and a mega sports complex at Nawadih, within the next two months. This will end the prolonged wait of sports lovers, fitness freaks, yoga enthusiasts and morning walkers, for an open space to workout. At present, around 80 per cent of the groundwork of the sports complex at the Golf Ground has been developed at the cost of around Rs 5.25 crores, while part of the first phase of this comprehensive project has already been completed at a cost of Rs 9.72 crores. On the other hand, renovation work of the sports facility at Nawadih is being carried out at a cost of Rs 4 crores, and the process is in its last stage. This complex is likely to be opened in January. Conceptualised by former Dhanbad mayor Chandrashekhar Agarwal, the first phase of the multisports complex will have a roller skating zone, a  children playing arena, an open gymnasium and a yoga training centre.The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation along with a private contractor M/s Pratap and Developers is carrying out the project. On the other hand, a football ground, a basketball court and a hockey stadium are to be developed in the second phase of the project. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Shamsher Singh, a representative of the contractor, said, “We have completed the laying of the jogging track, epimedium laying work, boundary wall repair work, and urinal, toilets and complex construction work, while the remaining work of installation of equipments in the children playing arena would be carried out tomorrow (Wednesday).” The 12-acre stadium, situated less than 500 meters away from the residence of the Senior Superintendent of Police, Dhanbad, was used as a golf course by British officers in the pre-independence era. Later, during the late sixties, it was developed into a shooting range for police and other armed forces of the government. Shooting practice in the ground was stopped in the late seventies due to an increase in population, thereby giving way to morning walkers and football players to use it for their purposes during the eighties. Following the death of Dhanbad SP Randhir Prasad Verma in 1991, the district administration developed a boundary wall around the ground, and renamed it as the Randhir Prasad Verma Stadium. A pavilion and seating area was developed around it in 2001, which was funded by former MP and the SP’s wife Rita Verma. Several local football tournaments including the Randhir Prasad Verma Memorial Football Tournament were organised in the ground periodically by the Dhanbad Football Association. However, it could never be used as a full fledged football field due to the ground’s uneven nature. Regarding the renovation work of the Nawadih sports complex carried out by the building construction department, contractor Santosh Singh said, “Just the repair work of the boundary wall, pavilion and lighting arrangement amounted to Rs 4 crore.” He added that due to the lack of a wall previously, many thefts have occurred in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-210
09-12-2020||Jharkhand||Facebook post leads forest dept to launch hunt for deer killers||The forest department on Tuesday launched a hunt for some unknown persons, who killed a deer on Sunday at a village under the Seraikela police station area, in the Seraikela-Kharsawan district about 40 kilometers from Jamshedpur. The search for the hunters of the wild deer began after officials of the department found its remains at the Kandagora village on Monday, suggesting that some locals had feasted on it. However, they could only confirm the killing of the wild animal, perhaps a barking deer, from a Facebook post uploaded by one of the killers. The forest department is now planning to send the remains of the deer to the Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India, to ascertain its species and the way it was killed. Seraikela divisional forest officer Aditya Narayan said various species of deer are found in a scattered way in Seraikela jungle along with other wild animals, including elephants. “Sometimes the wild deer come in close to the human habitat from the jungle, leading the villagers to inform the forest department which then takes care of the animals and drives them away into the jungle. But this time some villagers did not find it necessary to inform the department and instead killed one of the deer, and later feasted on it,” said Narayan while talking to The Telegraph Online. He informed that the forest department on Monday had come to know that some villagers of Kandagora had killed a deer. This led them to start an investigation based on rumours, but the confirmation came on the same night, when they bumped into the Facebook post made by one of the killers. “From the Facebook post, we gathered that three villagers were involved in killing the deer. We are now searching for them and have carried out an extensive drive at the Kandagora village.  As of now none of the three has been detected,” Narayan said. The officer said that given the fact that there is a considerable population of barking deer at Seraikela forest division, the department has assumed that the killed one belongs to the same species. “But we have to get confirmation about its species.This is the reason we want to get the remains of the animal examined at the Wildlife Research Institute. We are also trying to know the method in which the villagers killed the deer. This is why we will ask the institute’s forensic lab to determine it,” Narayan said. He added that after getting the examination report from the Dehradun institute, they will charge the killers under the relevant sections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-210
09-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi sees spike in Covid cases, 67 patients test positive in a day||While at least 188 recoveries against 182 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection caused a marginal drop in the number of active Covid cases in Jharkhand on Tuesday, Ranchi witnessed a spike in the active caseload as fresh cases of infection outnumbered recoveries here, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. Among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, Ranchi alone accounts for nearly 45 per cent of the 1,753 active cases of Covid-19 in the state, government figures reveal. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), Ranchi reported 67 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection, the highest in Jharkhand on the day. Meanwhile, as many as 56 Covid patients recovered from the infection here, taking the number of active cases in the district up at 768, the bulletin further stated. While the active cases dropped, the death toll remained unchanged on Tuesday. As per government data, Jharkhand did not report any Covid-19 casualty on the day. So far, as many as 988 people of died of Covid-19 in Jharkhand, and 355 of them were from East Singhbhum. Ranchi, on the other hand, has reported 203 Covid fatalities so far. At least four Jharkhand districts did not report even a single fresh case of Covid-19 infection on the day. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 14 cases against 13 recoveries, while Deoghar reported 14 cases against four recoveries. Meanwhile, the number of active cases dropped below 10 in Godda and Giridih districts on the day. Active cases dropped in East Singhbhum as well as Dhanbad on the day. At least 19 cases surfaced in East Singhbhum against 34 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 15 cases against 19 recoveries. The government on Tuesday tested swab samples of 23,107 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the state has collected swab samples of 44.01 lakh people and tested 43.82 lakh of them. Around 19,000 swab samples were still pending for tests. The latest figures released by the government put the Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand at 1,10,639, while the total number of recoveries in the state was 1,07,898. The Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand was 97.52 per cent against the national average of 94.60 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.14 per cent against the national average of 0.30 per cent. The doubling rate of the infection was 487.35 days in Jharkhand against the national doubling rate of 228.13 days. Jharkhand’s Covid fatality rate was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-211
