10-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi Police nab 2 in ATM theft case of 2019||Ranchi Police on Thursday arrested two aides of ATM custodians, who had stolen Rs 4.07 crore cash from the city, meant for 20 ATMs in December 2019. They also recovered cash worth Rs 98 lakh, which is a portion of the stolen amount, from the two arrested men -- Rajkumar Srivastava and Prabhash Kumar. Kumar and Srivastava, though not directly involved in the crime, had kept the amount in their possession. “We had arrested the two prime accused in January 2020 itself and recovered more than Rs.2 crore cash from their possession,” said officer in-charge of Sadar Police Station Saryu Anand, adding that the two were already in jail for the crime. While this kind of thefts are common in the city, this was the first case of ATM custodians fleeing with cash reported in Ranchi, police said. As per an FIR lodged by SiS Cash Services Limited with Sadar Police Station in December 2019, Ganesh Kumar Thakur and Shivam Kumar, both residents of Bihar and custodians of cash supplied to ATMs had fled with over Rs 4 crore. The duo was given the responsibility of supplying cash to at least 20 ATMs in the city, but they fled with the money, the police said. The FIR accused the duo of amassing the money from December 5 to December 14 and fleeing thereafter. Police later found that Ganesh and Shivam were fake names used by the two in a bid to keep their identity undisclosed. “Their real names were Vipin and Subhash Rajak,” said Anand on Thursday, adding that Prabhash, who was arrested on the day, was uncle of Vipin. Rajkumar was a common friend of the two custodians who perpetrated the crime. Several banks across India have given the responsibility of supplying cash to ATMs to SiS Cash Services Limited. The cash stolen in 2019 was meant for 15 State Bank of India (SBI) ATMs and five United Bank of India (UBI) ATMs, the private agency had told the police soon after the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-209
10-12-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant meets people at his home, listens to their concerns||People from across the state turned up at chief minister Hemant Soren’s official residence on Kanke Road on Thursday to seek his help and intervention in resolving some of their problems centred around pensions and availability of civic amenities. Hemant, who has been busy chairing review meetings of various departments this week, met each visitor individually and listened to their concerns. Most of the problems shared by the visitors were related to electricity, water, road construction, anomalies in pension and schemes for providing shelter to the poor, officials from his office said. “It is the government’s priority to improve civic amenities and basic facilities for the people of the state irrespective of whether they live in cities or villages. Since we were voted to power, we have been trying our level best to address public issues and focus on bridging the gap between the government and the people of the state,” said Hemant. Each of the visitors handed over their concerns in writing directly to the chief minister who assured them of speedy redressal. Mostly women from Saraikela Kharsawan and families from far flung villages of Jharkhand visited the CM residence on Thursday, sources from the CMO said. Some of the visitors also got small gifts for the CM, mostly mementos, which Hemant accepted with grace. Hemant has been one of the most affable CMs in Jharkhand, say experts. Soon after being sworn-in, he won the hearts by his well-meaning gesture of asking for books instead of bouquets. And hardly a fortnight into his tenure at the helm, he started giving due attention to even the smallest of concerns raised by people engaging with officials on Twitter. One of the common complaints against the former Raghubar Das-led government in Jharkhand was lack of access to government heads in the state, political analysts have noted in the past. People from across the state turned up at chief minister Hemant Soren’s official residence on Kanke Road on Thursday to seek his help and intervention in resolving some of their problems centred around pensions and availability of civic amenities. Hemant, who has been busy chairing review meetings of various departments this week, met each visitor individually and listened to their concerns. Most of the problems shared by the visitors were related to electricity, water, road construction, anomalies in pension and schemes for providing shelter to the poor, officials from his office said. “It is the government’s priority to improve civic amenities and basic facilities for the people of the state irrespective of whether they live in cities or villages. Since we were voted to power, we have been trying our level best to address public issues and focus on bridging the gap between the government and the people of the state,” said Hemant. Each of the visitors handed over their concerns in writing directly to the chief minister who assured them of speedy redressal. Mostly women from Saraikela Kharsawan and families from far flung villages of Jharkhand visited the CM residence on Thursday, sources from the CMO said. Some of the visitors also got small gifts for the CM, mostly mementos, which Hemant accepted with grace. Hemant has been one of the most affable CMs in Jharkhand, say experts. Soon after being sworn-in, he won the hearts by his well-meaning gesture of asking for books instead of bouquets. And hardly a fortnight into his tenure at the helm, he started giving due attention to even the smallest of concerns raised by people engaging with officials on Twitter. One of the common complaints against the former Raghubar Das-led government in Jharkhand was lack of access to government heads in the state, political analysts have noted in the past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-209
10-12-2020||Jharkhand||Push kids towards outdoor activities, Special Olympics tells parents ||The Special Olympics Jharkhand has issued an advisory to parents of intellectually impaired athletes to allow their wards to participate in outdoor activities, as the Covid-induced lockdown has prevented them from doing so. In view of the pandemic, the athletes have been sitting idle as the Special Olympics Jharkhand has not resumed its training programme. Outdoor activities including cycling, walking and running would keep the athletes tuned and better prepared when the training programme resumes, they said. “We have issued the advisory keeping in mind next year’s state and national competitions. We don’t want our athletes to be slack when we resume our training programmes. A bit of physical activity outside their homes will somewhat keep the boys and girls in shape before training.” said Special Olumpics Jharkhand assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota. He said that most parents are unwilling to allow their children for outdoor activities amid the pandemic. “We have explained to them about the importance of outdoor activities and how it would help their children tune up before the training programmes. Some parents have started respecting our advisory,” Sahota added. Several special athletes from Jharkhand, mostly in Jamshedpur, have won medals at national and international competitions. This was possible largely due to training programmes of the Special Olympics Jharkhand which prepares the athletes for national selection camps. “Another reason for issuing the advisory was to continue the trend of medal-winning exploits of our athletes. We are glad that some of the parents have started allowing their wards to go out for physical activities. We are hopeful that competitions will resume sometime in April next year,” Sahota said. The likes of Priyanshu Kumar, who represented the country’s cycling squad  in the Special Olympics International World Summer Games in Abu Dhabi last year, V. Indu Prakash, who was part of the national side for Special Olympics Asia Pacific Cricket Championship in Bangalore earlier this year, and  Sayan Mandal, who donned Jharkhand jerseys in the national roller skating championship in Hyderabad in 2018, have started outdoor activities. The Special Olympics Jharkhand has also asked for the opinion of coaches and parents about when to resume training programmes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-209
10-12-2020||Jharkhand||Day 3: efforts continue to rescue trapped miners||Work to rescue two trapped miners from the flooded Khudia mine of Eastern Coalfield continued on a war footing for the third day on Thursday, but Basia Maji and Manik Bauri could not be reached All senior officers of ECL Mugma Area, including GM Vibhash Chandra Singh, Additional GM Ajay Sharma, Area Safety Officer C.K. Nayak, Project Officer C.K. Nayak, and Project Officer of Khudia Colliery, were stationed at the site through the day to supervise rescue operations being carried out by eight teams, in addition to a team of divers from Cuttack. A team from the Directorate General of Mines Safety, led by Director (central zone) Murlidhar Mishra, was also at the site to guide rescue teams and ECl officials. A joint team of safety officers of Coal India and Mugma led by chief manager (safety) of ECL Rahul Sinha, and including Senior Manager (Mines/Safety), Ajay Kumar Sharma, also supervised the ongoing rescue work. Sharma said “We will continue the rescue work at night as the special team of divers from Cuttack will enter the mine and will carry out search operations. We are hopeful that with the water level receding, we will be able to rescue the trapped workers.” The ECL administration has also speeded up work to drain out water from the mine by deploying a fourth motor to facilitate movement of rescue teams inside the mine. GM of Mugma Area Vibhash Chandra Singh said, “The rescue effort is going on as fast as possible. We have pulled in all our available resources and expect rescue work to be completed on a positive note.” Asked when the mine was expected to be free of water, he said, “That is very difficult to say. Despite the constraints of working in underground mines, we are working day and night to ensure that the workers are saved.” Four miners were working at night at the Khudia Colliery which got flooded because of a bore hole breach during the wee hours of Tuesday. Two workers Samir Tuddu and Vikash Bhuian managed to escape, but Basia Maji and Manik Bhuian could not.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-209
10-12-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI to host two-day finance symposium||The Finance Association of XLRI, FINAX, will host the 11th edition of GNOSIS-2020, the flagship national finance symposium on December 11 and 12, which will touch upon issues that have emerged during the pandemic. In a first, the event will be conducted virtually, in view of the pandemic. The theme for this year’s symposium is ‘Ripples of Covid in the Financial Services Industry’. The event will discuss these issues, and their influence on the future of the industry. During its course, discussions will be held on topics including economic outlook of India in the new normal, evolution of investment decision-making strategies in a post-Covid  world, changes in lending practices of banks and government bodies and the emergence of technology and digitisation in the Banking Financial Services and Insurance sectors. Former secretary of the Government of India Aruna Sharma, managing director of AXIS Bank  Amitabh Chaudhary, and Group Country Manager at Visa TR Ramachandran will be the keynote speakers. Guest speakers for the event include chief operating officer of National Payments Corporation of India Praveena Rai, SoftBank India country head Manoj Kohli and CRISIL Ratings senior director Somasekhar Vemuri. The event will also witness participation of students from B-Schools and corporate delegates from leading companies in the finance sector. Panel discussions will be held on topics including ‘Lending Parameters: The Changing of Guard’, ‘Investment Metamorphosis: Changes in the World’, ‘The Dawn of Digital’ and ‘Economic Outlook: After the Dust Settles’. The panels will see participation from stalwarts from sectors including banking, fintech, and mutual funds. FINAX XLRI was established in 1991 and for the past 29 years, it has strived continuously to help and motivate the students interested in and willing to specialise in the finance domain by conducting various workshops, conferences and live projects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-209
10-12-2020||Jharkhand||Four killed, three hurt as SUV rams trailer on NH2||Four persons died and three others suffered injuries during the early hours of Thursday, when an SUV carrying nine construction site workers from Varanasi rammed into a trailer on National Highway 2. The incident happened between Mairakulhi and Chalibangla area, under the Rajganj Police Station area of Dhanbad, about 17 kilometers from the district headquarters. The four deceased persons were identified as Rahul Pandey (28), a resident of Varanasi, who was driving the car; Shalim Sheikh (30), a resident of Birbhum in Bengal, and Anjrarul Sheikh (35) and Atiqul Sheikh (25), both residents of Pakur in Jharkhand. Their bodies have been sent to the Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College for post mortem. The injured persons -- Nabir Sheikh and Rahima Bibi, both residents of Birbhum, and Manjarul Shiekh are undergoing treatment at the same hospital. A team of the Rajganj Police Station, led by officer in charge, Santosh Kumar, reached the accident spot and rescued the trapped persons from the vehicle. Jay Kumar Yadav, am assistant sub-inspector, who was part of the team, said, “All the nine persons involved in the accident were distant relatives SUV on a pool basis from Varanasi, to reach their native places. But their vehicle met with the accident during the wee hours of Thursday.” “The family members of the deceased as well as injured persons were informed and all have reached Dhanbad,” he added. The accident happened near a speedbreaker when the drive of the trailer applied sudden brakes, making the SUV driver lose control. He was driving the car at a high speed and rammed into the trailer. Manjarul Sheikh, one of the injured persons, told The Telegraph Online, “Me, my younger brother and other construction workers used to work together at Varanasi. We had hired the vehicle at the rate of Rs 1,200 per person to reach our destinations. The vehicle left from Varanasi on Wednesday night at around 3 pm but met with the accident.” “All of us were fast asleep when the accident took place so we are not aware how it happened,” Sheikh, who lost his younger brother Anjrarul in the incident, said. Manirul Sheikh, a relative of the injured persons from Birbhum, said, “I reached here this morning after receiving the news about the accident and will soon leave with my relatives, who will be admitted at a private hospital in Birbhum from better treatment.” He had reached the Jharkhand hospital on receiving information about his aunt, Rahima Bibi and  another distant relative, Nabir Sheikh, being injured in the accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-209
10-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ignored by centre on Sarna code, tribals plan nationwide stir||Tribal organisations are planning rail and road blockades on January 31, 2021 as there has been no word from the Centre on their longstanding demand for a separate religion code for adivasis ahead of the 2021 Census. The national president of Adivasi Senghal Abhiyan Salkhan Murmu said that joint campaigns would be rolled out with other tribal outfits if the Centre does not agree to their demand for separate Sarna code by December 31. “After meetings with other tribal organisations, we have decided to wait till December 31 to hear from the Union government on the Sarna code. If it continues to ignore our demand, then we will launch another round of nationwide rail and chakka jams on January 31,” he said on Wednesday night. Tribal groups have also decided to hold demonstrations and marches to press their demands in five adivasi dominated states of Jharkhand, Bengal, Bihar, Odisha and Assam this month. “Between December 20 to 31, 200 Sarna Dharam raths (chariots) will be rolled out across these states to mobilise the public towards our cause,” Murmu said. Following a series of protests in Jharkhand over the last few months, the state Assembly passed a resolution in November for implementation of a Sarna Adivasi Code and formally sent it to the Union home ministry for inclusion in the survey form before the 2021 Census. On December 6, several tribal organisations, including Adivasi Senghal Abhiyan, Kendriya Sarna Samiti (Ranchi) and Akhil Bharatiya Adivasi Vikas Parishad held a rail and road blockade agitation. For tribals, a separate Sarna code in the Census is the key to a distinct identity, they say, adding that without it they are being classified as Hindus, Muslims or Christians. Chief minister Hemant Soren has also stressed that tribals, or followers of Sarna were nature worshippers, and hence they deserved a separate place in the Census to retain their identity nationally. In September, churches in the state also threw their weight behind the tribals and wrote to the chief minister in favour of a separate Sarna code.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-209
10-12-2020||Jharkhand||Woman gang-raped by 17 in Dumka, NCW expresses concern||The National Commission for Women on Thursday, expressing serious concern over an alleged rape of a woman by 17 men in Jharkhand’s Dumka district, sent a letter to the state police and asked it to complete its probe within two months. According to a police official, the survivor in her complaint said that she was raped while her husband was held hostage by 17 men, when they were returning home on Tuesday night. The matter came to fore on Wednesday after the victim lodged a complaint in Mufassil police station in Dumka, a Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM)’s stronghold. According to Dumka SP Ambar Lakra, a person named Mangal Mohli has been arrested in the case. “One Mangal Mohli has been arrested in this case while raids are on by special investigation team (SIT) for remaining 16 accused,” he said. The NCW took a suo motu cognisance of the matter, it said in a tweet, adding that it had shot a letter to Jharkhand DGP MV Rao and Dumka SP for time bound probe and appraising the commission of the action taken as per the set protocols. Police sources said that NCW has asked for a detailed report in two months’ time. As the news broke yesterday, Dumka DIG Sudarshan Mandal and SP Ambar Lakra swung into action by visiting the local government hospital to meet the survivor, and initiated a probe by  launching a manhunt against the accused. An official of the Mufassil police station, who did not wish to be named, said that the incident happened when the woman was returning home with her husband from a local village haat. “The survivor, in her late thirties, said that the couple were on their way back to home from a local market when a few miscreants blocked their way and started misbehaving. Thereafter, they forced them upon her, while her husband was beaten and later tied up for protesting. Later, they raped her in turns,” he said, adding that she came to the police station with her husband in the morning to lodge the complaint. “All the culprits were drunk and some have been identified based on the woman’s statement. Soon, everyone will be held as different teams are conducting raids across suspected areas,” the official added. Reacting strongly to the incident, former minister and ex-MLA of Dumka, Louise Marandi snubbed the Hemant Soren government of having surrendered before the criminals. “Since formation of JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government in December last year, over 1,300 incidents rape and violence against women and children have been reported, which expose state police’s inefficiency to control the situation. Strong policing can’t be expected without a strong government at the helm,” she said. Marandi demanded proper security and safety to the woman and her family and formation of a medical board for scientific investigation into the case. In a separate incident, police arrested three persons and detained two others from Khunti district in connection to gang rape of a minor under Karra police station area last month. Informing the media on Wednesday, Khunti SP Ashutoh Shekhar said that those arrested were identified as Anil Pardiha, Ashish Pardiha, and Ajay Dhan. The incident occurred on November 30 when the survivor was returning home after visiting a local fair in Padampur village along with her friends. After registering the case, police formed a seven-member special investigation team (SIT) to crack the case. Police sources said that both the survivor and accused were known to each other. However, the accused plotted rape after she stopped talking to them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-209
10-12-2020||Jharkhand||Covid toll inching towards 1000 as three more die in Jharkhand||The Covid-19 toll in Jharkhand inched closer to 1000 on Wednesday as three more patients, including two from Ranchi, died during treatment on the day, figures compiled by the State health department highlighted. Meanwhile, the active cases of Covid infection dropped in Jharkhand as the state reported 202 recoveries against 191 fresh cases. However, active cases increased in Ranchi for the third consecutive day as only 75 patients recovered from the viral infection here in 24 hours, while 97 fresh cases surfaced during the same period. After Wednesday’s test results, at least 790 people were battling the infection in Ranchi, which indicates that around 45 per cent of the 1,739 active cases in the state were in Ranchi, stated government data. The two casualties in Ranchi took the Covid toll in the district to 205, while the toll in Dhanbad reached 96 as one more death occurred there in the past 24 hours, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. As per the bulletin, by the end of Wednesday, as many as 991 people had died of Covid-19 in the state. At least four of 14 districts did not report even a single case of infection on the day, but five districts, including Bokaro, Dhanbad and East Singhbhum, reported a double-digit-spike in the cases. As per the NHM bulletin, at least 14 people were found infected in Dhanbad, while 10 recoveries were reported there. Dhanbad reported 16 cases against 10 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 10 cases against 44 recoveries. As per latest government data, it would take more than 500 days for the number of cases to double in Jharkhand if the current trend continues, while the national doubling rate was 230.84 days. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.14 per cent against the national average of 0.30 per cent. The government tested swab samples of 17,929 people on Wednesday and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 44.22 lakh people and tested 44.04 lakh of them. More than 18,000 swab samples were pending for tests in Jharkhand, the NHM bulletin highlighted. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand reached 97.53 per cent on the day, which is higher than the national average of 94.60 per cent. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent, reveals data with the state health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-210
