11-12-2020||Jharkhand||Three state sports officials in national athletics panel||Three sports officials from Jharkhand have made it to the national panel of announcers of Athletics Federation of India (AFI). Shyam Kumar Sharma (Jamshedpur), Biswajit Patra and Md Farid (from Bokaro) took part in two virtual training workshops organised by AFI in July and August which was consequently followed by a screening test of a few candidates. Sharma, Patra and Farid cleared the screening test and were subsequently inducted in the AFI’s panel of announcers. The trio will be on duty (as announcers) in national and international athletics competitions. “I received the news about my selection late night on Thursday. I am glad to be part of the national panel. I have been working as an announcer in the district and state-level events and am now looking forward to a stint in national competitions,” said Sharma, who is convenor of district sports cell  and selection panel of East Singhbhum District Athletics Association (ESDAA). The training workshops were followed by seminars addressed by expert announcers from India who also shared their experience and how to go about with the job, he informed. They also shed light on the changes that have taken place in global athletics and also about new techniques. “My knowledge has been enriched after attending the seminars. I feel proud to get an entry to the AFI’s panel of announcers. I would try and do a good job,” added Sharma, who is also a sports teacher in a government school. Indian Olympic Association (IOA) treasurer and president of Jharkhand Athletics Association (JAA) M.K. Pathak, state association secretary C.D. Singh, athletics coach Arvind Kumar, former East Singhbhum district sports officer MM Prasad and Anita Kerketta, present incumbent Budan Pahan and ESDAA president M.N Purty have congratulated Sharma on his success. Sharma is in the field of sports for several years now. He plays a vital role in conducting sports competitions organised under the banner of the state sports department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-208
11-12-2020||Jharkhand||IIT(ISM) terminates over 200 students for non-payment of fees||The IIT (ISM) has suspended as many as 214 of its students over non-payment of the monsoon semester fees or registration fees, announcing the decision in a December 9 notification. The list includes 13 students from B.Tech, 32 from M.Tech, research scholars, and several others from MBA and dual degree programmes. The notification, issued by Dean of Academics Dr Chirenjeevi Kumar, however has a provision for the students to appeal for their reinstatement. They can fill up a special application form available on the academic page of the website of the institute. “The result of the monsoon semester of the terminated students would be released only if their appeal for reinstatement is approved by senate,” read the notification, which also carried the names of terminated students with details of their academic programmes. JK Patnaik, the Deputy Director of IIT (ISM), told The Telegraph Online, “Majority of the terminated students included research scholars. Of these are 115 Junior Research Fellows and 43 PhD students. All necessary formalities, including sending of repeated reminders for the students, have been followed before terminating them.” In August this year, students of the institute joined those of other IITs in a campaign, demanding the reduction of fees in view of the economic hit faced by most families due to Covid-19. IITians had sent messages on Twitter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal with a hashtag “#reduce_IIT_semesterFee”. “Aren’t all affected by Covid 19 have been demanding significant reduction in the fee..,” a tweet reads. “Our parents have lost jobs and they pay my major margins. We beseech the public educational institutions to conduct a deferral/cancellation of the fees for this semester,” says another, sent by an IIT (ISM) student. The institute had waived off hostel charges to some extent, apart from reducing other fees in view of the economic constraints faced by families due to the pandemic. However, the students had demanded further reduction of their semester fees, with many of them not submitting them. Several others were unable to pay registration charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-208
11-12-2020||Jharkhand||More trains to from Ranchi and Tatanagar from mid-December ||South Eastern Railway (SER) has decided to run more trains to Mumbai, New Delhi and Yesvantpur (Bangalore) from Ranchi and Tatanagar stations in view of steadily rising demand from passengers. The 02260 Howrah-Mumbai Special train will be introduced from December 14, a Monday. The train will leave Howrah daily at 2 pm and reach Tatanagar station at 5.48 pm. After a two-minute halt, the train will leave for its onward journey and reach Mumbai the next day, ie, Tuesday, at 9.20 pm. The return train (02259) will leave Mumbai every Thursday from December 17 at 6am. The train will reach Tatanagar the next day, ie, Friday, at 8.25 am. The return train will reach Howrah at 12.30 pm on Fridays. The train will also have stops at Santragachi, Kharagpur, Chakradharpur, Rourkela and Jharsuguda. A special train has been introduced between Ranchi and New Delhi. The 02241 Ranchi-New Delhi Special train will leave Ranchi station every Wednesday from December 16 at 6.10 pm. It will go via Bokaro Steel City and reach New Delhi the next day, ie, Thursday, at 11.10 am. The 02241 Ranchi-New Delhi Special is a bi-weekly train which, apart from Wednesday, will also run from Ranchi on Saturdays. The return train, 02242 New Delhi-Ranchi Special, will leave New Delhi every Monday and Friday w.e.f December 18. The train will leave New Delhi  at 4.10pm and reach Ranchi at 9.05am the next day. The state capital got another special train. The 08609 Ranchi-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Special will leave Ranchi at 9.05 pm every Wednesday from December 16. It will go via Muri and Bokaro Steel City, and reach Lokmanya Tilak Terminus at 7:25 am every Friday. The return train, 08610, will leave Lokmanya Tilak Terminus at 4.40 pm every Friday from December 18. It will reach Ranchi at 6.25 am every Sunday. As per a circular issued by Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of South Eastern Railway, the 02889 Tatanagar-Yesvantpur ( Bangalore ) Express is also beginning service. The train will leave Tatanagar railway station every Friday with effect from January 1. It will leave Tatanagar at 6.35 pm  and reach Chakradharpur  at 7.30 pm, Rourkela at 9.05 pm, Jharsuguda at 10.40 pm and Yesvantpur at 3.45 pm the next day. The return train, 02890 Yesvantpur-Tatanagar  Special, will leave Yesvantpur every Monday from January 4 at 8.30 am. It will travel via Jharsuguda,Rourkela and Chakradharpur, before reaching Tatanagar, the originating station at 5.25 pm the next day, ie, Tuesday. The SER headquarters has also appealed to passengers to strictly follow all health protocols before undertaking journeys in the wake of prevailing pandemic. Passengers were asked to provide accurate mobile numbers while buying a railway ticket to receive SMS alerts about cancellations, change of timings etc. SER chief public relations officer Sanjay Ghosh said, "Passengers are requested to kindly converse with National Train Enquiry System (NTES) App for updates, stoppages and timings before undertaking journeys. Passengers may also call 139 for any assistance."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-208
11-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tribals rue state government’s inaction on Pathalgadi cases||Rights activists have started organising themselves to discuss the status of Pathalgadi cases filed against 200 tribals, only 60 per cent of which had been withdrawn, signalling a growing disenchantment with the government of Hemant Soren who was able to unseat the BJP by projecting the JMM-led coalition as a champion of tribal rights. On Friday, Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a conglomeration of tribal and rights bodies, organised a state-level seminar in Ranchi to discuss the issue and concluded that the ruling JMM-led government was not honouring its promise of protecting tribals from police atrocities. On 29 December 2019, after taking oath as chief minister, Hemant announced the withdrawal of all cases against tribals for having launched Pathalgadi, a tribal ritual of honouring their ancestors by erecting stone slabs that had effectively prevented the entry of district administrations in places like Khunti and Seraikela-Kharswan and West Singhbhum. The chief minister’s announcement was met with widespread appreciation and support. The former government, headed by Raghubar Das, had come down heavily on the Pathalgadi movement and responded with police action after which several cases were filed against those who took part in the stir, including several adivasi village heads. Cases were filed against 200 named and over 10,000 unnamed people for alleged abetment and obstruction of public servants from discharging their duty, creation of public nuisance, criminal intimidation and sedition. However, now, a year later, the cases are yet to be withdrawn and many adivasis continue to be in jail, activists pointed out. "Right to Information applications filed in the last few months show that there are 30 FIRs, spread across Khunti (23), Saraikela-Kharsawan (5) and West Singhbhum (2) districts, related to Pathalgadi cases," the Mahasabha noted in a statement. "District committees, comprising deputy commissioners, SPs and public prosecutors, have recommended withdrawal of only about 60 per cent of the cases (excluding two related to the Kochang gangrape incident). The Khunti district committee has recommended removal of only section 124A/120A/B from seven cases. Regarding action on the recommendations sent by the districts, the home department has simply said that it is ‘under process’," it added. According to the rights body, the Hemant government’s announcement of withdrawing all Pathalgadi cases indicated that it acknowledged the failure of the earlier government to understand the idea behind the movement and, therefore, undo the damage done. "However, the recommendation of districts to withdraw just over half the cases and subsequent delays indicate that the political decision of the government is yet to fully translate into action on ground," the statement noted. "During the Vidhan Sabha election campaign last year, the Mahagathbandhan, led by Hemant Soren, had flagged the then BJP-led state government’s repressive policies and relentless attacks on adivasis, mentioning police atrocities and incidents of lynching. But it is disappointing to note that neither has the Hemant government acted on earlier cases of violations nor has it shown a firm commitment to check violations under its leadership," noted tribal activist Dayamani Barla said at Friday’s seminar. The activists also added that in the last year, rights violations against tribals have continued, the most glaring instant being the severe assault on 20 adivasis of Chiriyabera in West Singhbhum in June 2020. "Eleven people were severely beaten and three sustained grievous injuries. The CRPF, accusing the villagers of being Maoists and enraged by their inability to respond in Hindi, beat them up using wooden sticks, batons, rifle butts and boots. Even though the victims clearly told police at the hospital that they were brutally beaten by CRPF personnel, the FIR filed by police obscures many facts and makes no mention of the role of the CRPF in the violence," the manch said. The FIR, the activists added, was yet to be rectified. No action had been taken against the CRPF personnel and the victims were yet to receive compensation, despite several representations to the DC, SP and DGP. Cases under the stringent UAPA have been on the rise too. "It is disappointing that the Jharkhand government is yet to check the blatant misuse of UAPA by police. Several daily-wage labourers and farmers of Lalpania (Bokaro) who have been vocal against exploitation of adivasis and moolvasis were booked as Maoists and under UAPA in the last few years. They are still struggling to get bail," the statement said. Under the earlier government, at least 24 people, most accused of selling / consuming beef or cattle theft, were lynched. The pattern seems to continue under the current regime, the activists rued. "In July 2020, adivasis were beaten up by a mob on suspicion of selling / consuming beef in Dumka and Jamshedpur. In September 2020, seven adivasis of Simdega were beaten, tonsured and made to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’. In several cases, victims are yet to be paid compensation and there is an attempt by the police to shield the perpetrators. The government is yet to implement Supreme Court’s order in Tahseen Poonawala case on the subject including provisions such as speedy trial, grant of interim compensation within 30 days, investigation to be monitored by SP and so on," the statement said. The Mahasabha reminded the Hemant Soren government that it won a decisive mandate against the BJP-led government’s repressive and anti-people policies. "It is expected that the government stands firmly with the people against all forms of exploitation and human rights violations. We sincerely hope that the government reins in security forces and makes the state apparatus pro-adivasi and pro-people," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-208
11-12-2020||Jharkhand||Vaccine: Bokaro administration asks hospitals to send lists of health workers||The Bokaro district administration on Friday directed all private hospitals to make the list of health professionals and workers in their institutions available, so that they can be inoculated with the Covid-19 vaccine in the first phase. The district health department has started its process to figure out the number of such workers at government hospitals for their immunisation. Bokaro Civil Surgeon Dr Ashok Pathak said the state government will provide vaccines for Covid-19 based on the lists sent by the districts. “In the first phase, vaccines will be administered to all health care workers, both of government and private institutions,” he said. Deputy Development Commissioner Jai Kishore Prasad convened a meeting in this regard with representatives of private hospitals. Apart from the representatives and Prasad, the meeting was attended by Pathak and Bokaro District Data Manager Kanchan. The commissioner, in the meeting, asked the attendees to work in tandem and keep track of all aspects while launching the vaccination drive. He reiterated that health professionals working in hospitals will be the first ones to get inoculated as soon as the doses arrive. Pathak informed that to get going with the vaccination process, Aadhar or Voter ID card details will be taken from each individual for their registration. Following this, an OTP will be generated for the vaccine. He added that this will ensure there is no discrimination of any kind and the vaccination will be done on the basis of identity proof and phone number given in the database.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-208
11-12-2020||Jharkhand||Lalu Prasad's bail hearing on fodder scam deferred by six months||The Jharkhand High Court on Friday deferred RJD boss Lalu Prasad's bail plea hearing in a fodder scam case by six weeks, in keeping with the request of his lawyer. The case pertains to fraudulent withdrawal of over Rs 3.13 crore from Dumka treasury when Prasad was the chief minister of undivided Bihar. Devarshi Mandal, Prasad's counsel, said he needed six weeks to respond to a supplementary affidavit filed by the CBI on Thursday, and collate verified documents on the RJD chief's judicial custody. The CBI counsel, too, agreed to the proposal, following which the court slated January 22 as the next date of hearing in the case. The central investigation agency had on Thursday filed a supplementary affidavit in the court, contending that Prasad has violated jail manual norms. The CBI also said that his health condition was stable now, and he should be discharged from Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi and sent to Birsa Munda jail to serve his sentence. The former Bihar CM has secured bail in three other cases related to the Rs 950-crore scam. On March 24, 2018, a special CBI court had sentenced the former Bihar CM to 14 years' rigorous imprisonment in the Dumka treasury case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-208
11-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi logs more than half of the fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand||More than half of the total Covid-19 cases reported in Jharkhand on Thursday were from Ranchi, figures compiled by the state health department revealed. However, after reporting a rise in the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection for three consecutive days, Ranchi on Thursday witnessed a marginal drop in the count of active cases as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection here. At least 95 of the 173 fresh cases of infection surfacing in Jharkhand on the day were reported from Ranchi, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. However, Ranchi also reported 98 of the 220 Covid recoveries registered in the state in the past 24 hours, the bulletin added. The total count of active cases in the state dropped to 1690 on the day, and at least 785 of them, around 46.5 per cent, were in Ranchi. As per government data, four of the 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day. Barring Ranchi and Palamu, all the remaining 22 districts reported a spike of less than 10 in Covid cases, the NHM bulletin released on Thursday night stated. While East Singhbhum reported nine cases against 28 recoveries, Dhanbad reported six fresh cases against 11 recoveries. As per government data, only six districts reported 5 or more cases of Covid-19 infection on the day. Bokaro reported nine cases against 20 recoveries, while Palamu reported 11 cases against seven recoveries on the day. Meanwhile, two more Covid-19 patients, one each from Ranchi and Bokaro, died during treatment on Thursday, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 993, figures with the NHM stated. Thursday’s casualties take the Covid mortality rate in the state to 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. While the Covid mortality rate in the state has remained less than 1 per cent since October, the recovery rate has improved significantly. As per government data, Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate on Thursday was 97.58 per cent. The government on Thursday tested swab samples of 19,504 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 44.51 lakh people and tested 44.33 lakh of them. Around 18,000 swab samples were still pending for tests by the end of Thursday. As per figures with the health department, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.13 per cent against the national average of 0.29 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in the state was 529.24 days against the national average of 239.87 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-209
11-12-2020||Jharkhand||Newborns escape hospital fire in Jharkhand||A major tragedy was averted as more than 20 newborns had a miraculous escape when the sick new born care unit (SNCU) at a private hospital caught fire on Thursday morning (8am) in Godda, around 330 km from Jharkhand capital Ranchi. According to Godda town police station officials, in all 21 newborns were kept at the SNCU of the single storied (G+1) Sunrise Hospital in Godda. At around 8 am smokes started billowing from near the air-conditioned units of the SNCU and in a few minutes smoke and flames could be seen all across the SNCU. “However, timely action by the staff on duty along with nursing staff helped all the 21 new borns to be transferred from the SNCU with oxygen support to the ground floor and also douse the flames using the fire extinguishers kept at the hospital by the time fire tenders arrived at the spot. Though it is too premature to ascertain the real reason for the fire but short circuit is being assumed as the likely reason,” said a police official preferring anonymity. Godda deputy commissioner Bhor Singh Yadav, confirmed that no casualty has taken place in the fire mishap. “All the new borns are safe and have been shifted to SNCU at Sadar Hospital and few private hospitals. The SDO Godda, Rituraj has been asked to probe into the incident and submit a report. After the report appropriate action would be taken against the management of the hospital,” said Bhor Singh Yadav. Nine newborn have been kept at the Sadar Hospital while 12 new born have been kept in two private hospitals. The hospital does not have an emergency exit and has only one staircase. Several attempts to contact the owner of the hospital Dr M. Junaid Alam failed to evince any response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-209
