12-12-2020||Jharkhand||Lalu’s kidney functioning at 25 per cent efficiency, doctors concerned||According to doctors of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Ranchi jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s kidney efficiency has shot down to 25 per cent on Saturday. They added that the state-run hospital had sent a detailed report on his health condition to Jharkhand High Court. “The efficiency of his (Lalu’s) kidney is alarmingly poor. He has several other ailments like diabetes and cardiac problems, which make his condition worse,” said Dr Umesh Prasad, who has been treating Lalu at RIMS. The Jharkhand High Court on Friday deferred a hearing on Lalu’s bail plea for the second time in a span of six weeks. Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has demanded for Lalu to be shifted to the Birsa Munda Central Jail from the paying ward of RIMS so he could serve the remaining period of his jail term as a prisoner. “He (Lalu) needs proper medical care. We may have to put him on dialysis if the condition of his kidneys doesn’t improve,” said Dr Prasad. He refused to comment on the judicial proceedings of the fodder scam case, for which Lalu has been jailed. As per the jail manual, three visitors - former union minister Subodh Kant Sahai and two RJD MLAs from Bihar – Vinay Yadav and Rakesh Kumar Roshan, met Lalu at the paying ward of RIMS on Saturday and had a brief interaction with him. However, the hospital administration did not allow Roshan’s wife Manju Devi to meet Lalu. “Laluji’s supporters should be allowed to meet him twice a week. Since only three people are allowed to visit him every Saturday, many supporters like me have to return home disappointed,” said Devi. Islampur MLA Roshan said that Lalu’s condition was deteriorating on a daily basis. Roshan said that he visited Lalu to seek his blessings after winning in the recently held Bihar elections. A CBI court on December 23, 2017 convicted Lalu in the fodder scam case related to fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 89 lakh from the Deoghar treasury between the years 1991 to 1994. A month later, he was convicted in another fodder scam case, for which he was granted five years of imprisonment. A year after his arrest he was admitted in the cardiology wing of RIMS, after complaining of discomfort while serving imprisonment in the Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi. Since then, he has been undergoing treatment at the hospital. In 2018, he was referred to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi from where he was later discharged and sent back to Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-207
12-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand BJP plans kisan sammelans to push farm laws||At a time when the nationwide stir by farmers across the country to protest against the new farm laws has entered day 17, the Jharkhand chapter of BJP has announced on Saturday that they would be organizing farm-centric seminars on December 15 in five different commissionaires of the state. The protesting farmers are showing no signs of retreat. A series of negotiations between the union government and representatives of protesting groups across Delhi borders have so far failed to reach any conclusion as the agitating farmers are firm on their demand – the rolling back of the new farm laws. On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi stepped in, in defense of the new law stating that the ‘reform’ intends to revive the country’s agriculture sector while speaking at a Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FICCI) event. Farmers’ bodies on the other hand have announced to intensify their stir till their demands are not met, thereby, prompting Delhi police to deploy additional forces along the national capital’s borders. Jharkhand hasn’t seen any major farmers’ unrest except for demonstrations and protests by non-BJP parties so far. However, BJP, the opposition party in Jharkhand, has decided to conduct seminars in a bid to sensitise farmers about the new laws. Jharkhand BJP’s general secretary Aditya Sahu said, “Unlike Congress and others who are hitting the streets simply to mislead farmers, we have decided to hold sammelans to sensitise the real-kisans about the plus points of the new laws, which we believe is both progressive and in favour of our annadatas. Congress and other parties are resorting to publicise myths and fear.” He added, “The sammelans have been planned in Deoghar, Medninagar, Nirsa, Kanke, and Ghatshila covering five commissionaires in the state. After this, we shall plan district-level sammelans too.” Notably, the incumbent coalition government comprising JMM-Congress-RJD along with Left parties had supported December 8 Bharat band organised by farmers outfits to protest against the new laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-207
12-12-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city traffic crippled as interceptor vehicle gets defunct||The traffic wing of the East Singhbhum District Police has crippled ahead of Christmas, as its lone interceptor vehicle has got defunct following the damage of its camera a couple of days ago. The interceptor vehicle, which used to curb rash driving by the four-wheelers and SUVs on important roads, including the marine drive, had to be put back in its garage at the police control room after the damage. In its absence, four-wheeler riders have sought to rash driving, leaving the vehicular traffic management at the mercy of God. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Traffic) Babban Singh confirmed the news after, saying the vehicle’s camera broke due to an accidental fall during handling. “The camera of the interceptor vehicle was broken during handling by its technician. We have already taken initiatives to get it repaired by a concerned agency. It is expected that the interceptor vehicle will be back in place for the service in a month time,” Singh said while talking to The Telegraph Online. The official said that the police used to place the vehicle at strategic points in several places, including Bistupur Main Road and Bistupur-Sonari-Kadma Link Road, for taking action on those indulging in rash driving. However, for the past five days, they cannot use the vehicle for such surveillance. Singh said that the 11 kilometres-long marine drive was the main focus point of the vehicle, as drivers tend to reach maximum speeds while crossing the area, often resulting in accidents. “But until the interceptor is not mended, we will try to control the rash driving manually. We have identified points on the marine drive where the maximum speed limit will be on the display board.” He informed that for some points the speed limit has been set at 20 kilometers per hour, while at others, it is 60 kilometers per hour. “We will try to curb the rash driving by putting up traffic police at crucial points,” the DSP said. Since the operations of the Domuhani bridge, which connects the marine drive at Sonari with Dobo in Chandil, started in March last year, traffic on marine drive has increased. Riders, especially two-wheeler ones, from the steel city tend to go on joy rides to the NH-33 through the bridge. Frequent accidents take place at the Chandil side of the bridge, where policing is not too strong making riders opt for high speeds. With the interceptor getting defunct, they have indulged in further reckless driving. It is being assumed that there will be a heavy rush of vehicle riders at the Domuhani bridge point during the coming Christmas and year-end festivity, giving the traffic police a challenging job for managing a smooth passage of vehicles. A senior traffic police officer, who wished to be anonymous, said that a city like Jamshedpur needs more than one speed limit radar (SLR) for curbing unruly bikers. “We have an interceptor vehicle for the four-wheelers, but no such electronic gadget to check on unruly bikers. The district administration should now obtain SLRs and introduce them in the traffic department for effective control of bikers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-207
12-12-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI to host virtual marathon on Sunday||The athletics wing of XLRI, SportsCom, is set to host a virtual marathon called ‘Xhaust’ on December 13 where participants will be able to take part in different categories of running. Contestants can take part in 3 kilometre, 5 kilometre or 10 kilometre runs in two given time slots of 7 am and 6 pm, as per convenience. All they need to do is install a mobile application, ‘pacer’ on their phones to track the run and share the details of the run from the app within 10 minutes of finishing the run. The run is open only for XLRI students, staff, faculty, and their family members. The participants can run from anywhere they choose to. Fr. P. Christie,  director, XLRI, urged them for maximum participation. The XLRI has been promoting fitness culture through various sporting events, he said. “The virtual marathon ‘Xhaust 2020’ will make our XL community start working out again through an external nudge and keep the XL sporting culture alive, he said. According to him, the Covid-19 pandemic has altered the course of our lives “Xhaust 2020 will help get things kick-started right from our homes so we are fit and ready when the time comes to get back to campus and resume classroom sessions,” Christie said. “Today's challenging times present us with an opportunity to build on our endurance and persevere despite the circumstances,” he added. Urging participants to follow social distancing norms, he said, “As a community, we strive to maintain the undying spirit, and it is expected that participants from across the country would be running in for the event.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-207
12-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tata golf to make a comeback at Beldih greens after 6 years||Big-ticket golf event will make a comeback at Beldih greens after a six-year hiatus. The Tata Steel Tour Championship, which is scheduled between December 17 and 20, will be held at the 18-hole Golmuri golf course and the 9-hole facility at Beldih following strict Covid-19 protocols. The four-day championship, which carries a prize money of Rs 1.5 crore, will be preceded by a pro-am (professional-amateur) event. The pro-am gives an opportunity to local golfers to play alongside professionals. The event was being held exclusively at the Golmuri course since 2014. But with the Beldih greens bereft of any top-notch event, the Jamshedpur Golf Committee has decided to bring the action back there. “Participants will be swapping Golmuri and Beldih courses while completing the customary 18 holes. We can watch some exciting action at Beldih this time,” a member said. Insiders in the Jamshedpur golf committee revealed that the Beldih facility was not being adequately maintained due to absence of competitive events, including local tournaments like Steel City Golf and Jubilee Golf. Both the events, as well as feeder tours, have been reserved for the Golmuri course which has become a most sought-after venue ever since it was turned into an 18-hole course some years back. The Golmuri greens have always won accolades from top golfers who have come to the steel city for the tournament. “With the Tata Steel Tour Championship also earmarked at Beldih this time, we can see upgradation of the greens and the fairways. There will be regular maintenance. The golf course will regain its lost glory,” another member said. Strict Covid protocols would be adopted for the tournament. Players must get their Covid test done 72 hours prior to arriving at the tournament venue for the practice round. Only those with a negative test report will be allowed. Players not carrying their test reports will not be allowed to enter the tournament venue. Players have been recommended to instal the Arogya Setu app on their phones. Social distancing of at least six feet must be practiced at all times at the venue, and masks are mandatory at all areas except while playing on the course and during dining. Gatherings are strictly prohibited and players will be asked to leave the venue as soon as their round has been completed. No practice will be allowed after the round. If a player is showing any signs of illness he will be asked to stay home and follow health protocols as recommended by state health authorities. No player other than those mentioned in the tournament entry list or draw (practice rounds 1 and 2), and those making the cut (rounds 3 and 4) will be allowed entry at the venue. Players can opt to carry their own bag. Starters must wear a mask, a face shield and gloves. Only a scorecard and hole location or local rules sheet will be distributed on the tee. They will be stapled together and given to the marker. There will be no exchange of paper between participants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-207
12-12-2020||Jharkhand||IIM-Ranchi issues SOPs for students to return to hostel||IIM-Ranchi has introduced standard operating procedures (SOP) for students to return to the campus in a staggered manner to pursue their academic career. In a notification issued on its website, the B-school said it had come with the SOPs in view of students’ requests centred around the use of the hostel, uninterrupted power supply and internet connectivity. “IIM Ranchi has agreed to consider their request and open the hostel at Khelgaon while strictly adhering to social distancing and other public health norms,” the notice said. The notice said that students would be allowed in batches of about 60-70 at a time. Classes would continue to be held online. “It is therefore suggested that a minimum possible number of students should come to the hostel to avoid the risk of Covid -19,” the notice said. As per the SOP, students would be allowed after considering various factors, like seniority, role in institute committees, placement activities, internet connectivity issues, individual domestic issues etc. “The first priority will be given to final year students and then those who are part of placement activities. The next priority will be given to those who are facing poor internet connectivity and power cuts i.e. rural dwellers etc,” it said, adding that the IIM’s hostel office, in consultation with hostel wardens and the management, would inform students accordingly. An official said over phone that they were now busy preparing the hostel premises. “Selection of students is likely to be over in another few days,” he said. A host of dos and don'ts have also been prescribed. Upon arrival. students are required to bring a Covid negative test report. “On arrival they will report to the asst. hostel warden / hostel office and collect the keys of their allotted room. On arrival, all students will be required to be quarantined for 14 days. In between, if they develop any symptoms then they will be required to take medical advice from the institute doctor and act accordingly,” the notice said. Students have been asked to share their travel plans as soon as they book tickets. “Ensure that you or your family members, whether accompanying you or not, have not tested COVID-19 positive during the last 14 days. Should any one of you have tested positive, then undergo a 14-day quarantine and at least a week-long recovery period on completion of the quarantine,” read the SOP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-208
12-12-2020||Jharkhand||Five BIT students selected for 12-week Canadian internship||Five students, including two women, pursuing their B.Tech courses from BIT Sindri have been selected for MITACS Globalink Research Internship for 2021 in Canada. All of them are in their fifth semester of the course, in the lone run engineering college of Jharkhand. The selected students include Afsha Izhar and Sneha Kumar of Chemical Engineering, Abhinav Prakash of Electronics and Communication Engineering, Milan Kashyap of Civil Engineering and Ashutosh Kumar of Mechanical Engineering. Associate Professor of the Department of Physics at BIT Sindri, Ghanshyam Rai said, “The 12-week internship will begin in May 2021. This is a big achievement for the students as well as the institute as so many of them have never been selected for the scholarship before.” MITACS is a non profit national research organisation that operates research and training programmes in fields related to industrial and social innovations, in partnership with Canadian academia, private industries and the government. “From May to October of each year, top-ranked applicants participate in a 12-week research internship under the supervision of Canadian university faculty members in several academic disciplines. This includes science, engineering and mathematics, humanities and social sciences. The objective of the Globalink Research Internship is to build a bridge between Canada and emerging international research talent,” Rai, who is also the Training and Placement Officer of BIT Sindri, said. Last year, Sushant Kumar, a student of Metallurgical Engineering, had also secured the same internship and pursued research in the United States. “Afsha Izhar will pursue the internship at Cape Breton University, Sydney under the supervision of Adango Miadonye, while Sneha Kumari will pursue the same at the same Cape Breton University, Sydney  under the supervision of Professor Cao Thang Dinh,” the professor said. “Abhinav Prakash will pursue the internship at Lakehead University, Thunderday, Ontario  under the supervision of  Yushi Zhou. Ashutosh Kumar  will do the same at Superior Technology School, Montreal, Quebec, Canada under the supervision of Lucas Hof. Milan Kashyap will pursue the internship at Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada under the supervision of Professor Kyle Toushigant,” he added. Congratulating the selected students, BIT Sindri Director DK Singh said “The selection of students for the prestigious foreign internship proves that the students  of our institute are at par with the institutions of the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-208
12-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi's Covid cases on the rise||More than half of the total Covid-19 cases reported in Jharkhand on Friday were from Ranchi, figures compiled by the state health department revealed. However, after reporting a rise in the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection for three consecutive days, Ranchi witnessed a marginal drop in the count of active cases as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection here. At least 94 of the 174 fresh cases of infection surfacing in Jharkhand on the day were reported from Ranchi, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The Covid-19 death toll increased to 995 after two more patients succumbed to the disease, he said. Meanwhile, two more Covid-19 patients, one each from Hazaribagh and Bokaro, died during treatment on Friday, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 995, figures with the NHM stated. Thursday’s casualties take the Covid mortality rate in the state to 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. Ranchi district registered the maximum number of fresh cases at 93, followed by Bokaro (20) and Dhanbad (12). The government on Thursday tested swab samples of 18,344 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 44.51 lakh people and tested 44.33 lakh of them. Around 18,000 swab samples were still pending for tests by the end of Friday. Jharkhand now has 1,694 active coronavirus cases, while 1,08,488 people have been cured of the disease so far, the official said. The state has tested 23,253 samples for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-208
12-12-2020||Jharkhand||IMA strike hits OPD services||Health services were badly hit in Jharkhand as out-patient departments in all the 500 government and private hospitals in the state remained closed on Friday in response to the nationwide strike called by the Indian Medical Association to protest against the Union government’s directive to allow post-graduate doctors in Ayurveda to perform surgeries. “My son was suffering from fever and loose motion since yesterday (Thursday) afternoon. I had brought him to the MGM Hospital in Jamshedpur with the hope to get some medicines. However, as the OPD was closed, we had to stand in a long queue at the crowded emergency ward of the hospital to get treatment. We had to wait for more than three hours before my son could receive treatment,” said Nakul Mahato, 53, a resident of Patamda in East Singhbhum. Mahato had hired a three-wheeler to come to the hospital and had to arrange another for returning home, around 25km from the hospital. Similar tales of patients having to wait for treatment at crowded emergency wards at government health centres amid the pandemic were common in almost all the 24 districts of the state. “My daughter was having a headache and fever. I had come to the Ranchi Sadar Hospital on a bike to get medicine and join my duty in the afternoon. But as the OPDs were closed, I had no option but to get her admitted in the emergency ward for treatment. Her treatment got over after 2pm and I was late in reaching my office,” said Dulal Hansdah, a resident of Kokar in Ranchi. IMA Jharkhand state coordinator Dr Ajay Kumar Singh claimed the strike was successful. “All the government and even private hospitals had their OPDs closed as part of the strike call given by IMA between 6am and 6pm. However, we allowed emergency services and Covid-19 facilities to remain operational. Few corporate hospitals, however, preferred to keep their OPDs open for treatment of their employees,” said Dr Singh. The official, admitted about the problem faced by patients but said that the medical fraternity had very few options. “We agree that patients, especially in rural belts, might have faced problems due to the strike but we were left with no option than give a strike call to make the Union government realise the wrong decision they have taken in allowing Ayurveda doctors to carry out surgeries. In fact, the central government is giving license to quacks to kill. The allopathic medical fraternity sensing the seriousness of the issue has raised the banner of protest,” added Dr Singh. The Union government had decided to allow post-graduate Ayurveda physicians to perform certain types of surgeries, including orthopaedic, ophthalmology, ENT and dental in November this year. More than 13,000 allopathic doctors participated in the strike call which also had the backing of the Jharkhand Health Services Association (JHSA). IMA Jamshedpur general secretary Dr Mrityunjay Singh claimed that a MBBS doctor completes a year of internship, a year of house surgery and a total of five years in the course to receive a certificate to perform surgery but the Union government is giving Ayurveda practitioners authority to carry out surgeries after a bridge course of only a year which would be fatal for healthcare services in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-208
