13-12-2020||Jharkhand||Bomb hurled at vehicle dealer's house in Dhanbad||Unidentified persons hurled a bomb at the house of a pre-owned car dealer of Naya Bazar locality under Bank More police station area of Dhanbad during the wee hours of Sunday. The house owner Bobby Khan and his other family members narrowly escaped the incident. However, property worth more than Rs 1 lakh was damaged in the fire caused by the explosion of the bomb as furniture including sofa set and bed were burnt. A team from Bank More police station led by officer in charge Veer Kunwar reached the site after getting the information during the morning hours. A forensic team took details from the house owner, other family members and neighbours of Bobby Khan and also collected some samples from the site including remains of the bomb which exploded during the incident. While talking to the media, Bobby Khan said, “We were asleep in our respective rooms. We awoke from the slumber after hearing the bang sound at around 4 am and rushed towards the vacant drawing room to find out a huge smoke coming out.” “I am not aware that who is behind the incident as I have no enmity with anyone. This is the second incident of such kind as earlier this year on November 26 a bomb was hurled outside my house,” said Khan. Meanwhile, talking to the media, the officer in charge of Bank More police station said, “We have collected some evidence from the site and trying to identify those behind the incident however nobody sighted anyone as it was still dark.” Notably, altogether four computer traders of Dhanbad including the owner of City Computers, Vishal Kumar; owner of Jhajharia Computer, Vikash Agarwal; owner of Agarwal Computer, Tinku Agarwal and his elder brother Govind Agarwal had received extortion calls on their mobile phone numbers on November 29 this year in name of People’s Liberation Front of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-206
13-12-2020||Jharkhand||Three BIT-Sindri students get Rs 10.52 lakh job offer from Tata Steel||Three B.Tech third year students of BIT-Sindri, namely Aditi Sinha and Salique Ahmed of electrical engineering and Abhishek Paul of mechanical engineering have been lapped by Tata Steel for a package of Rs 10.52 lakh per annum. The selected three students were among the 170 who appeared for the online written screening held on December 8 and out of the 19 who were selected for the final round of interview held on December 11. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Ghanshyam Rai, BIT-Sindri training and placement officer said, “The selection in the period of lockdown assumes significance when all tests are being conducted online and few students are getting job offers.” “Though 40 students of our institute of the 2020-21 pass out batch have so far been selected by different recruiters but the selection of three students by Tata Steel has special significance because of the high package of more than Rs 10 lakh per annum,” added Ghanshyam. “Seventeen of our B.Tech students have also been selected by Tata Consultancy Service on October 18 this year out of which 14 secured Tata Ninja offer for a package of Rs 7 lakh per annum, while three others got the Tata Digital offer for a package of Rs 3.36 lakh per annum,” explained Ghanshyam. Divulging more details, Ghanshyam said, “Several other recruiters’ interview are still lined up for the present batch of 725 but the majority of these recruitment process like the previous one will be conducted online. “We are utilising the time of lockdown period for honing up the soft skills of our students and several online workshops, seminars are being organised at the behest of the training and placement cell where the top executives of different companies are providing valuable tips about personality development besides skill for facing an interview, etc.,” said Singh and added that more than 350 students of the 2019-20 batch out of total 725 had already secured jobs through campus placement while the remaining are appearing for off-campus selection. The leading educational consultant and founder of learning also tipped the students of the institute about successful interview facing techniques during an online session held on November 3. Expressing happiness over his selection, Abhishek Paul said, “We came to know about our selection on Saturday night and initially could not believe.” “For other students, I would request them to be very confident while facing interviews and concentrate on the technical part while replying to queries of the HR department,” said Paul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-206
13-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi University tribal languages section gets new building||Students of the tribal and regional languages (TRL) department of Ranchi University will now have access to proper classrooms and seating facilities, courtesy a new building that was inaugurated by Governor Droupadi Murmu on Sunday. Murmu, who is chancellor of all state universities, also inaugurated a newly constructed basketball court at the Morabadi campus in the presence of vice chancellor Ramesh Kumar Pandey, pro-VC Kamini Kumari, among others. University officials said the three-storied building, built at a cost of Rs 3.25 crore, has nine classrooms and a large AC auditorium. Expressing her happiness over the developments, Murmu said that the department was extremely important for Jharkhand. “The tribal and regional languages department is a significant component of Ranchi University which has the mandate to groom future scholars and academicians. I hope the spacious building will now enable the department to provide a better academic ambience to students,” she said.  Set up in 1980, the tribal and regional languages department is one of the oldest of Ranchi University. It was set up to preserve the rich cultural traditions of Scheduled Tribes and other communities inhabiting this part of the country. Currently, it has over 400 students pursuing courses in five tribal and four regional languages. The tribal languages on offer include Mundari, Santhali, Ho, Khadia and Kuruk. The department also offers four regional languages, namely, Kurmali, Khortha, Nagpuri and Panchpargania. Head of the department Hai Oraon said the university had developed all the syllabi and teaching materials in the languages offered. “The new building was long-awaited. Now, we can have subject-specific classrooms for students. Also, we can host literary meets, our own festivals and activities at the new auditorium,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-206
13-12-2020||Jharkhand||Sky overcast, expect light rain across state till Wednesday||Several areas of northern, central and southern Jharkhand woke up to overcast conditions on Sunday, and many areas experienced light showers, the result of a western disturbance passing through north India. "The disturbance, in the form of a cyclonic circulation, was passing through north Pakistan and Punjab extending between 1.5km and 2.1km above mean sea level," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He said a low-pressure area which had originated over central parts of the South Arabian Sea had become weak. "However, an associated cyclonic circulation lies over the same area extending up to 3.1km above mean sea level. A trough from this system was running towards southwest Madhya Pradesh and south Gujarat coast extending up to 1.5km above mean sea level, " said Anand. Both Ranchi and Patna Meteorological Centres predicted light rain in isolated places over north, central and southern Jharkhand in the next 72 hours, till December 16 (Wednesday) due to the impact of the western disturbance. Minimum temperatures across the state have witnessed an increase due to cloud cover. Weathermen said the night readings would be above normal over the next three-four days in most areas because of the adverse weather condition. On Sunday, Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Bokaro recorded minimum temperature of over 16 degree Celsius, three to four notches above normal, while Daltonganj and its adjoining areas recorded over 17 degrees Celsius, seven notches above normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-207
13-12-2020||Jharkhand||Red Paws works to keep strays warm this winter||A popular animal welfare association of the steel city went about placing mattresses for strays on Sunday to ensure they are comfortable during the winter. The initiative, organised by Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation (JRPRF), was launched from the Circuit House Area ground. From there, volunteers drove to various places in a van to place the mattresses. “These mattresses would provide a nice and warm place for stray dogs to sleep in, especially at night,” said Aniz Patel, founder of JRPRF, an NGO established in 2018. According to Patel, they covered Circuit House Area, Kadma, Sonari and Sakchi and placed 50 mattresses made of hay and nylon sacks. A similar drive would be undertaken on a larger scale across other areas of Jamshedpur. “Winter isn’t easy for strays in and around Jamshedpur.  Many even die. We felt it is our responsibility to help the strays battle the harsh winter,” Patel added. The foundation has appealed to citizens to come forward and donate blankets, dog-friendly clothes and mufflers to keep them warm during the winter. Apart from Patel, others who were part of the drive included Kunal Venkat, P. Mohan, Pratik Jain, S.K Mitra and Aditi Das. The NGO had organised a stray pup adoption camp on November 29 to motivate people to adopt Indian strays who would otherwise face the wrath of speedy cars on busy streets. Thirty pups were adopted by dog lovers. Red Paws had also organised a “feed the stray” drive earlier this year. It also organised an anti-rabies vaccination drive. The foundation has appealed to the people for support. “We can hold more such activities with support from more volunteers. There is no dearth of animal lovers in Jamshedpur,” a member said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-207
13-12-2020||Jharkhand||Silver and gold ornaments stolen from Lemboiya temple in Chatra||Thieves broke into the ancient Maa Dakshineshwari Bhagwati Devi Chamunda temple in Pathalgadda block of Chatra on Sunday and stole the silver crown and other gold ornaments on the black stone idol of Goddess Lemboiya. Temple committee members informed Pathalgadda police as soon as they came to know of the crime, and an FIR was lodged. Situated on the Lemboiya hill, the temple is several centuries old. Currently, it is being renovated and the thieves took this opportunity to enter the temple through the ventilator. Priests said that when they opened the temple door, they found the crown and other gold and silver ornaments missing from the idol. Temple committee members – Basudev Tiwary, Dhanushdhari Ram Dangi and Bakeshwar Dangi – said they found the main gate of the temple locked. The thieves entered through a ventilator and escaped with silver crown and ornaments worth lakhs. Other than the silver crown, a gold maang tikka, a gold netra (eye) were stolen. We want immediate arrest of the thieves, they added. Officer-in-charge of Pathalgadda police station, Avinash Kumar, who reached the temple soon after getting the information, assured the temple committee members and local residents. He said the investigation started and thieves will be nabbed soon. The theft has sparked anger in the area as local people claimed that the temple was targeted thrice in the past and ornaments were stolen. The police, however, failed to crack the earlier cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-207
13-12-2020||Jharkhand||Centre helping with vaccine storage and transportation||Jharkhand will be receiving at least 148 ice lined refrigerators (ILR) and 57 deep freezers (DF) from the Centre for safe storage and transportation of the Covid-19 vaccine once it is made available to the state, officials of the health department said here on Sunday. The fresh set of ice lined refrigerators (ILR) and deep freezers (DF) will strengthen the state’s existing infrastructure for vaccination programmes, said state National Health Mission (NHM) director Ravi Shankar Shukla. “We are making arrangements in accordance with the guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare,” he added. As per figures with the NHM, Jharkhand already has 1,666 electrical equipment for running vaccination programmes. These include ILRs and DFs. ILRs, officials said, maintain a temperature between 2 degree Celsius and 8 degree Celsius, while DFs help maintain a temperature below 0 degrees for vaccine storage. Deep freezers are also used for maintaining requisite temperature during transportation of vaccines. For storage of the vaccine, Jharkhand already has 275 cold chain points and has proposed additional 30 cold chain points to enhance the storage capacity in the state, a health department document accessed by The Telegraph Online stated. A highly placed source in the health department said the government has also started identifying electrical equipment that are defunct or dated and need to be replaced. He said that the government has the experience of running immunisation programmes regularly, but the demand for Covid-19 vaccine and the temperature restrictions may make the immunisation process more challenging. Different vaccines have different temperature requirements to maintain potency. The Pfizer BioNtech vaccine requires a temperature of -60 to -90 degree Celsius, which is difficult to maintain with the infrastructure available in India. However, Oxford’s AstraZenecca vaccine can be kept at a temperature of 2 degree Celsius to 8 degree Celsius, which is possible with the infrastructure available in Jharkhand, officials said. Besides, Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila are developing their own vaccine candidates. Health officials said the government will also be roping in NGOs and development partners like UNDP and UNICEF for facilitating the immunisation programme in Jharkhand. National Cadet Corps (NCC) and National Service Scheme (NSS) cadets will also be involved in providing support to the state machinery during the immunisation process. The government has so far identified 1 lakh frontline workers, mostly doctors and other health workers, for the first round of vaccinations. Once frontline workers are vaccinated, the state will start vaccination of senior citizens and the ones with comorbid conditions, sources said. As per figures with the state health department, coronavirus has infected 1,11,366 people in the state so far and more than 97 per cent of them have recovered. However, at least 995 patients, mostly those with comorbidities, could not survive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-207
13-12-2020||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand reports zero casualties in 24 hours||Jharkhand reported zero casualties related to Covid-19 over the past 24 hours, while the count of active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped close to 1,600 in the state. Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on Saturday, figures compiled by the health department showed. The state recorded 189 cases of coronavirus on the day, while 273 people recovered, bringing the number of active cases down at 1,610, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission stated. Ranchi and East Singhbhum were the only two states that had more than 100 cases of coronavirus by the end of Saturday. At least 24 patients recovered in East Singhbhum on the day against 12 fresh cases of infection, bringing the number of active patients in the district down to 171, government data showed. Despite reporting the highest recoveries among all the districts on Saturday, Ranchi’s active cases still accounted for nearly half of the active cases in Jharkhand. At least 79 fresh cases surfaced here against 89 recoveries, which brought the count of active cases in the district down to 791, the health bulletin showed. Among other districts, Dhanbad reported 10 cases against 34 recoveries, while Bokaro reported 12 cases against 11 recoveries. At least 15 people were found infected in Palamu and eight patients recovered from the infection there. The government tested samples of 19,757 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, swab samples  44.94 lakh people have been collected while 44.78 of them were tested. Despite not reporting any new fatality over the past 24 hours, the Covid-19 death toll in Jharkhand has been rising fast. At least 995 patients, 355 of them from East singhbhum, have died in the state, while Ranchi has reported 206 Covid fatalities so far. The Covid fatality rate in Jharkhand was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. As per government data, 1,08,761 people have recovered from Covid-19, out of the 1,11,366 infected with the deadly virus, taking the recovery rate up at 97.66 per cent. The growth rate of the virus, as per the state health department, was 0.14 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.27 per cent. The doubling rate of cases in the state was 494.21 days against the national average of 258.83 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-207
