14-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad-based littérateur’s book launch||Dhanbad-based young littérateur-cum- art critique, curator and journalist ‑ Abhishek Kashyap launched his new book titled – Godfather in the presence of a galaxy of poets, art lovers, and local littérateurs, during a poet’s meet organized at Dhanbad’s Judge Colony. The 43-year-old’s latest book is based on his memoirs on Hindi littérateur ‑ late Rajendra Yadav, former editor of renowned Hindi literary magazine – Hans. Talking to the media, on the sidelines of the book release function, Sarita Jain, a Hindi poet from Delhi, present at the book launch event, said, “The book is one of finest memoir collections of a young littérateur about his guide. It also is the best way for a student expressing his gratitude towards his mentor.” The 123-page book, comprising 23 chapters has been published by India Telling, priced at Rs 150, focuses on different aspects of Yadav’s personality. Talking to The Telegraph Online Kashyap, said, “I was highly impressed with the personality of Rajendra Yadav, since the very beginning of my journalistic career or even before as my first article was published in Hans way back in 1998, that gave me a national identity.” “Such was the reputation of Hans that based on the publication of the compositions in Hans the writer or poet used to get job offers and I also got 100s of letters from across the country besides the job offer of a being a Hindi teacher of a school, immediately after the publication of my first article in Hans,” said Kashyap who’s two books titled Kala Vrat and Sahitya Samvad published by Delhi-based ‑ Nai Kitab Publishers were released on January 7, earlier this year during the New Delhi World Book Fair 2020 organized by National Book Trust at Pragati Maidan, New Delhi. “The book titled, Godfather was written during the lockdown and is divided into different chapters based on small reminiscences of Yadav ji from my memory. But it is not about a praise text eulogizing his positive aspects but deals with his weaknesses and darker side too,” said Kashyap. He added that Yadav never believed in developing such a cult image for himself where there is no scope for criticism. “It would have been a great injustice. I would have highlighted only his positive side as Yadav himself in his memoirs about other writers used to be a true critique. He never believed in writing only praises,” said Kashyap. “I used to write a column Sahitya Khomcha for a newspaper focusing on literary happenings taking place in the country. My office in Mayur Vihar, Delhi is next to his and hence we would end up spending hours together in the evening,” he said. A Commerce graduate of RSP College Jharia, Kashyap, has published a Hindi novel, Ham Sab Mahi ‑ a critique, Dekhte Parkhte Hue and also edited several books including Jogen ‑ based on artist Jogen Chowdhury; Shabd Sansar - collections write-ups by eminent Hindi journalist, writer, and Rajya Sabha member Harivansh. Kashyap has also translated several English books into Hindi including Ruskin Bond’s book titled Strange Men Strange places as Ajibogarib log, ajibogarib Jagahen, etc. He has also worked for several Hindi dailies and magazines including, Naya Gyanodaya, Das Din, Raj Sarokar, etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-205
14-12-2020||Jharkhand||Woman ends life with two kids in Koderma||Thirty-year-old woman Kaushalya Devi chose to end her life along with her two minor sons, in Mahuatand area in Jhumritelaiya of Koderma district on Monday. The two minor boys identified as 10-year-old Satish Kumar and 8-year-old Ashish Kumar. Her suicide sent shockwaves in the area, as neighbours maintained that the lady along with her kids was leading a content life with her husband and his first wife. According to police officials, Kaushalya, wife of one Mukhlal Yadav, a mason by profession, was living with her and his first wife in a rented house in Mahuatand, where he also worked. Yadav, hailing originally from Bicharia village, which falls under Markachcho police station of the district, had left for his hamlet, thereby leaving Kaushalya and his two sons in the house. According to the neighbours, in the wee hours of Monday, they heard some unusual sound coming from Yadav’s house. They even went and knocked on the door, but none opened it. During this time, they even heard the children crying for water. According to the police, when they reached the spot after being informed, they broke open the door to find Kaushalya and Satish dead. Ashish was rushed to RIMS Ranchi; however, he died on the way. According to the neighbours, Yadav had married twice and was keeping both his wives properly. They told the police that the two women would engage in quarrels. Kaushalya’s father Mahadev Yadav, a resident of Barkatha’s Manpur village of Hazaribagh, reached the spot but refused to lodge any complaint against his son-in-law. The sub-divisional police officer of Koderma, Rajendra Prasad said due to some feud, the woman committed suicide with her two sons. He added, “Mukhlal Yadav’s first wife was issueless, so he married Kaushalya with whom he had two sons.” The police have begun their investigation to crack the case. Meanwhile, the three dead bodies have been handed over to their relatives at the Koderma Sadar hospital, after an autopsy had been performed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-205
14-12-2020||Jharkhand||Mahouts from Bankura bring relief to Chandil foresters||A 14-member-team of mahouts from Bankura, Bengal tasted success in driving away separate herds of 48 elephants from the Chandil forest range in Seraikela-Kharsawan on Monday. Chandil forest range officer, Ashok Kumar said that the elephants had been driven away to Tamar and Chaibasa jungles in the wee hours of Monday. “It’s a huge relief for us. We thank the mahouts from Bengal for bringing in relief,” he added. The mahouts had arrived on December 5 to chase out the elephant herds but had been encountering problems as there were calves in the herd. Three separate herds were anchored near human settlements in Nimdih and Ichagarh blocks under the Chandil forest range, about 45 km away from Jamshedpur. The herds had made their way from Tamar and Chaibasa jungles and were giving sleepless nights to foresters as well as villagers. The forest range officer had to call in elephant drivers after a second herd of 25 jumbos reached the human habitats near the Chandil forests, thereby escalating the number of migratory elephants in the area to 48. The forest department was determined to tackle the menace caused by the jumbos effectively as local mahouts had stopped working after their leader was killed by one of the elephants near Balidih village on November 20. “We are fed up of chasing away elephants from Bengal developing a liking for Chandil forest range. At present, not a single elephant is anchored in Chandil forest range,” Kumar informed. Earlier too, the forest range office had called mahouts from Bankura to drive away a herd of 25 elephants that had been causing damage to crops and houses. However, the team of mahouts could not do the job, forcing the foresters to call another group of mahouts from Bankura who finally achieved success. The range officer said, “Though it’s a relief for us you never know when the herds will come back to our area. We are cautious and would again avail the services of the mahouts from Bengal if they are back,” he added. According to him, the mahouts from Bankura are good people and come whenever called. “We salute their bravery and hard work. It is not an easy job to tackle wild elephants,” Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-205
14-12-2020||Jharkhand||High school teachers protest in Dhanbad||Altogether 17 qualified candidates for the post of high school teachers of Jharkhand government-run schools, who have been waiting for their appointment since the last 18 months, staged a day-long dharna and demonstration outside the office of Dhanbad district education officer, Prabha Xess on Monday. The protestors shouted slogans as part of their agitation and demanded their immediate appointment, failing which they threatened to stage a massive protest at the district headquarters. Dhanbad MLA, Raj Sinha, who also reached at the site to lend support to the protesting teachers and also demanded completion of their appointment. Talking to Telegraph Online on Monday at the Dharna site, Sunita Kumari, one of the candidates blamed the former district education officer of Dhanbad, Alka Jaiswal for the entire mess. Notably, the 17 teachers who had applied against the state level recruitment notification of 2016 and got qualified after appearing in the exam, titled Jharkhand Trained Graduate Teachers exam conducted by Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission. Though the appointment to other teachers have been provided, these 17 teachers could not be appointed as the subject for which they applied for was not their honours subject and rather a subsidiary paper at the graduation level. “The then district education officer, Alka Jaiswal called us for providing appointment letters on July 17, 2019, but she later refused to provide the same claiming that she had sought guidelines from the state’s higher, technical education and skill development department and will provide an appointment only after receiving guidelines from the higher-ups,” said Kumari. “We have been waiting for the guidelines for more than 18 months finally compelling us to resort to the agitation path today,” stated Kumari and claimed that while other teachers from 23 districts of the state with a similar condition of having the subject for which they qualified being their subsidiary subject at the graduation level have been provided appointment while in Dhanbad they are being denied appointment and it is none of their fault. “Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission while inviting the application for the subject wise teachers’ appointment never put the pre-condition in the notification. They never mention that the candidate can’t apply for the subject if that subject is not their honours subject,” claimed another agitator requesting anonymity and added that when the recruitment authority conducted the exam and also published their results there is no logic of denying them an appointment. District education officer, Prabha Xess who met the agitators said, “We will sort out the issue within a month and since a guideline had been sought in the matter by my predecessor, Alka Jaiswal, we will wait for some time and then again, if necessary, will send a reminder to the department again and solve the issue.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-205
14-12-2020||Jharkhand||Giridih police nab interstate gang of vehicle robbers||Giridih police busted an interstate gang of dacoits on Monday, who allegedly used to hire SUVs and then looted it away by murdering the driver. Police have arrested two members including the kingpin of the gang by conducting a raid at the Machiadih area under Gandey police station of Giridih. This dreaded gang with about half a dozen members were active in Jharkhand and Bihar. SP, Giridih, Amit Renu said, “We have also recovered two SUVs – Scorpio and Toyota Qualis – from their possession. The arrested duo including kingpin Mohammad Khurshid Ansari and his associate Mohammad Sultan Ansari alias Tipu revealed vital information about their gang during interrogation, following which raids are conducted to nab the other members of the gang.” He added that Khurshid is a resident of Jamui (Bihar) while Sultan belongs to Jhariagadi of Giridih. Police are verifying their criminal history from other police stations of neighbouring districts in the state and Bihar. Police arrested the duo conducting an investigation in connection to a murder of a Scorpio driver whose body was found under a culvert at Patrodih bridge under Bengabad police station on December 8. Conducting investigation, police identified the deceased as Ajay Ram a resident of village Lachhuwara, Jamui (Bihar). His family was immediately informed about the incident. His family later told police that Ram was the Scorpio driver of Neeraj Kumar Singh, a resident of village Lachhuwara, who used to run SUV as a private taxi. The accused had hired the SUV on December 7 from Lachhuwara for the Chhotki Khargadiha area. On the way, the accused killed Ram and looted away Scorpio, which police recovered on December, 13 following the arrest of Khurshid. The father of the deceased had lodged a murder case with Bengabaad police station. During the investigation police found that the murder was Ram was held for vehicle loot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-205
14-12-2020||Jharkhand|| On first anniversary of Hemant govt, farm loan waivers||Jharkhand will roll out a farm loan waiver scheme on December 29, the first anniversary of the Hemant Soren government, state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh announced on Monday, thereby fulfilling one of the key promises made by the JMM-Congress-RJD grand alliance during last year’s Assembly elections. “Our government under the leadership of Hemant Soren will gift loan waivers to our farmer brothers on December 29, the day when this people-friendly government completes one year, he said during a visit to Baidnathpur village in Sariya block in Deoghar district. “Loan waivers up to Rs 50,000 will be given in the first phase. The amount has been recommended by the high-powered committee set up by the agriculture department to work out modalities of the scheme. The proposal will now soon be placed before the cabinet for a formal nod,” the minister said. The state government has made a provision of Rs 2000 crore for the loan waiver scheme in this fiscal. As per agriculture department figures, between 2014 and 2019, about 8 lakh farmers took loans to the tune of around Rs 7000 crore in Jharkhand. Departmental sources said around 10 lakh farmers would be benefitted initially once the waiver is rolled out. “We are currently busy seeding Aadhaar details with bank accounts of beneficiary farmers,” commented an official of agriculture department. The minister added that the agriculture department was also working on an export policy to provide an additional market for surplus vegetables that are grown in Jharkhand. “A few months back, we exported several vegetables to Dubai. Now, we are preparing a holistic plan to ensure that our farmers get the right market and competitive prices. An export policy will be finalised soon,” said Patralekh, who tried his hand at threshing of harvested paddy at the village. Criticising the Union government over the new farm laws, the minister said, “Modi has forced our annadata to come out on streets today by its anti-farmer laws, while in Jharkhand, our government is working round-the-clock towards their welfare. The farm loan waiver will help scores of small and marginal farmers in the state,” Patralekh said. The ruling dispensation in the state has been speaking out against the new farm laws, and actively supported the December 8 Bharat Bandh in Jharkhand. In line with Monday’s hunger strike by protesting farmers on the Delhi border, several Left and other non-BJP parties also held symbolic fasts near Raj Bhavan here. The BJP on the other hand is gearing up for “sammelans” on Tuesday across the state to highlight the benefits of the new laws. Party general secretary Aditya Sahu said, “The party is holding farm sammelans across commissionaries and districts on December 15 to spread awareness among farmers about the new farm laws and prevent them from getting misled by those who are opposing the laws just for the sake of protesting against the BJP.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-205
14-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dumka rape prompts Governor to summon DGP||Jharkhand governor Droupadi Murmu has asked state DGP M.V. Rao to step up policing and ensure the safety and security of everyone, her directives coming in the light of rising crimes against women and children across the state. The DGP’s meeting with Mumru at Raj Bhavan on Monday afternoon was described officially as a courtesy call, but a statement issued later by Raj Bhavan aired the Governor’s immediate concerns. “Governor met with DGP to take stock of the law-and-order situation. During the meeting, she expressed her concern about crimes against women and asked the DGP to take appropriate actions immediately to arrest the situation so that people should move freely and safely,” the statement said. Sources claimed that Murmu was unhappy about the gang rape of a mother of five minor children by 17 men in Dumka last week, the incident prompting National Commission for Women (NCW) to take suo motu cognizance and send notices to Jharkhand police for a time-bound probe. So far, Dumka police have arrested one of the 17 accused. Opposition BJP has been highlighting the alleged lawlessness in the state at its public meetings, saying that law-and-order had collapsed ever since the JMM-Congress-RJD government of Hemant Soren took charge in December last year. Several BJP delegations have over the recent months met with The Governor to express concern about the growing number of crimes against women and children in the state. According to the state police website, till September this year, 1,359 rapes have been reported since January 2020. In 2019, over 1,500 rape cases were registered during the same period. State police spokesperson Saket Kumar Singh said that even though overall crime figures are low compared to previous years, they have started analysing crime patterns to take corrective steps. “The DGP has asked CID to study the crimes committed this year, mainly those against women and children, to be able to understand patterns. In many cases, crimes are committed by the victim’s near and dear ones. Police are also running awareness drives at police stations to sensitise people. This apart, in each case, we always focus on arresting the culprits at the earliest and take the case to its logical conclusion.” Around two months back, DGP Rao also announced Whatsapp-based helplines in all 24 districts for registering quick complaints regarding crime against women and children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-206
14-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi airport footfall way up since June, but still half of pre-Covid numbers||Passenger footfall at Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Airport, which had reduced to less than half in the light of the Covid induced lockdown, has tripled since June, the Airport Authority of India (AAI) stated on Monday. AAI in a tweet from its official Twitter handle stated that passenger traffic at the Ranchi airport had dropped to 57,749 in the month of June when travel restrictions were relaxed after the strict lockdown since March. Passenger traffic shot up to 1,41,268 in November when more flights were allowed to ply, the AAI stated, lauding the airport staff here for their efforts. The director of Birsa Munda Airport, Vinod Sharma, said that the increase in the number of flights to and from Ranchi has led to an increase in passenger footfall. The number of flights from Ranchi, he said, was increased from eight in June to 17 in November. “We also started new flights to Chennai. Flight services to Calcutta, which were stalled during the lockdown, also resumed later,” said Sharma, adding that Ranchi airport now had flights to Hyderabad, Bangalore, Delhi and Mumbai despite Covid-enforced restrictions. However, passenger footfall here was still less than half of what it used to be before the Covid-19 pandemic hit India. “We had a passenger footfall of around 3 lakh before the lockdown restrictions were imposed. Our target is to achieve the same passenger footfall gradually,” said Sharma. Passenger footfall is the number of passengers taking off from and landing at a particular airport in a given month. As per AAI, the footfall in Ranchi airport gradually grew from 65,602 in July to 86,445 in August and then it further rose to 1,01,271 in September. The passenger footfall in October was 1,28,145, AAI data revealed. At least 30 flights from Ranchi connected Jharkhand to different parts of the country before the Covid-19 restrictions hit the aviation industry. Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi is the largest airport in the state and the only one which is connected to almost all major cities of the country. In October, the Birsa Munda Airport bagged the top position in the country as per a customer satisfaction index (CSI). Ranchi airport secured 4.79 out of five in the grading system of the survey, leaving behind Gaya, Surat, Agartala, Bhopal, Khajuraho, Vijaywada and 10 other “medium-sized” airports, officials added. Ranchi airport also has expansion plans. It is likely to extend its runway, increase the length of the basic strip and construct an isolation bay on extra land that will be allotted to the AAI once the Cabinet gives its nod to the expansion plans, officials said. At present, Birsa Munda Airport has a 75-meter basic strip, which is the minimum length required for any airport. The length of the basic strip, the airport director said, would be increased to 140 meters once the expansion plan is approved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-206
14-12-2020||Jharkhand||Coal block e-auctions: no ground-breaking in Jharkhand without SC nod||The Supreme Court on Monday took note of Jharkhand government’s claim about non-compliance of its earlier direction regarding re-grassing of mined areas by leaseholders after ceasing operations and warned that it might take contempt action against the concerned authority. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde told the Centre that no groundbreaking after e-auction of coal blocks for commercial mining be done in Jharkhand without the apex court's nod. The apex court also said it might take action against concerned officials if the directions given by the top court were not complied with. “Don't break ground for mining in Jharkhand without our nod,” the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said. The apex court, while noting that mining results in complete elimination of grass, had on January 8 directed the government to impose the condition on leaseholders that they will have to restore the mined area by re-grassing it after ceasing operations. The top court, which had passed the order on a separate petition against large-scale illegal mining across the country, had asked the Centre to devise appropriate methods to ensure compliance of this condition. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing on Monday, the bench was apprised by advocate Tapesh Kumar Singh, appearing for the Jharkhand government, that direction given by the top court regarding re-grassing was not being complied with. “Attorney General, if our order is not complied with then we may take contempt action against the concerned. We want strict compliance of our order. Re-grassing needs to be done for grazing animals. Animals cannot graze due to mining,” the bench said. The apex court asked Singh to give the details to Attorney General K. K. Venugopal so that he would look into it. The bench, which was hearing the pleas filed by Jharkhand government on the issue of e-auction of coal block for commercial mining in the state, said it would hear the matter in January. Senior advocate Fali S Nariman, who appeared for Jharkhand government, said since the matter was listed in January, an independent authority could be sent to examine the sites. “Give us some names Mr Nariman as one of the names you suggested has passed away. We will keep the matter in the first week of January,” the bench said. Besides the pleas filed by Jharkhand government, the bench also took up a separate plea related to the issue and issued notice to the Centre and others seeking their replies on it. On November 6, the apex court had categorically told the Centre that the November 9 e-auction of 34 coal blocks, including five in Jharkhand, shall be subject to its final order. The apex court had also asked the Centre to inform the bidders that benefits of any nature to them will be provisional. The Attorney General, appearing for the Centre, had told the bench that no trees will be cut in the area. In its note filed earlier in the matter, the Centre had given details of coal mines which are to be auctioned and their distance from nine eco-sensitive zones/ protected area/wildlife sanctuary. It had said out of nine coal blocks, five will be auctioned while the auction of four coal mines--Choritand Tiliaya, Chitarpur, North Dhadhu and Sheregarha-have been cancelled due to receipt of less than two bids. On November 9, financial bids were to be opened for five other coal blocks of Jharkhand which include--Gondalpara, Rajhara North, Urma Paharitola, Brahmadiha and Chakla. It had also referred to various cases, laws and office memorandum of Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change with regard to the procedure for consideration of development projects located within 10 km of National Park/Wildlife Sanctuary seeking environmental clearance under the provisions of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) notification, 2006. On November 4, the top court had said it intend to pass an order that any proposed mining block within the 50 km radius of an eco-sensitive zone will not be e-auctioned in Jharkhand and a similar direction may be passed if such things are brought to its notice from other states. Maintaining that it only wanted to ensure that the "forests are not destroyed," the top court had also said it was mulling over the setting up of an expert committee to examine whether an area near the proposed mining sites in Jharkhand qualifies to be an eco-sensitive zone. The Centre had opposed the remarks of the top court saying the mining sites were at a distance of 20 to 70 km from such eco-sensitive zones and in states like Goa, the mining would become impossible if this distance parameter is applied. On September 30, the top court had observed that if an area falls under eco-sensitive zone then neither the Centre nor the state government will have the right to mine it. Jharkhand had sought postponing of e-auction of coal block for commercial mining in the state till its suit under Article 131 was decided by the top court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-206
14-12-2020||Jharkhand||BJP to hold counter rally in Dhanbad||As Opposition parties upped the ante against the Centre over the contentious farm laws through a series of agitations across the district, BJP is gearing up to organise a farmers’ rally here in support of the acts on Tuesday. The rally here is part of the BJP’s nationwide programme. It will be held at Zila Parishad Ground and will be attended by former state president of the party Ravindra Rai, besides a host of other leaders. The party claims over 10,000 farmers will be attendance. “Congress is taking political mileage by misleading farmers while the Left parties are trying to aggravate the situation,” Dhanbad MP P.N Singh told the media in the presence of four BJP MLAs Raj Sinha (Dhanbad) Dhullu Mahto (Baghmara), Aparna Sengupta (Nirsa) and Indrajit Mahto (Sindri). “The farm laws will increase the income of farmers But the Opposition parties, led by Congress, who are not concerned about the wellbeing of the farmers, are opposing the bill and giving it a political colour,” said Singh. He said the good work of Prime Minister Narendra Modi can be understood from the fact that the agricultural budget of the nation for 2020-21 was Rs 1,34,399 crore, almost six times the budget of 2013-14. “Agricultural production has significantly increased under our rule at the Centre. Compared to 25.54 million tonne of food grain in 2015-16 the production reached to 296.65 million tonne in 2019-20,” he added. Singh said “real farmers” were happy with the farm laws. A day-long dharna and demonstration was organised at Randhir Verma Chowk, under the banner of Rastriya Janata Dal, led by the party’s district president Tarkeshwar Yadav on Monday. The protestors claimed the farm laws would make common farmers subservient to capitalist forces and that the Union government was taking advantage of the acts to abrogate the power of state governments. Left parties also took out a march against the farm laws. They walked in a procession on Luby Circular Road, Court More and later assembled at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district headquarters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-206
14-12-2020||Jharkhand|| Over 100 take part in XLRI's virtual Sunday run||XLRI's virtual marathon, Xhaust-2020, held on Sunday saw the participation of 100 students, faculty and staff. Conducted by SportsCom, the umbrella unit that organises all sports activities at XLRI, the marathon saw participants opted for the run in the two slots (7 am and 6 pm) in 3 km, 5 km and 10 km categories. The participants were required to install the "Pacer" app on their mobile phones to track the run and to share details within 10 minutes of finishing the run. The aim of the event was primarily to nudge the XLRI community to bring back physical fitness into their daily routine after months of inactivity. The event received positive feedback from participants. "It was great running for a long stretch after several months. Feels good to be active again," said one runner. Vaibhav Hinduja, a member of SportsCom, said many participants considered it as a stress buster event. Top performers among men were Yash Naiknavare (Mumbai) and Pranav Bhatt (Nainital). Among women, Rucha Kalekar (Pune) and Chandini Gunaparthi (Bengaluru) posted excellent timings. All top performers were students. While Yash and Pranav belonged to the Human Resources and Business Management stream, Rucha is a Business Management student, and Chandni is pursuing Human Resources Management. All students are away from the campus because of the pandemic. Members of the organising body said they are planning to present trophies to the best performers when they return to the campus. “For now, we have decided to send them some goodies via post," said a member of SportsCom. Fr. P. Christie, director of XLRI, congratulated the performers and said the B-school would continue to promote fitness through various sporting events.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-206
14-12-2020||Jharkhand||At unguarded Lemboiya temple, thieves make merry ||Situated on the Lemboiya hill and surrounded by forests, the ancient Maa Dakshineshwari Bhagwati Devi Chamunda temple in Pathalgadda block of Chatra district is a safe zone for thieves. Despite having an annual income in several lakhs, the temple committee failed to get CCTV cameras installed, giving thieves enough opportunity to lay their hands on jewellery and cash in the donation box of the temple at least four times in recent years. On Sunday, thieves broke into the ancient Maa Dakshineshwari Bhagwati Devi Chamunda temple and stole the silver crown and other gold ornaments on the black stone idol of Goddess Lemboiya. Temple committee members informed Pathalgadda police as soon as they came to know of the crime, and an FIR was lodged. Temple priests admitted that during the day the temple is surrounded with people, busy with activities. But once the temple closes in the evening, no one stays here and the entire area gets deserted. Even police hardly patrol the area,  seeing the tough topography of the area. The priests said this is the reason why thieves manage to commit theft here easily. Talking about the theft which took place on Sunday, they said a new temple in place of the old one is under construction here. The grills have been installed in the window space but the ventilators are still open. The thieves had used these ventilators to get inside the temple, they added. Devotee Bablu Singh said he was shocked to know about this theft and added that the temple committee should use the temple fund to increase security here. Police officials said investigation is on and they are hopeful of getting success soon. This temple attracts a large number of devotees round-the-year, not just from Jharkhand, but from Bihar and other neighbouring states. This temple is situated on Hazaribagh-Pathalgadda road. The nearest villages namely Pathalgadda and Singhani are situated only 3 km away from here. The distance of the Lemboiya village is only 2 km away from this hill temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-206
14-12-2020||Jharkhand||Covid toll closing in on the 1000 mark in Jharkhand||At least four more Covid-19 patients, including two from Dhanbad, died during treatment on Sunday, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand up at 999, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. Ramgarh and Palamu districts, both with less than 50 Covid casualties so far, reported one Covid death each on the day, NHM data further highlighted. While the number of casualties drew close to the 1000 mark, Jharkhand reported less than 150 fresh cases of infection on Sunday. As per government data, as many as 144 people, including 76 from Ranchi alone, were found infected in the state on the day. On the other hand, at least 179 Covid patients recovered from the lethal infection, bringing the number of active cases in Jharkhand down at 1571, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. Despite reporting more than half of the fresh cases in Jharkhand on Sunday, the number of Covid patients in Ranchi dropped to 783 as at least 84 patients recovered from the infection here in the past 24 hours. Among other districts, East Singhbhum reported 19 cases against 15 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported seven cases against 14 recoveries, government data highlighted. As per the NHM bulletin, at least 17 of the 24 districts in Jharkhand reported a single-digit spike in Covid cases on the day, while as many as five districts – Sahebganj, Jamtara, Khunti, Gumla and Hazaribag – did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day. The government on Sunday tested swab samples of 15,822 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. In the past week, only around 1 per cent of tested people were found to be Covid positive irrespective of the number of tests conducted, health officials said. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 45.11 lakh people and tested 44.96 lakh of them. As per government data, the Covid-19 tally in the state on Sunday was 1,11,510 and at least 1,08,940 patients have recovered in Jharkhand from Covid-19 infection. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 97.69 per cent against the national average of 94.90 per cent. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.14 per cent against the national average of 0.26 per cent. The doubling rate of the infected in the state was 511.38 days against the national doubling rate of 263.79 days. Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-206
