15-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt slashes Covid-19 test price to Rs.400||A notification issued by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated that the Jharkhand government on Tuesday had halved the price for Covid-19 tests across the state, through RT-PCR at private facilities, thereby bringing it down from Rs.800 to Rs.400 per test. This is the second time that the Hemant Soren government slashed the price for the Covid-19 test. Earlier this month, on December 2, the government had slashed the price from Rs.1050 to Rs.800 for the tests being done at private laboratories and diagnostics centres. At a time when the state administration lowered the price for the tests, figures compiled by the Jharkhand health department, at least 209 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection surfaced on Tuesday. However, the number of active cases dropped down to 1578, with 211 Covid patients recovering from the infection on the day. A Covid patient, from Ranchi, died during treatment during the day, thereby taking the Covid-19 death toll in the state to 1001 and that in Ranchi to 207, mentioned a bulletin released by the NHM. The bulletin further stated that the Covid mortality rate in the state, however, was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. Ranchi reported the highest number of fresh cases as well as the highest number of recoveries among all the 24 districts of Jharkhand on Tuesday. The districts reported 98 cases of infection against 113 recoveries, and the number of active cases here dropped to 763, highlighted, the government data. Among other districts, East Singhbhum reported around 38 cases with 24 recoveries while Dhanbad reported 15 cases against 21 recoveries. At least 14 people were found infected in Bokaro while 10 patients recovered there on the day, the NHM bulletin revealed. At least five districts of Jharkhand did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day, while 14 districts reported a single-digit-spike in cases. With 763 active cases, Ranchi accounted for about half of the total active cases in Jharkhand by the end of Tuesday. Barring Ranchi and East Singhbhum, all the remaining 22 districts had fewer active cases than 100. At least 166 patients were battling the virus in East Singhbhum, highlighted the government data. The government on Tuesday tested swab samples of 17261 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected with the deadly virus. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 45.44 lakh people from across the state and have tested around 45.33 lakh of them. The number of swab samples pending for tests has also dropped from 14000 to 11,000, health officials informed. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand was 0.14 per cent against the national average of 0.25 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 490.84 days against the national average of 279.17 days. The Covid-19 recovery rate in the state was 97.69 per cent against the national average of 95.10 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-204
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||Four more arrested, including a minor, in Dumka rape case||Four more were arrested by Dumka police, including a 16-year-old juvenile, on Tuesday in connection with the gang rape of a 35-year-old tribal woman that took place under the Mufassil police station area, last week. The victim, a mother of five minors, was returning home with her husband on December 8 after attending a rural haat when the incident took place. In the first information report (FIR) filed by the women, the next day, she told the police that as many as 17 men were involved in the crime. The revelation triggered an outrage across the state and also prompted the National Commission of Women (NCW) to take suo-moto cognizance. It also sent notices to the Jharkhand police urging it to start a time-bound probe. Jharkhand governor, Droupadi Murmu, too on Monday, summoned DGP MV Rao and directed him to step up policing to curb crime against women and children. Addressing the reporters in Dumka on Tuesday evening, Ambar Lakra, informed, that 13 persons stand accused in this case. “Although the victim has complained about 17 men gang-raping her, the investigation, however, has so far revealed that around 13 individuals were involved in the crime. Along with these four arrests, we have arrested five more individuals. The special investigation team trying to trace the remaining eight accused,” he said. On the recent arrests, SP said, “They had camped in a hideout near their village ‑ Ghasipur from where we picked them up last night after getting a tip-off. They have been produced before the court today after their formal arrest and have been sent to jail. The minor has been sent to a juvenile home.” Those arrested today included Bodilal Hansda, Santosh Hembrom, Manoj Hansda, and a minor. The other three accused, fall in the age group of 20 and 22, he said. On December 10, one Mangal Mohli was held and sent to jail. Meanwhile, different tribal and rights bodies namely Hazaribag Gramin Vikas Kendra, Munda Sabha, Women and Gender Resource Centre among others staged a protest at Ranchi’s Albert Ekka chowk on Tuesday afternoon demanding the arrest of all the culprits in this case. They also pressed for the state authority to ensure the safety and security of women in the state. They also asked to put all such cases into fast track courts. Jharkhand police off late have been facing lots of flak for law and order situation with a sudden rise in the number of rapes, murder, dacoity among others in recent months. According to the state police website, till September this year, 1,359 rapes alone have been reported since January 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-204
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||Illegal occupants shooed out of Dhanbad railway quarters||Engineering cell of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway today conducted an anti-encroachment drive at Diamond Crossing colony. During this drive around 25, railway quarters lying in unauthorized occupation were cleared by the Railway authorities in association with the Railway Protection force team. The four-hour-long drive began at around 11 am under the leadership of assistant engineer, Anand Kumar Pandey, ended at around 3 pm. No resistance was witnessed during the eviction. Minutes after the eviction, speaking to The Telegraph Online, officer-in-charge of RPF Post, Avinash Karosia said, “We removed the encroachers from around 25 quarters today. This drive will continue till all the 200 quarters lying in illegal possession are cleared in the area.” “In the past, we have witnessed encroachers returning to the vacated quarters soon after the completion of the drive, hence we have removed the doors and windows of the freed quarters to avoid their reoccupation by the unauthorized people,” said Karosia. Public Relation officer of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway, PK Mishra maintained that repeated notices have been given by the railway administration to occupants of quarters to vacate the same. With the notices not eliciting any desired response, a forcible evacuation programme was carried out. “We will conduct such evacuation drives along with demolition drives of dilapidated quarters lying in illegal possession,” said Mishra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-204
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ravindra Rai accuses Congress of playing politics of deceit||Addressing the divisional level farmers' meet organised by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at Dhanbad, Ravindra Rai, the party’s former state president accused Congress of deceiving the farmers and misleading them. The meet was hosted with a single agenda of extending support to the recently passed farm laws. Speaking at the event Rai maintained that the farm bills were a pro-farmer policy that aims at benefitting the agrarian community across India. Addressing a crowd of over 500 people, Rai as the chief speaker of the divisional farmers' meet organized at the Zila Parishad ground, charged, “Whenever the country was at the crossroad, Congress chose to play politics of deceit and have stabbed them.”He further accused the grand old party of thwarting attempts of the present government to strengthen Indian democracy after 1974’s total revolution and Congress imposed emergency.“At a time when the central government is working hard to uplift the status of the farmers, an unnerved Congress is trying to mislead the farmers.” accused Rai. He added, “In fact, Congress has always betrayed the farmers and is doing the same again.” He quickly asserted, “Any attempt to mislead the farmers is not going to succeed. The unprecedented mandate given to the BJP under the leadership of Narendra Modi is an example of the farmers’ consent to the steps being taken by the government.” When asked about the objective of organizing the farmers’ meet he answered, “The farmers, in general, are with the government. We want to expose the design of Congress-led opposition, which is trying to create confusion, by showing that the farmers are discontent.” Extolling about the work done by the BJP government in favour of the farmers he highlighted the implementation of the suggestions made in the Swaminathan Report submitted during the Congress regime, by the central government. He also spoke about the honorarium being provided to farmers across the country. He ended his speech by accusing Congress of attempting to increase its declining support base, by misleading the farmers. He added that his party would continue with their farmer meet programmes till they expose the fake agitators in the name of farmers. Dhanbad MP, PN Singh and different MLAs of the party including Bokaro MLA, Biranchi Naryan; Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha; Sindri MLA, Indrajit Mahto and Nirsa MLA, Aparna Sengupta were also present at the farmers’ meet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-204
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad’s lone amusement park in a shambles ||The only amusement park of the Dhanbad district, Birsa Munda Park, is lying in a poor condition due to lack of coordination between different government departments and prevalence of red-tapism in several organisations. As many as 25 employees of the 24-acre park in Nawadih, including the 10 gardeners have not been paid their salaries since the last four months by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. Several rides of the park, including the toy train, swings, and slides are lying non-functional due to the lack of maintenance. The Birsa Munda Park, opened in 2009, has remained closed since the imposition of the Janta Curfew on March 20, followed by the nationwide lockdown. Talking to The telegraph Online on Tuesday, Paresh Mali (50), a gardener at the park, said, “I have been working here ever since the establishment of the park in 2009 but have never witnessed such a bad situation, where we were deprived of our salaries for over four months.” Mali revealed that he was the sole breadwinner of the family of four, which includes two daughters and a wife, with his salary of Rs 10,500. “Due to non payment of salary since August we are finding it very difficult to even manage the food expenses of the family,” he said, adding that two gardeners from Odisha who live in Dhanbad are in worse situations. Birsa Munda park manager Niwas Kumbhamkar said, “The situation of the 25 employees, including me, is pathetic and there is no headway for its improvement. We have even raised the issue with the district administration but it was of no use.” The manager also informed that the security service in the park was also withdrawn and employees handling the ticket counter were now doing the extra work. The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in April last year took over the management of the park. A host of arrangements were made to improve the condition of the ground, including facilities for online booking of entry tickets and refurbishing existing facilities. “Due to the closure of the park for over nine month, the income through entry tickets has gone down to zero and it was the lone source of income,” said city manager of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, Anand Raj. Situated in Nawadih aea about 6 kilometers from the district headquarters the park is equipped with seven swings, 10  sliders, a toy train, and a vortex among others. A musical laser fountain has also been installed at the park during the last year adding to its tourist attraction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-204
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||7-hour stand-off with tribals over burial at densely-populated Mango||A controversy centred around the burial of a tribal man at Ulidih in Mango led to a stand-off in Jamshedpur on Tuesday, prompting police to step in and negotiate a truce, which finally happened after over seven hours of arguments amid frayed tempers. The body was finally cremated at Subernarekha burning ghat at 6.30 pm after the tribals were persuaded by the police and administration. Officers who had gathered there by noon, an hour after the tribals had arrived there with the body, saw merit in the argument of local residents who insisted that the land where the tribals wanted to bury the body belonged to the government and was not a cemetery. The tribals, however, claimed that they had been using the ground at Road No 5 at Sankusai in Ulidih for burials for decades. "We convinced the agitating tribals and asked them to move the body for cremation at the Subernarekha burning ghat. They agreed only after our assurance that the administration would look into the matter thoroughly," Ulidih police station OC Dhananjay Baitha told The Telegraph Online. The standoff occurred at a residential area in Ulidih along Dimna Road near Ganga Memorial Hospital. Local residents found it difficult to move about since morning as protestors from both sides had gathered there in addition to the large posse of policemen. Madan Sirka, who represented the tribals, said, "The site may not have been registered as a burial ground in government records, but we have been burying bodies there for decades. In fact, several houses have now come up on the burial ground.” But circle officer of Mango Kamini Kaushal, who looks after issues related to land disputes, wasn’t convinced. "The tribals had produced a paper signed by an executive magistrate in 1983, but that was not enough for proving their claim on the land. There is no mention of a burial ground. If it indeed was a burial ground, then it should have been mentioned in land records,” Kaushal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-204
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||Golf stars Lahiri, Chawrasia, Randhawa coming to steel city||Tata Steel Tour Championship will be held at the Beldih and Golmuri golf courses from Thursday, December 17 to 20 with a prize purse of Rs 1.5 crore. The tournament, hosted by the Tata Steel Group and PGTI, will feature a field of 125 professionals. It will be the seventh event of the 2020-21 Tata Steel PGTI season. It will be a 72-hole stroke-play championship and there will be a cut applied after 36 holes. The Pro-Am event preceding the tournament will be played on Wednesday. It will be for the first time in six years that a PGTI event in Jamshedpur will be jointly staged at both Beldih and Golmuri golf courses. In round one, one half of the field will play its 18 holes at Beldih Golf Club while the other half of the field will play its 18 holes at the Golmuri Golf Club. In round two, both halves of the field will switch venues. In rounds three and four, after the cut has been applied, all players will tee off from Golmuri and play their first nine holes at Golmuri before moving to Beldih to play their second nine holes. The tournament will feature a star-studded field, including Indian golfing greats such as Anirban Lahiri (7 international wins), SSP Chawrasia (6 international wins), Gaganjeet Bhullar (10 international wins), Jyoti Randhawa (9 international wins), Shiv Kapur (6 international wins) and Rahil Gangjee (3 international wins). The other prominent names in the field include defending champion Udayan Mane, India’s highest-ranked golfer Rashid Khan (282 in the world rankings), PGTI Order of Merit leader Karandeep Kochhar, Ajeetesh Sandhu, Khalin Joshi, Chikkarangappa and Viraj Madappa, to name a few. Former Asia No. 1, PGA Tour regular and Olympian Anirban Lahiri, will be returning to play in Jamshedpur after nearly 13 years. Lahiri, a two-time winner on the European Tour, last played in Jamshedpur during the 6th Tata Open in January 2008. Shiv Kapur, a four-time winner on the Asian Tour, will return to play in Jamshedpur after 16 years. Kapur last played in Jamshedpur at the 3rd Tata Open in November 2004 where he finished runner-up. Addressing a press meet at Beldih Club on Tuesday, Tata Steel vice-president (safety, health and sustainability) and captain of Jamshedpur Golf Club Sanjiv Paul said: “It is heartening to see the initiative taken by PGTI to continue with the golf tour this year even during these difficult times. The format of this year’s tournament will be an exciting challenge for professional golfers as it will be played over two golf courses – Beldih and Golmuri. It is befitting that the top professionals of the country will be competing for the top honours.” Uttam Singh Mundy, CEO of PGTI said: “We thank Tata Steel for being a pillar of PGTI even in these challenging times. The tournament promises to be a spectacle for golf fans as some of the leading lights of Indian golf are part of it.” Strict Covid protocols will be adopted during the course of the four-day tournament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-204
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||Senior advocate S.R. Das, who represented ED and CBI, dies in Ranchi||Senior advocate Sushil Ranjan Das, who was the special public prosecutor for Enforcement Directorate and had argued several money laundering cases against former Chief Minister Madhu Koda, breathed his last during treatment at a private hospital in Ranchi on Monday. Seventy-six-year-old Das was admitted in the ICU of Raj Hospital in the state capital on Saturday after complaining of discomfort in his chest. He died of a cardiac arrest on Monday afternoon, doctors said. Condolences poured in from the legal fraternity, including judges and senior advocates, soon after the news of his demise broke. Some Jharkhand High Court judges also offered their condolences in person to the bereaved family at their Pe Pee Compound residence. Das' last rites were performed at Mukti Dham in Ranchi on Tuesday afternoon. Besides ED, Das was also the lawyer for several cases under National Investigation Agency (NIA) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in Jharkhand. The Ranchi District Bar Association has condoled the senior advocate’s demise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-204
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||Gloomy weather likely to give way to sub-10 chill||Ranchi Met office warned of a fall in minimum readings by 3 to 5 degree Celsius in Jharkhand after the next 48 hours, paving the way for a colder weekend. "Dry and crisp north-westerly winds would get restored from Friday after three days of gloomy weather with most parts of the state witnessing a sharp drop in minimum temperatures, " said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre, on Tuesday. This means a sub-10 chill is expected to prevail in most parts of the state including the state capital, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Koderma and Daltonganj around this weekend. Anand explained that the two cyclonic circulations which have formed over Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan due to a passing western disturbance would continue to impact Jharkhand's weather till Wednesday. The two systems resulted in overcast conditions in several parts of the state, including Jamshedpur and many northern and central districts on Tuesday. IMD has also forecast light rain over northern and central Jharkhand in the next 24 hours due to the twin weather systems. Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Bokaro, Dhanbad and several other parts of the state woke up to clear weather. But, later in the day, it turned cloudy. Most places also experienced winds at a speed of 15kmph. Ranchi Met Centre also issued an alert of early morning fog and mist till Friday. The state capital recorded a minimum temperature of 13.4 degree Celsius on Tuesday, which was three notches above normal. Bokaro, Ramgarh and Dhanbad recorded minimum readings of around 14 degree Celsius, two notches above normal. Daltonganj recorded a minimum of 15.9 degree Celsius, six notches above normal. Jamshedpur was warmer at 17.2 degree Celsius, about five notches above normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-205
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand's Covid-19 death toll reaches 1,000-mark||The Covid-19 death toll in Jharkhand reached the 1,000 mark on Monday as one more patient, a resident of Garhwa, died during treatment in the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the health department showed. Fresh cases of infection outnumbered recoveries in Jharkhand on Monday, taking the number of active cases up at 1581. The state reported 212 fresh cases against 201 recoveries on the day, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission. Ranchi reported 98 cases of infection on the day, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. However, the number of active cases dropped in the district as at least 107 patients recovered from the infection on the day. As per government data, at least 774 people were battling the infection in Ranchi by the end of Monday. Of the 1,000 deaths in Jharkhand, at least 355 were from East Singhbhum and 206 from Ranchi. These two districts account for nearly 60 per cent of Covid fatalities in the state. On the other hand, Garhwa, which reported the state's 1,000th Covid death, has seen only 11 Covid casualties so far. While at least five districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection, Ranchi, Dhanbad, Bokaro and East Singhbhum reported a double digit spike in cases. East Singhbhum reported 23 cases against 18 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 21 cases against seven recoveries. At least 22 cases surfaced in Bokaro while 15 patients recovered. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 15,645 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 45.25 lakh people and tested 45.13 lakh of them. Around 12,000 swab samples were still pending for tests. As per government data, Jharkhand's Covid-19 recovery rate 97.68 per cent against the national average of 95 per cent. The Covid mortality in the state was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.14 per cent, while that across India was 0.26 per cent, showed the health bulletin. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 498.10 days against the national average of 262.28 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-205
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||No FJCCI polls this year due to pandemic||The annual election of the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), the apex trade body of the state, will not be held on December 20 as scheduled earlier due to the Covid situation. Responding to an appeal from the past presidents of the trade body, the contesting candidates agreed at a meeting held at Chamber Bhawan in Ranchi on Sunday evening to form a 21-member team selected from among themselves to run the show for the next year. “This is certainly an unprecedented happening in the chamber’s history but holding election at this time would also be very risky,” said Bikash Kumar Singh, one of the past presidents of FJCCI. He expressed satisfaction that the candidates agreed to avoid an election. Some of the past presidents had called the meeting of the candidates to reach a consensus though the election committee had started preparations for the polls and 44 members filed their nominations for 21 posts of the executive committee. Two 21-member teams led by incumbent president Kunal Ajmani and Praveen Kumar Jain Chhabra had filed nominations for the election. Two other individual members also did so, taking the total number of candidates to 44. At the meeting on Sunday, 23 candidates agreed to withdraw their nominations, leaving the rest 21 in the fray who were declared to have won unopposed. Among those 21 declared winners, 13 were from Chhabra’s team while the rest 8 were from Ajmani’s team. “Since only 21 candidates were left in the fray for as many posts, they all were declared winners,” said Vishnu Budhia, chairman of the election committee. He said the winning candidates would now select from among themselves a president, two vice-presidents, a general secretary, two joint secretaries and a treasurer. Though the winners will choose suitable members for those posts, the selection will be done under supervision of the election committee, Budhia added. The FJCCI has around 3,400 members under various categories and about 60 per cent of them turn up for voting every year. As such, the polling station remains crowded throughout the day which is not desirable at present, the past presidents had said in justification of their request for not holding the election this year. The annual FJCCI election was actually due in September but it had to be deferred due to the pandemic. In view of the coronavirus situation, the chamber’s general body meeting that will be held on December 19 will also have restricted entry. “Only 75 members will be allowed inside the venue on a first come, first serve basis while others can join in through a digital platform,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-205
15-12-2020||Jharkhand||Slew of sops on Hemant govt anniversary||A slew of schemes and policies would be launched on December 29 to mark one year of the JMM-led UPA government in Jharkhand under the leadership of Hemant Soren. According to a senior official in the chief minister’s office in Ranchi, the list was finalised on Monday after a series of review meetings of various departments held in the past week. “During the review of the respective departments done by the chief minister in the last one week, the departments were asked to submit a list of ready projects/schemes which can be inaugurated/launched on December 29 and also about new projects that could be announced at a programme to be held at Morabadi in Ranchi. The list was drawn up on Monday with the consent of the chief minister and approval of the chief secretary (Sukhdev Singh),” said a close aide of the chief minister on the condition of anonymity. Topping the list is the announcement of a universal pension scheme for the elderly, widowed and disabled, irrespective of their financial, family or caste status. “Jharkhand would be first in the country to have such a universal pension scheme for the elderly, widowed and disabled. As of now, in other states, pensions are provided to elderly, widowed and physically challenged only if they are below the poverty line (BPL) or belong to SC (Scheduled Caste)/ST (Scheduled Tribe). There will be a mechanism wherein beneficiaries, if they are not getting any other pension either from the state or the central government, will be entitled to get pension. Monitoring would be done at the district level to avoid duplicity among beneficiaries with the existing central government scheme,” said a source in the state social welfare department. Hemant would also launch a Jaipal Singh Munda overseas scholarship scheme for post-graduate studies and a statewide campaign on service delivery of caste, residential, birth marriage and income certificates. He will also launch a Sidho Kanhu Agriculture and Forest Produce Cooperative Society aiming to increase income of farmers and tribals selling forest products and a special 1,000 days nutrition mission initiative to track and curb malnutrition and anaemia amongst mothers and children and track nutrition/health outcomes and launch a transformation of the ITI programme. Hemant would also oversee the signing of an agreement between All India Football Federation (AIFF) and the state government on football development in Jharkhand and launch a special tourism and brand campaign of the state government named Jharkhand@20. The function would also see unveiling of the Jharkhand Tourism Policy 2020, Jharkhand Corporate Social Responsibility Policy 2020 and launching of all approved clusters under the Scheme of Fund for Regeneration of Traditional Industries (Sfurti). Hemant would also provide direct employment certificates to descendants of those who gave up their life in the separate statehood struggle and also release a special year book projecting the work done by the government in the last one year, especially focussing on Covid-19 management. Talks are on for the announcement of a loan waiver scheme for farmers by Hemant. “The review meeting with all departments is continuing and we will present a report card of the work done by our government and also announce several sops for all sections of society on December 29,” said Hemant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-205
