16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Hazaribagh policeman murdered, body found near a school||Twenty-eight-year-old police personnel of Hazaribagh district police was mercilessly murdered in Ichak block on Wednesday.  The recovery of his dead body near a school, which is barely 20 kilometres away from the district headquarter make top police officials reach the spot and launch an immediate investigation to get more clues in this blind case. Birendra, a resident of Deepugarha area of the town, used to work as a driver with Hazaribagh traffic police, till he was recently posted at the police control room. Birendra was a native of Debhatauri village under the Mayurhund police station of the neighbouring Chatra district. According to his relatives, he had returned home at around 8:30 pm. He was about to enter his residence when a few people from an SUV parked near his house called him. Birendra, without telling anything to his family, when away with those men, still dressed in his uniform. Around 9 pm, his family discovered that his mobile was switched off. Much later his dead body was found 20kms away from his house. Superintendent of police Karthik S and DSP Amita Lakra reached the spot with other officials and began an investigation. According to police officials, serious injuries were present on the head and face of Birendra. They even hinted at the possibility of the victim being torture and then strangulated.  “But we will wait for the post-mortem report before reaching any conclusion,” they said. Later in the evening, the police arrested a person on suspicion, in connection with this case. His interrogation is on. According to his relatives, someone close to Birendra had killed him. Officer-in-charge of Ichak police station, Devendra Kumar, said that his killers would be nabbed, soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-203
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Trouble brews for Bokaro steel plant and Electrosteel Steels||Semi-nude youth took on a unique way of registering their protest. The demonstrators, armed with shoe brushes resorted to polishing the shoes of Bokaro Steel Plant’s (BSL) employees. Raising anti-BSL slogans, bare-chested, they stood outside BSL’s headquarter, on Wednesday evening. They raised anti-slogans standing outside the gate of BSL’s headquarter in a semi-nude state and as the employees came out they started polishing their shoes. The protestors, all dependants of BSL’s deceased employees, have been demanding compensatory jobs from the company’s managing authorities. To get heard, this year, they have organized several protests to highlight their demands. They even stood in chest-deep water for hours in this cold to make those in authority pay heed to their demands. “We have reached a position where we have no option but to beg or polish shoes for our survival. If BSL does not provide us with a job, that they had themselves promised to give us, only to later backtrack, we don’t have many options left,” said Rajesh Gupta a protestor. Another protester, Parmeshwar Kumar said, “We have been campaigning with our demand for the past one year but nothing positive has been announced by the BSL management. They are unable to feel the pain of the dependants of their employees who died serving the plant.” In a bid to get heard, they have threatened to intensify their protest, to get them heard. ESL’s public hearing faces stiff opposition Meanwhile, in Bokaro’s Chandankyari block, a public hearing was organized to bag environmental clearance for the expansion of Vedanta’s Group, ESL at Siyaljori. However, former revenue minister and Chandankyari MLA, Amar Bauri along with JMM leader, Mantu Yadav and others, registered stiff opposition against it, on Wednesday. The public hearing jointly conducted by Jharkhand State Pollution Board (JSPCB) and district administration, assessed the environmental impact and its repercussion of the proposed expansion plan of ESL, which includes 3 MTPA steel plants from existing 1.5 MTPA. According to sources, the facility is all set to be installed close to the existing steel unit in Chandankyari Block of the district. The hearing was conducted in the presence of villagers residing close to the steel facility. CEO of Chas Municipal Corporation (CMC), who chaired the public hearing, Shashi Prakash Jha, maintained that the hearing was successful and that the villagers gave their consent but, with a condition that the company would conduct plantation drives to control the pollution level of air and water, build good roads and also provide employment to land losers and others residents.” Chief of communication, ESL, Shilpi Shukla said, “ESL expansion plan, commits overall 70 percent employment to the local community. The public hearing was successfully concluded at the plant premises.” However, there was a huge opposition against the public hearing outside the plant premises as political leaders and public when they discovered that the company administration had organised the hearing quietly, without the public-at-large being clueless about it. They even alleged that those present at the public hearing were the company’s sympathisers, an allegation that an administrative official denied.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-203
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Finally, CCTV vigil at Chatra's ancient Lemboiya temple||The ancient temple on Lemboiya hill of Pathalgadda of Chatra district finally gets CCTV cameras on Wednesday. A devotee Deepak Kumar Chandravanshi donated six high definition cameras. Total five thefts were reported here with the last one on Sunday where the thieves laid their hands on the silver crown, mang tikka and other ornaments. The temple committee brought new ornaments performing special puja for the 8th century idol of Maa Dakshineshwari Bhagwati Devi Chamunda temple. The temple committee members also agreed to guard the temple jointly to put a check on any wrong activities here. The old silver crown and other ornaments were stolen on the wee hours of Sunday with police struggling hard to get any clue of the thieves. Chandravanshi who is resident of Singhani village said the CCTV cameras have been installed inside the temple as well as in areas around the temple. “Total six cameras were installed and connected with Wi-Fi facility. Now, the priests can keep an eye on all the activities here round the clock,” added he. Now including the temple committee members, shop owners selling puja paraphernalia agreed to guard the temple as well. Three members will remain in the night here now, the temple committee members informed. About this temple, priests said it is a shaktipeeth where it was believed that the eyelids of Sati had fallen here. So far, five thefts have been committed here in this temple. In 2017, a theft was reported where the police caught Saurabh Tiwary, son of a priest and upon his confession, all ornaments were recovered. The temple committee is trying since then but failed to get the recovered ornaments from the police yet. Committee's vice president Yogeshwar Prasad said the matter is in the court and they are trying to get the ornaments. Meanwhile, police had searched the entire hill area to get clues related to thieves. Pathalgadda police station officer-in-charge Avinash Kumar said the investigation is going on to nab the thieves. “I urge people to co-operate and if having any information about thieves then inform us,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-203
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Water supply stalled in Jharia for one week||More than two lakh residents of Jharia are facing an acute water crisis for the last one week due to burning of two pumps of intake well of water supply complex at Jamadoba in Jharia. The hyacinth from the Damodar river entered the pumps which has lead to this incident. Worst affected are the residents of Mishra para, Poddar para, Koiri Bandh, Rajmata Colony, Upper Rajbari locality, Upper Kulhi, Chothai Kulhi, etc. who are getting partial water supply since last three days after the repair of one of the pump. Expressing disgust over the situation, Anup Sao, a resident of Koiri Bandh locality of Dhanbad said, “The water supply was completely disrupted for three days in our locality since December 9 and though partial resumption of the water supply has been carried out since December 12 due to lesser pressure of water in pipeline water supply has not resumed in some localities like Mishra Para situated on slightly higher altitude.” “We can’t understand the reason for not providing a permanent fix of the problem. Instead, they are making stop-gap arrangements for water supply and the situation is continuing for more than five-six years when water supply was disrupted on one of the other pretexts like leakage in the pipeline, technical fault in motors or pumps at Jamadoba based water treatment plant, etc.” added Sao. Narayan Chail, a restaurant owner of the taxi stand locality of Jharia said, “We need a huge quantity of water in our restaurant both for cooking food and dishwashing but the irregular water supply is incurring extra cost as we have to purchase water from vendors and affecting our profit to a great extent.” President of Jharia Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Amit Sahu alias Dipu Sahu who also owns a lodge, Sahu lodge in Shiv Mandir road locality of Jharia said, “Our business is also getting affected due to irregular water supply as we need the regular water supply for inmates in all the rooms and thus had to primarily depend on groundwater for bathing purpose, etc.” “Why can’t the old pipelines and the age-old equipment like motor, pumps installed at Jamadoba based water treatment plant situated on the bank of river Damodar be replaced with a new one as the old machineries installed more than 50 years ago and developed regular technical snag affecting water supply?” questioned Sahu. When contacted Indresh Shukla, executive engineer cum technical member of civic body Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA), he said, “We have repaired one of the two pumps three days ago while the remaining one pump of intake well at Jamadoba has also been repaired last night.” “Work for laying of new pipeline as well replacement of old machineries at Jamadoba based water treatment plant has also resumed as part of a comprehensive project worth Rs 316 crore but it will take around 18 months to show benefit as the project is at its initial stage,” added Shukla. JMADA supplies more than 176 lakh liters of river Damodar water through its Jamadoba based water treatment complex to Jharia and Katras out of which around 105 lakh liters of water is supplied to Jharia and adjoining areas through a 12 million gallon per day capacity WTP while remaining around 71 lakh liters is supplied to Kendua, Putki, Moonidih and other areas of Katras.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-203
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Schools reopen Monday, parents’ consent letter must for attending classes||Parents of children studying in class 10 and class 12 of schools across Jharkhand will have to submit a consent letter stating clearly that they are aware of precautions that students would need to take in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic while attending regular classes at school, officials of the Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) said on Wednesday. “Students will be allowed to attend regular classes only if they get consent letters from their parents. All schools will have to take the necessary Covid-19 precautions and maintain social distancing,” said JEPC Director Shailesh Chaurasia. The Jharkhand government decided to reopen schools for students of class 10 and class 12 during a review meeting of the home, prisons and disaster management department on Tuesday night. However, while minister Banna Gupta said that schools would reopen with immediate effect, JEPC officials on Wednesday said that schools were likely to reopen from Monday, December 21. “Regular classes for students of class 10 and class 12 are likely to resume next week. However, students of class 11 will continue attending online classes as of now,” said Chaurasia, adding that the government’s focus was on the students who would appear for their boards exams next year. Schools across Jharkhand have remained closed since the imposition of a nationwide lockdown in March. After initial hiccups, the process of conducting online classes in government schools was also streamlined and the government launched special platforms for imparting lessons while students stayed indoors. All students attending classes once schools reopen would have to wear facemasks, carry hand sanitisers and maintain social distancing during classes, JEPC officials said. Special seating arrangements will also be made in classrooms to ensure that students do not come in close contact with each other. Besides, students who have fever or are unwell will not be allowed to attend regular classes once schools reopen. Several thousand students from Jharkhand will appear for class 10 and class 12 board exams under Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC), Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and ICSE next year. Usually, the exams are conducted in the months of February and March every year. However, board examinations are likely to be delayed this time due to the pandemic. A notification from the school education and literacy department stated that all teachers of government-run middle schools across Jharkhand would have to be physically present at schools from Thursday. So far, only two teachers were supposed to attend school every day for non-teaching work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-203
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Body of trapped miner found, search on for the other||The body of one of two minters trapped in an underground coal mine at Mugma was recovered late on Tuesday night after eight days of rescue efforts launched after a bore hole burst led to flooding. Eastern Coalfields ECL senior manager (safety) of Mugma area Ajay Kumar Sharma said, “We recovered the dead body of Manik Bauri around 11pm on Tuesday while efforts are on to find the other person, Basia Maji.” Sharma said the process for providing compensation as well as a job on compassionate grounds to Bauri’s next of kin had been completed. “An appointment letter will be handed over after the submission of necessary documents by the family of the deceased,” he added. Local residents, led by Bauri’s family members and including his co-workers, blamed the ECL management for his death, alleging that rescue operations were tardy. They even tried to prevent the company management from transporting the body to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital for post-mortem, demanding that compensation be paid and a job offered to the family first. The body was finally sent for post-mortem during the wee hours of Wednesday after a meeting was held between the protestors and the ECL management. It was agreed that ECL would pay compensation of Rs 15 lakh to Bauri’s next of kin within a week, besides employment to one family member. Nirsa MLA Aparna Sengupta said, “Immediate steps should be initiated to rescue the other person trapped in the underground mine. The charges of Bauri’s family members that the colliery management was trying to send the body for post-mortem without providing them an opportunity to see the body are grave.” The two miners, Basia Maji and Manik Bauri, were trapped inside the Khudia Colliery on December 8 at 3.30am after it got flooded when a bore hold burst. The ECL management first carried out a search using its rescue team. Later, it hired a team of professional divers who came from Cuttack, Odisha, to help in the rescue operations from December 9 after personnel of the National Disaster Response Force expressed their inability due to lack of experience in mine rescues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-203
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Sindri residents demand resumption of train services to coal town||A delegation of former employees of the Sindri Fertiliser Factory on Wednesday met the Additional Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad Division, Ashish Kumar Jha, demanding immediate resumption of local train service. Led by former public relation officer of the factory Sewa Singh, the delegation said they were facing unprecedented transport crisis since over a month due to the withdrawal of the local train services from the Sindri town to Dhanbad, which are 30 kilometers apart. The group, comprising former accounts officer of the factory G. Wheeler and three other employees -- DN Singh, Uma Shankar Singh and RC Prasad -- explained in detail the difficulties faced by more than five lakh residents of Sindri and adjoining areas due to disruption of train services. After hearing the problems, Jha assured that the Dhanbad Division would soon send a proposal based on the demand of Sindri residents to the East Central Railway Headquarters at Hajipur as well as the Railway board. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Sewa Singh said, “The Sindri township residents, majority of whom are retired employees of erstwhile  factory of Fertilizer Corporation of India  are deprived of any transport service.” Talking about any alternatives, the president of the All India FCI VSS Employee’s Association added, “Autorickshaw service is not an alternate to train or bus service as it is expensive and tiresome. The passengers are also compelled to make ‘break-journeys’ to reach Dhanbad from Sindri in autorickhshaws.” DN Singh, the vice president of the same association said, “Very few autorickshaws make direct trips from Sindri to Dhanbad and the rest go to Jharia, from where another auto has to be hired for Dhanbad.” “In 1960s and 70s, before train services were launched, eight to 10 buses used to operate between Sindri and Dhanbad, all of which used to make three of four trips. But they were discontinued after the launch of local train service in October 1982. We demand the district administration  to deploy the City buses of Dhanbad so that we can at least have some relief before train services are resumed,” he added. “The autorickshaw fare from Sindri to Dhanbad is Rs 50, while that of local trains was just Rs 10. The journey is also very exhausting due to damaged roads,” Uma Shankar Singh said. “We reasoned that the Jharkhand government is planning to open schools, and may also open colleges thereafter. This would increase the difficulties of college-goers as Sindri does not have post-graduation institutes, and the students have to travel to Dhanbad. Over a hundred students, many of them girls, depend on local train services and will have to face a lot of difficulties without them,” another member of the delegation said. The passenger train facility, which was launched way back in 1982, used to make three ferries between Dhanbad and Sindri everyday, was the most convenient source of transport for hundreds of students, government officials, daily wage earners and  traders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-203
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||‘Energy efficient’ railway divisions save Rs 1.22 cr||Energy conservation measures adopted in two South Eastern Railway (SER) divisions of Ranchi and Chakradharpur have led to a saving of Rs 1.22 crore. SER, which observed National Energy Conservation Week from December 8 to December 14 to promote awareness among its staff, opted for use of LED lamps in a major way at stations, service buildings, quarters, streetlights in railway areas. For making its energy conservation measures effective, banners and posters were been put up at various railway stations, including Ranchi, Tatanagar, Hatia, Rourkela and Jharsuguda. Seminars and counselling sessions were organised at railway colonies to make people conversant with various ways and means of energy saving. Energy-efficient microwave ovens and induction ovens were suggested to those residing in railway colonies. The focus was on saving energy in domestic appliances i.e. through use of LED bulbs of 5, 7 and 9 watt as per location in place of incandescent lamps or CFL, use of LED tube lights of 18 watt in place of 40 watt, use of five-star rated curling fan, refrigerator, LED TV, geyser, inverter, AC etc. "The entire energy conservation programme has been initiated by the electrical department under the able guidance of Rahul Gautam, principal chief electrical engineer," said an SER spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-203
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Former athlete to return Arjuna award to protest farm laws||Former athlete Bagicha Singh has joined the list of nationally feted sportspersons who have decided to return their awards in protest against the government not acceding to the demands of protesting farmers. Singh, an Arjuna awardee who recently retired as senior manager of the Tata Steel sports wing in Jamshedpur, said he was anguished at the plight of farmers in Punjab and that the Narendra Modi government had brought in an anti-farmer law which was not going to benefit anyone. “The government is helping corporates and leaving farmers to their own fate. I am a son of a farmer and I am very angry over the new laws which are in utter disregard to the farmers. Farmers in Punjab are not even getting the required price of their produce. I will return my Arjuna Award (won in 1987) in protest against the government’s new farm laws,” said Singh, Singh, who retired from service on June 30, and now lives with his family in Chandigarh. Singh, who lived in Jamshedpur for 38 years and was the coach of the Tata Steel Athletics Training Centre, was supposed to join the farmers march to Delhi. “I could not join the march because of a back problem. Several other national awardees in Punjab have also decided to return their honours,” he said over telephone from Chandigarh. According to him, the national awardees were stopped by security forces when they went to return the honour to President Ram Nath Kovind. “I would join the group (of national awardees) the next time they go to return their award,” Singh, a fine athlete of his time, added. The farmers are protesting against the three new farm laws – Farmers’ Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act – which came into then effect following the approval of President Ram Nath Kovind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-203
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Chas Municipal Corporation installs app-enabled help desk for residents to file complaints||In an innovative step, to solve the day-to-day problems of residents, Chas Municipal Corporation (CMC) has brought a special kind of app-enabled help desk kiosk, using which complaints lodged by people will land directly on WhatsApp of concerned authorities. The complainant will also receive a receipt mentioning their complaint number instantly. This help desk is the first of its kind installed in the CMC office on Wednesday, if proves successful, it would be lodged in block offices and other government offices. “This user-friendly help desk kiosk, roughly costs around Rs 60,000, is app-based. It is developed by Wipenex IT software. There is a tab installed in it, which helps in collecting detail and sending it immediately to the authorities. The mobile phone numbers of the officials of different departments are loaded in the app which instantly collects the complaint letter and delivers it in their WhatsApp. This app is created by CMC with the help of local youths,” said Shashi Prakash Jha, CEO of CMC. The kiosk was inaugurated by DC, Bokaro, Rajesh Singh in the small function at CMC office, Chas. The installation of the kiosk is the brainchild of Singh which was brought to reality by Jha and his team. Jha said, “During Covid-19 days they were facing huge problems related to sanitization and received complaint letters of residents. Then the idea got generated, that there should be some tool which facilitates paper-less receiving of complaints with full transparency.” “This help desk would help in speedy disposal of complaints, unlike the old way of submission of complaints which was very time-consuming. Earlier complaint letter reached the concerned authority in several days making rounds in different tables of babus in the office. In this digital era, this help desk will not only saves time but also makes the process transparent and effective,” he added. Jha said, “There were other apps and tools working in a similar line, but this concept is totally different. The residents only have to stand in front of this help desk and by pressing a button, their face and complaint letter get captured. The software installed in it will directly send their complaint letter to the WhatsApp of the concerned authorities. We have allotted different time slots for separate departments for receiving complaints.” CMC is working to install few more such help desks in its five zonal offices which were opened recently to address grievances of the residents. DC said that they are going to install it in all the block officers across the district. “The complaints of many people will be executed through this app.  Complainants will also be rewarded, including the employees and officials who have done better work in the execution of the application received online,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-203
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Schools allowed to reopen for classes 10 to 12||Regular classes for students of standard 10 to standard 12 will reopen with immediate effect, while online classes for junior students would continue, the state government decided after a special meeting of the home, prisons and disaster management department chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren and minister Banna Gupta on Tuesday. Talking to The Telegraph Online soon after the meeting, Gupta said the government had also decided to pay compensation of Rs1 lakh to the kin of all victims of road accidents in Jharkhand irrespective of their economic status, caste, community and gender. “This is the first time that any government in Jharkhand has taken such an initiative for the victims of road accidents. The only eligibility criteria to benefit from the scheme is to be a resident of Jharkhand,” said Gupta. While the government decided to resume regular classes for students of higher secondary classes, it decided to keep swimming pools, parks and movie theaters closed until further notice, the minister said. All educational institutions have remained closed since March due to the nationwide lockdown enforced in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Gradually, the government decided to reopen malls, restaurants, bars and clubs, but schools remained closed. The government on Tuesday increased the cap on the number of attendees in weddings and other ceremonies. “Wedding ceremonies in open air can have 300 guests, while such ceremonies held in indoor banquets will be allowed to have 200 guests,” said Gupta. Earlier, the government had set an upper limit of 200 guests in wedding ceremonies. Besides, a maximum of 200 people will now be allowed to visit places of worship across Jharkhand. Regular classes at all medical colleges, dental colleges, nursing colleges and government-run training institutes will resume with immediate effect, said Gupta, adding that online classes would also continue. The chief minister also urged corporate houses to make contributions under CSR to aid the state’s fight against Covid-19 pandemic. Reviewing the work of the home, prisons and disaster management department at the project building here, the chief minister was informed that Central Coalfield (CCL) had contributed Rs 20 crore to support Jharkhand’s fight against the global pandemic. Citing CCL’s example, Hemant asked other corporate houses to make similar contributions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-204
16-12-2020||Jharkhand||Villagers’ call to scrap Ranchi Master Plan 2037||Over 400 tribal people from villages adjoining the Jharkhand capital took out a protest march in the city on Tuesday seeking scrapping of the Ranchi Master Plan 2037. The protesters marched towards the Ranchi Municipal Corporation office and submitted a memorandum addressed to the town commissioner seeking scrapping of the master plan. The villagers assembled in the city under the banner of organisations such as Adivasi Adhikar Manch, the Ranchi branch of Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha, Ek Soch and Ranchi Master Plan Birodh Sangharsh Samiti. The master plan aims at developing Ranchi as a big city with better amenities and infrastructure like wider roads, improved transportation, green spaces and affordable accommodation. But residents of about 120 villages surrounding Ranchi have objected to it their villages spread over six blocks of the district are covered by the plan and their land may be required to be acquired for execution of the plan. “The villagers have been served with notices asking them to lodge objections, if they have any, latest by December 31,” said Prafulla Linda of Adivasi Adhikar Manch. Those notices were “surprisingly written in English, a language most of the tribal villagers cannot read”, he added. “The master plan was passed without any discussion in the state Assembly,” said Aloka Kujur, another activist. She added that the master plan should have been passed by the gram sabhas concerned and the Tribal Advisory Committee before being taken up in the Assembly. “We also object to violation of the provisions of the land acquisition laws that mandate seeking approval of gram sabhas before initiating land acquisition in a scheduled area,” she said, explaining the reason behind their objection to the master plan. “Those areas of Ranchi district are mentioned in the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution and there is no legal provision for establishing any urban civic body in those areas,” the memorandum said, calling the move illegal. “Since those are scheduled areas, the approval of gram sabhas is a must in case any land acquisition is to be done in those villages,” Kujur emphasised, adding no such approval was taken before passing the master plan. The Jharkhand Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Rules, 2015, also specifies that the consent of gram sabhas is required in such cases. It also specifies that the quorum of a gram sabha meeting consenting to land acquisition must be one-third of the total members present provided one-third of the total women members attend it. “In the name of so-called development, Ranchi master plan is actually an attempt to dislodge the tribals from their homes for settling the outsiders,” the memorandum alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-204
