17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Arms supplier arrested in Jamshedpur’s Mango area||A 26-year-old youngster was arrested from Jamshedpur’s Mango area by the police for allegedly supplying firearms to gangsters across the city. During the raid, the police recovered six firearms, along with a large quantity of ammunition. The police had been tipped off to raid Prabir Kumar Singh’s residence on Gurudwara Road, Mango. Prabir is the younger brother of the notorious criminal Pradip Singh. The seized firearms include four country-made pistols and two pistols of 7.65 MM. Talking to the media about the arrest, senior superintendent of police, M Tamil Vanan, revealed, “Acting on a tip-off, a police team led by deputy superintendent of police (headquarters-1) Pawan Kumar raided Prabir’s at Gurudwara Road in Mango. When we arrested him but were unable to locate any firearms at his home during the search. However, when we interrogated him at Mango thana, he gave in and accepted that he used to supply firearms to various criminals. He even revealed that he had stocked six pistols at a friend’s house in Mango itself.” Following Prabir’s revelation, the police raided his friend’s house situated on the Post Office Road in Mango, from where the ammunition was recovered. The senior SP said that Prabir's friend was unaware of the fact that the bag he had been asked to keep contained the firearms. “The police also interrogated the said friend of Prabir and let him go after it was convinced that he was not aware of the contents of the bag which he had kept at his house in good faith. But there is one more person involved in the racket,” said Vanan. According to the senior police officer, Prabir was not associated with any particular gang but would supply them firearm on demand. “We are now trying to find out the source from where Prabir would procure the firearms and ammunition. We are investigating this case, more people will be arrested,” said the police officer. According to senior sources in the police, the seized pistols would be sent to a Ranchi-based forensic lab for a ballistic test, to check if they had been used earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-201
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Baghmara and Nirsa OCs suspended||Senior Superintendent of Police, Dhanbad, Aseem Vikrant Minz, suspended Santosh Kumar Jha, officer-in-charge of Baghmara police station, on charges of laxity of work and dereliction of duty. The suspended officer has been shunted to the police line. Notably, a host of crime incidents took place in Baghmara, particularly clashes between rival groups at the different colliery sites. The violence had a connection with the war of attrition between the Baghmara MLA Dhullu Mahto and his arch-rival ‑ former water resources minister Jaleshwar Mahto. Talking to The Telegraph Online Dhanbad SSP, Aseem Vikrant confirmed the suspension of Baghmara’s officer-in-charge. He said, “He has been suspended on charges of laxity in work dereliction of duty and particularly concerning the violence that took place in front of attendance office block -2 office of BCCL in Bagmara yesterday.” “The inspection conducted by senior officers revealed that the incident could have been avoided had the police stationed at the site had been better prepared,” added Minz. Nirsa OC also suspended In a related development, Dhanbad Deputy Commission, Uma Shankar Singh, recommended disciplinary action on Nirsa Police station officer-in-charge, Subhash Singh. The recommendation has been made by the DC, based on a probe conducted by a committee led by Additional District Magistrate (law and order) Chandan Kumar on the charges of forcible closure of 18 soft coke industries of Nirsa by Singh. Notably, a delegation of soft coke industry owners met the DC. During the meet, they accused Nirsa officer-in-charge of not only forcibly closing their respective units but also for having lodged an FIR against one of the soft coke industry owners when he tried to reopen the factory after the relaxation provided by the Ministry of Home Affairs. DC, Uma Shankar Singh, constituted a probe committee led by ADM (Law and Order) Chandan Kumar, which visited Nirsa and submitted a report to him on December 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-201
17-12-2020||Jharkhand|| Grief unites Barhi, Barkagaon blocks of Hazaribagh district||Barhi and Barkagaon blocks of Hazaribagh district are immersed in sorrow because of two unexpected tragedies that took place on Thursday. In Barhi, a four-year-old boy was crushed to death by a tractor in a field where his parents were busy working, while in the other block ‑ a 28-year-old was trampled by a herd of elephants after he walked into the forest to take a shortcut to his home. He had been alerted by the elders about the elephants, but he chose to ignore the warnings. The first tragedy took place in Sehda village, which falls under the Gondalpura panchayat of Barkagaon block. A small mistake of Jago Ganjhu(28) cost him his life. Jago was returning from a local market, when he chose to take the short cut route to his home, despite being alerted by the village elders about the elephants in the forest. But Jago chose to ignore their warnings and walked into the forest, where he was trampled to death by the elephants. With severed limbs, a badly crushed torso, his dead body was beyond recognition. At the break of dawn, the villagers managed to reach the spot. A total of 32 elephants including four calves have unleashed a reign of terror in Barkagaon for the last one week. Villagers maintained that their life had become miserable due to this herd of wild elephants which has so far damaged dozens of houses in six villages. They have also demanded compensation for Jago’s dependants and also individuals whose houses and crops have been damaged. Forest officials said that a team of experts have been called from Bankura district of West Bengal to chase the elephants away. Tractor crushes a minor on field In another incident, four-year-old Rocky Kumar was crushed to death by a tractor, while he was playing on the field, in Shahpur village, which falls under Barhi police station of the Dulmaha panchayat area. The incident took place in the afternoon when his parents and other relatives were busy in cultivation work in a nearby field. Around the same time, the tractor was engaged by the owner of a nearby field. According to eyewitnesses, the tractor driver, Mohit Pandit, after completing his work, failed to notice Rocky playing there and crushed him to death. Rocky’s grandmother Kalawati Devi has written to the police to file an FIR against Mohit, demanding swift action. Police officials maintained that they have initiated the process to lodge the FIR and start an investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-201
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Body of second trapped miner recovered at night||The body of the second trapped miner, Basia Maji, was recovered from Khudia colliery on Wednesday night confirming apprehensions that there would be no other survivor in the December 8 tragedy when the Eastern Coalfields (ECL) mine was flooded due to bore hole breach. The special rescue team of six divers from Cuttack, led by former Indian Navy officer Pranab Kumar Biswal, which entered the mine in the evening, spotted Basia’s body in the BP incline of the mine at 11.50 pm. But it took over half an hour for the team to bring it out of the mine. Later, after meeting between the colliery management and family members of Basia, held in the presence of Nirsa MLA Aparna Sengupta and former MLA Arup Chatterjee, it was decided to offer a job to Basia’s widow Luski Manjhiain on compassionate grounds. During discussions, Chatterjee insisted that ECL provide employment to Basia’s daughter, Somani Manjhiain. But the ECL management cited rules to say that it could not provide a job on compassionate grounds to a married daughter of a deceased. Finally, both sides agreed on a job for Basia’s widow. His family will also get compensation to the tune of Rs 15 lakh. ECL’s senior manager (mine/safety) of Mugma Area Ajay Kumar Sharma said, “Although the body was brought out around 11.50 pm, negotiations with the family members, which began around midnight, concluded at 1.30am on Thursday. The body was sent for post-mortem to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital in Dhanbad only after that.” Sharma said mining would be resumed at Khudia colliery only after a thorough inspection by mines regulator, the Directorate General of Mines Safety. “Mining operation can be resumed only after DGMS submits a report,” he said. The two miners, Basia Maji and Manik Bauri, were among the dozen-odd miners working at the Khudia colliery on December 8 when there was a sudden flood because of a bore hole leak in an adjacent mine. All except the two were able to escape.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-201
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Rs 14 lakh cash, opium seized in Chatra||On a tip-off, Rajpur police on Thursday arrested two opium smugglers recovering Rs 14 lakh cash, one kilogram opium and chemicals used to make brown sugar. The two arrested were brought to the police station after which their interrogation started. However, the mastermind Pintu Dangi managed to give a slip to the police. Raid was carried on the instruction of superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha at Charu village. Police officials said after Jha received a tipoff, a raid was carried in Pintu's house at Charu village from where Rs 14 lakh cash, one kilogram opium and chemicals were recovered. However, when contacted Pintu set aside the police version and stated that the recovered cash was his earned money to construct a godown in his house for business purpose. He said that police had forcefully taken away the cash from his house. One of the arrested smugglers has been identified as Sanjay Dangi. About Pintu and Sanjay, police officials said both were in Giridih jail in a case related to smuggling of opium and got bail recently. Officer-in-charge Anil Kumar said interrogation is going on to get information about the network of this gang. He said raids are on to nab Pintu. This was the fourth big success of Chatra police in a month. The record says in a month, police has recovered opium worth Rs 80 lakh arresting 14 smugglers in a month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-201
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant wants SC/ST reservation in liquor trade||Chief minister Hemant Soren directed the department of excise and prohibition to keep a certain percentage of liquor shops reserved for SC/ST businessmen interested in running wine shops in Jharkhand. Hemant, who was chairing a review meeting, asked officials to make necessary amendments in laws related to issuing of liquor licences in order to provide members of the ST/SC community an opportunity to run liquor shops and facilitate the process by providing reservations. “The department should provide liquor trade licences to those members of the ST/SC community who are interested in running such businesses. Necessary amendments in rules should also be made to incorporate reservation for the ST/SC community,” the chief minister said. Sources from the chief minister’s office (CMO) said the decision was taken in a bid to encourage members of ST/SC communities to run liquor businesses and prosper, given that the liquor trade is among the most lucrative business ventures in the country. Jharkhand, however, will not be the first state to provide a quota for the SC/ST community in liquor shops. The Karnataka government had come up with the idea of providing reservations to SC/ST businessmen in getting liquor trade licences in 2014. Besides, Jammu & Kashmir has also provided reservation to members of the SC/ST community of the state to get liquor licences. During Thursday’s meeting, excise secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey informed Hemant that sale of liquor till November 2020 this year had generated a revenue of Rs 1,025 crore. The Covid-19-induced nationwide lockdown was responsible for major revenue loss this year as liquor shops remained closed from March 22 to May 19, he said. To facilitate the sale of liquor made with Mahua, the department is planning to launch special shops on the lines of Odisha in a bid to provide an opportunity to Mahua traders, Choubey said. These stores will only sell country liquor manufactured and bottled in Jharkhand. Hemant told officials to ensure that all liquor shops in the state displayed rate charts prominently in a bid to put a check on over-pricing. He asked officials to fill vacancies in the excise department at the earliest and employ home guards to compensate for the lack of excise constables in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-201
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Bengaluru’s Chikkarangappa takes Round 1 lead at Tata golf ||Bengaluru’s Chikkarangappa S struck a blistering 10-under-62 to take the first round lead at the Tata Steel Tour Championship being played at the Beldih and Golmuri golf courses here on Thursday. Noida’s Amardeep Malik posted an impressive nine-under-63 to be placed second on Day One of the Rs 1.5 crore PGTI (Professional Golf Tour of India) event on Thursday. Gurugram’s Manu Gandas, Delhi-based Kshitij Naveed Kaul and Arjun Prasad and Chandigarh’s Harendra Gupta were all tied in third place having shot matching scores of 64. Pre-tournament favourite Anirban Lahiri fired a 65 to occupy tied seventh along with the Chandigarh duo of Karandeep Kochhar (PGTI Order of Merit leader) and Yuvraj Singh Sandhu. In Round One, one half of the field played their 18 holes at the Beldih course while the other half played at Golmuri. Both halves of the field will switch venues in Round Two. Chikkarangappa, who began his week at Golmuri, the venue that produced the lower scores on Day One, claimed an eagle, nine birdies and a bogey. The 27-year-old reaped the benefits of using a new putter early on in his round as he sank birdie putts from a range of 10 to 15 feet on the first, fifth, sixth and seventh. After landing it within three feet on the ninth and 10th, Chikka added two more birdies to his card. The two-time winner on the Asian Development Tour (ADT) was relentless thereafter as he picked up birdie-eagle-birdie on the 11th, 12th and 13th to move to an astonishing 10-under for the day. On the 12th, he recovered well from the rough with a terrific nine-iron second shot before converting an 18-footer for eagle. The 13th saw him make another 15-feet conversion. The Asian Tour regular Chikka then found the trees on the 17th that led to his only bogey of the day. He managed to negate it with a birdie on the closing 18th. “I changed my putter this week as I was struggling to hole putts in previous events even though I was stroking it well on the greens. The new putter seems to be working for me as I holed a lot of long putts today,” Chikka said. “I’ve been in contention in all events since the tour resumed in November this year. However, I still need to convert my good starts at events into better finishes. Hopefully, with my driving, wedge-play and putting now shaping up well, I can have a good result this week. “Golmuri is more scoring among the two courses this week so I expect Beldih to throw up its own set of challenges when I play there during round two,” added Chikka, who finished a creditable second at the PGTI event in Jamshedpur in 2018. Amardeep Malik, who also played at Golmuri on Day One, came up with a flawless round. Malik was in contention in the last event in Chandigarh lying one off the lead after round three before he finished tied 16th. On Thursday he made four consecutive birdies on the front-nine and back-nine. Amardeep capitalized on all four par-5s – second, third, 11th and 12th – by picking up birdies there. He also drove the green on the par-4s fourth and 13th to set up birdies. Harendra Gupta and Arjun Prasad produced the best scores at Beldih, rounds of 64, to be tied third along with Manu Gandas and Kshitij Naveed Kaul both of whom played at Golmuri. Gupta suffered a groin injury while teeing off on the ninth but still managed to return a bogey-free card. Among the other prominent names, SSP Chawrasia, a three-time winner in Jamshedpur, and local amateur Navtez Singh were both tied 13th, having carded scores of 67. Jyoti Randhawa and Shiv Kapur were both tied 18th with scores of 68 while Gaganjeet Bhullar and Rahil Gangjee were a further shot back in tied 23rd place. Defending champion Udayan Mane of Pune shot a 71 to be tied 52nd, while Delhi’s Rashid Khan, the highest-ranked Indian in the world, posted a 72 to be tied 60th.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-202
17-12-2020||Jharkhand|| Lahiri and team win pro-am event of Tata golf ||Anirban Lahiri and his team won the Pro-Am event of the Tata Steel Tour Championship 2020 at Beldih golf course on Wednesday. US-based professional Lahiri, who returned to play in Jamshedpur after 13 years, had a team comprising amateurs Arjun Munda, Sanjiv Paul and Rajeev Chopra. His team total was 116. Calcutta-based professional Rahil Gangjee, who returned to play in Jamshedpur after 14 years, helped his team finish runners-up with a total of 110. Gangjee’s team comprised amateurs Tarun Daga, Prashant Maurya and Nipam Mehta. Lahiri used his experience to guide the amateurs to the win. “I feel excited to return to Jamshedpur and play golf. I enjoyed playing on Wednesday with my amateur mates,” he said. “It was my rookie season when I came to play Tata Open in 2008. And it was also my fourth event as a professional,” Lahiri added. Col. Vikramjit Singh Panag won the prize for the longest drive on hole No. 12 as it landed at a distance of 299 yards. Hamid Raza Khan won the prize for the straightest drive on hole no. 8. His shot landed one foot from the centre of the fairway. Ms Tanisha won the prize for the closest to the pin on hole no. 7. Her tee shot landed within 16 inches of the hole. Rajiv Mehta won the prize for the closest to the pin on hole No. 17. His tee shot landed within 17 feet of the hole. Lahiri (33), who has 7 international wins under his belt, said playing at the Tata Steel Tour Championship at two courses would be challenging for the golfers. “It will be really challenging, especially in the 3rd and 4th rounds. We need to take advantage of the half-an-hour break while switching courses,” Lahiri said He thanked Tata Steel for sponsoring the tournament and bringing golf back on tracks in difficult times. He also appreciated the steel major for supporting Professional Golf Tour of India (PGTI) in promoting the game.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-202
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ex-minister K.N. Tripathy elected Intuc national president||Senior Congress leader and former state minister K.N. Tripathy was on Thursday elected national president of Indian National Trade Union Congress (Intuc) at its annual general meeting held in the presence of several leaders in Ranchi. Speaking to reporters after the formal announcement, Tripathy said Intuc, the trade union wing of the Congress founded in May 1947, would continue to fight against the anti-labour policies of the Union government. “The country is passing through a difficult phase at the moment whereas farmers, labourers, and marginalised are forced to take to streets to safeguard their livelihood and rights because of wrong policies of the Union government. Intuc as a national body of a large workforce in the country will be at the forefront of this fight for the cause of our people,” he said. Reacting to the ongoing farmers’ stir against the Centre’s new laws on agriculture, which entered its 22nd day on the borders of Delhi, Tripathy said the magnitude of agitation is a testimony of the Union government’s wrong intention. “Will any sane person protest unnecessarily, fighting the extreme cold and risking lives amid the ongoing global pandemic? The government must understand that the country’s food growers have lost their patience this time,” he said. Tripathy said the Industrial Relations Code, which was passed by Parliament in September, was another example of how the Union government worked arbitrarily to favour corporate friends. The code was, reportedly, brought to replace three previous laws — the Trade Unions Act, 1926, the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946, and the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. “Before enacting the law, the government never took suggestions and viewpoints of stakeholders, mainly workers’ unions or the state. It (the code) is highly tilted towards industries.” Citing a few resolutions that were passed during the two-day-long Intuc AGM  in Ranchi, Tripathy said, “Intuc has passed a resolution calling for Rs 25,000 as the minimum salary for contract workers, rejecting 100 per cent FDI, and  demanding minimum support price for agricultural produce, pension for  unorganized workers, among others.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-202
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Fire in Dhanbad computer shop costs owner Rs 50 lakh ||Property worth more than Rs 50 lakh was gutted in a fire that took place in a well-known computer shop of Dhanbad on Wednesday night. The incident came to light at the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday at around 12.30 am and the fire was completely extinguished at around 3.30 am. The incident happened in Jhaharia Computers situated in Bank More area less than three km away from the Dhanbad district headquarters. Neighbours who first noticed the smoke coming out of the shop informed the shop owner, Vikash Jhajharia. He informed Prabhat Surolia, President of Bank More Chamber of Commerce, who called the Bank More police station and district fire service at around 1.38 am. This is the second incident of fire in a computer shop of Bank More area. Last month a similar fire took place in the shop Seven Computers in Tiwari Gali under the Bank More police station area which is less than 500 meters away from Jhajharia Computers. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, the President of Bank More Chamber of Commerce,  Prabhat Surolia said, “I received a call at around 12.45 am from the owner of the computer shop Vikash Jhajharia seeking help to inform fire service and police after which I informed the fire service and police.” He also added that the fire was completely doused after a two-hour-long operation. A staff of Jhajharia Computers said, “A large number of computers, laptops and accessories were completely burnt to ashes in the fire. We are suspecting short circuit as the probable reason for the fire.” Notably, the owner of Jhajharia Computers, Vikash Jhajharia along with the three other computer traders of Bank More locality had also received an extortion call of Rs 50 lakh on their mobile phone in name of the banned organization, People’s Liberation  Front of India on November 29. Giving details of the fire fighting operation, district fire officers, Surendra Yadav said, “We received the information about the fire at around 1.38 am and immediately sent a fire tender at the site but gradually sent two more fire tenders and the fire fighting was completed in two hours.” “One of our fire tenders was stuck up in a drain situated on the roadside near the computer shop as the area is quite congested and we had to bring a crane to lift the fire tender from the drain,” informed Yadav and added that they also faced difficulty in cutting the iron shutter gate of the shop to carry out the fire fighting work. “We have yet not received any written detail about the loss estimate from the shop owner,” said Yadav and added that he himself was present at the site to supervise the fire fighting operation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-202
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||MP demands early Covid shots for those in transport sector||Mahesh Poddar, a Rajya Sabha MP from Jharkhand, wrote to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday, suggesting that those engaged in the public transport sector be included in the priority list of Covid-19 vaccination in the first phase since they were part of essential services that drive the nation’s economy. “Individuals employed in public transportation are essential actors in the nation’s economy. Be it those driving private platforms, chartered, or public taxis, buses, autos, trucks, vans, shuttles, tempos and tourist vehicles, tram, metro rail, rickshaw, or those who are train operators, sailors, airline pilots, and the attendants on board any of these vehicles, these employees are the reason why citizens across the country are able to commute seamlessly and comfortably amid the ongoing pandemic,” he wrote. Jharkhand has so far identified 1 lakh frontline workers, mostly doctors and health workers, for the first round of vaccinations. Once frontline workers are vaccinated, the state will start vaccination of senior citizens and the ones with comorbid conditions. Poddar said his appeal is a result of recent conversations he has had with some heads of top transport companies. He added that by continuing to tirelessly do their jobs, their personal health and safety, as well as that of their loved ones, were at risk. “Covid-19 being a highly contagious airborne disease their exposure to thousands of people on a daily basis exponentially multiplies that risk. Their contact with large numbers means that they have the potential to become super-spreaders of the virus,” he said. “It is with such concerns in mind that I urge you to consider prioritizing those employed in the crucial transportation sector for vaccination, once the trial and approval procedures are completed. Not only will it prevent the potential spread of the virus through these individuals who come in contact with so many people on a daily basis,” he appealed. Jharkhand, like other states of the country, has also begun the groundwork for mass immunisation, as the expected Covid-19 vaccines are currently under clinical trials and should be available for use by early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-202
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||CII Jharkhand welcomes new farm laws, lauds Centre for pushing reforms||Jharkhand State Council of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has come out in support of the three farm laws, welcoming the Union government’s decision to push for agri marketing reforms. "The reforms are aimed towards moving to a ‘One Nation, One Market’ regime. The reforms were announced under the economic package for building Atmanirbhar Bharat and the quick action in terms of approval by the Union cabinet is commendable," Sanjay Sabherwal, chairman, CII Jharkhand, said here on Thursday. He pointed out that the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 alters the agriculture marketing landscape in the country in several positive ways. "It provides dual benefits to the farmers by providing more avenues to sell their produce at better prices and also reducing their transportation costs significantly," he explained. Elaborating further Sabherwal said while competition will bring in transparent price discovery, the Act also provides for developing a price information and market intelligence mechanism for farmers’ produce and a framework for dissemination of that information. On the future of Minimum Support Price (MSP), he said, “What needs to be understood is that MSP is not a function of the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act or the Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (APLM) Act. Mandis only provide the physical infrastructure for facilitating the procurement operations and they will continue to do so for farmers that come to the APMC market. “While the farmers in Punjab and Haryana are largely dependent on the MSP regime it needs to be understood the reform does not intend to demolish the MSP system but provide the right perspective of markets.” Referring to the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 he said it provides a national framework on farming agreements. "The Act will help industry in terms of reducing uncertainty in the availability of farm produce while farmers will be benefited with assured prices as well as inputs and agronomic support," he said. The CII Jharkhand chairman also welcomed The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. "With the amendment in place, commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes are removed from the list of essential commodities. The freedom to produce, hold, move, distribute and supply is expected to harness economies of scale and attract private sector/foreign direct investment into the agriculture sector.” On Wednesday, Tata Steel MD T. V. Narendran, who is also the president designate of CII, welcomed the reform measures in agriculture but noted how the agitation was creating supply-chain disruptions. "The ongoing agitation is leading to a disruption in the movement of goods and labour that also increases the logistics costs. These disruptions can have an impact on the green shoots of recovery we were starting to see since Covid,” he had said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-202
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Covid: three more deaths take state toll to over 1,000 ||The Covid-19 death toll in Jharkhand rose to 1,004, with at least three new fatalities  – one each from Dumka, Palamu and Hazaribag – being reported over the past 24 hours, the state health department said. Meanwhile, fresh cases of Covid-19 infection outnumbered recoveries on Wednesday. As per government data, as many as 190 people tested positive  on the day, while 180 patients recovered from the infection. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 97.69 per cent against the national average of 95.20 per cent. Only three districts – Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Bokaro– reported a double-digit-spike in cases of Covid-19 infection on the day. Ranchi reported 87 cases against 86 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 30 cases against 16 recoveries. At least 18 people were found infected in Bokaro, while 13 patients recovered from the infection there. At least eight of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection over the past 24 hours, as per government data. By the end of Wednesday, there were 759 active cases in Ranchi and 208 in East Singhbhum. All the remaining 22 districts had less than 100 active cases. At least 1,585 people were battling the viral infection in Jharkhand in the last 24 hours, stated the data. The government on Wednesday tested swab samples of 16,769 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 45.64 lakh people in Jharkhand and tested 45.51 lakh of them. Around 13,000 swab samples were pending for tests. Despite the three fatalities reported in the past 24 hours, the Covid-19 mortality rate in Jharkhand remained 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. As per data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.14 per cent against the national average of 0.24 per cent. The doubling rate of infection in Jharkhand was 484.16 days against the national average of 288.70 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-202
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Suspected militant killed in Jharkhand’s Latehar district||A suspected militant was killed in an encounter with security forces in Jharkhand’s Latehar district in the wee hours of Wednesday. Palamau deputy inspector-general Rajkumar Lakra told The Telegraph that acting on a tip-off, police along with CRPF jawans started a search operation to flush out rebels in the hilly Nidra forest area of Serak panchayat under Chandwa police station. “The security personnel had information that TPC (Tritiya Prastuti Committee — a splinter group of CPI-Maoist) activists had gathered in the forest area and were planning to take part in some criminal activities. The search operation was carried out jointly by police and CRPF. In the morning the extremists started firing at the police and in retaliation the police also fired. The encounter lasted for more than an hour after which the rebels fled from the spot taking advantage of the dense forest. Later during the search operation, the police recovered the body of a rebel, an AK-47 rifle, several rounds of ammunition, Naxal literature and food items,” said Lakra. The slain rebel was identified as self-styled “sub-zonal commander” of TPC, Deepak Yadav, a native of Kasmar in Panki block of Latehar. He was released on bail from jail three months back. According to police sources, more than 200 rounds of fire was exchanged between the rebels and the security forces during the encounter. Meanwhile, security forces are continuing the search operation and long-range patrolling in the forest area to flush out the rebels till the filing of this report. “There had been reports of TPC rebels pasting posters in the area since the last week and threatening contractors to pay levy or face dire consequences. The encounter will send a strong message to the rebels and also instil faith amongst masses,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-202
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Covid toll past 1,000||The death toll due to Covid-19 crossed the 1,000 mark in Jharkhand on Tuesday night though the number of active cases continued to fall. According to data released by the state government at 9pm on Tuesday, 111,931 positive cases have been detected in Jharkhand so far, out of which there are at 1,578 active cases and 1,001 patients have died. Ranchi district had the maximum number of active cases at 758, that accounted for 48 per cent of the total active cases in the state. Barring East Singhbhum that had 198 active cases on Tuesday night, the rest 22 districts had less than a hundred active cases. Of these 22 districts, four had single-digit active cases. While Pakur district had just 2 active cases, Giridih, Simdega and Jamtara districts had only 6, 9 and 10 cases respectively. The recovery rate of the state is 97.69 per cent which is better than the national rate of 95.10 per cent. The state’s mortality rate of 0.89 per cent is also less than the national rate of 1.50 per cent. “Movement of people is much more in Ranchi that is now a gateway to the state and people here are also not much careful,” said Dr Prabhat Kumar, head of the Covid task force at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), when asked about the high number of active cases in the state capital. “Despite the government imposing a fine on those found moving around without mask in public places, you will hardly find anyone with a mask at marriage functions that are being held in large numbers these days,” Kumar said to strengthen his point, adding that precaution was a must at this stage. The state government has reduced the rate of an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 to Rs 400 from the existing Rs 800, inclusive of the cost of PPE (personal protective equipment) kit and taxes. The rate has been reduced after considering the rates prevalent in some of the neighbouring states, an order from the government said. In case a laboratory collects the sample from a patient’s house, an additional collection charge of Rs 200 has, however, been allowed. The government has also specified that a symptomatic patient has to undergo the RT-PCR test even if their rapid antigen test report comes negative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-202
17-12-2020||Jharkhand||Rights award for jailed Stan Swamy||Father Stan Swamy, the 83-year-old jailed priest, has been selected for an award honouring the late Mukundan C. Menon, journalist and founder of the human rights organisation People’s Union for Civil Liberties. The award, which includes a cash prize of Rs 25,000 and a citation, “is in recognition of people’s struggle for democratic and human rights of Adivasis led by Father Stan Swamy”, the award organisers have written, according to sources close to the arrested Jesuit priest. Sources said the award would be sent to Swamy at Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai, where the Parkinsonism patient has been lodged following his arrest by the anti-terror agency NIA from his Ranchi home on October 8. The money will be sent to Bagaicha, the organisation set up by Swamy in Ranchi. Swamy is accused of Maoist links and has been arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case along with 15 other rights activists, lawyers and writers. “We were communicated about the selection of Father Stan Swamy for the award, which was instituted by the National Confederation of Human Rights Organisations (NCHRO) in honour of Menon in 2006,” said Father David Solomon, a close associate of Swamy. “The annual award is given to human rights defenders, artists, writers and environmental activists involved in defending the rights of the people.” Menon, a human rights activist for more than 35 years, was the first general secretary of the NCHRO. “The selection was done by a jury that included J. Devika (Thiruvananthapuram), Ibnu Soud (Chennai), Amit Bhattacharya (Calcutta), N.P. Chekutty (Kozhikode) and advocate Jaya Vindhyala (Hyderabad) after considering many nominations received from across the country,” said a Ranchi-based Jesuit priest, who said he had learnt about the selection on Tuesday. Swamy has spent more than four decades campaigning for tribal rights in Jharkhand. He has questioned the authorities’ failure to implement the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution, which stipulates the establishment of a Tribal Advisory Council, with exclusively tribal members, for the protection, well-being and development of tribal communities. A campaign Swamy had launched under the banner of the Jharkhand Organisation Against Uranium Radiation (Joar) had stopped the construction of a tailing pond to store uranium waste in Jadugora, East Singhbhum, which would have displaced tribal families. Swamy had continued to work for the welfare of displaced people in Bokaro, Santhal Pargana and Koderma. In 2014, he came under the state machinery’s radar after compiling and publishing a report on the plight of tribal youths falsely linked to Maoists, arrested and left to languish in jail. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren and non-BJP Opposition parties have condemned Swamy’s arrest and demanded his release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-202
