18-12-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro Steel earns Rs 550 cr by selling waste it generated ||Steel major Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) is earning more than Rs 550 crore revenue annually by selling its solid wastes. Apart from earning this huge amount, the company is also saving around Rs 250-280 crore yearly by recycling or reusing these wastes again in the production process. These solid wastes are generated in different units inside the plant during the steel making process. The net sale of the BSL in 2019-20 is Rs 13,212 crore, of which about Rs 550 crore was made by selling its waste in the open market. The BSL, who claimed to have been utilising 98.12 per cent of its generated solid waste has won the prestigious Greentech Environment Excellence Award 2020 in “Recycling and Waste Management” Category this year. Greentech Environment Awards 2020 is presented in recognition of responsible, innovative practices and initiatives towards achieving sustainable goals. The credit for the accolade goes to the vision of director in-charge of BSL, Amarendu Prakash and his team of Environment Control Department (ECD), which has developed a potential market by attracting prospective buyers for its various solid wastes in the past couple of years. They termed these solid wastes as ‘by-product’. The solid waste market in Bokaro is growing fast, as companies from different parts of India and abroad is now looking for it. There are eight different kinds of solid wastes generated in the BSL plant, a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL). These are BF Slag, LD Slag, waste refractories, Ferric Oxide, ESP (RMP) dust, BF flue dust, mill scale and coke breeze. Of its BF slag is a hot product and LD slag is being developed. Apart from these two, BSL also gets good earnings from the sale of waste refractories, Ferric Oxide and ESP (RMP) dust. Apart from these five, rest three are reused fully by BSL in its own production. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “In a year 2508056.93 (25 lakh) tonnes of solid waste is generated in BSL. Its utilisation always remains challenging for the company, but now we are doing it well. Unlike dumping these solid wastes, BSL's effort for its utilisation for past decade now yielding fruits with our 98.12 per cent annually generated wastes are being utilised one way or other. In 2019-20, against the sale of 12.1 lakh tonne of solid waste by BSL, around Rs 550 crore revenue was earned.” Waste arising in steel plants always remains a concern for pollution watchdogs which pushes companies for its effective utilisation and only available solution. Dhan added, “Of the total generated solid wastes in a year, 12,41,726.11 (12.4 lakh) tonnes are either recycled or reused. And, 12,19,193.82 (12.1 lakh) tonnes were sold yearly, which brought good revenue to the company and 47,137 tonnes were being dumped.” Meanwhile, BSL management is also working on a major plan to reutilise the earlier dumped tonnes of solid waste in its peripheries. The presentation on effective recycling and waste management of BSL, made before the jury of Greentech Environment Award, by the head of the department, ECD of BSL, Navin Prakash Srivastava and assistant general manager of ECD, Nitesh Ranjan has impressed them. The jury member consisted of ex-chief factory inspector, ex-MD Canara bank, ex-director, ONGC, and other eminent personalities. “Based on the application filed and presentation given in front of the jury, BSL has been declared the winner of ‘Greentech Environment Award 2020’,” said Dhan. The award will be presented during the “20th Annual Greentech Environment Summit” scheduled on February 12 at Mahabalipuram.  Concerted efforts of Bokaro Steel Plant in waste utilisation and improvement in environmental performance parameters helped BSL in achieving this glory. On this achievement, director in-charge of BSL, Amarendu Prakash congratulated the entire BSL fraternity and especially Navin Prakash Srivastava and his team for the accolade, and reaffirmed Bokaro Steel’s commitment to sustainable development and environment conservation. These are the new avenues where BSL’s generated solid waste is utilised:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-200
18-12-2020||Jharkhand||Khairbani garbage treatment plant likely to be cancelled amid protests||The ambitious solid waste treatment plant at Khairbani village of Saraikela’s Govindpur panchayat is likely to fall through as locals protested strongly on Friday against its construction. The project was already stalled since 2013 for the same reason. Protesters on Friday demonstrated in front of the Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee office at Sakchi against the project and imposed a ‘Janata Curfew’ at its site in Khairbani. Over 500 agitators, under the banner of Gram Sabha Khairbani, Samutola, demonstrated in front of the office of the committee after a team of the civic body had inspected the site of the proposed solid waste treatment plant at Khairbani on Tuesday. Protesters equipped with bows and arrows carried out an hour-long demonstration as they beat their traditional drums. They also submitted a memorandum to the civic body's special officer, Krishna Kumar. The Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee has been making attempts to get the ambitious project executed for seven years but faces strong resistance by the local residents who think once the project gets through in their locality, the environment will be polluted. The executing agency of the project had raised the boundary wall at the project site, but had to stop work after the residents of Khairbani had resorted to violent protest against the project in 2013. In the memorandum, Rakesh Hembram, president of the protesting outfit mentioned that when the residents of Khairbani are opposed to any solid waste treatment project there, they why did the civic body send a team to the place for inspection again. “We, the residents of Khairbani will no way allow the district administration to set up any solid waste treatment plant there. The project site spread over 34 acres of land is now being developed as a forest stretch. Any kind of initiative by the administration for the proposed project at Khairbani will be protested violently. The project will be dropped immediately,” Hembram said in the memorandum. Demka Soy, another key leader of the outfit present during Friday’s demonstration said that from Friday, they will impose a ‘Janata Curfew’ at the project site. “We are imposing ‘Janata Curfew’ surrounding the project site. Our men will be keeping guard of the area with bows and arrows. If any official from the JNAC is spotted at the project site, he or she will have to face dire consequences,” he said. Krishna Kumar could not be contacted for comments. However, a senior official of the civic committee confirmed the demonstration by the protesters on Friday. “We had planned to resume the construction work at the proposed solid waste treatment plant in Khairbani. A team of the JNAC had, therefore, visited the site on Tuesday following which the local residents demonstrated in front of the office, protesting against the project. It appears that the proposed solid waste treatment plant will not come up at Khairbani given the situation there,” he said requesting anonymity. It had been envisaged that solid wastes accumulated from civic body areas in Jamshedpur, Mango, Jugsalai and adjoining Adityapur municipal corporation will be treated at the Khairbani plant, about 15 kms away from the heart of the city, thus getting rid of the municipal garbage of the steel city and Adityapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-200
18-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Red Cross to resume OPD services||The outpatient department service of Dhanbad Red Cross Society lying suspended since more than seven years would soon be resumed. This was decided during a meeting of Dhanbad Red Cross society management committee held on Thursday under the chairmanship of Dhanbad deputy commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh at district collectorate during which several other decisions to revive the Red Cross Society including increasing its membership by manifolds was taken. The meeting attended by sub-divisional officer, Surendra Prasad; additional district magistrate (Law and Order), Chandan Kumar; Red Cross secretary, Kushlendra Kumar and others also decided to develop the website as well as a Twitter account of the society at the earliest in order to facilitate the online submission of forms for membership and its approval. During the meeting, it was also decided to ensure increasing the funding of the society by establishing coordination with office bearers of the different trade bodies like Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry; Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association, private coal excavators working on behalf of BCCL, etc. “The fund will be used to carry out the welfare activities conducted by Red Cross Society like distribution of tricycle and other aids to physically challenged persons besides monetary help to persons suffering from various serious medical complications,” said Dhanbad Red Cross Society secretary, Kaushlendra Kumar and added that a host of welfare activities like rendering services to armed forces in war days and also to the people during disasters, cyclone, flood, drought are also conducted. Three ambulance services including one cardiac ambulance and two general ambulances are also provided by the Dhanbad Red Cross Society on no loss/no profit basis to common people and besides this regular blood donation camps are also organised at the behest of Red Cross Society. Notably, a similar decision to increase the membership of the Dhanbad Red Cross Society was also taken during an executive committee of the society held on August 1, 2019. The membership forms were made available at different shops, commercial establishment, etc. after which membership increased to some extent. The meeting while taking the decision to re-launch the OPD service in Red Cross Society building near Golf Ground stressed on launching the facility of gynaecologist, ENT specialist, ophthalmologist on priority basis with some of the members of the Dhanbad Red Cross Society. Notably, the OPD service of Red Cross Society was launched in 2013 in association with Dhanbad unit of Indian Medical Association but the service later discontinued due to several reasons including lack of awareness among the common people about the OPD service and very few patients turning up at the OPD Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-200
18-12-2020||Jharkhand||Panchayat tenures over next month, state mulls interim measures||Over 4,000 panchayat bodies in Jharkhand will be dissolved next month for having completed their five-year terms, the state panchayati raj director, Aditya Ranjan, announced on Friday. In letters to deputy commissioners of all 24 districts, Ranjan has said that once tenures of panchayat bodies end, powers of elected representatives would also cease. “The government will soon send detailed plans on the next course of action on the rural bodies,” he said. The term of the existing panchayats will end on January 4, 2021. The state government is yet to decide on holding elections in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Also, Jharkhand doesn’t have a state election commissioner, a position that has been lying vacant for several months. BJP and AJSU-P, who form the Opposition NDA in Jharkhand, have already pointed to the delay in holding panchayat polls, accusing the state government led by Hemant Soren for trying to take administrative control over rural elected bodies. While the BJP staged a statewide agitation on this issue on December 16, its ally, AJSU-P, has written to the chief minister demanding that panchayat polls are held without further delay. State rural development minister Alamgir Alam, however, snubbed the BJP for its selective outrage. “Panchayat polls were held in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh despite completion of terms. Why is BJP silent on it? Is it because they are in power in those states?” he said, adding that the Jharkhand government was working out modalities to hold elections at the earliest. “We are trying to hold the polls by April (2021). Meanwhile, the government is exploring options. Are we to bring panchayat bodies under administrative control or form local-level samitis to run them? We shall opt for the option that will be best suited for panchayats in the interest of uninterrupted development of the rural areas,” he said. Earlier this week, leader of the BJP legislative party Babulal Marandi accused the state government of deliberately delaying the panchayat elections. “The country has seen the successful conduct of Bihar polls, several bypolls in the last few months. Hence, the Covid-19 pandemic can no longer be an excuse for not holding panchayat elections in Jharkhand,” he told the media. Marandi said the state government wanted to take administrative control of panchayats so that it could run them and appoint officials of its choice. He did not spare the Congress, part of the ruling alliance, too. “They (Congress) claim to have introduced panchayati raj in the country to empower villages. But they are conveniently silent on the delay,” he added. The BJP leader said Central funds meant for panchayats would not be used in the absence of panchayat polls. “Development work in rural areas will be stalled. This is the time when development work needs to be done to reduce distress in rural areas and create employment avenues,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-200
18-12-2020||Jharkhand||Woman, out answering nature’s call, buried alive after Jharia cave-in||A woman, who was out answering nature’s call, was buried alive at Kusunda early on Friday morning after a sudden land subsidence, a perennial fallout of indiscriminate mining in Jharia’s underground fire-affected region. Kalyani Devi (30), who was with her daughter Komal (8), fell into the 30-feet crater that developed near Industry Colliery as a result of the cave-in at 8 am. Her daughter shouted for help, but by the time residents gathered around and tried to save her, she had had died. Komal said both her mother and she were holding hands while returning home. “But after walking for some time, I had moved ahead. Suddenly I heard screaming. I looked back to see my mother sinking inside a crater, shouting for help,” she said. Komal said their neighbours rushed out and tried to help. “Some tried by dropping a rope down the crater. Others tried to send down a bucket, but she could not be saved,” said Komal. Kalyani’s body was recovered at 12.30 pm about four and-a-half hours after the site was excavated by Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) workers who had deployed a hydraulic excavator. Local residents blocked the Jharia-Dhanbad Road for than an hour from 9am, demanding compensation for the family of the deceased. This was followed by negotiations between BCCL officials and Kalyani’s family members. Kalyani’s husband, Dilip Bauri (36) is a daily wage earner. “We don’t have a toilet in our house. All family members go outside to answer nature’s call.  My wife went out this (Friday) morning along with my elder daughter, but fate had something else in store for us. My wife fell into the crater that developed after a cave-in,” he said. Residents blamed BCCL for negligence. “BCCL never tried to douse the underground fire. Noe did it plan to shift us to a safer site, compelling us to risk or lives and stay here,” said Shanti Devi, who lives next door to Kalyani. Jharia circle officer Rajesh Kumar, who was part of the negotiations with Kalyani’s family and the district administration, said compensation would be provided to the family as per norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-200
18-12-2020||Jharkhand||Coaching institutes want permission to reopen, threaten stir||Members of the Jharkhand Coaching Association, an umbrella organisation of private tutorials, have demanded that they be allowed to reopen given that the state government has allowed schools to start functioning as per newly introduced SOPs. Reacting to Thursday’s announcement of SOPs for schools for classes 10 and 12, coaching institutes, that cater to those appearing for various competitive examinations, have now threatened to hit the streets from next week if their demands are not met. The association said that the continued “lockdown” of coaching institutes was adversely affecting the livelihoods of lakhs of professionals associated with them. JCA said that they would not hesitate to launch a state and district-level agitation if their pleas are ignored. But according to a statement issued after a meeting on Thursday evening, JCA would wait to hear from the government till Sunday. S.D. Mishra, joint secretary of JCA, said, “It is beyond our understanding why coaching centres are facing a lockdown when schools and higher education centres are being allowed to function in a staggered manner. Allow us to also function with similar conditions. We will abide by every protocol set by the government to curb the spread of the virus.” Mishra said over a lakh people, comprising teachers and support staff, are directly and indirectly dependent on coaching centres to run their families. In Ranchi alone, there are around 15,000 coaching centres employing over 40,000 people. “Since the past nine months, they are without jobs and are finding it difficult to make ends meet. Many coaching centres have been forced to shut down permanently owing to high recurring monthly expenses,” said Mishra, adding that they had appealed to senior functionaries of the state government in the past, but nothing has come of these meetings. “We request the state government to be sympathetic to our woes and clear its stand by Sunday. Otherwise, we will be forced to protest in whichever way we can,” he said. As per SOPs issued by the state government, all schools outside containment zones have been permitted to resume regular classes for students of class 10 and 12 with the consent of parents with effect from December 21. In addition to schools, the state government has also allowed shooting of films without the presence of spectators, subject to compliance of SOPs to be notified by the information and public relations department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-200
18-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand chapter of CII holds online industrial safety conclave||The Confederation of Indian Industry's ( CII) Jharkhand  State Council on Friday organised its second edition of Industrial Safety Conclave, to inspire stakeholders towards building a stronger culture of safety in their organisations. The conclave acted as a forum for participants to interact with the safety professionals and thought leaders to learn the best practices. “For achieving vision zero or a zero-accident workplace, we would need more involvement and commitment of the MSMEs,” said Sanjay Sabherwal, Chairman, CII Jharkhand State Council. “I am happy that the CII Jharkhand's safety panel has launched Project SARTHI to handhold MSMEs on better safety management practices and transform them into a better and safer workplace,” Sabherwal, who is also the Managing Director of Metaldyne Industries Ltd said in his address. Tapas Sahu, Chairman of the CII Jamshedpur zonal council and Managing Director, Highco Engineers Pvt Ltd said, “Safety is something which can never be overemphasised. Impact of being unsafe is very heavy on society. Best safety cultures are led by business leaders who integrate safety into the business.” In his address to the conclave, Vilas Gaikwad, Chief of safety at Tata Steel Long Products Ltd, said, “The commitment from the leadership towards safety is extremely critical to inculcate a true safety culture within the organisation.” Safety expert and the Head of Safety at Tata Motors Ltd, Bipin B Sharan, said that the conclave will prove to be a good learning session. “This second edition of CII Jharkhand Industrial Safety Conclave will prove to be a good learning session with significant takeaways and would go a long way in encouraging industries to take proactive approaches for a safe workplace,” he said. Raju Ramchandran, senior Vice President of Nuvoco Vistas Corporation Ltd ( Jojobera ) said that achieving vision zero in industrial safety will require a new mindset, new beliefs, new approaches and a different kind of leadership. The conclave deliberated on important topics of discussion including adopting safety as a culture, emerging trends and technology in industrial safety and best practices in industrial safety and maintaining a safe shop floor in the ‘new normal’ scenario. he other  speakers who addressed the conclave included Prakash Sinha, general manager, Tata Motors Ltd;  Dr Abhishek Pandey, chief medical officer and  Country Health Coordinator, Nuvoco Vistas Corporation Ltd; Shikhar Kaushik, Head - Safety New Initiatives , Tata Steel Limited and  S K Bhattacherjee, chief general manager (Iron Making), Mecon Limited. Over a hundred delegates participated in the event online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-200
18-12-2020||Jharkhand||Worry for Jharkhand as fresh Covid cases outnumber recoveries||Coronavirus on Thursday claimed two more lives in Ranchi and one in Dhanbad, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1007, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. Thursday's findings took the Covid toll in Dhanbad to 99 and that in Ranchi to 209, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand, however, remained 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. Fresh cases outnumbered recoveries on the day, causing a rise in the number of active cases. As many as 211 people were found infected across Jharkhand while 164 patients recovered from the viral infection on Thursday, taking the number of active cases in the state up at 1629, the NHM bulletin revealed. Ranchi registered a rise in active cases, while East Singhbhum reported as many fresh cases as recoveries. At least 99 people were found infected in Ranchi while 80 patients recovered, taking the active cases up at 778. As many as 32 people were found infected in East Singhbhum and the same number of patients recovered there. At least six of 24 districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day, but four districts reported a double-digit-spike. Bokaro reported 23 cases against 10 recoveries, while Hazaribag reported 13 cases against four recoveries. The government on Thursday tested 18,738 patients and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 45.86 lakh people and tested 45.71 lakh of them. Around 15,000 samples were pending for tests by the end of Thursday. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 0.15 per cent against the national average of 0.23 per cent. The doubling rate of the infection in Jharkhand was 469.46 days against the national doubling rate of 300.36 days. As many as 109696 people have recovered from the viral infection in the state, taking the recovery rate up at 97.65 per cent against the national average of 95.40 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-201
18-12-2020||Jharkhand||Rs 1 lakh ex gratia for mishap victims’ kin||The Jharkhand government will pay an ex gratia of Rs 1 lakh to the families of those who die in road accidents. This first of its kind decision was taken during a review meeting of the disaster management department on Tuesday that was presided over by chief minister Hemant Soren and attended by the departmental minister Banna Gupta, who is also the health minister. “The state government has taken a historical decision of paying Rs 1 lakh to the families of those who die in road accidents,” Gupta said, adding the amount will be given by the disaster management department. Asked when the decision would come into effect, special secretary in disaster management department, Manish Tiwari, said: “This (the decision to pay the ex gratia amount) needs approval from the state cabinet, which is expected to be obtained soon.” Asked whether the ex gratia recipients have to be below the poverty line, Tiwari said: “The next of the kin of anyone who dies in a road accident will be eligible for the payment, irrespective of their financial status.” The relevant rules would be formed shortly that will have certain restrictions and those who get involved and die in road accidents for drink driving are not supposed to qualify for the payment, Tiwari said. He said the payment of ex gratia would be done only after receiving favourable reports from competent authorities such as the police. Like many other states, Jharkhand also records a large number of deaths, numbering over 3,000, due to road accidents every year. According to data available with the road transport department, there were 4,932 road accidents in 2016, in which 3,027 people died. In 2017, 3,256 people died in 5,198 road accidents, while there were 3,542 deaths due to 5,394 accidents in 2018 and 3,800 fatalities in 5,215 accidents in 2019. Till October this year, 2,294 people have died due to 3,366 road accidents in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-201
18-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel excels in LGBT+ inclusion||Global steel behemoth Tata Steel, which has its largest plant at Jamshedpur in Jharkhand, has been named a top employer for LGBT+ inclusion by India Workplace Equality Index (IWEI), the country’s first comprehensive benchmarking study to measure and enable efforts for the community’s inclusion. Tata Steel vice-president (designate), human resource management, Atrayee S. Sanyal, said in a media communiqué released on Thursday afternoon: “At Tata Steel we believe a diverse and inclusive environment enables employees to express themselves openly thereby adding to the perspectives and collective wisdom of the organisation. We are proud to feature amongst the IWEI 2020 top employers for LGBT+ inclusion. This recognition reaffirms our commitment to foster a culture to actively promote LGBTQ+ empowerment and build a benchmark workplace.” The IWEI ranking is considered the definitive list showcasing the best employers in India for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender employees. Tata Steel is one of the 18 organisations to feature in the silver category. “This is the inaugural IWEI top employers’ list, featuring 52 organisations that have been recognised as ‘bronze’, ‘silver’ or ‘gold’ depending on their final score. Organisations participating in this index make it clear that they support equality for LGBT+ people at work,” the communiqué added. Incidentally, Tata Steel rolled out a new HR policy last year that enables colleagues from the LGBTQ+ community to avail all benefits permissible under the law for their partners (people of same-sex living together) like coverage for child-care leave, newborn parent leave, medical benefits, joint house points, employee assistance programs, domestic travel policy, health check-ups, transfer and relocation benefits, honeymoon package and others. In line with the company’s vision of enabling a workplace for all diverse groups, Tata Steel launched Wings, a LGBTQ+ employee resource group, in May 2018. The company’s diversity and inclusion (D&I) programme started taking shape with the launch of a diversity group called Mosaic in June 2015. Mosaic facilitates a diversity of gender, hiring and inclusion of persons with disabilities (PWDs), LGBTQ+ and more. Mosaic focuses on the five pillars of sensitisation, infrastructure, recruitment, retention, development and celebrations.
“Tata Steel has set a target of having 20 per cent women officers in the workforce by 2025,” said a senior HR official of Tata Steel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-201
18-12-2020||Jharkhand||A study in self-reliance in Jharkhand||A headmaster in a remote Jharkhand village is helping students become atmanirbhar (self-reliant) amid the pandemic by making them learn how to make chalk, mats, brooms, handicrafts and carry out gardening. Sapan Kumar, the 42-year-old headmaster of Utkramit Madhya Vidyalaya (Upgraded Middle School) at Dumarthar village in Dumka district, had shot into limelight a few months back for using an innovative method to help students overcome difficulties in attending online classes by encouraging the children to use the walls in their houses as blackboards to write down class assignments under the supervision of teachers. “Dumarthar is inhabited mainly by Santhals who are mostly farmers or contract workers and are very poor. Out of the 302 students (158 boys and 144 girls) in our school, only 10-15 students have smartphones. We were worried about how to continue their education after the school was closed due to the pandemic and conducting online classes was next to impossible. So we divided the village into four sections. Each section was given to one teacher (there are four teachers, including the headmaster) to supervise students who will have to write down the lessons using the walls of their houses as blackboards,” said Kumar. After the success of the innovative idea under the supervision of teachers who are equipped with Bluetooth-enabled microphone to sort out queries of the students in the last few months, the headmaster was faced with another problem. “Though initially we provided students with chalk pieces. But later on our hands became tied as the cost of purchasing chalk was quite high. So I decided to talk to my friends and arrange plaster of Paris and moulds and trained the students to make white chalk. Now we make 200 pieces of chalk daily and do not have to purchase it from the market,” said Kumar. Students who faced problems in getting mats to site near their houses for the classes were also trained to make mats using date palm leaves. “We started using dry date palm leaves to weave it into a mat which could be used for students to sit. We also use wild grasses to make brooms which are used to clean the places where the students sit. All these activities had a positive impact on students who were inspired not only to keep their houses clean but also keep the lanes near their homes clean,” the headmaster said. Students are also being given information on growing vegetables and flowering plants and plantation methods for rabi and kharif crops. Girl students are also being trained on how to apply decorative mehendi. However, the extracurricular sessions are conducted after class hours. “The classes are held between 10am and 12.30pm. We conduct training to make the students self-reliant after class for nearly 30 minutes depending on their choices ranging from making chalk, broom, mat, mehendi or gardening,” said Kumar. Phenomoni Murmu, a fourth grader, was excited with the extracurricular activities. “We are enjoying making brooms and mats. I am also learning to apply mehendi,” said Phenomoni.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-201
