19-12-2020||Jharkhand||A three-way tie sets up final day thriller at Tata golf ||A three-way tie at the top between Gaganjeet Bhullar, SSP Chawrasia and Amardeep Malik promises a cracker of a final on Sunday at the Tata Steel Tour Championship being played at the Beldih and Golmuri golf courses here. Kapurthala-based Bhullar and Calcutta’s Chawrasia, both winners on the European Tour and Asian Tour, as well as Noida’s Malik, a two-time winner on the PGTI, ended the penultimate day of the Rs 1.5 crore event with matching totals of 20-under-196 on Saturday. While Gaganjeet raised his hopes with a determined third round of 64, SSP and Amardeep too continued to be in contention with rounds of 68 and 67 respectively. Bengaluru’s Khalin Joshi produced the day’s best score of 10-under-62 to occupy tied fourth place at 18-under-198 along with another Bengaluru player Chikkarangappa (68). The leading 27 players out of 53 played their first nine holes at Golmuri and second nine holes at Beldih. The remaining 26 players played at Beldih first and then Golmuri. The same format will continue on Sunday during the final round. Gaganjeet Bhullar (69-63-64), lying tied fifth and five off the lead at the halfway stage, surged up the leaderboard with a round featuring nine birdies and a bogey. The man with 10 international titles to his credit including eight on the Asian Tour started the day with some tremendous recoveries from the trees on the second and third where he birdied thanks to up and downs from close to 100 yards on both occasions. Gaganjeet went on to sink a monster 40-feet birdie putt on the seventh before producing another excellent wedge shot to set up a tap-in birdie on the ninth. Bhullar further consolidated his position picking up five more birdies over the next seven holes where he made a couple of good up and downs and also landed his approaches within five feet on two occasions. His only bogey of the day on the 17th was the result of a missed up and down. Bhullar said, “It was a solid round and I feel a continuation from the second day where I had shot a nine-under. I made a lot of up and downs for birdies. I also scrambled well at the start having found the trees twice. “I’ve given myself a lot of chances in the last two days and putted really well. I’ve been getting close enough to the pins and have been converting those chances which kept building the momentum for me. I feel I’ve adjusted well to the varying conditions at the two courses. “It’ll be interesting to play in the leader group along with SSP after a long time. I can’t remember the last time we played together in the leader group on the final day.” Amardeep Malik (63-66-67) made his way up from overnight third and two off the lead even as his bogey-free run came to an end. Among Malik’s seven birdies, two were tap-ins, two were long conversions and one was an up and down from the bunker. He also dropped two bogeys. Amardeep said, “I feel I still have to be tighter with my game when I’m playing under pressure especially in the last two rounds. That’s the consistency I need. Today it was fun to play alongside my favourite Indian golfer SSP Chawrasia. Fortunately, I’ll get to play in the same group as him tomorrow as well. “I dropped my first bogey of the tournament today on the sixth. I therefore achieved a personal record this week by going bogey-free in a tournament for 41 holes.” SSP Chawrasia (67-61-68), who was overnight second and one off the lead, followed up his spectacular 61 on day two with a flawless 68 on Saturday to gain one spot and move into the joint lead. Chawrasia, a winner of six international titles including four on the European Tour, said, “I missed a few short putts today but I was in control of my round. In round two I was much closer to the flags and holed more putts compared to today. “I’ll go into the last round with a lot of self-belief as I’ve won here on three previous occasions having played the same format, the front-nine at Golmuri and back-nine at Beldih.” Khalin Joshi, still recovering from a wrist injury, made two eagles and six birdies during his sensational 62 to rise 10 spots from his overnight tied 14th. Joshi’s two eagles came on the fourth and 16th holes. He landed his drive within five feet on the par-4 fourth while on the 16th he sank a 20-footer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-199
19-12-2020||Jharkhand||Police crack Hazaribagh murder case in three days||The sensational murder case of a young policeman – Birendra Kumar reached a closure with the police claiming to have solved it within three days of recovering the dead body. According to the police, Birendra’s distant relative Ashok Kumar Mehta was behind his murder. Allegedly, the accused was eyeing both the property and wife of the victim. Birendra, a resident of Chatra’s Mayurhund region, was living in Deepugarha mohalla of Hazaribagh. He had gone missing on the night of December 15, when someone sitting in an SUV had called him immediately after he had returned from his office. He sat in the car, next to the driver, and drove away. The next morning, his dead body was recovered about 20 kilometres away from his residence. Birendra had recently been transferred to the police control room. He was earlier posted in the traffic police department. With Birendra’s family alleging that the killer could be a known person, the police took Ashok in custody on suspicion. Police questioned him and even took him to a hotel in Deepugarha where he and Birendra had dinner and consumed liquor. Superintendent of Police Karthik S said, “Ashok broke down during the interrogation and admitted to having killed Birendra.” He told us that after leaving the hotel, when Birendra took his seat in the car, in an inebriated state, then he hit the victim on his head with a heavy object, which resulted in his immediate death. Following which, Ashok steered the vehicle towards Ichak and dumped the dead body there. He then drove back to his village Mayurhund but only after washing his clothes and SUV in the river. Karthik said the police had recovered the jeans and T-shirt that Ashok wore while committing the crime and seized his SUV and two mobile phones. He said, “Ashok is a man of poor character and had been eying Birendra’s wife Poonam Devi. He killed Birendra simpl, to grab a piece of land which Poonam owned, by remarrying her.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-199
19-12-2020||Jharkhand||Marandi rakes up old case, asks Hemant to step down pending probe  ||The Opposition BJP in Jharkhand has raked up an old case against chief minister Hemant Soren, wherein an aspiring model accused him of rape in 2013 and later withdrew her charges, with senior leader Babulal Marandi calling for a CBI investigation and asking Hemant Soren to step down till the probe was completed. The case Marandi was referring to is now at the centre of a Rs 100 crore defamation suit filed by the chief minister against BJP’s Nishikant Dubey who first spoke about it in a tweet in July this year. Dubey, an MP, announced on twitter that he had written to the Union home ministry and the Maharashtra government demanding reopening of the case against Hemant, alleging that the JMM leader had used his influence to settle the case. In response, Hemant filed a defamation suit against the MP in a Ranchi court on August 4. Addressing a press conference in Dumka on Saturday, Marandi said, “Since the last week, social media and other platforms have been abuzz with reports of Jharkhand chief minister committing rape with a Mumbai based women in 2013. He was chief minister during the time when this incident allegedly took place. Now when the victim is again pleading for justice, he is in CM’s office. Since it involves two states, we demand a CBI inquiry.” On Thursday, the National Commission for Women (NCW) issued a statement, saying it was seeking an action taken report (ACT) from Maharashtra DGP in view of a letter, purportedly written by the victim containing details of incidents that allegedly occurred in the last seven years, that had gone viral on social media. The JMM and Congress, both part of the ruling alliance in the state, have termed the BJP’s accusations fraudulent and politically motivated with the intention of defaming an elected leader and destablising a popular, elected government. Marandi, who chose Dumka in the JMM bastion of Santhal Paragana to address Saturday’s press conference, also said, “In the interest of fairness of the CBI probe, we appeal to Hemant Soren to step down,” he said. Congress said the BJP and Marandi were “stooping to such low-level politics” out of frustration as the party had lost its relevance in Jharkhand. “Neither we, nor our allies, subscribe to personal attacks of such bad taste. But having said that, political decency can never be expected from the BJP,” said Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey. JMM is yet to issue a formal statement in response to Marandi’s address to the media. But earlier, the JMM had termed the allegations as “fraudulent” and “below the belt” politics of the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-199
19-12-2020||Jharkhand||South Eastern Railway announces two special trains from state||The South Eastern Railway on Saturday announced two special trains, a daily and a tri-weekly, amid growing demand of passengers. The Calcutta-based headquarters of the SER at Garden Reach in a circular said that the tri-weekly train will run between Howrah and Ranchi from December 23. The daily special train will take off from December 20 and run between Rourkela and Jharsuguda till resumption of normal train service. The 02895 Howrah-Ranchi Tri-Weekly Special will leave Howrah on Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday from December 23 at 12.50 pm and will reach Ranchi at 9.10 pm on the same day. In the opposite direction, 02896 Ranchi-Howrah Tri-Weekly Special will leave Ranchi on Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday from December 23 at 7 am and will reach Howrah at 3.10 pm on the same day till further advice. The special train will make stops  at Kharagpur, Jhargram, Chakulia, Ghatsila, Tatanagar, Barabhum, Purulia, Jhalida and Muri stations. The 68601 Rourkela-Jharsuguda Passenger Special will leave Rourkela daily from December 20 at 8.20 am and will reach Jharsuguda at 10.50 am on the same day. Similarly, 68602 Jharsuguda-Rourkela Passenger Special will leave Jharsuguda daily at 11.15 am from December 20 and will reach Rourkela at 1.45 pm on the same day. This train will make stops at Panposh, Kalunga, Kansbahal, Rajgangpur, Sonakhan, Sagra, Garposh, Tangarmunda, Bamra, Dharuadih, Bagdehi, Panpali and Dhutra between Rourkela and Jharsuguda. The circular advised passengers to take help from the National Train Enquiry System App for updates, and intersectional stoppages and timings before undertaking their journey. They can also dial 139 for further assistance. The circular also directed passengers to strictly follow all health protocols before undertaking and during journey in the wake of  the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-199
19-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ticket inspector rescues 8-year-old from train at Daltonganj||A ticket inspector rescued an eight-year-old girl, who was travelling alone, from Howrah-Jabalpur Shaktipunj Express on Thursday night at daltonganj Railway Station. Revealing the details of the incident on Saturday, Daltonganj station superintendent A.K. Tiwari said, “One train ticket inspector (TTI) Shilanand Ekka had spotted this lone girl child travelling in S6 coach of the Up Howrah-Jabalpur Shaktipunj express train on the night of December 17. The TTI alerted the Commercial Control Room of Dhanbad.” Tiwari added that he was alerted by the Commercial Control Room, Dhanbad, about the incident. “I alerted the RPF and GRP here in Daltonganj immediately and also contacted the Childline India Foundation at 1098. Things began to move faster after then,” he said. Tiwari said that two members of the Child Working Committee reached the Daltonganj station where the train had arrived at around midnight and brought the girl down from the train to take her into safe custody. The station superintendent said that all this rescue work was done within a two-minute window as the Shaktipunj Express does not stop for more time at the Daltonganj station. According to sources, the girl had boarded the train at Patratu railway station. However, there is no proof if anyone was trafficking her. Nobody on the coach could answer TTI Ekka’s question if she was brought by someone on the train, and neither did anyone claim her. The girl, who perhaps belongs to a nomadic tribe ‘khanabadosh’, is under observation at a Daltonganj rescue home, and efforts are on to look for her parents. Tiwari said that the child looked lost and blank, and had poor clothing. He added that he could not say if she was under any shock. The superintendent, however, praised Ekka for his efforts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-199
19-12-2020||Jharkhand||North wind ushers in bone-numbing chill across state||The mercury nosedived across the state on was a bright Saturday resulting in temperatures below 8°C across districts with weathermen attributing the bone-chilling cold to the crisp North Wind. "The impact of the western disturbance, which resulted in formation of two induced cyclonic circulations, waned to revive chill-laden winds from the north. This resulted in plummeting night readings," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He, however, ruled out the possibility of a cold wave, which occurs when minimum readings drop five notches below normal. The climate would remain dry for the next few days with early morning fog (shallow to moderate) in several isolated pockets which would reduce the surface visibility. According to weathermen, no adverse weather condition is expected over Jharkhand at least in the next 72 hours. Hence, no major change in night readings is expected in the next three days. Only westerly to north-westerly winds would prevail over the state at lower levels in the next few days. Capital Ranchi felt the shivers when the minimum temperature plummeted 7°C, three notches below the average normal. On Friday, Ranchi had recorded a minimum temperature of around 9 degree Celsius. Kanke on the outskirts of Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of around 6°C, three points below normal. Daltonganj, the headquarters of Palamau, recorded a sub-10 chill like that of Ranchi at 6.3°C, three notches lower than normal. On Friday, Daltonganj had recorded 7.9 °C. Steel hub Jamshedpur was a wee bit warmer at 9.6°C, two degrees below normal. On Friday, the local IMD observatory in Jamshedpur had recorded a minimum temperature of 14.9°C. The local IMD observatory said the reading had dropped by around five degrees in the past 24 hours. Chaibasa in neighbouring West Singhbhum recorded a night reading of 8.1°C, four notches below normal, while Bokaro recorded a minimum of 8.2 °C, four notches below normal. Night temperatures also fluctuated between 8°C and 10°C in several other parts of the state, including Dumka and other parts of Santhal Pargana regions, Hazaribagh, Giridih, Dhanbad, Koderma, Gumla and Simdega. The Regional Meteorological Centre in Calcutta corroborated Ranchi Met Centre forecasts. "There are no signs of clouds. The skies will remain clear for at least the next 72 hours, which will drag down temperatures further in Jharkhand," said a duty officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-199
19-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi bans liquor, tobacco consumption at tourist spots||Jharkhand Paryatan Suraksha Samiti announced on Saturday that consumption liquor or tobacco products will be completely banned across popular waterfalls around Ranchi from Sunday. The umbrella outfit of all the paryatak mitras (friends of tourists) deployed by Jharkhand Tourism Development Corporation also said that the entry of visitors to these tourist hotspots without masks will not be allowed. Revelers will also be banned from using plastic or thermocol utilities on the spot and playing of loud sound systems will not be permissible, the committee announced. The Jharkhand Paryatan Suraksha Samiti is responsible for the intenance, upkeep and overall safety of the tourist spots and those coming to the state. The announcement was made ahead of the upcoming Christmas and New Year that usually see a heavy surge of visitors to these places every year. Committee president Raj Kishore Prasad said that the relaxation after the Covid-19 lockdown has made tourists visit almost all the waterfalls in Ranchi again. “Since October onwards, we are now seeing steady turnout of visitors, who are mostly locals, visiting these picturesque spots to break their extended monotony of staying indoors for long,” he said. Prasad informed that these dos and don’ts have been announced following a meeting with the local police station and shop-keepers/vendors around the tourist places. With Christmas and New Year, we are anticipating heavy rush again for which we have announced certain curbs to prevent any untoward incident or situation of law and order problems because of any rogue elements,” he added. The president also informed that all vehicles will be checked before entering the tourist spots. “All shopkeepers/vendors have been strictly asked to ensure no one sells liquor illegally, while paryatak mitras on the spots will be on the move to curb anyone drinking liquor on the spot,” Prasad said. “If anyone carries liquor on their own, they will be humbly asked not to enter the premises carrying them as none will be allowed to consume there,” he added. On punitive measures for violation of the norms, he said, “We will simply report them to local police.” Besides making masks compulsory for tourists entering the spots, to enforce Covid-19 guidelines, awareness boards have also been put up across the vicinity. “Controlling the crowd or ensuring 100 per cent social distancing will literally be not possible at tourist spots neither by us or by district administration. Hence, everyone must follow individual social responsibility to not litter anything, spew only at designated spots, carrying their own masks and sanitisers et al,” Prasad said. Dharamnath Ram, ASI of Sikidiri police station too appealed visitors to follow norms to curb any chances of covid-19 infection or law and order problems. “Any violator will be taken to task under the relevant sections of IPC,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-199
19-12-2020||Jharkhand||Couple face mishap fury in Giridih district||A young couple were saved by police from a mob who tried to lynch them and later immolate the man after their car ran over a child killing him on the spot at Tisri in Jharkhand’s Giridih district on Thursday evening. According to police, Kaushik Thandar and Sangeeta Thandar were going to attend the marriage of their relative in Biharsharif (in Bihar) in their Ford Titanium car. When the car reached Giridih Main Road near the Sigha Mohan roundabout under Gawan block, a boy suddenly ran into the road and Kaushik could not stop the car from hitting the child though he applied the brakes. Giridih-based social worker P.K. Minral said: “Seven-year-old Sourav suddenly ran into the road and came under the vehicle and died on the spot. An irate mob gheraoed the car and forcibly took out the couple and started assaulting Kaushik without heeding to his wife’s pleas. “Suddenly one person from the crowd doused Kaushik in petrol and threatened to set him ablaze in anger against the death of the child. Fortunately, some locals informed the police who reached the site on time and rescued the couple. The police doused the flames and took the couple to hospital.” Tisri police station in-charge Piku Kumar claimed that Kaushik’s condition is stable. “The mob was demanding compensation for the death of the child and some mischievous elements had put petrol on the man and tried to set him ablaze. We reached the spot and doused the flames. We rushed the couple to Giridih Sadar Hospital. “Doctors said the man has sustained 40 per cent burn injuries but his condition is stable. The woman was not injured though she is in trauma and is also admitted in the hospital,” said Kumar. Locals claimed that Kaushik had fled from the spot after the mishap. After realising that the child might have suffered serious injuries or might have died, he returned with his vehicle and had to face the mob fury. Giridih superintendent of police Amit Renu said separate cases have been registered by the parents of the deceased child and the couple from Bengal. “While the couple from Bengal have lodged a case against unidentified persons, including parents of the deceased boy, for assaulting and trying to torch them, the child’s parents have lodged a case against the couple for reckless driving leading to death. We have not arrested anybody in the case so far but would be arresting the culprits involved in assaulting the couple soon,” Renu said. Tisri is around 190km from state capital Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-200
19-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi Archdiocese will organise up to four Masses this Xmas||The Roman Catholic churches under Ranchi Archdiocese will organise up to four Masses for facilitating prayers by the faithful in a staggered manner this Christmas. “Spirituality and sobriety will be the focus this year and the faithful have been asked to avoid fanfare,” said Theodore Mascarenhas, auxiliary Bishop of Ranchi Archdiocese. The archdiocese in association with the Missionaries of Charity and the Catholic Youths of Ranchi will also organise a lunch for the local rickshaw-pullers at Loyola Ground on Christmas Day, he added. The Jharkhand disaster management department, in an order signed by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, on Thursday allowed congregations up to the half the capacity of a hall with a ceiling of 200 people and 300 people in the open. “We appreciate the order of the government and had already planned up to three Masses but The Vatican has now allowed up to four,” he said, adding that Mass will begin in the evening on December 24. “Some of the churches like the one at Kokar locality in Ranchi have also organised open-air Masses that can accommodate more people,” he said. Jharkhand, including the Chotanagpur region, has a large Christian population and Christmas is celebrated with much fanfare here every year. Though the Protestant Church was first to arrive in Ranchi way back in 1845 and the priests of the Roman Catholic Church reached here four decades later in 1885, the latter has a much larger following. Initially under the Calcutta Archdiocese, a separate diocese was formed for the region in 1927 with its episcopal seat in Ranchi that was elevated to the status of an archdiocese in 1953. Ranchi Archdiocese at present has six dioceses in the state — Daltonganj, Dumka, Jamshedpur, Gumla, Simgedga and Khunti — under it. “For the first time, the crib at the Archbishop House in Ranchi will be opened to the public on Christmas this year,” Bishop Mascarenhas announced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-200
19-12-2020||Jharkhand||Chlorine gas leak at water tower in Hazaribagh||A chlorine gas leak was reported in the heart of Hazaribagh city on Friday. The gas leaked from a cylinder at a water tower located opposite of Chhath Talab at around 7:40 PM. The incident drove people shopping in the area into a frenzy. Officials said the cylinder contained 5 kilogram of chlorine, used to purify water. Employees of the drinking water and sanitation department started feeling uneasy, soon followed by others on the adjoining  busy stretch of road. As people came to know about the leak, many started running for safe cover. One employee was rushed to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital where he was stabilised. A fire brigade team reached the and started the exercise to plug the leak.After all efforts failed, officials decided to dump the leaking cylinder into the Chhath Talab. Sadar police station officer-in-charge Ganesh Kumar Singh and his team aided the disposal. The nearby densely populated Mohalla Okni and Nawabgunj areas were cause for major concern with the officials. The water tower is among nine such structures which supply water to approximate 5 lakh people in the town. It processes water from the Charwa Dam situated 5km away from town on Katkamsandi road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-200
