20-12-2020||Jharkhand||Now, world-class sports amenities at Dhanbad club||Coal city’s oldest club has donned a new avatar. Thanks to a slew of initiatives taken by its management, the Dhanbad Club, established way back in 1917, the club, now has several new facilities that will appeal to the young and sports enthusiasts. Located in the heart of the town, a squash court, yoga cum Zumba training center, besides an upgraded gymnasium and a billiard room, was inaugurated this evening by the Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh, who is also the ex officio chairman of the club. Two lawn tennis courts of US open standard and a cricket alley comprising two cricket nets will also be inaugurated in the club. Later this month, the swimming pool of the club will also be upgraded. Talking to the media during a press conference organised at the club auditorium, prior to the inauguration, Sanjeev Beotra, secretary of the club said, “We will not have any Christmas celebration on December 25, as we will usher in the New Year December 31 following government’s guidelines. The crowd will be smaller, keeping the safety of our members in mind, unlike the previous years.” He added, “The club is open to our members so we have added a range of facilities including a lawn tennis arena comprising of two tennis Courts, a cricket alley comprising two nets, a squash court, etc.” All the facilities are of the international standard, he maintained. “For the senior members of the club and others who won’t be using the gymnasium facility we have set up a yoga-cum-Zumba training center to help them keep fit. We will be hiring yoga and Zumba trainers who would be providing training from January 1 onwards” informed Beotra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-198
20-12-2020||Jharkhand||No takers for government’s residential flats in Chas||A housing scheme with 640 flats, planned by the Chas Municipal Corporation, is having no takers even after the apartments are on sale for Rs 3.11 lakhs only. With only a handful of people showing interest in booking the flats, CMC is all set to organize a fair to boost the sale of the flats. The scheme aims to provide modern housing facilities in the Kalapathar area. Chief executive officer (CEO) of CMC, Shashi Prakash Jha, revealed that as little as 19 individuals have registered for the flat. “We had not expected such a poor response. It could be the location of the proposed housing complex that is deterring people from buying the flats.” He added, for the convenience of the residents, registration will be done on different days in the five zonal offices. As per the housing scheme’s rules and regulations, only those with an annual income lesser than Rs.3,00,000 can purchase a flat in this complex. The buyer should also be a resident of an urban slum area from June 17, 2015. Barring that the buyer or any member of his family shouldn’t be the owner of any pucca house in India. According to Jha, those interested in booking the flats could do so by simply depositing Rs 5000 at the CMC office. The price of the flat has been kept at Rs 5.61 lakhs. As per norms, the residents have to pay only Rs 3.11 lakhs, the rest amount of 2.50 lakhs will be paid by the government. The beneficiary can also opt for making payments in easy installments. Each flat will be built in an area of 320 square feet. Each unit will also have proper water supply, electricity, parking, roads, barbed wire walls, infrastructure, parks, children’s playgrounds, and other necessary facilities. Sujit Kumar a resident said, “The housing units are being offered at a lucrative price, but the housing complex is located in the outskirt area.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-198
20-12-2020||Jharkhand||Over a dozen shops gutted in Sakchi market fire||Over a dozen shops were completely gutted due to a fire that broke out at the Sakchi commercial hub on the wee hours of Sunday. The fire was allegedly caused by a bonfire, past midnight at around 12:15 am. It took seven fire tenders from both Tata Steel and the state fire department over six hours to bring the fire under control. The seamlessly packed shops in the congested Shiv Mandir Line were saved from severe damages due to the prompt action taken by the fire department. District fire service officials reached the spot within 25 minutes of being informed. “Sakchi police informed us about the fire around 12.20 am. We immediately sent off four fire tenders from our department and two from Tata Steel and one from Tata Motors to the spot. The fire was finally brought under control around 7 am,” said Ravinder Thakur, duty officer at the fire station in Golmuri. According to eyewitnesses, the fire started at a cloth store and spread to other shops, including a general store, a grocery store, a musical instrument shop, and a couple of tailoring shops. According to shopkeepers, the loss caused by the fire could add up to several lakhs. Shopkeeper Niranjan Singh, one of the affected businessmen of the commercial hub said, "A bonfire was lit near a shop at the Shiv Mandir Line to beat the intense cold. Unfortunately, it was not doused properly and could have caused the fire." He ruled out the possibility of a suspected short-circuit. The affected shopkeepers who rushed to the spot on getting the news post-midnight also alleged that the lone hydrant failed to function.
"We tried to operate the hydrant but couldn't. Had it been alright the action of dousing the flames would have been fast," said a shopkeeper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-198
20-12-2020||Jharkhand||Gaganjeet Bhullar is the champ at Tata golf 2020||Gaganjeet Bhullar saw it home with a hard-fought four-under-68 despite a bumpy ride on the final day of the Tata Steel Tour Championship on Sunday. Bhullar, who totalled an outstanding 24-under-264 for the week, thus collected his 10th trophy on the PGTI and first in nine years on the tour. The final round of the Rs 1.5 crore event was witness to an absorbing contest as Kapurthala’s Bhullar, Bengaluru-eans Chikkarangappa and Khalin Joshi, Calcutta’s SSP Chawrasia and Noida’s Amardeep Malik were all in the lead or joint lead at different stages. Chikkarangappa ended the week as the runner-up after his fourth round of 68 moved his total to 22-under-266. Chikka’s second place finish lifted him from 11th to second position in the PGTI Order of Merit. Khalin Joshi (69) finished third at 21-under-267, Calcutta’s Rahil Gangjee, who fired the day’s best score of 67, was tied at fourth place at 20-under-268 along with SSP Chawrasia (72). Amardeep Malik (73), the joint third round leader along with Bhullar and Chawrasia, closed the week in sixth place at 19-under-269. Bhullar said, “Honestly, I was not at all expecting to win this week. This week the first goal for me was to make the cut. But I kept gaining momentum with each passing round and played four solid rounds where my putting was very consistent. “I did shoot a nine-under on day two but it was the third round of 64 that really put me in contention. That’s when I knew that I had a really good chance to win. I was aware of the fact that whenever I have been in contention in recent times, I have gone on to win. On Sunday, the leading 27 players out of 53 played their first nine holes at Golmuri and second nine holes at Beldih. The remaining 26 players played at Beldih first and then Golmuri. The 32-year-old Gaganjeet Bhullar (69-63-64-68), a winner of 10 international titles with victories on both the European Tour and Asian Tour, brought all his experience into play by coming through despite dropping five shots (three bogeys and a double-bogey) in the final round. Gaganjeet, who holds the Indian record of nine wins on the Asian Tour, consolidated his position at the top with a flurry of early birdies on the first, third and fourth holes thanks to his accurate iron and wedge shots. Bhullar’s troubles began on the fifth where he double-bogeyed after finding the hazard. He missed an up and down on the next hole to drop another shot. Gaganjeet, a part of the Indian team that won the silver medal at the 2006 Doha Asian Games, pulled one stroke back with a 15-feet birdie conversion on the eighth before conceding another bogey on the 11th. The broad-built six-footer from Punjab then added two more birdies on the 12th and 13th before finding trouble once again on the 15th where he landed in the trees and as a result made bogey. Bhullar was two behind Chikka and Joshi after 15 holes but the match turned on its head when Gaganjeet chipped-in for eagle on the 16th and sank a 20-footer for birdie on the 17th. As Chikka and Joshi stumbled on the 18th with a bogey and double-bogey respectively, Bhullar went on to seal the title with a two-shot margin after a par on the final hole. Gaganjeet took home the winning cheque worth Rs. 24,24,750 and is now likely to make major gains in the world ranking from his current 807th position having earned five Official World Golf Ranking (OWGR) points for his win on Sunday.  Bhullar said, “I believed in myself on the final day despite the up and downs during the round. The eagle and birdie on the final stretch came just at the right time for me. It’s been great being back on the PGTI and registering my first win on the tour since my 2011 victory in Chandigarh. “I played two events on the PGTI this month and the competition has been very intense which is a great sign of things to come for Indian golf. I would like to thank Tata Steel for staging this fabulous event and supporting Indian golf and the PGTI even in such difficult times.” While runner-up Chikka mixed seven birdies with three bogeys during his 68, third-placed Khalin sank five birdies at the expense of a double-bogey for his 69. Among the other prominent names, Anirban Lahiri (68) took 11th place at 14-under-274, Chandigarh’s Karandeep Kochhar (72), who continues to lead the PGTI Order of Merit, finished 14th at 12-under-276, Shiv Kapur (69) was tied 16th at 10-under-278 and Jyoti Randhawa (81) was tied 30th at five-under-283.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-198
20-12-2020||Jharkhand||New facilities and scenic beauty draw tourists at Topchanchi Lake||A trickle of tourists visited the Topchanchi Lake on Sunday from different parts of Dhanbad, as overflowing water and the new facilities at the litchi garden situated on its bank have enhanced the natural beauty of the place. The ongoing ‘picnic season’ of winter makes the lake, situated about 37 kilometers from Dhanbad, a major attraction. By the end of the day, sources said , there were around 700 visitors on Sunday. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Kamraj Prasad, who was at the spot with his family, said, “The hillocks situated all around the lake give it an exclusive look and some structures like the old pavilion add to its ethnicity.” “I have been a regular visitor of Maithon and visited Topchanchi for the first time today, but can conclude with conviction that the natural beauty here is better than Maithon. Its tourist potential can be further harnessed with the development of facilities like a children playing arena and better accommodation facilities like guest houses,” he added. Talking about accommodation issues near the lake, Prasad said, “Though some provisions are being made in the surrounding areas of the place, more more proactive steps are required to bring it at par with the major tourist places of the country.” Ajay Kumar Mahato, a roadside vendor in the area said, “The nature and the rains over the past few days have restored the beauty of the lake after a long time and we expect large numbers of tourists this year despite the Covid-19 constraints.” Manoj Kumar Mahato, the contractor looking after the renovation and beautification work of the lake said they have installed six gazebos at the cost of Rs 12.60 lakhs. “We have also constructed 30 concrete recliners at Rs 13.50 lakhs in the litchi garden and laid paver blocks all around the park as part of a comprehensive project of around Rs 1 crore of the state building division.” A contract for the repair work of a stretch of 5.5 kilometer road around the park has been finalised by the Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority, under whose jurisdiction the lake falls. Executive engineer and technical member of the authority, Indresh Shukla said, “We will gradually develop the other facilities around the lake after the completion of the renovation and beautification work of the litchi garden, which is likely to be completed within a week.” Topchanchi, an artificial lake developed in 1924, is a major tourist attraction as the wildlife sanctuary situated near it also draws a large number of people. Surrounded by several hilloks, the place was once a favourite shooting spot for filmmakers and actors. Dharmendra, Ashok Kumar, Uttam Kumar, Mazhar Khan, Girish Karnad and Suchitra Sen have visited the sport for shooting their films.  A large number of migratory birds also visit the place every year. These include the black cormorant, pink duck, black winged stilt, common teal, gadwall, brown headed gull, spoonbill, red crested pochard and common coot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-198
20-12-2020||Jharkhand||Most schools will not resume classes from Monday||Several leading private schools of Ranchi will not be resuming regular classes for class 10 and class 12 from Monday as there is a lack of clarity on the number of parents who would be willing to send children to schools amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Faculty members of Delhi Public School (DPS) and JVM Shyamli, two renowned Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE)-affiliated schools in the city, are holding online meetings with parents to seek their consent. But very few parents have agreed to send their children to school from Monday. Some students, who were staying outside Ranchi during the lockdown, are yet to return, while some parents have shown reluctance in sending children to school due to the fear of contracting Covid-19 infection. “We have been holding online meetings with parents to get their consent for resumption of regular classes. The process is still not complete,” said JVM Shaymli principal Samarjeet Jana. “We cannot resume regular classes for hardly five or six students. Offline classes will begin only after we get consent from parents,” he added. An official from the DPS administration said their school was likely to reopen next week once the process of getting consent from parents was completed. “We would need consent from parents of at least 50 per cent students in order to resume classes,” he said. Surendranath Centenary School is planning to resume regular classes in the first week of January. Samita Sinha, the principal, said on Sunday that the school authorities were getting consent letters from parents and the classrooms were also being readied for classes. “We have started sanitising classrooms and getting consent letters from parents. Classes will resume in the first week of January,” said Sinha. On December 15, the Jharkhand government decided to resume regular classes for students of class 10 and class 12 with immediate effect. However, a day later, the Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) stated that parents’ consent letter stating that they were aware of the Covid-19 restrictions and willing to send their children to school was a prerequisite for regular classes. Now, Jharkhand Parents Association (JPA) has sought for a meeting between the various school authorities and government representatives in order to make the process of reopening schools easier for parents. “Some parents are reluctant to send their children to schools. I think all stakeholders should meet and decide the future course of action instead of simply reopening schools without addressing the concerns of parents,” said Ajay Rai, president of JPA. Sudhir Kumar Das, father of a class 10 student in Sacred Heart School, Ranchi, said he wanted online classes to continue for now as the threat of Covid-19 was very much alive. “We also have senior citizens in our family. If my daughter gets infected at school, then the entire family will be at risk of falling ill,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-198
20-12-2020||Jharkhand||Palamau police crack challenging murder case of farmer in 10 days||The Palamau Police on Sunday said they have cracked a kidnapping and murder case of a farmer, Vishwanath Yadav, of Matnag village, the case of which was registered under the Panki police station. At a press briefing on Sunday, SP Palamau Sanjeev Kumar said the farmer was kidnapped not for any ransom but because the captors wanted to kill him. The ransom was just a ploy to keep the local police in the dark. Yadav was kidnapped on December 10 evening and killed on the same night by nine people, Kumar added. He said that Yadav’s close acquaintance Guddan Miyan, who used to have financial relations with him, gunned him down. Miyan had loaned a large amount of money from Yadav but did not have any intention to give it back. The police, however, could not ascertain the exact reason of the murder -- whether it was because of financial or any political reasons. They said they are depending on information from Yadav’s mobile phone, which was recovered from Miyan’s possession. Kumar said the captors had used this phone to make a call to the farmer’s family demanding a random of Rs 10 lakhs. The police have also recovered a gun, a local ‘Katta’, but said they need to confirm if it was the weapon used to kill Yadav. The three accused, Miyan, Shamshad and Aftab, were nabbed and sent to judicial remand on Sunday evening. Kumar acknowledged that the case was challenging and there was a good amount of external pressure on them to put certain people behind the bars, against whom the police had no proof. Sources said BJP MLA Shashibhushan Mehta had tweeted to the Chief Minister and the Directorate General of Police, Jharkhand, against the murder of the farmer, demanding actions against the Panki police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-199
20-12-2020||Jharkhand||Over 200 fresh Covid cases, two casualties in a day in Jharkhand||Jharkhand reported more than 200 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection for the second consecutive day on Saturday, taking the number of active cases above 1700 after a significant drop reported in the figure since the beginning of December, data compiled by the state health department revealed. As many as 247 people were found infected across the state in the past 24 hours, while 234 patients recovered during the same period. On Friday too, the fresh cases of Covid-19 infection outnumbered the recoveries as 274 people were found infected and only 195 patients recovered, government figures highlighted. Meanwhile, two more Covid patients, one each from Dhanbad and Gumla, died during treatment on the day, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 1010, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per the bulletin, Saturday's fresh death took the toll in Dhanbad to 100. Until Saturday, only Ranchi and East Singhbhum had reported more than 100 Covid fatalities among the 24 districts. As many as 355 Covid patients have died in East Singhbhum so far, while 209 have died in Ranchi. On Saturday, Ranchi reported 128 cases against 110 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 35 cases against 29 recoveries. The number of active cases in Ranchi drew close to 800 on the day, while that in East Singhbhum reached 226, the NHM bulletin highlighted. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 12 cases against 15 recoveries, while Hazaribag reported 14 cases against three recoveries. As per government data, at least six districts did not report even a single fresh case of Covid-19 infection on the day. The government on Saturday collected swab samples of 16,516 people and around 1.5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 46.23 lakh people and tested around 46.09 lakh of them. Around 14,000 swab samples were still pending for tests. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.17 per cent against the national average of 0.21 per cent. The doubling rate of the infection in the state was 405.28 days against the national average of 326.80 days. At least 110125 of the 112835 people infected by the virus have recovered in Jharkhand so far, taking the Covid recovery rate in the state to 97.58 per cent. The national Covid recovery rate is 95.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-199
20-12-2020||Jharkhand||Shooting, arson at coal project site in Latehar district||The henchmen of jailed gangster Sujit Sinha in collusion with Peoples’ Liberation Front of India, a splinter group of the CPI(Maoist), opened fire and set four trucks on fire at Tetariakhar coal project of Central Coalfield Limited (CCL) under Balumath police station in Latehar district, around 109km northwest of Ranchi, on Thursday night. Four persons have received bullet injuries. Sources in Latehar police said literature left behind at the site of the carnage revealed that the gangster’s men and the PLFI had joined forces. “We received a handwritten paper from the site written by Pradeep Ganju, a self-styled commander of the PLFI in the name of Sujit Sinha warning that attacks would continue till the outsourced private companies engaged in different work at the colliery do not pay the levy. There have been earlier attempts by members of Sujit Sinha's gang to extort levy from the contractors. Various extremist factions with common interest seem to have forged unity with Sinha’s men and the PLFI,” a senior police official said. According to local residents, unidentified armed persons were waiting near the road barriers at the coal project site around 7.30pm. As the coal trucks arrived at the barrier, they took control of the vehicles and torched them, leaving the staff to flee for their life. They also started firing indiscriminately, leading to three cleaners of the trucks — Pintu Yadav (a native of Pindrakum), Vansh Ropan (Chandwa) and Anil Yadav (Kuriam, Balumath) — sustaining bullet injuries. Another driver, who could not be identified, also sustained injuries. The firing led to people scampering from the coal project site. The armed men continued to threaten the truckers and the workers at the site for nearly half an hour and fled from the site after seeing police. Initially, police believed that it was the work of TPC or a PLFI faction after spotting posters at several places in Balumath calling for stopping of coal-loading work at the site. Latehar SP Prashant Anand claimed that the activities showed growing desperation among rebel factions who are now resorting to taking help from gangsters to extract levy. “The firing and the burning of trucks have been done jointly by the men of Sujit Sinha and PLFI leader Pradeep Ganju. It shows their desperation as the security forces have been exerting pressure on them from all fronts with successive combing operations, which have resulted in the recovery of a large numbers of arms and ammunition. On Saturday, too, we had two encounters with the rebels. We are determined to flush out the criminal elements, be it the rebels or gangsters,” Anand said. Following the encounter between security forces and rebels at Salaiya Gulariyatand, an AK-56 and an SLR had been recovered. There was also an encounter with rebels at Chandwa that yielded an AK-47 and an SLR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-199
