21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad deputy commissioner inspects Jharia rehab||In the wake of a tragic incident of a 30-year-old woman buried alive in subsidence prone zone of Jharia on last Friday, Dhanbad deputy commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh on Monday carried out an on-site inspection of the newly developed quarters in Belgarhia, 6 km from Jharia. The quarters are meant for rehabilitating people and Singh who is also the ex-officio managing director of Jharia Rehabilitation Development Authority (JRDA) gave a host of instruction to JRDA authorities to accelerate the process of rehabilitation. Singh who was accompanied by senior officials of the JRDA including its advisor Sunil Dalela; Rehabilitation and Resettlement in-charge, Gulzar Anjum and others including Sindri MLA Indrajit Mahto instructed the JRDA authorities to accelerate the rehabilitation work and also ensure regular availability of basic facilities like water supply, etc. Singh, meanwhile taking cognizance of complaints of people’s representatives including Sindri MLA Indrajit Mahto, took a note about the use of substandard material in the ongoing construction work of the quarters. Talking to the media after the inspection, Singh said, “We have instructed the complete the shifting of 1034 non-legal titleholder (also known as unauthorized occupants or encroacher) families from the subsidence prone zone to the safer places within one and a half month in the ready to move in quarters of Belgarhia on a priority basis.” So far around 4,500 families out of a total of 1.04 lakh families living in the 595 underground fire-affected areas have been shifted in 11 years of rehabilitation which began on March 25, 2010. “Some issues of lack of basic amenities like irregular water supply were also found during the inspection of the colony and we have instructed the authorities to fix the problem at the earliest,” said Singh. He had also instructed to constitute the committees of the newly rehabilitated people for different zones in the colony on the line of apartment committees to look after the management of water, power supply and other facilities. “The district administration will also conduct a probe with regard to the complaints of use of substandard material in the quarter construction work,” said Singh. When asked about the lack of employment opportunities for rehabilitated people at Belgarhia working as a deterrent to the people of Belgarhia from the fire-hit areas, Singh said, “Yes indeed the lack of employment opportunities or source of livelihood at a new place is the biggest challenge before both the district administration and JRDA. We will have to find out a solution to the problem and will also seek the guideline of the state government in this regard,” When asked about the protest of local residents of Baliapur over the proposed shifting of RSP College Jharia from Belgarhia to Ropeway Colony of BCCL at Digwadih in Jharia, Singh said, “The issue will have to be solved through mutual discussion between the people of both Baliapur and Jharia as the demand of local residents of Baliapur to have some higher education institution also seems to be based on some logic as there is a lack of higher educational institution in the area.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-197
21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Raid on illicit liquor manufacturing unit at Kadma||Acting on a tip off, a team of Jharkhand Excise Department’s Jamshedpur office raided a small illicit liquor manufacturing unit in a densely-populated area in Kadma on Monday morning. The operation was being run from a residential house in Green Park residential area under Kadma thana. The team arrested a 55-year-old woman as part of the racket, but the man who ran the unit managed to escape. Officials seized 40 litres of spirit, different Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) labels, corks, sealing machines and various kinds of colouring materials. "When we raided the place, we found a 55-year-old woman alone there. After interrogating her, identified as Urmila Das, we got to know that the house belonged to her.  We asked her about who ran the liquor unit, but she did not divulge any details," Excise inspector Mahendra Deogam told The Telegraph Online. "The racket of manufacturing duplicate IMFL was running during the lockdown period when licensed shops were closed.  But the racket continued even after liquor sale resumed from September," he added. The arrested woman is still in the custody of the Jharkhand Excise office at Dhalbhum Road in Sakchi. According to sources, Excise officials are trying to find out localities where the duplicate IMFL bottles were being supplied.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-197
21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Sadar Hospital resumes OPD services from Monday||After a gap of more than nine months, the Outpatient Department (OPD) services resume in Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad on Monday, with the services of nine general physicians in two shifts. The OPD services which were launched in the hospital last year after the construction of the hospital building were discontinued since the outbreak of Covid-19 crisis in March as the hospital was initially converted into a quarantine centre and later used to conduct Covid-19 testing. Finally, it was converted into a 50-bed Covid care centre for patients with mild symptoms. As the Covid situation has improved in the district and the number of patients has also decreased, the Covid care facility has been discontinued and the district health department decided to re-launch the OPD services in the hospital. The Covid testing facility including the trueNat and RTPCR test facility, however, will continue in the hospital along with the OPD services. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, Dr Rajkumar Singh, in-charge of Sadar Hospital Dhanbad said, “Though we have re-launched the OPD service today, we are also gearing up to start the facility of emergency services in the hospital after a week for which preparations are on.” “We have the necessary equipment and beds for the launch of the emergency services in the hospital which can be carried out within a week or next ten days,” said Singh. Elaborating more about the OPD services, Singh said, “Though initially, we have launched the services in two shifts from 9 am to 1 pm and again from 3 pm to 9 pm but we will ensure continuous OPD services from 9 am to 9 pm in three shifts.” Notably, emergency services will be launched in the hospital for the first time after the development of its new building. Construction work of the 300-bed two-storey building complex, for which the administrative approval of an original estimate of Rs 4.88 crore was given by the government way back on June 17, 2008, began in 2009. The estimate was later revised to Rs 9.07 crore as there was a delay in the construction work in 2012 due to various reasons and finally, the construction was completed in May 2019. However, the OPD services were launched in the hospital in March 2019 after the appointment of doctors and purchase of necessary equipment carried out by the district administration through the District Mineral Foundation Trust fund.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-197
21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Government schools reopen in steel city after eight months||Government schools reopened in East Singhbhum district on Monday amid strict Covid protocols after a shutdown of over eight months since the first week of April. Students of Class X and XII were allowed to enter their respective campuses after a thorough check pertaining to masks and use of sanitisers and thermal scanners. "All government schools resumed classes for X and XII as per state government guidelines. Only those students producing consent letters of their parents were allowed into classrooms," said district education officer Sachidanand Tigga. The East Singhbhum district has 130 government schools. A.K. Ghosh, a senior teacher of Sakchi High School, said, "It's good to see students returning to the campus after a gap of over eight months. On the first day on Monday students of Class X were asked to submit their answer sheets for Unit II examination which was conducted online last week." Sources in the education department revealed that on an average, government schools recorded attendance between 30 and 49 per cent on the first day. School authorities were optimistic about more students attending class. "Monday being the first day, the turnout of students was less. But we are expecting good attendance from Tuesday onwards, " said a teacher of Rajasthan Vidya Mandir in Sakchi. Students looked happy to be back on campus. "Classroom study is definitely different from online classes. We are hopeful that things will gradually become normal in due course of time,” said Pushpa Kumari, a Class X student of People's Academy in Baradwari. A student of Kadma-based Tata Workers' Union High School said, "Covid protocols were strictly followed. Apart from masks, use of sanitisers and thermal scanners, social distancing norms were also followed. Only one student was allowed in a bench. We enjoyed classes on the first day."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-197
21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Chas SDO conducts surprise inspection of Bokaro Airport||Chas sub-divisional officer Shashi Prakash Singh conducted a surprise inspection of the ongoing expansion work of Bokaro airport on Monday. This followed a complaint he received regarding anti-social elements creating disturbance in development work - cattle are being sent inside the premises and the existing boundary wall is being breached at several points. Airport AUthority of India (AAI) has deployed two supervisors to safeguard the 1671 meters long runway from cattle - cow dungs can damage the runway surface. Bokaro Airport is owned and maintained by BSL, but AAI has undertaken the Rs 48 crore development work. AAI management has informed the district administration about the growing disturbance and also pointed out that this is causing a delay in the completion of work. A release issued by Bokaro Public Relation Department (PRD) mentioned that "SDO along with the Circle Officer (CO), Chas, Diwakar Prasad Dwivedi and police officers of police station visited the airport and inspected the entire premises thoroughly". The PRD release also stated that "SDO after assessing the situation directed the airport management to provide a written complaint against anti-social elements who are involved in encroachment to the district administration. So that punitive action can be taken against the miscreants after identifying them. At the same time, SDO instructed Officer-in-Charge of Sector-12 police station and city police station to identify anti-social elements and take action against them by patrolling from time to time". The December 11 complaint said local people residing in the area adjoining the boundary wall at Gumla Nagar, Sector - 12, and Dundi Bagh are causing disturbance during execution of the boundary wall work. About 80 percent of the work has been completed. The rest of the work, if executed smoothly, is expected to be completed within four-five months. Bokaro airport presently manages non-scheduled flights. Once civil operations begin, the airport will connect the steel city to Patna and Kolkata under RCS-UDAN. Project work includes the construction of the terminal building with 300 passenger peak hour capacity along with strengthening and re-carpeting work of runway, apron, and taxi track for ATR-72 aircraft, AAI sources informed. It has been almost two years since the foundation was laid down for the expansion, but commercial flights are yet to become operational here. Once work gets completed, AAI will have to obtain a license from DGCA to begin flight operation. Sources said that the 72-seater flight probably of Spice Jet will launch its service in Bokaro.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-197
21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Security forces gun down PLFI ‘zonal commander’ in Khunti||A rebel belonging to the banned PLFI, who carried a bounty of Rs 15 lakh on his head, was gunned down in a joint operation of the state police and CRPF on Monday morning at a jungle in Murhu block of Khunti district, around 60km south of the state capital. “Our forces have gunned down PLFI zonal commander Jidan Gudia after a brief gun battle. No casualties have been reported on our side,” said Khunti SP Ashutosh Shekhar, adding that search operations were on in the adjoining areas to nab his associates who could be in hiding in the jungles. Shekhar said that the encounter occurred at 8.30 am on Monday. Security forces recovered an AK-47 rifle and live cartridges from Gudia’s possession after shooting him dead. Earlier this month, Jharkhand police had released a picture of Gudia and announced a prize of Rs15 lakh for anyone with information about his location. Secret informers disclosed Gudia’s location to police in Khunti and the security forces subsequently planned a surprise strike Sunday night, sources said. Sources in the CRPF said the rebels opened fire at the security forces and Gudia was killed when the security personnel retaliated. Gudia’s aides, however, escaped taking advantage of the dense forest. Founded by self-proclaimed ex-army man Dinesh Gope, PLFI is one of the 17 splinter outfits in Jharkhand.  The rebel outfit, according to police, has unleashed a reign of terror on innocent villagers in parts of Khunti, Ranchi, Simdega and Gumla. They extort money from businessmen, police said. Gudia, who was the prime accused in several cases of arson and killings, had escaped the clutches of security forces a couple of times in the recent past. The state police had recently intensified operations against Left Wing Extremist (LWE) groups and announced a bounty on at least a dozen rebels. State DGP M.V. Rao had said last week that police were seeking the help of local residents to trace insurgents. On December 3, police arrested PLFI area commander Krishna Yadav from a village in Lohardaga district. In the same week, a huge cache of arms and ammunition was recovered from a PLFI hideout in Latehar. As per figures with the Union home ministry, at least 19 of 24 districts in Jharkhand are LWE-affected. Besides the main CPI (Maoist), there are over a dozen splinter outfits like PLFI active in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-197
21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Season’s coldest day for Jamshedpur, Bokaro, Daltonganj||The biting cold across Jharkhand is likely to stay for the next three days with IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre revealing on Monday afternoon that minimum readings in most parts of the state will remain three to four notches below normal. Jamshedpur recorded its lowest minimum temperature this season at 7.6°C against 8.7°C on Sunday. Several other parts of the Kolhan region, including Chaibasa in West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan also witnessed a new low of around 7°C. Ranchi continued to record 7.2 °C for the second consecutive day on Monday, while in Kanke on the outskirts of the state capital, the Celsius nosedived to 5.7°C. Daltonganj and Bokaro too experienced the season's coldest day with minimum readings of 6.1 °C and 6.2 °C respectively. The north-eastern parts of the state, including Pakur and Sahebganj, were relatively warmer as the minimum hovered around 9°C. The Regional Meteorological Centre in Calcutta said conditions were favourable for a fresh Celsius plunge. “The entire state is in the grip of the bitter cold north-westerly winds, which is resulting in temperature drops. Minimum readings are expected to slide by another degree or so in hilly areas,” said a duty officer, adding that the weather would also remain dry for the next five days. Residents are dealing with the extreme temperatures in their own way. “For the last two days, I have stopped venturing out of my house after sunset because the chill is so intense. I have delayed my morning walk by an hour or so,” said Amritesh Singh, a resident of Sonari. Weathermen at IMD's Patna Meteorological Centre noted the absence of a significant system over Jharkhand."A weak western disturbance is likely to pass through northern parts of the country around December 24 but it won't have any impact in Jharkhand, " said a senior weather analyst at Patna Met Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-197
21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Coal town schools reopen after nine months||All government schools reopened in the district as per the state government order observing the laid guidelines on Monday. In some public schools pre-board examinations were held observing the state government guidelines but a majority of the public schools have decided to open two-three days later after making necessary preparations. Talking to the Telegraph Online on Monday, Principal of BSS Ucchh Vidyalaya, Anjali Gupta said, “We have opened the school today for Class X and XII observing all the Covid guidelines like carrying out sanitization of the entire campus, ensuring all students and staff are wearing a mask, obtaining the consent letter of the parents, etc.” “As the classes being held on rotational basis, only 30% of such students who have brought the consent of their respective parents have been allowed,” said Gupta. Khusi Kumari, a Class X student of BSS Ucch Vidyalaya who attended the class on Monday said, “Though classes were being held online but returning to the campus after a gap of 10 months and attending classes face to face, we realised the advantage of classroom study.” “My father is a roadside tea stall owner and a non matriculate but he realises the significance of education and didn’t think twice before giving his consent for attending classes for me,” said Kumari and added that as their board examinations are likely after two months and the time of school reopening is very crucial as it provides them to clarify their doubts on various topics. Payal  Kumari another Class X student of the school said, “Though the ongoing online teaching is no  way inferior but studying in classrooms helps to develop a sense of competition among students and propels students to excel which is slightly missing in  virtual classes.” Echoing sentiments with their counterparts in government schools, students of Rajkamal Saraswati Vidya Mandir Dhanbad, a public school affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education in Dhanbad where pre-board of Class X and Class XII began on Monday also welcomed the reopening of the school. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Abhishek Singh, a Class XII pre-board examinee of Rajkamal Saraswati Vidya Mandir - Dhanbad said, “We are happy returning to the campus after a gap of more than nine months and expect that the situation will normalise in the coming days and all activities will return to the campus.” Alok Nayan Kashyap another pre-board of Class XII examinee of the same school said, “With the beginning of the examinations on Monday we expect other activities like practical classes will resume in school as for Science students practical classes in the laboratory are quite crucial.” Principal of DAV Public School Koylangar, Rakesh Singh while talking to media this morning said, “We will resume classes after December 23, after completing all necessary preparation like obtaining the consent of parents and comprehensive sanitization of the entire campus is being carried out.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-198
21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jobs for youths will be govt focus in 2021, says Hemant||Chief minister Hemant Soren said on Monday said that one of the key agendas of his government for 2021 will be to generate employment opportunities for the youths Set to complete a year in office by the end of the month, Hemant unveiled his future plans to the media in Dumka. “To begin with, we have decided to recruit about 15,000 youths across different departments through special drives in the first phase to fill the vacant posts,” he said. Currently, on a tour of Santhal Parganas, the chief minister said the decision to accelerate recruitments had been taken following an exhaustive fortnight-long review meeting of the government’s functioning earlier this month. “The idea was to take stock of the government’s progress in the last one year and set future targets. Our first year mostly went in tackling the global pandemic, which is still not over. Despite many shortcomings and challenges, we rolled out several measures to reduce distress among people. Now, we have decided to accelerate our efforts to provide jobs and employment opportunities to youths both in urban and rural areas. “At the same time, focus is also on rebooting every sector that had suffered problems due to the Covid-19 lockdown for the overall development of the state,” he said, adding that the government would launch several new schemes and initiatives on the occasion of completing a year in office on December 29. Hemant also criticised the Opposition BJP for being irresponsible towards the well-being of the state. “They are still in shock after being voted out of power and hence have no other job than to criticise the government. If it (BJP) cared about the state then it would not have been silent when the Centre blocked our funds, or auto-debited money from our account in the Reserve Bank towards pending payments to DVC. He said it was because of the BJP’s wrong policies, that Jharkhand was steeped in debt. “The BJP is also silent about the Union government banning admissions to three of our medical colleges. All that the BJP is interested in is to topple governments through misuse of power, money and resources,” he said. With Bengal scheduled to hold Assembly polls next year, Hemant said his party, the JMM, would fight elections in the neighbouring state in all seriousness. “JMM has been fighting elections in Bengal. We will do so, this time too. Our teams are undertaking field visits to assess the ground situation to be able to finalise the number of seats we will contest,” said Hemant. On Sunday, the chief minister visited Tarapeeth with his family to offer prayers. He indicated that the JMM wasn’t averse to forging alliances with like-minded Opposition parties. “If the situation demands, we shall obviously go to alliances. I also learnt through the media that the West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is planning to call a meeting of non-BJP parties in view of the elections. We too shall take part, if invited formally,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-198
21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Active cases above 100 only in Ranchi and East Singhbhum now||Only two of 24 districts in Jharkhand, Ranchi and East Singhbhum, had more than 100 active cases of Covid-19 infection after recoveries outnumbered fresh cases in the state on Sunday, bringing the number of patients down to 97 from 102 in Bokaro, the third district to have a triple-digit-figure of active cases until Sunday, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. As per government data, Pakur had only one active case of Covid-19 infection on Sunday and could become the first district in Jharkhand with zero Covid patients soon. Giridih and Simdega had six Covid patients each, and were in the race to bring the number of active cases down to zero soon, health officials said. While the state reported 172 cases against 182 recoveries, no Covid fatalities were reported in Jharkhand on the day. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 108 recoveries against 71 fresh cases brought the active cases in Ranchi down at 759 – the highest among all the districts in the state. At least five districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day, while four districts registered a double-digit-spike. East Singhbhum reported 15 cases and the same number of recoveries on the day, while Dhanbad reported 16 cases against 10 recoveries. At least 12 cases surfaced in Ramgarh, while three patients recovered there. So far, the state has reported 1010 Covid casualties, and at least 355 victims were from East Singhbhum. Ranchi, on the other hand, has reported 209 Covid deaths, while 100 people of died of the infection in Dhanbad. All the remaining 21 districts have reported less than 100 Covid casualties in Jharkhand, keeping the mortality rate in the state at 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. On Sunday, the government tested swab samples of 10,346 people and more than 1.5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 46.39 lakh people and tested 46.24 lakh of them. The Covid tally in the state was 1,13,025, while there were only 1708 active cases of infection. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.17 per cent against the national average of 0.21 per cent. The doubling rate of the infection in the state was 418.44 days against the national average of 329.67 days. The recovery rate in Jharkhand was 97.59 per cent against the national recovery rate of 95.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-198
21-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi's Kasturi Mahila Sabha distributes blankets, warm clothes for the poor||Kasturi Mahila Sabha, an outfit of the spouses of officials of Ranchi-based Central Mine Planning and Design Institute, on Saturday distributed around 150 blankets to the poor. The Sabha, which is over four-decades-old, distributed warm clothes and blankets to the workers of Birsa Primary School and Birsa High School, Gondwana and Recreation Club boys and contractual workers of the institute on the premises of the CMPDI, a subsidiary of Coal India Limited, a Maharatna company. Sabha president Meeta Saran said they have already carried out similar social activities and would continue to do so in the future using their own resources to alleviate the sufferings of the poor and the unfortunate. CMPDI chairman-cum-managing director Shekhar Saran praised the initiative of the Sabha. “It is a commendable feat of the Sabha to arrange funds of their own to help the poor of the society. Such work needs to be carried out in the future too. We should fulfil our responsibilities towards deprived and needy people in whatever way possible,” he said. The distribution event was attended by Usha Mishra, wife of K.K. Mishra, director (training), and Neeraja Gomasta, wife of S.K. Gomasta, director (training and CRD), among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-198
