22-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad deprived of power supply for three hours||The Damodar Valley Corporation from Monday began carrying out power cuts in its command areas including Dhanbad, affecting the electricity supply in the suburban areas of the district. The three-hour power outage began on Monday night and was carried out in two batches of one and a half hours each. However, the Dhanbad town, which falls under the jurisdiction of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited, remained unaffected by the incident. The organisation draws extra power from the newly established 250-megawatt capacity Kandra-based power grid substation. The DVC carried out the outage in order to clear its pending duesRs 4141.02 crores from Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited. It had recently charged the organisation for not paying Rs 150 crore dues as per an agreement made in September, saying that it had received only 25 crores. Expressing anger at the issue of power cuts, Surendra Arora, a gift shop owner at the Bank More area said, “Power cuts by the DVC has become a regular regular phenomenon and common people here are frustrated over the problem.” Arora, who is former president of Bank More chamber of Commerce and Industry, added, “DVC is using the coal and manpower of Jharkhand but leaves no opportunity to deprive the people here of the power, which is the most essential service nowadays and such an attitude is totally anti-people.” “We pay the bills regularly, then why should we be deprived of power due to a dispute between JBVNL and DVC which has been going on since long,” Dilip Singh, a resident of Hirapur said. General Manager of Dhanbad Electric Supply Area, Ajeet Kumar, said, “Since the commissioning of Electric Grid Substation of our own during the last year, our dependence on Damodar Valley Corporation for power drawal has greatly reduced. So power supply has largely remained unaffected in the Dhanbad town area although we faced difficulty in adjoining localities including Nirsa, Jharia, Tundi and Bokaro.” “We are also in the process of integrating the Jharia, Nirsa and Tundi circuits with the Kandra grid, which will also reduce the dependence of these areas for power supply from DVC,” further said Kumar. “If the power crisis continues in future and outages are further increased then we may face problems. However, efforts are on at the state government level to sort out the issue,” he added. The DVC has threatened to increase the power cuts every week if the Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited does not clear its dues. The DVC provides 600 megawatt of power supply in seven districts of Jharkhand including Dhanbad, Bokaro,Giridih, Chatra, Hazaribagh, Koderma and Ranchi. “The power outage is being carried out due to non-payment of dues by JBVNL,” Chief Engineer (Commercial) of DVC, Manik Chandra Rakshit said, refusing to elaborate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-196
22-12-2020||Jharkhand||Child labourers rescued from two bakery units in Dhanbad||A team of the district labour department, led by labour superintendent Praveen Kumar, conducted raids at two Bakery units in Baghmara on Tuesday. Following the raids, officials rescued 13 child labourers working in Hindustan Bakery and Bagharma Bakery. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh instructed the bust, acting on complaints of two different NGOs - Bachpan Bachao Andolan and Jharkhand Grameen Vikash Trust. Talking to the media, Kumar said the raid was conducted as per labour laws and the rescued children will be presented before the district child welfare committee through the child line. “We will lodge a case against the factory owner as per labour laws which prohibits employment of child labour,” he said. Kumar added that they have detected several anomalies in Hindustan Bakery with regard to employees and appropriate action will be initiated against the owner in accordance with relevant sections of labour laws. Shankar Rawani, president of Jharkhand Gramin Vikash Trust,and part of raiding team, said, “We have rescued 25 chidren during the last two days, including 12 last night.” “All the rescued children are residents of Jamtara, Deoghar, Madhupur, Narayanpur and Tundi (Dhanbad) and belong to extremely poor families” he further added. The children will be rehabilitated according to instructions from the DC. All of the kids were presented before the child line in the afternoon after mandatory covid tests and medical checkup was conducted. The father of a rescued child hailing from Narayanpur arrived in Dhanbad and said, “Poor financial conditions ate compelling us to send our children to work in bakery units.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-196
22-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand bank officer held in Kharagpur for Rs 4 cr fraud||Jharkhand police on Tuesday arrested a former assistant general manager of the Jharkhand State Cooperative Bank (JSCB) from Bengal for misappropriation of funds to the tune of Rs 4 crore. Sandip Sen, who is understood to have extended undue favours to a businessman in connivance with other bank officials, was arrested from Kharagpur, according to an official statement issued by police headquarters. Sen, who was posted in the Ranchi head office as assistant manager (accounts), is accused of forging account books in connivance with Sunil Kumar Sathpathi, who was the manager of the Seraikela branch, and another staffer, Madan Lal Prajapati, to benefit one Sanjay Kumar Dalmia. A case against Sen was lodged in the Seraikela police station in 2019 under various sections of IPS and Anti-Corruption Act after the fraud came to light, police said. “As many as 12 separate loans were running under the name of Dalmia in this bank. However, Sen along with the other co-accused forged the bank accounts to help him close all the loan accounts without payment. As a result, the bank incurred losses to tune of Rs 4.14 crore,” the police statement said. “Sen is being brought to Ranchi on transit remand following his arrest. CID will file a charge sheet against him soon,” it added. CID sources said the fraud, committed between 2011 and 2016, was estimated to be around Rs 38 crore. “Different bank officials in the Seraikela branch issued loans to Dalmia. But over the years, all his loan accounts went on to become non-performing assets (NPA). In some instances, despite NPAs, he (Dalmia) enjoyed financial favours from the bank because of connivance of a few officials, said a police source. As per the probe, Sen and Co was directly involved in misappropriation of over Rs 4 crore. About a dozen bank officials including Sen were named in the FIR filed in August 2019. Three persons have been named, the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-196
22-12-2020||Jharkhand||Control room to monitor, troubleshoot Covid-19 vaccination||The state health department has set up a special control room with representation from various stakeholders, including doctors and development partners such as World Health Organisation (WHO), in order to monitor the vaccination programme for Covid-19 across Jharkhand, officials said on Tuesday. The state control room consists of five teams of around 50 doctors with each team assigned a specific task, said Dr Ajit Prasad, a member of the control room. The control room comprises separate teams for technical assistance, data management, communication and demand generation, cold chain and logistics management and capacity building. Each team has around 10 doctors, said Dr Prasad, the second lead in the technical assistance team. Dr L.R. Pathak, a member of the capacity building team, said all stakeholders will meet every week and plan the future course of action in the vaccination programme. The members of the control room will also identify various challenges in running the immunization programme in Jharkhand and troubleshoot, he added. The control room has been given the responsibility of monitoring the storage and transportation of the vaccine once it is made available to the state. “Since every team has been given different sets of responsibilities, it will become easier for them to focus on specific challenges and take up the matter during the weekly meetings,” said Dr Prasad. On Tuesday, the National Health Mission (NHM) answered frequently asked questions related to the Covid-19 vaccine in which it stated that a photo identity proof will be a must for any person to get Covid-19 vaccine shots. The document further stated that people would have to continue taking precautionary measures against the virus even after getting the shots. The vaccine, it said, will generate protective levels of antibodies in the body in two weeks after taking the second dose. As per figures with NHM, Jharkhand already has 1,666 electrical equipment for running vaccination programmes. These include ice lined refrigerators (ILRs) and deep freezers (DFs). ILRs, officials said, maintain a temperature between 2 degree Celsius and 8 degree Celsius, while DFs help maintain a temperature below 0 degrees for vaccine storage. Deep freezers are also used for maintaining the temperature during transportation of vaccines. For storage of the vaccine, Jharkhand already has 275 cold chain points and has proposed another 30 to enhance the storage capacity in the state, officials from NHM said. Figures shared by a source in the health department highlighted that Jharkhand has five walk-in coolers and four more are being procured. The state also has three walk-in freezers and two more will be procured soon. Besides, there are 5,505 cold boxes and 41,979 vaccine carriers available in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-196
22-12-2020||Jharkhand||Picnickers visiting Dimna Lake to be tested for Covid till January||Police administration is focussing on making picnickers follow social distancing norms and wearing masks at Dimna lake. On Tuesday, about 1,000 picnickers from different parts of the steel city and also from Bengal and Odisha were subjected to Covid tests by the district health department officials with police cooperation. Led by SP Subhash Chandra Jat, a police party first carried out a survey of the picnic spot around 11 am, and subsequently made all picnickers, including women and children, undergo rapid antigen tests (RAT). "Picnic is not prohibited at Dimna lake area, but those visiting  must adhere to Covid norms like wearing masks and social distancing. During the survey we found picnickers without masks and not maintaining social distance.  Hence, we called in district health department officials for carrying out RATs," Jat told The Telegraph Online. "We are also keeping a watch on criminals who come here with intentions of snatching gold-chains, mobile phones and harassing women. But our priority is making the picnickers safe from coming in contact with the coronavirus.  The drive started today and will continue till the first week of January," he added. For picnickers and year-end travellers, Jubilee Park in Bistupur and Dimna lake used to be prime places of attraction.  But as Jubilee Park closed since the lockdown, Dimna lake remains the only place to visit now. Currently, about 1,000 people visit Dimna lake every day. But the year end crowd is expected to swell to thousands, posing a challenge for the police administration.. A senior police officer, part of Tuesday's drive, said that they have started large-scale Covid testing at the lake as a strategy to diffuse numbers. "We cannot prevent people from picnicing at Dimna lake. But, at the same time, we have to ensure that those coming must adhere to Covid norms.  As many people are reluctant to get tested, this might discourage them to throng the spot," he said. East Singhbhum district civil surgeon, Dr RN Jha confirmed that health department officials have conducted large-scale Covid tests at Dimna lake area on Tuesday. "We conducted Covid tests on people visiting the lake after being informed by the city police.  Similar tests will continue at Dimna lake till the first week of January," Jha informed The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-196
22-12-2020||Jharkhand||Church appeals to CM for Christian presence in cabinet||Ranchi Archbishop Felix Toppo advised the faithful to ensure that Christmas this year is celebrated with simplicity and without grandeur, while the Church appealed to chief minister Hemant Soren to appoint a Christian minister in his cabinet to look after the interests of the minority community. "We welcome all to visit the manger here that will be opened for public viewing for the first time this year, but request them not to bring any cake, gift or flowers," Toppo told the media at Archbishop House on Tuesday morning. Also present was Auxiliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas who highlighted some of the problems faced by the church while running minority educational institutions. "We couldn't fill up vacant posts of teachers in our schools which hampered teaching because the previous government delayed approvals," he said, but added that the Hemant Soren government was, however, looking into the matter. "There's no Christian minister in Jharkhand. I appeal to the chief minister to appoint one who will look into the interests of the minority community, " he also said.  Toppo also advised the faithful of the Roman Catholic Church not to spend money on decorating their houses or bursting crackers. Instead, they should donate the money saved to the poor. "We have invited rikshaw-pullers of the city to join us at lunch at Loyola Ground on Christmas Day," Bishop Mascarenhas said, adding that the event would be in tune with the social work the Archdiocese has been undertaking  during the pandemic by running shelter houses and community kitchens. The Bishop also suggested mangers be prepared at home using old materials and decorated by using a single star of Bethlehem so that the money saved could be donated. "It's a very difficult time and we all should do our bit to help the poor and the needy," the Bishop said. "Churches will organise additional masses to accommodate more devotees while observing social distancing," he said, adding that two online masses would also be organised for those who would like to attend from the comfort of their homes. The state government has, however, allowed congregations not exceeding 200 people. In open-air congregations, 300 would be allowed. All Churches Leaders Council of Jharkhand organised a Christmas gathering at a city hotel on Tuesday afternoon that was attended by senior functionaries of various churches and MLAs. Children sang Christmas carols and presented skits based on the life and teachings of Lord Jesus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-196
22-12-2020||Jharkhand||Auto-rickshaw unions go on strike in coal town||More than 18,000 auto-rickshaws remained off the roads on Tuesday in Dhanbad as their association of operators launched an indefinite strike on the day. The unions, in their seven point charter, have enlisted a host of demands, including hiking the minimum fare from Rs 5 to Rs 10. The protesters have also demanded for at least a 50 per cent hike on other fare, demarcation of auto stops by the administration, allocation of routes  and fixation of number of passengers on the vehicles among others. The operators as well as auto-rickshaw drivers also pitched for local arrangements to issue permits for their vehicles by the transport department, and waiver of permit charges when the operations remained suspended during the lockdown. The agitators, including members from the Jharkhand Pariwahan Mazdoor Union, Jharkhand Pradesh Diesel Auto Mahasangh and Dhanbad Zila Auto Chalak Morcha, staged a demonstration at around 12 noon in the Rangatand area. They claimed that their strike will continue until the administration takes some initiative to solve their problems. Talking to the media after the demonstration, President of the Jharkhand Pariwahan Mazdoor Union Sunil Singh said they have been demanding to fix the routes as the present scenario leads to traffic jams. “Though the administration had taken some initiatives earlier, the process was discontinued eventually. As a result, both auto-rickshaw drivers and passengers have been facing difficulties,” Singh, a driver by profession, said. Regarding the price hike, Singh said, “The current rates were fixed many years ago. Since then the price of diesel has increased significantly, resulting in a host of issues. We cannot manage our household expenses due to the skyrocketing prices of essential items.” “We are demanding a written order from the district administration deciding the maximum number of passengers to be accommodated in the auto-rickshaw. We have been having regular disputes with the passengers and some policemen also penalise us for carrying more than the allowed number of passengers, which is 10 at the moment.” Jharkhand Pradesh Diesel Chalak Mahasangh president Chotan Singh said that the demarcation of auto stoppages are long-pending, and the drivers face the wrath of policemen for stopping at non-designated spots. The strike, called by a joint front of several associations, resulted in an inconvenience for the daily commuters. Hari Sahw, a businessman who arrived in the town from Delhi, said, “As I was away from the town in Delhi for some time and not aware of the strike, I had to wait for more than an hour for an auto-rickshaw. I had to ultimately hire a taxi for Rs 250 to reach Kartas.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-197
22-12-2020||Jharkhand||Six of the 24 Jharkhand districts Covid free for now ||Six of the 24 districts of Jharkhand did not lodge even a single Covid-19 patient although Ranchi and Jamshedpur continued to report double-digit-spikes on Monday, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection on the day, bringing the count of active cases down at 1675, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As many as 173 people were found infected in the state in the past 24 hours, while 205 patients recovered during the same period, the bulletin further stated. As per government data, Ranchi reported 82 cases against 86 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 23 cases against 34 recoveries. Among other districts, Bokaro reported eight cases against 23 recoveries and Dhanbad reported only two cases against eight recoveries. Meanwhile, one more Covid patient, a resident of Dumka, died during treatment on the day, taking the Covid-19 toll in the state to 1011. The Covid mortality rate in the state, as per government data, was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 15,347 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the government has collected swab samples of 46.54 lakh people and tested 46.44 lakh of them. Of the 46-odd lakh, people tested, at least 113198 were found to be Covid positive. However, as per government data, at least 110512 of them have recovered, taking the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand up at 97.62 per cent against the national average of 95.50 per cent. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.21 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 431.06 days, while the national doubling rate was 323.01 days, highlighted the NHM bulletin. After Monday's findings, there were more than 100 active cases in East Singhbhum and Ranchi. All the remaining 22 districts had less than 100 patients, while at least three districts had less than 19 patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-197
22-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to boost tourism, jobs||Most of the past one year was spent in tackling the challenges arising out of the Covid-induced pandemic and it’s now the time for bringing the state back on normal track of development. Chief minister Hemant Soren whose government completes one year in office on December 29 said this in Dumka where he had been camping for the past three days. “The pandemic had paralysed normal functioning of the state and the government is now working on bringing it back on track and also giving it a momentum,” Soren said while speaking to the media there. His government would inform the people of its achievements on completion of one year in office on December 29, he further said, adding they were taking some important steps that will be helpful for the people of the state, he added. “We are trying to raise the wage rate for work under MGNREGA and giving jobs to about 15,000 youths of the state by March (2021),” the chief minister said, adding the process of handing over appointment letters had already begun in a moderate way. The state government has also drawn up various schemes for benefits of the people, both in urban and rural areas according to the need, he further informed, adding emphasis was being given for fast development of the tourism sector and boosting self-employment in the state. JMM in Bengal polls “We have our organisation there and the leaders are already working on it,” Soren who is also the executive president of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha replied in the affirmative when asked if the JMM would contest in the upcoming Assembly polls in Bengal. Earlier, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya had also hinted in Ranchi that JMM was gearing up for fighting some seats in Bengal. In reply to a question on whether he would attend a poll related meeting if Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee invited him to attend it, Soren said they would response to such requests in a positive way. “Those who are aware know how BJP fights elections with man and money powers,” Soren said when his attention was drawn towards a tweet by poll strategist Prashant Kishor who claimed that BJP would “struggle to cross double digit in Bengal” and added the hype around BJP has been “amplified by a section of supportive media”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-197
