23-12-2020||Jharkhand||State cabinet clears farmers’ loan waivers and crop insurance||The state cabinet approved several farmers’ welfare measures, including a Rs 2,000 crore farm loan waiver scheme and a crop insurance scheme with an initial corpus of Rs 100 crore on Wednesday, days ahead of the Hemant Soren government’s first anniversary on December 29. State cabinet coordination secretary Ajoy Kumar Singh told the media, “Loan waivers up to Rs 50,000 to small and marginal farmers will be given under this scheme. An application fee of Re 1 has been fixed for farmers. The waivers will be sent to farmers through direct benefit transfer.” He said there are around 12.93 lakh bank accounts with pending loans to the tune of Rs 5,800. Of these, 9.87 lakh accounts are active while the rest have been written off as NPAs. “Around seven lakh farmers are likely to benefit in the first phase,” Singh said. The cabinet also agreed to roll out Jharkhand Rajya Fasal Rahat Yojana (a farm insurance scheme) for which an initial corpus of Rs 100 crore was approved. Singh said that so far, insurance companies were being roped in to handle the scheme but even after hefty premiums being paid by the government and farmers, the returns were negligible in the event of crop damages. “For example,” he said “in 2016, a total of Rs 153 crore premium was paid but the insurance companies had paid a meagre Rs 29 crore to farmers post crop damages. In 2017, of the Rs 226 cr premium, only Rs 13 cr was paid back. Hence, the government has decided to run its own insurance scheme for crop losses for which Rs 100 crore has been sanctioned initially,” he said. The state government will also roll out CM Pashudhan Yojana to promote animal husbandry to increase farmers’ incomes. For the current fiscal, the cabinet sanctioned Rs 154 crore out of a total outlay of Rs 355 crore. In all, over two dozen proposals were taken up at Wednesday’s meeting. To encourage tribal students to pursue higher studies, the cabinet also gave its nod to a new annual plan to fund the overseas education of 10 SC/ST students. “A few courses and universities across the globe have been identified where students can opt to pursue master’s degrees or Phd/Mphil. The scheme will cover tuition fees, cost of visa, a portion of maintenance costs,” Singh said. The cabinet also okayed the setting up of two additional special CBI courts for hearing chit fund related cases. District courts will also come up in Hazaribagh, Dumka, Daltonganj and Chaibasa, in addition to Dhanbad and Ranchi for hearing cases against MPs and MLAs. To curb overpricing of medicines, the cabinet approved the setting up of Jharkhand State Pharmaceutical Price Monitoring Unit. “It’s job will be to keep a tab on instances of overcharging of medicines against its approved prices,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-195
23-12-2020||Jharkhand||Schools form CyberPeace Clubs to educate students on cyber safety||Dayanand Public School and Gulmohur High School have become the first two schools in Jamshedpur to form a CyberPeace Club that aims to make children involved in cyber safety activities. The CyberPeace Clubs are handheld by the CyberPeace Foundation, an award-winning civil society organisation that aims to form student and faculty-driven task forces across the country for the welfare and growth of children in the virtual space. It aims to bridge the gap revolving around the protection of children online and enabling them with knowledge that will help them combat threats and risks. The clubs have been formed as part of a joint initiative involving Whatsapp and the CyberPeace Foundation. The initiative has also trained school students on online safety. In Jharkhand, 3500 students from 13 CISCE and CBSE schools were trained between September and December. Vineet Kumar, founder and president of CyberPeace Foundation, explained the role of CyberPeace Clubs in schools and how there will be more engaging activities that will make students aware of cyber safety. "It is high time schools should have ambassadors who can take forward the vision of a safe cyberspace not just within institutions but beyond them," he said. Rachit Ranjan, who represented Whatsapp, appreciated how teachers have adapted to the situation and have tried their best to make education reach every student. "I thoroughly enjoyed the session. This is a world that is going to impact students. Thus, it becomes important to equip yourself to understand the benefits and pitfalls of social media," said Ranjan. On Wednesday, the CyberPeace Club of Dayanand Public School organised an online intra school debate on the topic 'Social media is responsible for aggravating mental and emotional health problems'. Students of Dayanand Public School spoke for and against the motion arguing how a balanced social media life would not affect health while excessive use leads to serious psychological issues. The hour-long webinar was attended by school principal Swarna Mishra; a member of the school managing committee Rajiv Talwar; founder and president of CyberPeace Foundation Vineet Kumar and Rachit Ranjan from Whatsapp. Teachers from the school also attended the webinar. "This is a good initiative which is the need of the hour. We hope to organise a lot more activities in the future," Mishra said. On Dec 19, Gulmohur High School also organised an orientation of CyberPeace Club where teachers discussed future plans of the club with students. The school has planned a slogan writing programme in the upcoming months as a part of the CyberPeace Club. "CyberPeace Club will definitely help all stakeholders to understand the importance of cyber literacy, a must in today's digitally transformed world. We are sure that with the Club functioning, our students will be better equipped and safe to handle worldwide web," said the principal of Gulmohur High School, Priti Sinha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-195
23-12-2020||Jharkhand||Decomposed body of security guard found after three days||The decomposed body of a 45-year-old security guard was found lying in a pool of blood on Wednesday morning, at the basement of an under-construction mall in Bistupur. The guard, identified as Jaiprakash Singh, a resident of Road No 32 in Adityapur, was missing since Sunday. This led his wife Abhilasha Singh to lodge a missing person report with the Bistupur Police Station on Monday. Jaiprakash’s body was found in the morning at the basement of the mall belonging to Tata Steel Infrastructure and Utility Company (TSIUC), earlier called Jusco. The security guard had a grievous injury on his head, which is being considered as the cause of his death. His jaw was also ruptured, suggesting that the assailant had hit him hard in the head and jaw, leading to his death. A police team, led by Officer-in-Charge of Bistupur thana, Upendra Mandal, visited the spot located just beside the P&MHi-Tech City Centre Mall, on Outer Circle Road in Bistupur. “We have kept all option open regarding the death of the security guard, but prima facie it appears to be a case of murder.  We have sent the body to the MGM Medical College mortuary for post-mortem.  Following an autopsy report the matter will get further clear,” Mandal said. On further query, he informed that there was a gap on the ground floor just above the basement where the body was found. This arises a suspicion that the victim might have had a fatal fall. “But had it been a fall, then there must be injuries elsewhere of the body and not just in the head and the jaw. This is why we are inclined to consider it a case of murder,” the officer said while talking to The Telegraph Online. Deputy superintendent of police (Composite Control Room) Arvind Kumar, who also visited the spot, said that they are finding out whether the deceased security guard was alone on duty. “We are finding out whether any other guard was on duty along with Jaiprakash Singh. If it is the case, we will interrogate them regarding the circumstances under which the victim died,” he said. The family members and relatives of the security guard had created ruckus at the under-construction mall after reaching there after they got to know about the death. His wife, who is the mother of three minor children, has demanded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh from the security agency and a job at the Tata Steel Infrastructure and Utility Company. “My husband was the only earning member of my family. Since he was murdered during duty on the premises of the mall, the security agency must pay Rs 10 lakh as compensation and the TSIUC must provide me a job so that I may run my family,” Abhilasha Singh said. The under-construction mall, where the security guard was found dead, has been lying incomplete since the past seven years due to a legal tangle with the state government over the site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-195
23-12-2020||Jharkhand||Santa Claus comes to coal town with masks ||A group of youth from Jharia, engaged in social work, on Wednesday carried out a unique mak-distribution drive at different squares of Dhanbad posing as Santa Claus to create awareness regarding Covid-19 guidelines. The drive began at around 10 am from Chhai Gadda locality, a slum situated in the backside of the Dhanbad Railway Station. The volunteers of the organisation, Samadhan, led by its founder Chandan Singh, celebrated Christmas by cutting cakes and singing carols. More than 500 masks were also distributed among the residents during the time. Talking to The Telegraph Online after the programme, Singh said, “We used three 20-pound cakes, which were provided to us by Dhanbad Senior Superintendent of Police, Aseem Vikrant Minz. The children were quite happy at our initiative.” Talking about the police officer, Singh added, “During his earlier stint as Dhanbad Superintendent of Railway Police, Minz participated in one of our free education drives in different places. In Chhai Gadda, he occasionally used to take classes and still leaves no opportunity to look after the children here.” Chhoti Kumari, the 12-year-old daughter of a rickshaw puller expressed her happiness over the Christmas celebrations. “It was a very special day for us. We were provided with masks for ourselves and our families and Chandan sir explained in detail about the advantages of using them to check the spread of Covid-19.” Rahul Kumar, a volunteer of Samadhan, shared how the organisation celebrates Christmas. “Last year, a Hungarian IT professional, who was visiting India with his colleague during this time, came to one of our schools -- Shahid Pandey Sanskarshala -- at Chhai Gadda. They both distributed cakes, chocolates and soft drinks among the children.” After the programme at Chhai Gadda, the team visited the Bank More locality, posing as Santa Claus. There, they distributed another 500 masks to pedestrians and commuters, urging them to follow Covid-related protocols. The same drive was carried out in the City Centre and Randhir Verma Chowk areas of Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-195
23-12-2020||Jharkhand||Morning fog slows down traffic on Ranchi-Jamshedpur highway||Several places across Jharkhand, including Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Bokaro, woke up to a foggy Wednesday morning. The shallow fog reduced surface visibility to 800 metre in Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas at around 6.30 am and to 1,000 metre in Ranchi and Bokaro. Several other places in southern and central Jharkhand, including adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan, Chaibasa in West Singhbhum and Khunti, witnessed moderate fog which reduced the surface visibility to below 1,000 metre after sunrise at 6 am. A blanket of shallow fog descended on the steel city and nearby areas soon after sunrise and cleared only after 9 am.  Those manning the local IMD observatory said visibility in Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas was reduced to around 800 metre. The visibility on NH-33 between Ranchi and Jamshedpur was reduced to less than 800 metre between 6 am and 7am, slowing down morning traffic. Visibility of around 800 metre was also reported from several places of the Kolhan region, including Chaibasa, Manoharpur, Chandil and Ghatshila. The shallow fog took a toll on long-distance buses arriving or departing from Sitaramdera bus terminus in Jamshedpur. Buses started and reached late. Streetlamps in Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL) command areas were kept on in Mango (Jamshedpur) and several places in Ranchi till around 8.30 am. However, no train delays were reported in Tatanagar or Ranchi due to the fog. An official at Birsa Munda International Airport in Ranchi confirmed that flight services remained unaffected. "Had the surface visibility been below 1000 metre it would have hit flight services," explained the official. Deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said they had issued an alert of shallow to moderate fog during early mornings across Jharkhand during the next 72-hours. According to Anand, in the absence of any strong system, night time radiative cooling resulted in formation of shallow fog in several places. Calm wind coupled with abundant surface moisture created favourable conditions for shallow fog, he explained. Minimum readings witnessed a rise due to the shallow fog on Wednesday. Ranchi and its adjoining areas recorded a minimum temperature of around 8 degree Celsius against Tuesday's 7 degrees.  Wednesday’s minimum temperature in the capital was two notches below normal. In Jamshedpur, the night reading witnessed a one-degree rise from Tuesday's 8 degrees. Wenesday’s minimum reading in the steel city was two notches below normal. Minimum readings also witnessed a slight rise in Bokaro, Dhanbad, Daltonganj and several other districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-195
23-12-2020||Jharkhand||Coal town residents face problems as auto strike enters second day||Dhanbad passengers continued to face troubles on roads for the second consecutive day on Wednesday, as a strike launched by auto-rickshaw operators remained in force. Demanding a host of needs, including raising the minimum fare from Rs 5 to Rs 10, the unions had called for an indefinite strike on Tuesday. Talking to The Telegraph Online, PK Chaudhary, a resident of Tapowan Colony in Dhanbad and a medical distributor, said that his workplace is 40 kilometers away from his residence. “I travel by bus from Govindpur to Topchanchi everyday. But due to the strike, it is difficult for me to travel to Govindpur, which is five kilometres away from my residence.” “The administration must intervene to end the crisis as common passengers are facing troubles,” he said. Regarding the demands of the drivers, he said, “Although I feel that some of the demands of auto drivers like allocation routes are justified, the demand to double the minimum fare is not.” Chaudhary also said if city buses were available, they would not have faced such issues. A Purana Bazar-based book trader Rajesh Gupta said that the lack of transportation will have an effect on the market as the movement of goods will also be restricted. “We will request the district administration to intervene to end the crisis at the earliest,” Gupta, a patron of the Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said. He also raised the issue of a large number of buses of the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation being non-operational. “Auto-rickshaws cannot serve as the main mode of transportation. If cities like Cacutta and Delhi run so many buses, the government should also ensure operation of around 70 city buses provided to Dhanbad Municipal Corporation during 2010 under the Jawaharlal Nehru Urban Renewal Mission.” President of Jharkhand Pradesh Auto Chalak Mahasangh, Chhotan Singh said, “No concrete step is in sight on part of the administration to end the deadlock. If the situation continues we will intensify our protest to fast-unto-death from Thursday at Randhir Verma Chowk.” We will resolve the issue very soon as a delegation of protesters met me today. But since the issue is being traditionally addressed at the level of the Sub Divisional officer of Dhanbad, I have not intervened into it on my own,” said Chandan Kumar, ADM (Law and Order) of Dhanbad. Sub Divisional officer of Dhanbad, Surendra Prasad said, “Though no discussion has so far been held with the protesting auto-rickshaw operators, we expect a solution very soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-196
23-12-2020||Jharkhand||See how Champa and Rajni are beating the biting cold||Champa and Rajni, two domesticated female elephants at Dalma wildlife sanctuary, are beating the chill with jute jackets. With minimum temperature hovering around 6 degree Celcius at the elephant abode 30km from Jamshedpur, foresters wanted the jumbos to be comfortable. Bonfires are also being lit near the shades under which Champa and Rajni spend their nights. The foresters arranged large jute sacks from Jamshedpur and stitched them together to make “jackets” for the elephants. Trackers, primarily village youths recruited as daily wagers to keep tabs on the movement of elephants and other animals, stitched the sacks as per the size of the two jumbos. “The jackets are thick as four-five layers of sacks have been stitched together. Though the elephants live under a shade we thought of providing them extra relief from the biting cold,” a forester said. According to him, they were also paying attention to the diet of the jumbos. Apart from green vegetables, piping hot khichdi is also being served to Champa and Rajni. Jaggery is also on the daily menu, the forester added Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said the elephants were comfortable and healthy. “It is very cold at the sanctuary. The jute jackets and bonfires have served the purpose,” he added. The mahouts take the jumbos for daily walks inside the sanctuary in the morning. They return late in the afternoon to have food under the shade. Both animals have bonded well with villagers and children, some of whom also feed them coconuts and bananas. Senior elephant Champa, a 50-plus jumbo, was freed from the clutches of beggars in Jamtara before being rehabilitated at the sanctuary in 2010.  Rajni, who turned 11 in October, was rescued from a well at Ichapur village in Seraikela-Kharsawan district the same year. She underwent treatment for her injuries at the clinic at Tata Steel Zoological Park before her journey to Dalma. Both elephants live at Makulakocha, the main entrance to the sprawling 192 sq km sanctuary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-196
23-12-2020||Jharkhand||More than 100 test positive in Ranchi in a day, state logs 209 cases||As many as 104 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus on Tuesday in Ranchi, the only district that reported a triple-digit-spike in Covid cases in Jharkhand on the day, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. Ranchi also accounted for nearly 50 per cent of the 209 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection that surfaced in Jharkhand on the day. However, the district also reported 105 of the 246 Covid recoveries reported across the state, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. While recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on the day, at least three more Covid patients – two in Dhanbad and one in Dumka – died during treatment, the NHM bulletin further stated. As per the bulletin, Tuesday's fatalities take the total count of Covid deaths in the state up at 1014. However, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. As per the latest government data, barring Ranchi and East Singhbhum, all the remaining 22 districts had less than 100 active cases. Giridih, Simdega and Pakur had less than 10 Covid patients on Tuesday. East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and Bokaro reported a double-digit-spike in cases on the day, while four of 24 districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on Tuesday. As per government data, the total number of active cases in the state by the end of Tuesday was 1635 and at least 760 of them were in Ranchi. The government on Tuesday tested swab samples of 15,075 people and around 1.5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 46.70 lakh people and tested 46.60 lakh of them. The Covid tally in the state was 113407 and 110758 patients have recovered, taking the recovery rate in the state up at 97.66 per cent against the national average of 95.60 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.20 per cent. The doubling rate of cases in the state was 425.44 days against the national average of 340.57 days, highlighted the NHM bulletin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-196
23-12-2020||Jharkhand||State table tennis selection trials to begin in Ranchi on December 25||The state table tennis selection trials for cadet, sub-junior, junior, youth (boys and girls) and senior (men and women) categories will be held at JSCA International Cricket Stadium in Ranchi from December 25 to 27. Keeping Covid protocols in mind, the Jharkhand State Table Tennis Association (JSTTA) is conducting the trials in singles category only. Plastics (including water bottles) are banned and players have been asked to show their ID cards issued by JSTTA to security personnel before entering the stadium, said state association general secretary Jai Kumar Sinha. “No events could be organised this year due to the pandemic. The selection trials will give an opportunity to paddlers to get back to action,” said East Singhbhum District Table Tennis Association secretary U.K. Chatterjee. According to him, the Table Tennis Federation of India has scheduled the nationals at Sonepat and Indore in January. Twenty boys and girls from East Singhbhum will be attending the trials in the capital. They include  Anurabh Saha, Soumil Mahato, Ashmit Chouhan, Karan Raj, Mrinmaya Pradhan, PL Teja, Sai Akshay Suman, Sudhanshu Ranja, Vaibhav Sharma and Dinesh Rakshit. Archita Dey, Aadya Chouhan, Swastika Shukla, Samriddhi Shraddha, Anushka, Janvi Prasad, Khushi Kumari, Saniya Banerjee, Chandni Kumari and Shruti Mahananda are among the girls who will try their luck in Ranchi. Chatterjee said he was hopeful about the prospects of their paddlers getting slots in state outfits for different age categories. “We have promising players some of whom have the experience of competing in national competitions. We are sending talented boys and girls for the trials. We have adequate infrastructure at JRD Tata Sports Complex which provides a platform for paddlers to hone their skills under experienced coaches,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-196
