24-12-2020||Jharkhand||Christmas celebrations for differently-abled kids at Dhanbad school||Children with mental disability and hearing impairment celebrated Christmas at Jeevan Jyoti School on Thursday in the presence of their parents and members of the Rotary Club of Dhanbad. About 45 kids partook of delicacies like chhola bhatura, gajar ka halwa, cake, chocolates and potato chips and danced to Christmas carols. The celebration began at around 11am and concluded at around 2: 30pm. The celebration was attended by chief guest Dasrath Chandra Das, Deputy Development Commissioner of Dhanbad. He presided over the gifting of a wheel chair to a physically disabled person on behalf of the Rotary Club. Sanjay Khemka, president of Jeevan Jyoti Sanshan in his address apprised the chief guest of the range of activities for overall development of the special children besides education and vocational training. He further said that around 125 special students of various categories are presently enrolled at the center who are being provided with all kinds of training through online sessions. Das said that these children are an integral part of our society and it is our responsibility to work towards their development. District Governor (Bihar and Jharkhand) of Rotary club, Rajan Gandotra, informed the gathering about social activities undertaken by the club. The celebration, however began with cake cutting by the chief guest. The birthday of an intellectually impaired student was also celebrated during the occasion. “Teddy bears, coffee mugs, cake, chocolates, potato chips were also distributed among the students after the function,” said special educator cum speech therapist of the school Ranjit Singh. Mallu Malkar, father of one hearing impaired student said, “confined to the house due to closure of the school the children, including my daughter, felt very excited after enjoying the special Christmas party.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-194
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||In Ranchi for a shoot, Taapsee falls in love with its food and stadiums||Bollywood actor Taapsee Pannu discovered her newfound love when she visited Ranchi and had litti-chokha, a popular Bihari cuisine found across city streets. Not only the food, but the  world class athletics track and stadiums at the mega sports complex in Ranchi’s Khelgaon and Morabadi had her heart when she visited the city to shoot for upcoming film Rashmi Rocket. As she returned after wrapping up the four-day shoot in Ranchi, the Pink actor tweeted, “What a wonderful experience to shoot in Ranchi,Jharkhand. My first time in the city and taking back some really good memories and an after taste of litthi chokha”. Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren was quick to acknowledge her post. “Thank you for your kind words @taapsee ji. @VisitJharkhand & @prdjharkhand are glad to host you and your team. We are strongly focused on the development of sports & welfare of sportspersons in Jharkhand along with development of tourism in Jharkhand specially Eco Tourism,” he tweeted. Directed by Aakash Khurana, Rashmi Rocket traces the journey of a runner in Gujarat’s Bhuj, Rashmi Kheera, who defies all odds to represent India in the 2015 Asian Games. The film also explores Rashmi’s transformation from a girl belonging to a humble background to a national-level athlete. Taapsee, known for her bold and unconventional role, plays the titular character in the movie. Sources in the state IPRD department said that the Ranchi leg of shooting was done over four days, which got wrapped up on Wednesday night. “The shooting was done at Birsa Munda football stadium in Morabadi and athletics stadium in Khelgaon. It was kept tightly under the wraps to prevent any crowding situation, especially in the wake of covid-19 pandemic,” an IPRD official, who wished to remain anonymous, said. About half a dozen athletes from the state too were hand-picked randomly for shooting in Ranchi by the film crew, officials in state athletics told The Telegraph Online. Sashank Singh, co-treasurer of Jharkhand Athletics Association (JAA), who is playing the role of a commentator, said that working with the team will remain in his memories. “I got the role just by chance. Three days back when the film crew came to Khelgaon stadium, a state level meet was underway. I was doing commentary since our regular commentator didn’t turn up that day. The director liked my voice and requested me to do a small commentary for the shoot. I readily agreed,” said Singh. “Here, we shot about a state level meet in Gujarat where Rashmi debuts from Bhuj and how she ends up winning starting as an underdog,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-194
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||Prayers in batches, not more than 200 allowed in churches||Not more than 200 people will be allowed in churches across Ranchi for Christmas mass on Thursday night and Friday morning owing to Covid-19 restrictions, even as devotees have been requested to keep children below 10 and senior citizens away from the religious gatherings as they are more vulnerable to being infected by the virus, officials from the Ranchi district administration said on Thursday. “The state government’s latest decision of allowing only 200 people at religious gatherings will be followed during Christmas mass too,” said acting Ranchi sub divisional officer Manoj Kumar, who is in-charge in the absence of SDO Sameera S. Kumar said all the police stations across the city have also been instructed to intensify patrolling and make sure that unmonitored gatherings on road were avoided during the festival. “Police have also been asked to keep a watch on drunk driving,” he said. Officials said the government was unlikely to come up with a fresh set of guidelines for Christmas and New Year, and the latest notification issued from the home, prisons and disaster management department earlier this month would be applicable across the state. Usually, huge gatherings are organised at grounds and churches for prayers and feasts on Christmas. However, in the wake of the pandemic, revellers have been asked to attend gatherings in groups. “Separate timings have been set for residents of different localities to attend church prayers in order to avoid overcrowding,” said Vikas Murmu, a resident of Harmu locality, who visits Harmu St. Francis Church every Christmas. Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) has also set a time limit on bursting crackers during Christmas and New Year. Revellers will be allowed to burst crackers only from 11.55pm to 12.30am on Christmas and New Year’s Eve, the latest directive from the pollution watchdog said. Archbishop Felix Toppo has also urged the members of the Roman Catholic community in Jharkhand to follow Covid-19 restrictions and take all precautionary measures during the festival. Toppo has asked people to donate money to the poor instead of splurging this Christmas. He has said that the churches would be adhering to the government guidelines. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan has asked police to maintain vigil on picnic spots right from Christmas to New Year. The government has imposed a ban on smoking and consumption of liquor at picnic spots and police have been asked to deal sternly with the violators.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-194
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||Auto strike comes to end following dialogue with authorities||The indefinite strike launched by auto-rickshaw operators, in support of their seven-point demands, came to an end on Thursday, following a meeting between the protesters and the district administration. The talks, led by Sub Divisional Officer Surendra Prasad, was mediated by Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha. It came after the agitators on Thursday decided to go for an indefinite hunger strike at the Randhir Verma Chowk, alleging that they were not being heard by the district administration. During the meeting, the administration gave verbal orders to auto-rickshaw operators to increase the minimum fare during the lockdown period to Rs 10, which was one of the demands of the protesters. The authorities also asked the drivers to operate their vehicles in designated routes and not take more than one passenger in the front seat. Members of different auto operators associations, including Jharkhand Pariwahan Mazdoor Union, Sewa Dal Chalak Sangh, Tempo Chalak Morcha, Dhanbad Zila Auto Mahsangh and Jharkhand Rajya Pariwahan Chalak Khalasi Sangh, expressed hope that the administration will further initiate measures to notify the fare chart by February 14, 2021. Talking to reporters after the meeting, Raj Sinha said, “A final decision with regard to all the issues is yet to be taken as several rounds of talks are likely to be held. But everything will be finalised before February 14, 2020.” Asked about the minimum auto fares. Sinha said that the rate that  fixed during the lockdown, i.e. Rs 10, will continue to apply. Regarding the route-chart allocation, the MLA said that both parties are yet to sit together and finalise the issue. President of Jharkhand Pradesh Auto Chalak Mahasangh, Chhotan Singh, who was also present in the meeting said, “The strike came to an end as dialogues began with the administration, and assurance was given to finalise all the issues before February 15, 2021.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-194
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||Foresters arrest one for poaching deer, cooking its meat||A team of the Forest Department said that on the basis of a tip-off, they had raided a village near Hunterganj town in Chatra district where a deer was killed and cooked on Tuesday night by eight youths. The foresters carried out the raid at all eight houses on Wednesday at Dalgoma village under Chakla panchayat in Huntergunj block, around 30 kilometers away from the district headquarter. However, seven of the accused persons managed to escape, while one, named Bhola Baiga was arrested. The police also recovered the skin of the deer from his house. Forest range officer Surya Bhushan Kumar, who led the team, said that they got information that a few youths -- Bhola Baiga, Mahendra Mahato a.k.a Gujjar, Kajru Baiga, Manoj Baiga, Ashok Baiga, Shankar Baiga, Sukan Baiga and Karu Baiga -- killed a deer at a forest near their village, and cooked to eat it on Tuesday night. Apart from the skin recovered from Bhola Baiga’s house, the police also found the deer horns from Mahendra Mahato’s residence. Kumar said that efforts are on to nab the accused youths, including Mahendra, who have been absconding since the raid. The officer further added that killing of deer is a crime under Wildlife Protection Act, and the department is leaving no stones unturned to create awareness among the villagers. However, this is not the first time such an incident took place. Despite raids followed by arrests, the forest has failed to put a check on deer poaching in Chatra which still has dense forest covers. A few foresters were suspended in March for cooking and eating the deer meat which was seized from poachers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-194
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||Spend more towards state’s development, Hemant tells banks||Chief minister Hemant Soren has urged banks operating out of Jharkhand to be more forthcoming in providing fiscal assistance to people in the post-lockdown era to help revive ailing sectors of the economy. Speaking at a seminar on state credit organised by NABARD here on Thursday, Hemant suggested that the banking sector plough back a major part of profits earned from the state into its development. Citing an example of poor financial assistance to farmers, he said, “In the 2020-21 fiscal year, I have learnt that Rs 2,033 crore was given to around 65,000 farmers in the form of loans. There is immense scope for improvement in this sector. In neighbouring Bengal, banks have dished out around Rs 7,000 crore in loans. Geographically, both Jharkhand and Bengal are almost similar, and have identical challenges in terms of agriculture. But credit linkages there are better vis-à-vis ours.” Hemant said that considering the global pandemic that has derailed every sector and halted growth, both banks and respective governments would have to come on board with a common agenda of creating sustainable development. “I believe all major banks who earn profits from this state should now spend a major portion of their earnings towards development here. Just giving a day’s square meal (ration) to the poor isn’t enough. We have to help people grow so that they can stand on their own, create opportunities for others and not just remain dependent on welfare schemes,” he said. NABARD also presented its state focus paper for 2021-22 in which it has assessed a credit flow potential to the tune of Rs 28,643.64 crore under different priority sectors to enhance farm income. Some of the priority sectors identified for the coming fiscal included agriculture, MSME, education, housing, social infrastructure, renewable energy, among others. A.K. Padhi, chief general manager, NABARD-Jharkhand, said that the focus for 2021-22 should be on collectivisation of agricultural produce for enhancing farmers’ income. “The Union government’s target of doubling farmers’ income by 2022 can be achieved only through collectivization of agriculture products. Due to the highly fragmented, scattered and heterogeneous nature of landholdings, rising cost of cultivation, poor market infrastructure, climate change, etc agriculture today is less profitable. Only by collectivisation of agricultural produce, value addition and collective marketing by setting up of farmer producers’ organisation (FPO) can we be able to achieve that goal,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-194
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad-Alappuzha Express to resume operations from January 1||The Dhanbad division of the East Central Railway is almost set to run the Dhanbad-Alappuzha Express from January 1, following an approval from the Railway Board. The Dhanbad division had proposed to run the train with a full rake of 22 coaches from January 1, the notification regarding which is likely to be made in a day or two. Talking about the development, Ranjit Datta, in-charge of the Dhanbad Rail Coach Depot said, “We have already prepared three rakes of 22 coaches each while preparations of setting up a fourth rake are underway.” A total of six rakes of 22 coaches each will be prepared for the new arrangement, he added. “We have not received any written order but have been instructed verbally to prepare the rakes as the service is likely to resume from January 1,” Datta further said. The train, which serves as a lifeline for patients of Dhanbad, Bokaro, Giridih, Chhatra and others, used to operate with just 12 rakes. Half the rakes used to run from the Tatanagar Railway Station. Expressing happiness over the development, social worker and former president of Bartand Chamber of Commerce Kumar Madhurendra Singh said, “The suspension of trains since the last nine months was causing a lot of difficulty for the patients heading to south Indian hospitals.” “We are happy to learn that the railway has prepared to operate the train with full 22 coaches but also request the Railway administration to make special arrangements for sanitisation and ensure availability of sanitisers in sufficient quantity in each coach. This train is among the very few that carries the majority of patients. So it is important to ensure that they do not get infected,” Singh added. He said that full sanitisation should be ensured at all important stations, and the train should make longer halts. “Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway, Akhilesh Kumar Pandey, said, “ We have not received any notification from the railway board so we can’t say that from when the trains will operate. However, we have sent a proposal to the railway board and hope for a nod soon, as the preparations to run the train are in full blow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-194
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||Olympics archery mentor hopeful of India medal in mixed team event||India’s archery medal drought in Olympic Games may well, end thanks to the inclusion of a mixed team event in the competition. Archery mentor Dharmendra Tiwary, who was the coach of the Indian’s men’s squad in the Rio Olympics, is optimistic that Indian archers stand a chance to clinch a medal in the mixed team event (one archer of each gender). “It is good that a mixed team event has been included in next year’s Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan, for the first time. The Indian mixed teams have won medals in World Cups on more than one occasion, and I am optimistic that they can come up with a similar show in the Olympics,” he said. Tiwary was also hopeful of a medal win in the team event. The women’s team comprising Deepika Kumari. Laishram Bombayala Devi and Lakshmi Rani Majhi made it to the quarter-finals in the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro. Tiwary said medals in the individual category depends on the form of archers on a given day. The highly experienced coach, who was bestowed with the Dronacharya award (lifetime category) earlier this year, added a psychologist was needed for the Indian archers to overcome nerves in big-ticket competitions. “But he/she (psychologist) should have adequate knowledge about the game and have a fair bit of understanding of an archer’s needs on the mental front. He/sheshould be able to understand the amount of pressure an archer is undergoing and try to calm it down. Countries like Korea and the US have psychologists as support staff,” Tiwary said. The head coach of the Jamshedpur-based elite Tata Archery Academy (TAA)  said crowd pressure has a negative effect on the psyche of Indian archers when they line up to shoot in top-level competitions. “Unlike India, spectators fill the galleries on both sides of the shooting range in international competitions, including Olympics. Our archers have never competed in front of a large presence of spectators,” the 47-year-old explained. Tiwary is involved in archery coaching for over two decades now and has mentored top-bracket archer and Olympian Deepika Kumari in her formative years at the Tata cradle. He has also mentored Deepika’s husband and Olympian Atanu Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-195
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||Over 12,000 Bokaro residents surrender ration cards||Over 12,000 residents of Bokaro, all of them being financially sound, have surrendered their ration cards to the district supply department, after realising that they do not belong to the economically weaker sections of the society. The move follows a request made by Bokaro Deputy Commissioner Rajesh Singh in June, asking all economically able residents to surrender their ration cards. He had asked them to hand over the cards to the District Supply Department from June 22 to December 15. Singh, satisfied with so many ration cards being collected, thanked the residents, adding that the task to deliver these cards to needy beneficiaries will be strengthened. “On the special appeal, a total of 12,727 rich people have surrendered their ration cards so far,” supply officer Roshan Kumar Shah said. Singh further informed that the process to deliver the ration cards to 84 primitive tribal families is underway. On the basis of priority, a total of 2436 ration cards have been issued to people from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, people suffering from a serious illness, physically challenged persons, and widows. Bokaro Steel City has the highest number of people, 1,926, who have surrendered their cards, followed by Gomia, where 1,897 people have done the same. In Chas, 1,782 people have handed over the ration cards, 1,354 in Bermo, 1,217 in Chandankiyari, 1,374 in Petarwar, 1,150 in Nawadih, 748 in Chandrapura, 697 in Kasmar, and 582 in Jaridih.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-195
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||CRPF picket in Maoist stronghold attacked by villagers ||At least a thousand villagers launched an attack in the picket of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in Pandeydih village under Pirtaand Block of Giridih on Wednesday evening. Holding traditional weapons, the villagers marched towards the picket. The attack has been alleged to be instigated by the Naxals. The 7th Battalion of CRPF has opened a picket closed to the house Ajay Mahato, a member of the Special Area Committee of the banned CPI (Maoist) outfit, in his village Pandeydih. Mahato is on the most wanted list of police with prize money of Rs 25 lakh on his head. Pandeydih under Pirtaand Block of Giridih is a Maoist stronghold. Apart from Mahto who is active from Parasnath to West Bengal and Orissa border, other hardcore Maoists Karamchand Manjhi, and Dhiren da also belong to this village. The entire Pirtaand block, which was once an impregnable fort of the Maoists, has now crumbled with CRPF's bold presence and opening of the picket. By opening the picket virtually in Maoists den, the Police and CRPF has managed to penetrate deep inside the area. According to sources, the angry villagers, in which a large number of women were present, vandalized the picket. However, the CRPF jawans posted at the picket handled the situation in a calm and restraint manner using force and persuasion. The patience of CRPF personnel helped in normalising the situation and avert any mishap. In many places, Naxal violence has mellowed down but despite all efforts, Ajay Mahto remains evasive. Mahto is involved in triggering several Naxal incidents and is presently active in the Chaibasa area, said sources. CRPF DIG Dilip Kumar Chaudhary said, “The mob was there, but the CRPF personnel persuaded them to return. Naxal is directing and instigating them to protest against CRPF camp there.” Sources said the villagers were opposing the opening of CRPF Picket in their village. However, men-in-khakis believe that launching of the attack by villagers is a conspiracy of hardcore Naxalite Ajay Mahto, whose entry to his house and village got restricted with the opening of the CRPF picket. The villagers before attacking picket demonstrated with a traditional weapon and took out a procession in the village. Police are camping on the spot after the incident. The atmosphere of the village remains tense at the moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-195
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||Covid cases continue to climb in Ranchi as 82 infections surface in the day||Pakur on Wednesday became the only district in Jharkhand to have no Covid patients. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), there was only one Covid-19 patient in the district and the patient tested negative for the virus on the day, while no fresh cases surfaced there. Dumka, Simdega and Giridih districts also had less than 10 active cases by the end of the day. As many as 202 cases of Covid-19 infection surfaced in Jharkhand on Wednesday, while 204 patients recovered, bringing the number of active cases of infection in the state down at 1633, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. Ranchi, the district with highest number of Covid patients in Jharkhand, reported 82 cases against 88 recoveries on the day. At least 20 people were found infected in East Singhbhum while 21 patients recovered there. Dhanbad reported 24 cases against 26 recoveries on the day. Ramgarh reported 16 cases against seven recoveries. No Covid casualties occured in any part of Jharkhand in the past 24 hours, a bulletin released by the NHM highlighted. So far, the deadly virus has claimed 1014 lives in Jharkhand. At least 355 victims were from East Singhbhum, while 209 were from Ranchi. At least four districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day, while 16 districts reported a single-digit-spike. The government on Wednesday tested swab samples of 15,549 people on the day and more than 1.5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 46.88 lakh people and tested 46.78 lakh of them. As per government data, the Covid-19 tally in the state was 1,13,609 and 1,10,962 patients have recovered so far, taking the Covid recovery rate up at 97.67 per cent against the national average of 95.70 per cent. As per official records with the health department, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.16 per cent against the national average of 0.20 per cent. The doubling rate of cases in the state was 429.23 days against the national average of 340.83 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-195
24-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand cracks down on crime||Jharkhand DGP M.V. Rao has shared his personal number in the social media for people to inform him directly about organised criminal gangs, indicating the state police’s strong resolve to launch intensive operations against crime. The 1987 batch IPS officer, who took over as the DGP earlier this year, has in a tweet posted separately in Hindi and English on Wednesday morning, said, “Intensive and targeted operations against the organised criminal gangs are yielding desired results. I seek the public participation in Jharkhand police endeavours in creating a safer environment. Please share information on criminals. My contact number 09431106363.” Sources in the state CID revealed that the top brass of the police department had discussed a multi-pronged intensive operation against the 40-odd criminal gangs, some of whose leaders operate from behind the bars, in different districts of the state. “We have 100 emergency dial numbers and also contact numbers of SPs and senior police officials in which people can share inputs about criminal gangs without disclosing their identity. However, this would be the first occasion in the two-decades history of Jharkhand (since it was carved out of Bihar in 2000) that a DGP has shared his personal number in the social media for sharing information against organised criminal gangs. It is aimed at sending a strong message to the criminal gangs and also to the masses that they can now directly get in touch with the senior-most police official to share information about gangsters,” a senior CID official in Ranchi said on the condition of anonymity. The development follows recent incidents of carnage at Latehar by jailed gangster Sujit Sinha’s men and Maoist splinter outfit Peoples’ Liberation Front of India (PLFI). “With rebels joining hands with criminals we wanted to redo our strategy to put an end to criminal gangs. Primarily, the criminal gangs in Jharkhand are involved in extorting money from contractors and fixing tenders. Once we have culled out information about criminal gangs, we will have a multi-pronged strategy against them,” the senior CID official added. There are 40 criminal gangs, which are active in the 24 districts of the state. Out of them, most of the groups are in the industrial hub of Jamshedpur (eight) and capital Ranchi (eight). While some of the gangsters are behind the bars, including Akhilesh Singh of Jamshedpur and Sujit Sinha, Anil Sharma and Fahim Khan of Ranchi there are several gangsters who are out of police reach. The CID has sought details of income sources of gangsters from the respective districts as part of a strategy to block their income-generating avenues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-195
