25-12-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city to host online district-level chess events ||The East Singhbhum District Chess Association is set to conduct two online district-level events on December 29 and 30. While the women’s championship will be held on Tuesday,the  district open event is scheduled for Thursday. District association general secretary Narendra Kumar Tiwary said trophies and certificates will be handed over to the top 10 finishers in each of the two championships. “We are organising the events online because of the pandemic where social distancing has to be maintained,” Tiwary said. Entry fee for each event has been fixed at Rs 150. Players from East Singhbhum are only eligible to participate in the championships. Participants can send their entries to Chandan Kumar Prasad, chief arbiter for the women’s event and Vishal Kumar Minz, chief arbiter for the open category championship. Giving details about the mode and system of the tournaments, Prasad, a FIDE-accredited arbiter, said each contestant would be given 15 minutes and five seconds (Li- Chess System and Chess.com). “We had adopted this mode and system in earlier district tournaments for different age categories,” he added. Prasad said that the tournament will go on from 1 pm to 6 pm, adding that the events would provide ample opportunity to participants to showcase their skill. “The best way to keep our chess enthusiasts engaged is by conducting online events,” he said. In November, the association had conducted online chess events for under seven and under nine age groups. East Singhbhum has several promising chess players who have won medals in state and national level championship. The steel city has a full- fledged training centre run by Tata Steel sports win at JRD Tata Sports Complex. Some former players and arbiters also run private coaching classes across Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-193
25-12-2020||Jharkhand||Projects worth Rs 2,500 cr to be showcased to mark Hemant’s first year in office||Projects worth Rs 1,458.95 crore will be inaugurated while foundation stones of new projects worth Rs 1091.92 crore will be laid and 15 new schemes will be announced on December 29 to mark the completion of one year of the Hemant Soren-led coalition government. While Ranchi’s Morabadi stadium will host a state-level programme, celebrations to mark the day will be held in all districts simultaneously, officials in the chief minister’s office said. On Thursday, Hemant took stock of preparations and finalised the nitty-gritty of the new schemes that will cover various sectors, namely, industries, sports, agriculture and social welfare. In Ranchi, the function will be of two-hour duration. “It will start at 12.30pm. The ground is being readied in accordance with Covid safety norms to ensure proper entry and exit, seating arrangements so that social distancing is maintained,” said an official in the Ranchi district administration. As many as 19 projects will be inaugurated on the day. These include a women’s helpline (dial 181), emergency response (dial 112), a command control and communication centre for the Ranchi Smart City project, an electronic manufacturing cluster in Adityapur, sub divisional courts in Chandil and Seraikela-Kharsawan, and a dairy plant in Deoghar. Foundation stones will be laid for 11 projects. These include revival of the Nehru Park in Dhurwa (Ranchi), a pharma park in Ranchi, a leather park in Dhanbad, an eco-tourism circuit, a state pharmacy institute in Chaibasa, and  community health centres in Gumla and Latehar districts. In all, 15 new schemes will be rolled out. These include a farm loan waiver plan, CM pashudhan yojana to boost animal husbandry, a state tourism policy 2020 and a new sports policy. The state government will also sign two MoUs with All India Football Federation (AIFF) and National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) for promotion of sports and the dairy sector, according to an official communiqué.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-193
25-12-2020||Jharkhand||No mask? Spend 8 hours in a steel city jail, pay Rs 500 as fine||Driving a car or bike without a mask in the steel city during the remaining days of the year will mean that the offender will have to spend eight hours in a camp jail. That is not all. Jamshedpur police will also subject the offender to a Covid test and slap a penalty of Rs 500 on him/her. "We have launched the drive and set up checkpoints at strategic locations in all 17 police stations areas. But our focus will be on the checkpoints located in Bistupur, Sakchi, Jugsalai, Mango and Golmuri," said City SP Subhash Chandra Jat on Friday. He pointed out that police would intercept only those riders who were without masks and helmets. Even if a rider is wearing a helmet but is without a mask, or a pillion rider is without a mask, then the person without a mask would be penalised and put in a camp jail for eight hours. "We have set up two camp jails in the city. One is at Motilal Nehru Public School at Bistupur and another at the closed Incab Industries Ltd in Golmuri. Those put in camp jails will also have to undergo a Covid test," he added. If caught without a mask, those in cars or on bikes would also have to produce all vehicle papers, including a driving licence. The police drive is on at Bistupur, Jugsalai, Sakchi, Kadma, Sonari, Golmuri, Mango and Telco. It will continue till the New Year and beyond, said senior police officers, including SSP M. Tamil Vanan. City SP Jat said police opted for the harsh measure during the festive month because a large number of people, especially youngsters, usually hit the streets with their two-wheelers without paying heed to traffic rules. “Also, we wanted to ensure everyone takes precautionary measures in view of the Covid-19 pandemic,” Jat said. The City SP said that those travelling in cars would also be watched. All occupants of a car would have to wear masks. Sources said police have spread out across the city and checking would be widespread. "This will be a kind of random checking. Moreover, during such drives police personnel from the traffic wing as well as from police stations will be deployed,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-193
25-12-2020||Jharkhand||Coal town vendors stage protest over congestion at Hirapur market||Over a hundred shopkeepers of the Hirapur market in Dhanbad on Friday gathered near the static garbage compactor station of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, demanding allocation of parking areas for vehicles in the market. The move comes after the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation decided to develop a vacant space inside a children’s lawn, used for keeping cars, into a full fledged park. Already facing a problem of congestion due to narrow lanes and overcrowding, the corporation’s decision infuriated the vendors, who in turn staged the protest on Friday. The protesters, led by Amitesh Sahay, president of the trade wing of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, also demanded setting up a vending zone at the Machhli Patti locality in Hirapur to provide space to shopkeepers sitting on pavements. “Ahost of issues, including the encroachment by some shopkeepers and lack of parking space, have created such a situation in the market that despite having the best quality of products many vendors get very few customers,” Sahay told reporters. “After all how and where the customers will park their vehicles in this congested area,” the prominent hotelier said. He added that the corporation should shift its static compactor station from Hirapur and develop a parking area, which would solve the problem. “There is no logic in establishing a static garbage compactor station in the densely populated heart of the town. It will have serious implications on the health of people living in surrounding areas due to the foul smell coming out of it” said Sahay. “We also demand that the DMC authorities develop a vending zone at the Machhli Patti locality of Hirapur under the National Urban Livelihood Mission so that the pavement shopkeepers encroaching the market can be shifted there. I will solve the problem of permanent rehabilitation of the street vendors and simultaneously help to decongest the Hirapur Park Market.” Sanjeev Chaurasia, president of  Hirapur Chamber of Commerce, said, “The DMC plan to develop a children’s park will aggravate the problem and so an alternative parking lot should be immediately developed at the compactor station. The rehabilitation of pavement shop keepers by developing a vending zone is also necessary.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-193
25-12-2020||Jharkhand||This year, state celebrates a different Christmas||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-193
25-12-2020||Jharkhand||More than 170 fresh Covid cases, two deaths in a day||Two more Covid-19 patients, both residents of Ranchi, died during treatment on Thursday in Jharkhand, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 1016 and that in Ranchi to 211, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. While recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection on the day, Ranchi continued to report the highest count of cases among the 24 districts even on Thursday. However, the number of patients dropped in the district as it reported 82 recoveries against 78 cases, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM). In terms of recovery too, Ranchi achieved the top spot among the districts in Jharkhand, the bulletin further stated. As many as 750 people were battling the infection in Ranchi by the end of Thursday. As many as 177 people were found infected across Jharkhand on the day, while 213 patients recovered. As per government data, the number of active cases dropped to 1595 after Thursday's findings. At least seven districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on Thursday, while only three districts – Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Bokaro – reported a double-digit-spike. East Singhbhum reported 24 cases against 30 recoveries, while 17 people were found infected in Bokaro and 13 recovered there. Pakur, where the number of active cases had come down to zero on Wednesday, did not report any fresh case of infection on Thursday. The number of Covid patients increased in Simdega from nine to 12, while Godda and Giridih had nine and six active cases respectively by the end of Thursday. The government tested swab samples of 16485 people on the day and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 47.10 lakh people and tested 46.97 lakh of them. Of the 113786 people infected by the virus in Jharkhand, at least 111175 have recovered, reveals government data. As per government figures, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.15 per cent against the national average of 0.21 per cent. The recovery rate for Covid-19 in the state was 97.70 per cent, which is better than the national average of 95.70 per cent. The mortality rate in Jharkhand, however, has remained close to 0.9 per cent in the past one month. The NHM bulletin on Thursday stated that it would take 465.44 days for the number of cases to double in Jharkhand. In India, the doubling rate was 333.58 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-194
25-12-2020||Jharkhand||Nabard presents credit potential for Jharkhand ||The Ranchi regional office of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) projected a credit potential of Rs 28,643.64 crore for priority sectors of Jharkhand during 2021-22 which was 6 per cent higher than Rs 27,020.81 crore that was projected for the current financial year 2020-21. This was revealed in the state focus paper for 2021-22 released by chief minister Hemant Soren at a state credit seminar organised by Nabard at a Ranchi hotel on Thursday. While Rs 11,183.07 crore that accounts for 39.04 per cent of the total projected credit for priority sectors has been earmarked for agriculture sector, Rs 12,669.20 crore (42.83%) has been suggested for MSME sector in the focus paper. Of the total amount projected for agriculture sector, Rs 6.908.70 crore accounting for 61.78 per cent has been earmarked for crop loan while Rs 3,382.25 crore (30.24%) suggested for allied agriculture activities and Rs 495.15 crore (4.42%) for agricultural infrastructure and ancillary activities. “Nabard has been playing an important role in giving financial assistance to the state and also advising it but more loans are required to be given to the farmers as low interest loans help them a lot in becoming self-reliant,” Soren said after releasing the state focus paper. Citing example of neighbouring Chhattisgarh, he said farmers were given loans worth Rs 7,000 crore in that state during 2019-20, which was much higher than the loans worth Rs 233 crore only given to 65,000 farmers of Jharkhand. “Strengthening rural economy by helping farmers is like strengthening the roots of the society,” Soren opined, adding improvement in farmers’ economic condition would help securing a sustainable growth. State’s finance and planning secretary Himani Pandey stressed on improving investment in dairy and fisheries sectors. “Since Jharkhand was formed in 2000, Nabard has given it financial assistance worth Rs 16,000 crore, helped build 15,000 km rural roads, irrigate 3 lakh hectares of cultivable land and construct bridges measuring about 1.5 lakh metres,” informed Nabard chief general manager A.K. Padhi. As a part of its credit planning function, Nabard has been preparing potential linked credit plans for all the districts of the state in consultation with stakeholders, he further said, adding the basic objective behind the exercise was to map credit potential in different sectors depending on availability of infrastructure and linkages, thrust areas, government policies and strengths and weaknesses of financial institutions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-194
25-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand notifies workplace policy on tuberculosis||Jharkhand has become the first state in the country to notify a workplace policy on tuberculosis (TB). The feat assumes significance for India, which leads the world in TB cases, according to WHO’s 2018 Global TB Report. Of the 10 million new and relapsed cases in 2017, India accounted for 27 per cent of the global burden of normal (sensitive) TB. The country also led in cases of multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB), accounting for 24 per cent of the cases followed by China (13 per cent) and Russia (10 per cent). The Jharkhand health department released the policy on Wednesday after it received the cabinet’s nod on Tuesday. “The decision is part of the strategy set by the Union health ministry for elimination of TB by 2025, five years ahead of the global target of 2030. (Elimination of TB will mean there should be less than one case of TB for a population of 10 lakh by 2025, according to WHO norms). “As part of a strategic plan, we have conceived a workplace policy on TB and its related comorbidities, including occupational lung diseases for industries, and this has been ratified by the cabinet,” state principal health secretary Dr Nitin Madan Kulkarni said. Under this policy, all industries operational in Jharkhand will have to arrange for the treatment of employees under an employer-led model for TB and its related comorbidities, including occupational lung diseases. The policy also entails that the employer has to ensure safe and healthy working environment for employees so that they do not suffer from such diseases and also arrange for periodic testing of all employees for TB and other related diseases. If any employee is diagnosed with TB, the employer has to arrange for proper medical treatment. “This is the first-of-its-kind policy in India made for TB, diabetes, HIV and other lung-related diseases,” added a senior National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) official preferring anonymity. The policy also outlines specific roles of state TB control cell, AIDS control programme, non-communicable diseases (NCD) unit, workers union and NGOs. The treatment of the affected employees will be free under the National Tuberculosis Control Programme. As recommended by WHO, the state provides free medicines to patients via the directly observed treatment short course (DOTS) centres. Significantly, TB can be fully cured by a six-month antibiotics course. But India accounts for a fifth of TB-related deaths worldwide. The government has recognised that people in remote tribal districts, with poor access to nutrition and medicine, are a priority group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-194
