26-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tatanagar Loco Shed employee dies in accident while on duty||A railway employee on Saturday died in an accident that took place at the Tatanagar Electric Loco Shed, about half a kilometer away from the Tatanagar Railway Station. Eyewitnesses said that the deceased, 45-year-old Binod Mahato, was trying to shift a wheel of a locomotive with the help of an overhead  ceiling crane when the accident took place. “One of the parts of the heavy crane broke and it hit Mahato's head who was standing on the floor. He bleeded and collapsed on the ground,” an eyewitness said. He was rushed to the Khasmahal-based Tatanagar Railway Hospital, where he was declared as brought dead. Mahato, a resident of Pramathanagar in Parsudih, worked as a technician at the Tatanagar Electric Loco Shed for more than seven years. A chaos prevailed at the loco shed spot soon after the accident. The crane was immediately stopped and work came to a grinding halt at the spot. Station director of Tatanagar H.K. Balmuchu said, “Such a mishap took place for the first time at the electric loco shed. A probe has been initiated in this regard.” Mahato’s body was sent to MGM Medical College at Dimna for post-mortem, which according to railway sources, will be conducted under the supervision of a medical board. The Tatanagar Electric Loco Shed under Chakradharpur division of South Eastern Railway (SER) carries out maintenance and repair work of electric locomotives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-193
26-12-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant invited to speak at Harvard University India Conference||Chief minister Hemant Soren has been invited to share his experience of tackling the Covid-19 pandemic and talk on a host of other issues, including tribal rights, sustainable development & welfare policies in Jharkhand, at the 18th Annual India Conference at Harvard University to be held next year between February 19-21. According to officials in Hemant’s office, his address is tentatively scheduled for February 20. As per an official statement on Saturday, the organisers of the  conference at Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts, sent an invitation to the chief minister on December 25 (Friday), seeking his consent to be a part of the event as a speaker on a keynote panel. Hemant’s office confirmed his participation by a tweet on Saturday: “Hon'ble Chief Minister @HemantSorenJMM has been invited by @Harvard University to deliver a lecture in February 2021.The Chief Minister has accepted the invitation & thanked the organisers. He will speak on tribal rights, sustainable development & welfare policies in Jharkhand.” Hemant is probably the first chief minister of Jharkhand to deliver a lecture at the university. The India conference is the largest student-run conference in North America focusing on India, and is one of the world’s leading forums for dialogue, debate, networking around issues pertaining to contemporary India. Over 1,000 people from academia, industry, business leaders, policy makers and government bodies are among usual attendees. The conference reaches to over five million people through its social media channels, said the organisers. Suraj Yengde, a PhD scholar and senior fellow at Harvard Kennedy School who extended the invitation to Hemant, said in his letter that his work since assuming office has been of keen interest to most research fellows and that he had emerged as a proud tribal/indigenous politician with a welfarist development agenda. “Your acumen in handling governance and politics, making it people aspirational is important for strengthening of democracy that is locked in caste and feudalistic nepotism,” he wrote, adding that they are looking to have Hemant in the chief ministers’ panel virtually to discuss on the issues of governance, state-centre relations, handling of Covid-19 and the intersections of caste and tribal identities in the current politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-193
26-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi to host international race walking meet in February, 2021||Athletics Federation of India (AFI) has allotted the big-ticket 8th national open and 4th international race walking championship to Jharkhand Athletics Association to be held in Ranchi on February 13 and 14, 2021, JAA officials announced on Saturday. JAA joint treasurer Sashank Singh said the event was significant because AFI would pick athletes for the next Olympics based on performances at the meet.  Ranchi first hosted this tournament in February this year in Morabadi, during which Bhawana Jat was the lone candidate to book her place for the Olympics. “There is a place for total of four athletes in men’s and women’s categories. So, three more players have to be picked,” said Singh, adding that about 280 Indian and over 30 overseas athletes, besides delegates and jurists, were expected to take part in the tournament. Singh said AFI chose Ranchi over other venues because of its weather and he facilities at the Morabadi venue. “The walking trail used in the first edition in Morabadi suited all participants and everyone liked the weather conditions here. Hence, we have been given a second chance to host this tournament. “We hope by February, the Covid-19 situation will gradually subside,” he said, adding that they would still put in place a host of Covid safety norms in accordance with government and AFI guidelines. The meet will be held in three categories — 50km men, 20km Olympic qualifying for men and women and under-20 men and female 10km for Asian championship qualification. Jharkhand doesn’t have enough athletes in this discipline, except a handful from Ramgarh. JAA officials said it was due to lack of proper coaching facilities, but expressed the hope that with successive hosting of such events, it would gain popularity in the state. “In our first edition, only two players—Kundan Kumar and Aman Kumar of Ramgarh and Ranchi respectively _ took part. Kundan won bronze and he has now bagged a job in the Army. In Ramgarh, the army cantonment board there has a coach for this discipline,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-193
26-12-2020||Jharkhand||Angling club plans to open doors to women||Angling will no longer remain a male bastion in the steel city in the days to come as the over seven-decade-old Jamshedpur Angling Club (JAC), with 230-odd members, is working towards opening its doors to women. “We would like to welcome women to join us and take to angling with all seriousness. In fact, we want women to support us in promoting angling in Jamshedpur,” said JAC secretary Sukumar Ghoshal. A club member said women played an active role in angling clubs in Bangalore, Chennai and Calcutta. “Women are members of angling outfits in these cities. They also participate in competitions. We should also welcome women,” he said. The club had started some serious work on enrolling women as members some five years back. Some women had also evinced interest in joining JAC and had even approached for joining as members. However, things did not make any  headway, another member said. He added they have plans to discuss membership for women in the next meeting. “We plan to distribute pamphlets and hang banners near water bodies to invite women to join the club,” the member said. Membership entails a one-time deposit of Rs 30,000 and an annual fee of Rs 1,000. Angling is conducted at Jayanti Sarovar (in Jubilee Park), Beldih Lake (in Dhatkidih) and Bara Lake (near Sidhgora). The club also organises an annual competition at Jayanti Sarovar on the birth anniversary of Bharat Ratna JRD Tata on July 29, besides a day-night event at the same venue in November. However, these two competitions could not be held this year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Jubilee Park, where the sarovar is located, is still shut for visitors. The club had planned to resume angling activities at Beldih and Bara lakes after Durga Puja but things could not materialise. “We’ll resume angling once Jubilee Park reopens. Jayanti Sarovar is the mother tank and our members have decided to resume angling at all the three water tanks once Jubilee Park reopens,” Ghoshal reasoned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-193
26-12-2020||Jharkhand||BJP kisan sabhas across the state on Vajpayee’s birth anniversary||Even as farmers protests against the new farm laws continue unabated along Delhi borders, opposition BJP in Jharkhand on Friday organsied kisan sabhas in over 500 mandals (party units) across the state on the occasion of late Atal Bihar Vajpayee’s birth anniversary. Party workers read out the contents of the open letter by Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar justifying their recent farm centric moves. At each venue, the gathering also telecast prime minister Narendra Modi’s virtual interaction with farmers on the occasion of the release of the second installment of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, where Rs 18,000 crore was disbursed among bank accounts of around nine crore farmers. In Jharkhand, around 30 lakh farmers are enrolled with this central scheme that offers Rs 6000 annually to small and marginal farmers in three installments. PM-KISAN was originally launched by the centre in February last year ahead of the parliamentary polls, which helped BJP storm back to power with a thumping majority. However, a year later, Modi 2.0 is now in the middle of an intense stir by unrelenting farmers against the government's new farm laws. State BJP general secretary Aditya Sahu dismissed the protests as a trend stating that the Union government continues to enjoy farmers support because of several landmark steps by the Modi government. PM Kisan scheme is one such to help crores of small and marginal farmers across the country. BJP is committed to farmers welfare unlike the opposition parties who are misleading them by false propagandas,” said Sahu, adding that today’s events across the state were a grand success. Ranchi MLA CP Singh, who was part of the programme held at state BJP headquarter said, “India has today emerged as a global powerhouse only because of Modji’s vision and leadership which is inclusive and progressive. The government is currently working overnight to fulfill its vision of doubling farmers income by 2022.” Detailing on the line of events held across the state, party spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said that kisan sammelans were held in all 513 mandals (units) to mark the birth anniversary of former PM Atal Bihar Vajpayee. “We spoke on Vajpayee’s vision of India, efforts of the Modi government towards making India a global power and read out Union agriculture minister’s open letter to farmers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-193
