27-12-2020||Jharkhand||Gujarat ATS nets Dawood aide in Jamshedpur||Working in coordination with Mango police, Gujarat Anti Terrorist Squad (ATS) arrested Abdul Majid Kutti, a close aide of dreaded underworld don Dawood Ibrahim from an arms-checking point at Mango-Pardih Road, on Friday evening. The police remained tight-lipped about the arrest. They broke the news to the media at 3 pm today, only after the dreaded criminal was shifted to Ahmedabad. Kutti (58), a resident of Kerala, was wanted by the Gujarat ATS since 1998. He has been accused of supplying a huge number of pistols, ammunition, and explosives to the members of Dawood’s gang during that period. The fugitive, under an assumed name – Kamal, had been residing with his family at a rented duplex in Sahara City, a residential colony in Mango, for over one-and-a-half year. OC, Mango thana, Vinay Kumar confirmed the news of Dawood’s henchman Abdul Majid Kutti being arrested from Mango on Friday late evening. “A team of Gujarat ATS had the information about Kutti's whereabouts in Mango, the team in cooperation with Mango police had laid a trap in the guise of arms checking. Kutti was walking down the Mango-Pardih Road and was eventually arrested at the checking point near the Mango thana at about 8 pm on Friday. He was wanted by the Gujarat police for over two decades,” said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. He further added that Kutti after being arrested had been kept at the Mango thana till Saturday night. On Sunday, Gujarat ATS whisked him away on transit remand to Ahmedabad. A police official posted at Mango thana maintained that they had been tight-lipped about Kutti’s arrest because of security reasons. He said that they had disclosed the matter on Sunday afternoon only after Gujarat ATS reached Ahmedabad. The family members of Kutti were not aware of his arrest till Saturday evening. “We do not know why the police arrested Kutti. We came to know about it on Saturday evening only,” said a woman, (probably Kutti’s wife), while answering to newsmen from her duplex. Significantly, the neighbours of Kutti had a good opinion about him. “We did not know much about the man, but he appeared as a decent person. He would speak amicably with the neighbours. He had been living here for the past one-and-half year on rent,” said a neighbour requesting anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-192
27-12-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant protecting the corrupt, says Marandi||Former Chief Minister Babulal Marandi, on a four day trip of the district, reached Dhanbad today and charged the Hemant Soren government of the state of abetting corruption in Jharkhand. “More than 100 trucks of sand are being illegally lifted from Mayurakshi river in Dumka daily. It is being smuggled to Bihar,” charged Marandi. He accused Jharkhand Mukti Morcha workers of engaging in illegal sand smuggling under the protection of the chief minister. “Who can be held responsible for the sand smuggling when all the departments concerned with checking the sand smuggling like the mining department, police, and land reforms department are lying with the Chief Minister himself ?,” questioned Marandi while talking to the media at Circuit house in Dhanbad. Citing examples of land scams that took place in Deoghar and Dhanbad, he alleged that corruption was on the rise under the present government. When asked about the delay in the local body election in Jharkhand, Marandi charged, “The government is trying to concentrate all powers in his hands by somehow delaying the local body elections.” “The state government is afraid of devolution after the local body election as it has illegally usurped the powers of the local people’s representatives,” accused Marandi. He added that the government had been given the mandate by the general public and hence it should be working for their welfare and not get afraid of conducting elections. “If the bypolls in the state can take place then why the local body election can’t be conducted?,” he further questioned Marandi, while citing examples of local body elections being held in other states like Goa, Jammu and Kashmir, etc. Speaking about his party’s stand he added, “We are raising awareness among the masses about the present state government’s attempt to usurping the powers of the local level people’s representative. We will be carrying out an agitation in this regard.” When asked about the Thali Bajao programme organized by various organizations in support of Congress he said that the grand old party is unnerved by the host of steps taken by the Central Government be it the abolition of article 370 or paving the way for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya or bringing in the Citizenship Amendment Act. When asked about the defeat of BJP in the recently concluded bypoll elections for two seats, he said, “We had almost won. They won by a narrow margin.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-192
27-12-2020||Jharkhand||No water in Jharia, residents burn effigy of civic body||Over a hundred Jharia residents staged a protest against the prominent Bata More Chowk on Sunday afternoon against various water-related issues, including irregular and insufficient supply. The protesters, representing over five lakh dissatisfied citizens of Jharia, burned an effigy of the Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority(JMADA), and served an ultimatum of four days to JMADA Managing Director, Dilip Kumar. They threatened to siege the civic body’s office if their demands were met. Residents of Jharia, for more than two years, have been facing water supply problems, owing to reasons like leakage in old, British-era pipelines, and malfunctioning of motors and pumps of Jamadoba based-water treatment plant. Anup Sao, former councillor of the Ward Number 37 in Jharia, who led the protest, said, “The water supply in Jharia was best in the district and much better than the adjoining Dhanbad town. We used to get regular water supply twice in a day but things gradually started taking a downturn over the past five years. This happened due to the old water supply infrastructure of the JMADA developing issues due to lack of proper maintenance, and wear and tear effect.” He told The Telegraph Online that the supply further deteriorated in the last two years and despite requests, the JMADA did not take any steps to better the water supply infrastructure at Jamboda. “The lack of regular maintenance is the main reason for the problem. The JMADA is spending huge amounts of money to lay new pipelines but not concentrating on improving the existing infrastructure,” said Satyadeo Singh, a resident of the Hetli Bandh locality. In a related development, Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh, taking cognisance of the problems, wrote a letter today to Dilip Kumar. He tried to draw his attention to the problems faced by residents of several localities, including Fatehpur Lane, Hanuman Gadhi, Niche Rajbari, Dumariyatand, and Hetli Bandh. He said water supply in these areas is being made once in two to three days. Singh demanded immediate steps to fix the problem by carrying out a thorough probe regarding the reason for the issue. Sub Divisional Officer of Water Supply Division, JMADA, Pankaj Kumar Jha said, “We are working to fix the problem. Four out of eight filter plants of the JMADA at Jamadoba have already been overhauled. The overhauling of two plants each will be completed Sunday and Monday after which the water supply is likely to improve” He admitted the partial water supply to several of localities of Jharia and added that hyacinth lying on river bed also chokes the pump during the night leading to the disruption of water supply during the morning hours. JMADA supplies more than 176 lakh liters of water from river Damodar through its Jamadoba based water treatment complex to Jharia and Katras. Out of this, around 105 lakh liters of water is supplied to Jharia and adjoining areas through a 12 million gallon per day capacity WTP while remaining around 71 lakh liters is supplied to Kendua, Putki, Moonidih and other areas of Katras.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-192
27-12-2020||Jharkhand||Thanks to Tata Steel, a dump yard is now a park on Marine Drive||Tata Steel, which converted a municipal dump yard on Marine Drive into a sprawling park ideal for hosting picnics, inaugurated its ode to sustainability on Sunday. Spread over five acres, Dalma View Point is adjacent to the XLRI campus and is testimony to the steel major’s efforts at improving green cover in and around Jamshedpur. The park was inaugurated by Chanakya Chaudhary, vice president (Corporate Services), Tata Steel, along with R Ravi Prasad, president Tata Workers` Union, amidst a small gathering. Chaudhary said Dalma View Point was yet another initiative to reiterate Tata Steel`s commitment to sustainability. “The clean and green environment is not only adding to the beauty of the area but is also helping conserve biodiversity and helping in sustainable development,” he said. Prasad congratulated the corporate services team for transforming the municipal solid waste dump into a lush green picnic area and said that it was a good site to spend time with family and friends amid nature. Earlier, the site was a solid waste landfill area with limited vegetative growth. It was converted to a green park by layering the dump with soil and plantation of a variety of trees to stabilise the slopes and prevent soil erosion. Air and water pollution from the contaminated dump site were affecting adjoining areas. Local and migratory birds stopped coming to that area. Planting of more than 1,000 plants, 28,000 creepers, 5,000 shrubs and 13,000 sq metre of grass have enhanced the green canopy in the area. The slopes of the dump have been stabilised by planting Wadelia Trilobata, a species known for its extensive root system. These species help in attracting various species of butterflies, mainly Zizeeria karandra and Eurema hecabe. A pond has been developed inside the picnic area to make use of the run-off water and also enhance aesthetics. The pond is equipped with a fountain to maintain the dissolved oxygen level and improve the quality of water. The area has a number of flowering and fruit bearing trees that not only enrich the aesthetics, but also help in attracting birds. The mound top, after beatification, is now a viewing point for the Subernarekha river and scenic Dalma hills. "The Dalma View Point will fulfil a long-felt demand of citizens who want more such spaces in Jamshedpur for family outings and gatherings," said a company spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-192
27-12-2020||Jharkhand||Stage ready for Tuesday's govt anniversary programme ||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-192
27-12-2020||Jharkhand||Covid: steel city heaves sigh of relief as UK returnees test negative||Six residents of the east Singhbhum district on Saturday, who returned from the United Kingdom between December 11 and December 20, tested negative on Saturday, making health officials heave a sigh of relief. The office of the integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP) of the East Singhbhum district carried out both the rapid antigen test and Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test on the England returnees' swab at Tata Main Hospital on Saturday evening. The move of conducting Covid-19 tests on the returnees comes amid the detection of a mutant coronavirus strain in the UK, which is said to be more infectious than the existing one. District civil surgeon Dr R.N. Jha said while reports of all the rapid antigen tests done came late on Saturday evening tested Covid-19 negative, not all the reports done under RT-PCR  test have not come yet. “Not all reports done under RT-PCR test have come yet, but hopefully the report of the remaining tests will also come negative as there were no symptoms of the Covid-19 in them,” Jha said while talking to The Telegraph Online. He said beside the six persons which include a woman, the integrated disease surveillance programme officials had conducted both the rapid antigen test and RT PCR on 34 others who had come in contact with the England returnees during the period of December 11 to December 20 when they reached the steel city. Jha said though all the returnees who tested negative in both the tests tested negative, they have been asked to remain in home isolation for the next one week. “Along with the England returnees, those who had come in contact with them have also been instructed to remain under home quarantine strictly for the next one week.  We will be keeping a close watch on them on a regular basis,” the civil surgeon said. Of those who returned from England, one is from Bistupur, one from Mango, one from Rahargora in the Parsudih area, one from Agrico and two from Sonari. The woman returnee is a resident of Sonari. The district health department was worried about these residents as Jamshedpur does not have a facility to conduct strain tests for Covid-19. “We are now relieved of any anxiety as none of the six persons tested coronavirus positive.  Had any of them tested positive, then we would have to find out exactly how we could put the infected person for a test in the line of Covid-19 Strain in absence of any such facility here in the city,” Jha said. Sources in the  integrated disease surveillance programme revealed that they got to know about the six England returnees from the airport authority in Ranchi via the state health department on Saturday. The information about the England returnees in the steel city had sent the health department officials into a tizzy but finally the integrated disease surveillance programme succeeded in tracing all the six persons and also those who had come in contact with them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-192
27-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs near 200 Covid cases, two new deaths||Jharkhand recorded close to 200 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, as Ranchi continued to register a double digit spike on a daily basis. As per the bulletin released by the state health department on Saturday night, 192 new cases were detected across the state in the last 24 hours out of 19,985 samples tested. Two fatalities, one each from Latehar and Ranchi districts, were reported during the period, while 179 people recuperated from the disease. East Singhbhum reported 45 cases of coronavirus, while Dhanbad and Palamau registered 15 and 13 cases respectively. As many as eight districts, including Pakur—believed to be free of the virus so far — reported zero cases. The state’s total covid count currently stands at 1,14,146 out of 47,26,287 samples that were tested since the outbreak of the virus in the state in March. Of these, 1,598 are still active, 1,018 died and 1,11,530 defeated the infection. In terms of age-wise casualties, 508 people in the age group of 51-70 years have succumbed to the virus so far. It was followed by 264 people above 70 years of age. The casualty figure of 31-50 year age group stands at 197, while 43 fatalities were reported between 11-30 years age group and four died below 10 years age bracket. The state’s seven-day growth rate now stands at 0.14% compared to 0.20 per cent nationally. Seven days doubling rate of the state is 491.62 days vis-à-vis 354.72 days nationally while the recovery rate is 97.70 per cent in regard to the country's average of 95.80 per cent. State’s mortality rate is 0.89 per cent  than that of the national average of 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-192
27-12-2020||Jharkhand||CRPF jawan kills himself in Jharkhand||A 35-year-old CRPF jawan allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service rifle in the rebel-hit Latehar district, around 110km from Ranchi, on Saturday morning.
This is the second such incident within a span of eight days. The deceased jawan, who was in the 133 CRPF battalion close to the Manika block headquarters, has been identified as Praveen Mochari from Dubagaon in Assam’s Baksa district. He had come back from his native place on December 9. Latehar SP Prashant Anand confirmed the suicide. “The jawan had recently returned from his native place and seemed depressed. We can only speculate that it might be because of some domestic reason. However, we have not found any suicide note. The body has been sent for post-mortem to Latehar Sadar Hospital. He had killed himself using his service rifle. The number of bullets that had been fired can only be determined after the post-mortem,” Anand said. Sources in Manika thana revealed that the jawan was deputed in Latehar for nearly a year and had shot one bullet from his Insas rifle that pierced his head, leading to his instantaneous death near the guard’s room of the battalion. The administration has deputed Manika circle inspector Vimal Kumar Singh as the magistrate and a case of unnatural death has been registered at the local thana. CRPF officials have informed senior officials at Chaibasa and Delhi about the incident. On the evening of December 18, a CRPF jawan with the 214 battalion identified as Abhishek Kumar, a native of Nalanda district of Bihar, had also committed suicide by shooting himself from his service rifle under Latehar Sadar thana area in the same district inside the CRPF campus. The jawan had got married a year ago and had returned from home on December 12. Domestic disputes were attributed as reasons for the suicide. However, no suicide note was recovered from the spot and a case of unnatural death was registered before the body was sent for post mortem at Latehar Sadar Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-192
