28-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Municipal Corporation conducts statue cleanliness drive||In a bid to maintain the beauty of the town, Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) is on a special cleanliness drive for all the statues and busts of eminent personalities situated at prime locations of Dhanbad. The statues installed at Randhir Verma Chowk, City Centre Chowk, JP Chowk, Birsa Munda Chowk, Subhash Chowk, Rangatand Chowk, Gold Building Chowk, Hirapur Hatia Chowk and other chowks are cleant thrice in a week using the dust sweeping machines. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, sanitary inspector of Dhanbad circle, DMC, Arjun Ram said, “Though we are cleaning the chowks in general as part of our cleanliness activity, the special cleaning of the statues and busts of the eminent personalities was launched last week, following which the statues are washed with dust sweeping machines.” Elaborating on the issue, director of Pay and Clean Service, Huban Mallik, which operates five dust sweeping machines on behalf of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation said, “Besides sweeping the roads we have started to clean the statues since last week as an additional job.” “The pavements surrounding the statues on the chowks are also being cleant in addition. The small gardens enveloping the chowks are also being watered regularly through our machines,” said Mallik and added that their machines are quite efficient in such kind of cleaning work. “The mechanized work is time and energy saving as the work which can be carried out manually in several hours can be done in minutes through our machines,” said Mallik and added that they are also carrying out cleaning of all concrete recliners lying around the major roads of Dhanbad. Notably, the operation of five mechanized dust sweeper purchased during the last year which was lying suspended during the lockdown period has been resumed during the last week of October this year. Besides the road sweeping work, the additional work of statue cleaning has been given to the agency Pay and Clean since last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-191
28-12-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city to get stricter on tenant verification ||The recent arrest of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim’s henchman Abdul Majid Kutti by the Gujarat Anti Terrorist Squad (ATS) from Steel City’s Mango area has made the district police spring into action. The first step taken by the police to put a check on fugitives like Kutti seeking refuge in the city, is to ensure that the tenant verification rule is followed stringently by landlords leasing out their property on rent. The move comes as preventive measure to stop any locality, especially Mango from becoming a safe haven for criminals and terrorists. According to sources, the police will make it mandatory for house owners to inform them before letting out their property on rent to anyone. Senior SP, M Tamil Vanan maintained that there already exists a rule that makes it compulsory for the owners to inform the police station concerned before letting one’s house on rent, but it barely followed in reality. “The arrest of a close associate of Dawood Ibrahim from a rented house in Mango is a wakeup call for us. We will have to take major decisions in this regard to put a stop to people like Abdul Majid Kutti, the alleged associate of Dawood from using this city as a shelter,” said Vanan while talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday. He maintained that the police for sure will take steps to ensure that anyone wishing to let one’s house on rent informs the local police about the tenant beforehand. “Such a rule does exist, but hardly any house owner follows it. We will get the rule implemented strictly,” said the senior police officer. Gujarat ATS had been in search of Kutti for the past 22 years in connection with a case of supplying firearms and RDX. The accused had been staying at a duplex on rent at Sahara City in Mango for the past one-and-half years on a fake name - Kamaal Khan. Post arrest, house owner Rajesh Sharma has been questioned by the local police with regard to him not informing the authority while renting out the duplex. Significantly, over a half-a-dozen terrorists belonging to outfits like Lashkar-e-Taiba, Al-Qaida and local militant organizations have been arrested from Mango either by Delhi police or Calcutta police or Madhya Pradesh police in the past one decade. The recent arrest has highlighted the fact that militants off late are finding easy refuge in the city, thereby making the police spring into action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-191
28-12-2020||Jharkhand||Four from a family killed in Ichagarh road mishap||Four members of a family were killed and two seriously injured when the car they were travelling in rammed into a stationary truck parked near Daruda village on NH – 33 on Monday afternoon. The area where the accident took place falls under the Ichagarh thana area in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district, which is about 45 km away from Jamshedpur. The two injured individuals have been admitted to the Tata Main Hospital. Their condition has been described as serious. According to the police, family members of Prabhat Prasad were on their way to Dassam falls in Ranchi for a picnic. They were travelling in two cars. “From the scene of the mishap, it seems that the car that rammed into the stationary truck was moving at a break-neck speed. It appears as the other car had moved faster than the ill-fated car, which was moving at a break-neck speed to catch up. However, it rammed into the stationary truck,” said Vinod Singh, OC, Ichagarh thana while talking to The Telegraph Online. According to the police, the impact of the collision was so intense that the car got completely damaged, thereby causing the four of the occupants to die on the spot He said two teenagers, including a girl seated in the rear seat, fortunately, survived the mishap, but have sustained grievous injuries. The police officer said the mishap took place at about 1.30 pm and by 2.00 pm the police reached the spot, rescued the survivors, and rushed them to Tata Main Hospital. Singh maintained that by the time they managed to inform Prabhat Prasad, who was in another car, which was pretty far from the spot of the mishap. He pointed out that only after Prasad reached the spot, that they recovered the bodies and sent them all to the Seraikela divisional hospital for autopsy. Those killed include two women, one of them was 55-year-old and the other was 27-year-old. The former was identified as Mamta Devi, while the latter as Madhu Devi. The other two deceased were identified as Abhay Prasad (30) and Aman Kumar (24), all were residents of Majhitola in Adityapur. According to police, names of those admitted at the Tata Main Hospital are yet to be ascertained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-191
28-12-2020||Jharkhand||Think local, act global, Rajnath tells IIM-Ranchi||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday appealed to the youth to help promote and strengthen local entrepreneurship with the help of technology so that India’s growth story can benefit the grassroots. Addressing the 9th convocation of IIM-Ranchi virtually, the Union minister asked the future business leaders to focus on problem solving methods to help the country become a superpower. The future of any country was dependent on its youth, he explained, and mentioned eminent personalities such as Nelson Mandela, Steve Jobs, Swami Vivekananda, Aryabhata, among others. “Youth is the source of innovation, invention and ideas and India being a country with the maximum young population has the potential to become a very powerful country in future. Young talents from IIM-Ranchi should help in promoting and strengthening local entrepreneurship with a ‘think local, act global’ approach. Apart from education we should also focus on developing research and problem-solving methods,” he said, according to a media release issued by IIM-Ranchi. Stressing on the responsibilities of future leaders, he said, “Businesses should contribute voluntarily to the development of society. And as business leaders, you should work towards ensuring that the benefits of India’s growth story reach villages. “Today, Covid 19 has confined our physical connection, and technology has helped us stay connected, thanks to innovation. Take inspiration and use your imagination. IIM-Ranchi has followed its core values of humility, hard work, and honesty for 11 years now. The students here have been achieving outstanding excellence, which shows the institutional excellence of IIM-Ranchi. Always remember that no success is final, and no failure is fatal.” Singh also asked students to maintain a balance between their personal and professional lives. “In times of confusion one should go through the golden pages of history. It has answers to all questions and it is full of knowledge,” he said. During the convocation, degrees were conferred virtually on 272 students _ 3 PhDs, 182 from MBA and 66 from HRM disciplines. The ICSI Signature Award – Gold Medal was awarded to Jasmeet Singh Bindra in the MBA Programme. The Prof. Ashish Hajela Memorial Award was awarded to Alok Raj for securing the highest GPA in the Strategic Management Area in the MBA Programme.  Prof. Shailendra Singh, Director, IIM-Ranchi, presented a progress report of the institute in his welcome speech. “The institute has performed outstanding and the students have brought many laurels to the institute. We have signed 9 MOU's for the exchange program, including the institutes from Greece, USA, Canada, China, and many more.” Singh, PTI reported from Delhi, told his audience at IIM-Ranchi that modern education should not deter them from taking inspiration from the country's glorious history as it set new standards of knowledge and discovery for centuries in the fields of physics, social science, spiritual knowledge and economics. "Modern education should not be a hurdle in taking inspiration from your glorious past. Just like studying science does not mean that you do not believe in God," Singh said. He also mentioned mathematician Ramanujan and added: "He said 'an equation is meaningless to me unless it expresses a thought of God'". Urging students to work towards nation-building, the defence minister said, “India has been a witness to a long tradition of scientists from Aryabhata, Varahamihir, Brahmagupta, Bodhayan, Charak, Sushruta, Nagarjuna to Sawai Jai Singh.," said Singh. "Before Isaac Newton, Brahmagupta had confirmed the law of gravitational force. It is a different matter that Western scientists got credit for all these discoveries for some reason," Singh said, adding he is talking about it as he himself was a student of physics. He said ancient Indian scientist Baudhayan discovered the “Pythagoras theorem” years before Pythagoras did. The defence minister said according to a famous Russian historian, India had mastered plastic surgery before Christ was born and that it was the first country to set up a hospital. Singh also mentioned a specific contribution to astronomy by 12th-century scientist Bhaskaracharya and suggested that he rehearsed one of the theories relating to orbital periods of the planets that was discovered by German scientist Kepler. "Secondly, he gave birth to the theory of gravitation about 500 years before Isaac Newton who was born in the 17th century," said Singh. The defence minister said the list of India's achievements in science is very long, at the same time added that the country was not behind in other fields like economics, history, political science and public administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-191
28-12-2020||Jharkhand||Coal India chairman meets BCCL officials, discusses production target||Chairman of Coal India Limited, Pramod Agarwal held a meeting with chairman cum managing director of Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), Gopal Singh and others at the BCCL guest house in Koylanagar, Dhanbad on Monday. Talking to the media, Agarwal said, “With the increase in production and sale, the BCCL is expected to overcome the current phase of a downturn.” He further added, "If BCCL achieves the target of coal production of 30 million tonnes per annum, it will solve all the current issues.” Pramod Agarwal said the meeting also discussed ways of coal production, sale, etc. through sustained efforts with the senior officials of BCCL. When asked about the lack of required production and sale, he said, “We are here to discuss all sorts of issues and devise strategies to increase both production and sale, and for the increase in the sale we have to increase auction.” Over the issue of search of non-power consumer and also increasing sale for steel industries, he said, “The search for non-power consumers is very crucial for an increase in the sale of coal and as soon as BCCL finds the non-power consumers, its sale will increase leading to improvement of its financial health.” “We will also have to concentrate on the supply of washed coal to the steel industries for which a concrete strategy is being formulated,” informed Agarwal. Over the huge pending dues lying with power companies including around Rs 3,800 crore with Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC), he said, “Power companies are themselves passing through a difficult phase but talks are on with the DVC with regards to the payment of dues and everything is likely to be settled very soon.” He denied that high prices of coal are working as a deterrent for the increase in sell and said that the increase in the basic price of coal of BCCL is not high and rather some premium has to be adjusted. When asked by reporters whether BCCL is looking to work in the production of other minerals like aluminium, etc. Agarwal said, “As coal has a limited future of 20-30 years we need to look ahead and explore the other verticals where we can spend and long strategy has to be formalized to diversify in other areas which could be either aluminium or solar power or lot more other things.” About the long pending projects of BCCL including the coal bed methane project, he said that efforts are on to bring these projects on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-191
28-12-2020||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum paddlers shine in state trials||Paddlers from East Singhbhum put up an impressive show at the three-day state table tennis selection trials which concluded at JSCA International Stadium in Ranchi on Sunday. East Singhbhum’s Archita Dey topped the cadet girls’ (under-12) and sub-junior (under-15) categories by edging out district-mate Aadya Chouhan and Dhanbad’s Anjali Kumari. Soumil Mahato proved his mettle in the cadet boys’ section by tripping Jamshedpur-mate Arunabh Saha. Pratik Agarwal of Hazaribagh claimed the top slot in the sub-junior boys category by prevailing over Nitin Kumar Mehta of Garhwa. East Singhbhum players continued with their dominance in the trials for junior girls and boys (under-18) section thanks to Saniya Bannerjee and Karan Raj who beat Suhani Sharma (Ranchi) and Dinesh Selvam (also from Ranchi), respectively. Suhani, however, compensated her loss in the junior section by topping the youth category with a fluent win against Hemlata Sinku of Dhanbad. East Singhbhum’s Mrinmaya Pradhan excelled in the competition for boys by outsmarting his Hazaribagh rival Kumar Shresth. Monisha Mukherjee outclassed East Singhbhum’s Chandni Kumar to top the senior women’s category, while Shivaji Roy of West Singhbhum won the honours in the men’s section by putting it across Ranchi paddler Somir Chakraborty. Expressing happiness, East Singhbhum District Table Tennis Association secretary U.K. Chatterjee said they were confident about the performance of the paddlers. “Keeping their performance in mind, our players are all set to find berths in the national championship for different age groups. Though they (players) were out of action for a long time due to the pandemic, they excelled during the trials in Ranchi,” Chatterjee added. According to him, Jharkhand squads for different age categories would be announced in due course of time. “A training camp may also be conducted,” he said. The selection trials were organised by Jharkhand State Table Tennis Association by following strict Covid protocols. Keeping the social distancing aspect in mind, trials were held in the singles category.  Plastic bottles (including water bottles) were banned. Only players with valid ID cards were allowed to take part.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-191
28-12-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant govt ensured ‘roti’, ‘kapda’, ‘rojgar’ during pandemic ||State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said that the Hemant Soren government was poised to speed up development in 2021 after efficiently tackling the Covid-19 pandemic soon after assuming charge, his assertion on Tuesday setting the stage for Wednesday’s commemoration of the first anniversary of the JMM-Congress-RJD coalition. The landmark Morabadi ground is being decked up for the mega bash where Hemant is scheduled to lay foundations of, and inaugurate, projects worth Rs 2,500 crore. As many as 15 new schemes are to be launched. Also, job letters are to be distributed to sportspersons. The function will begin at12.30pm. Talking to reporters during the 136th foundation day celebrations of the Indian National Congress, Oraon, the state party president, said despite myriad challenges before it, including resource gaps, the government’s focus was on “roti (food), kapda (clothing) and rojgaar (livelihood)”. “We may not have done miracles in one year, but we ensured people weren’t denied basic resources. During the lockdown and all through the pandemic, the government ensured rations to about 67 lakh poor. From January, 15 lakh more people will be provided green ration cards from the state budget,” he said. Oraon said to create jobs the government had generated seven lakh man-days of work under rural development department schemes. “The lockdown and pandemic management of our state was hailed by everyone. Jharkhand not only ensured that migrants who were stranded in various places were brought back during the lockdown, but we also fed them and explored livelihood options. A state with severe financial crunch reworked its strategies to devise new modes of earning to continue welfare schemes,” he said. Next year, the minister added, the government would focus on speeding up developmental work which had come to a halt this year. There are four Congress ministers in-charge of health, rural development, agriculture and finance in the 11-member cabinet. Oraon hailed the performances of all the four departments. “In health, from zero Covid testing labs in March, we have now ensured testing facilities at all districts and block levels. In agriculture, despite the pandemic, we ensured that our poll promise of farm loan waiver was fulfilled. Rural development department came up with three new job schemes to boost employment while in finance, we kept the wheels of the state’s progress going,” he said. To mark the party’s foundation day, a Tiranga Yatra was taken out from the Congress office in Ranchi till Raj Bhavan, covering a distance of about 3km. Party workers, including MPs and MLAs, posted selfies on their social media handles. Party spokesperson Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo said, “Selfie with Tiranga was a symbolic stance against the divisive forces in the country. It also to show solidarity with farmers protesting against the new farm laws.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-191
28-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad youths adopt Gandhigiri against auto fare hike ||Perturbed over the realization of escalated fares including the minimum fare of Rs 10 a group of youth under the banner of social organization, Udhav Ek Nai Soch on Monday carried out a Gandhigiri stance by offering roses to auto-rickshaw drivers requesting them not to charge high fares. The protestors led by Sashi Pandey, who congregated at Randhir Verma Chowk in Dhanbad near the district headquarters at around 1 pm, carried out the campaign till 90 minutes during which they also appealed the auto drivers to consider the impact of lockdown on the income of common people and adopt a rationale attitude towards the fare fixation. Talking to the media, Sashi Pandey said, “At a time when the educational institutions like schools and colleges are gradually opening as per the government orders, the realization of high fares by auto-rickshaw will adversely affect the students as many government school going children’s parents have lost their jobs and the income of others have been badly affected.” “The auto drivers are charging escalated fares on their own as the final decision during their meeting with the district administration held on December 24 has not been taken and will be decided after several rounds of meeting before February 14, 2021,” said Pandey. “The minimum fare of Rs 10 is too high from any standard and we would complain the district administration by meeting sub-divisional officer, Surendra Prasad, if the auto-rickshaw operators continue to charge escalated fares which were fixed by the district administration only for lockdown period,” said Pandey. More than 18,000 auto-rickshaw drivers and auto drivers carried out a three-day strike in Dhanbad from December 22 to December 24 in support of their different demands including fixing of minimum fare as Rs 10 and allocation of routes for auto rickshaw and fixation of auto stoppages. The strike, however, came to an end on December 24 after the talks held between the protestors and district administration held under the mediation of Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha during which the administration assured to take a decision on all their demands after holding rounds of meetings before February 14, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-191
28-12-2020||Jharkhand||Cold nights will lead to a bright and sunny New Year’s Day||The weather god won’t play party pooper on the first day of 2021 with Met officials predicting bright and sunny weather over Jharkhand on New Year’s Day. “The weather will be pleasant in the next four to five days. The sun will shine brightly amid a clear sky in most parts of the state. The crisp north-westerly wind which is dominating over the state would continue resulting in night temperatures remaining two to four notches below normal," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He also ruled out dense fog or any adverse weather condition on December 31 and January 1. As per Met office statistics, several places in Jharkhand had witnessed light showers on the New Year’s Day in 2016. In 2015, the weather was gloomy and the sun played hide-and-seek. In 2017, January 1 started with dense early morning fog causing poor visibility. The fog cleared as the day progressed. In 2018 and last year, January 1 started on a brighter note with clear sky and dry weather in most districts. Predicting favourable conditions on December 31 and January 1 this time, a weather analyst at IMD's Patna centre said, "The weather on both days will be bright, sunny and dry. We did not find any adverse conditions in today's (Monday’s) chart analysis and satellite reading." IMD Patna forecast spoke of a haze at isolated pockets in northern Jharkhand on January 1. Monday's forecast suggests that sub-10 chill would continue to prevail in most parts of the state during the next three to four days. On Monday, Ranchi recorded a minimum reading of 8.3°C, one notch below normal. Jamshedpur recorded 9.4°C, two degrees below normal. Daltonganj, which is known for extreme temperatures, recorded a minimum temperature of 6.9°C, two points below normal. Several places including Bokaro, Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, Dhanbad, Koderma, Hazaribagh, Khunti and Ramgarh recorded around 7 °C.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-191
28-12-2020||Jharkhand||Police solve missing woman case in Chatra||Sadar police in Chatra on Monday claimed to solve the missing case of a woman by arresting her husband Deepak Kumar who confessed to killing the woman and burning the dead body in the forest area. Sadar police station officer-in-charge Luv Kumar stated that they had collected evidence from the spot including wooden blocks to burn the body and a bike. The case was solved as the woman's mother didn't accept the story presented by Deepak and knocked on the door of Sadar police. Sources said Deepak Kumar, a resident of Kisunpur mohalla new police line area in Chatra town but originally from Bandu village under Lawalong police station, got married to Moni Kumari (28) a resident of Kani Bazar in Hazaribagh town. Kumar said both were in love and got married in 2017. They also have a boy named Ansh Kumar. In April this year, Moni went missing and Deepak blamed her of eloping with someone with whom she was having extramarital affairs. But Lalita Devi, mother of Moni didn't believe this story and after waiting for a few months she finally filed a complaint to Sadar police on December 27 charging Deepak responsible in this case. She said despite a love marriage, Deepak was torturing her daughter for dowry. Seeing the seriousness of this case, Sadar police came into action and brought Deepak to the police station. He was interrogated after which Deepak admitted that he strangulated Moni and used his bike to take her body to a forest area behind Hia mohalla to burn the body. The officer-in-charge said they collected evidence against Deepak right from wooden logs used to burn the dead body and his bike. He said it was a blind case which was solved as the complaint came to them yesterday. He said Deepak has been sent to Chatra jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-192
28-12-2020||Jharkhand||Protests against Mann Ki Baat in Ranchi||Ranchi witnessed two back-to-back protests of different kind at the local Albert Ekka Chowk on Sunday. In the first, a group of people responded to the call given by All India Kisan Sabha and different trade unions and beat plates and canisters to protest against Prime Minister’s Mann Ki Baat programme and to urge people not to listen to him. In the other, a group of writers and artists gathered there to express their solidarity with the protesting farmers and demanding withdrawal of the farm laws. A similar programme was also organised at Randhir Verma Chowk in Dhanbad to protest against Mann Ki Baat. “Bahut hua mann ki baat, ab koro kam ki baat (enough of mann ki baat, talk about work),” was one of the slogans raised by the protesters at the first programme. In the other, some drew sketches and did paintings at the programme organised by Progressive Writers Association, Janvadi Lekhak Sangh, Indian Peoples Theatre Association (IPTA), Jan Sanskriti Manch and some other like-minded organisations. “We organised this programme to express our solidarity with the protesting farmers who are demanding scrapping of the farm laws,” said Lalit Aditya of IPTA. “We wrote slogans and did paintings to support the agitating farmers and protest against the farm laws,” said M.Z. Khan of Janvadi Lekhak Sangh, adding that was how they could do it best.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-192
