29-12-2020||Jharkhand||Chatra police recovers dead body of CPI (Maoist)'s zonal commander||The police recovered the dead body of Paramjeet alias Sonu Das, zonal commander of Communist Party of India (CPI) (Maoist) from Tikda village which falls under the Lawalong police station. According to police officials, Das had been murdered but they are yet to understand whether extremists or criminals were involved in this killing. He had a reward of Rs 10 lakh on his head. Significantly, Das had recently formed another outfit called the Jharkhand Jan Mukti Parishad (JJMP), which was functional in Chatra. Police sources maintained that they had rushed to the spot immediately after being informed about the murder on Tuesday afternoon. As an active Maoist zonal commander, Das had soured his relationship with many in the area. The police, after a primary investigation had concluded that Das had been murdered in some other place following which his body had been dumped in Tikda village. Superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha confirmed the news of the murder and recovery of his dead body. He said, “We will do a thorough investigation to solve the murder case and understand the motive behind the murdered and who is behind this killing.” The dead body has been sent to Chatra Sadar Hospital for postmortem. His killing has once again highlighted the issue of gun battles between the rival outfits. However, the officials refuted this claim and said regular operations are on in a bid to contain all extremist activities in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-190
29-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad-Patna Festive Express to run for one more month||The Indian Railway on Tuesday extended the operations of the Dhanbad-Patna-Dhanbad Festival Express for another month, till January 31, thereby providing a much needed relief to the passengers travelling between the two towns. The train, having one First AC coach, Two 2- tier AC coaches, four 3- tier AC coaches, 9 Sleeper coaches, six general coaches, and two break vans, was initially meant for operating till November 30. Later, the services got extended for one month between December 1 to December 30, before the new announcement was made. Senior Divisional commercial manager of Dhanbad Akhilesh Kumar Pandey told The Telegraph Online that the extended train will have the same time schedule. It will leave from Dhanabd at  around 11.20 pm and reach Patna at around 5.15 am. During its return, the train will leave Patna Junction at around 11.30 pm and will reach Dhanbad at around 5.20 am. “The extension of the train will help the thousands of people travelling between Dhanbad and Bokaro,” Pintu Kumar Singh, member of the Zonal Railway User Consultative Committee of East Central Railway, said. “We would also request the Railway administration to relaunch the Dhanbad-Patna Intercity Express, which runs during the day hours. It will help avoid the rush in the Ganga-Damodar Express,” Singh added. In another development, the Railway administration said that the Dhanbad-Alappuzha Express will be relaunched from January 8, instead of January 1, from Dhanbad. The decision has been made keeping in mind the ongoing route relay interlocking work going at Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh. The return journey of Dhanbad-Alappuzha Express however will begin from Alappuzzha on  September 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-190
29-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Software Technology Park inaugurated during govt function||Dhanbad on Tuesday saw the inauguration of the Software Technology Park at Sindri as the JMM-Congress-RJD government at the state celebrated one year of its completion by launching 15 different projects in Jharkhand, among others. The park, whose construction began in 2016, was built at a cost of Rs 18 crore on three acres of land near BIT-Sindri. It is expected to be useful for the students of IIT (ISM) and BIT-Sindri, researchers of the Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research (CIMFR), and executives of Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL), Maithon Power Limited (MPL) and Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited (HURL). Detailing about its advantages to the students, BIT-Sindri Director Dr D.K. Singh said, “The software technology park situated in our vicinity will provide opportunities for engineering students to work on live projects. It will also help provide internship opportunities for them.” Umesh Prasad Sah, general manager of Ranchi Business Area of BSNL, and a BIT alumnus, said the project was identified in 2015 itself, when he was in Ranchi as Director IT. Sah, who earlier visited Sindri several times to carry out supervision of the establishment of the park, further said that it will spur technological advancements in the area and would be more useful at a time when the government is concentrating on promoting startups. Meanwhile a host of other schemes were also inaugurated during the district level programme held on the occasion of the government’s anniversary at Golf Ground. Tundi MLA Mathura Prasad Mahto, Jharia MLA Purnima Singh, and senior officials of district administration led by Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh were also present at the function. The schemes inaugurated during the occasion included construction of a town hall for Chirkunda Nagar Parshad worth Rs 3.46 crores, construction of marriage halls of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation worth Rs 2.99 crores each in ward Numbers 23 and 26, and the broadening of a 13.32 kilometre road between Palma and Rajganj worth Rs 65.03 crores.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-190
29-12-2020||Jharkhand||State BJP rates Hemant govt ‘zero’ on scale of 10||MPs and MLAs of the Opposition BJP and its allies boycotted the government’s official function in Ranchi, and those that were held in the districts, to mark its first year in office on Tuesday, releasing a report to list the alleged “failures” of the Hemant Soren-led coalition. In a 28-page report card on the Hemant Soren government’s one year in office, the BJP gave it “zero out of 10” even as chief minister Hemant Soren presided over a mammoth gathering at Morabadi Ground and announced a series of new projects to mark the day. Talking to reporters at its party office, state BJP president Deepak Prakash and BJP leader of the legislature party Babulal Marandi said: “On the scale of 10, we give a big zero to this government on the basis of its work in one year.” The saffron camp accused the government of duping farmers in the name of paddy procurement and blocking the Centre’s coal block auctions which caused losses to the state exchequer. It also criticised the government for failing to provide jobs or employment allowances as promised during last year’s Assembly elections. Marandi reiterated how Naxalite activities and crimes were taking place unabated ever since the Hemant government took charge. "Crime against women is the biggest achievement of this government. Over 1,500 females including minors were subjected to different forms of crime. Development works came to a standstill while corruption at the ground level has peaked,” he alleged. Prakash said, “While the government is always crying about a funds crunch, it feels no shame in splurging on lavish celebrations. This exposes the government’s lies. The money should have been spent on the welfare of the poor, many of whom are out of jobs due to the pandemic related crisis.” AJSU-P, a constituent of the NDA in Jharkhand, also attacked the Hemant government and accused it of non-performance, It observed the day as “vishwasghat diwas” across the state. In a statement, AJSU-P chief and Silli MLA Sudesh Mahto said, “the government betrayed youths, farmers and women. All that it did in one year was to blame others and Covid-19.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-190
29-12-2020||Jharkhand||Real estate agent shot dead in steel city||A 42-year-old real estate agent was shot dead by two unidentified bike-borne criminals near Azadnagar thana in Mango on Tuesday afternoon. The murdered victim, identified as Mohammad Danish was returning on a scooter from a local mosque at about 1 pm when the assailants attacked him. They fired five shots at the victim, but it was the one that hit his head that proved to be lethal for Danish. A few local residents rushed him to Tata Main Hospital, which is about a 20 minutes drive from the spot but only to be declared dead by the doctors on emergency duty. Azadnagar OC, Vishnu Raut reached the spot immediately. Soon City SP, Subhash Chandra Jat arrived at the scene of crime to begin their investigation. “The murder victim was a land dealer. He too had a criminal record. Primary investigation suggests that he was murdered due to enmity that arose over some monetary transaction related to some land or property sale-purchase,” said the Raut while talking to The Telegraph Online. He mentioned that CCTV footage from the scene of crime would be used to recognize and trace the assailants. According to Raut, the victim would often sell unauthorised government land and had developed enmity with several rivals in the real estate business. He said, “Danish had been arrested under the Arms Act twice.” According to eyewitnesses, the victim, a resident of Mango’s Noor Colony was sitting on his stationary scooter near a turning that led to his colony. “At the sight of two bike-borne criminals, Danish started the scooter and tried to escape. But the assailants were quick in firing. One of the shots hit Danish on his shoulder, following which he fell. This made the killers come closer and fire on his head from a close range,” said one of the eyewitnesses to this website requesting anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-190
29-12-2020||Jharkhand||New projects, new schemes mark Hemant govt’s anniversary bash||Project launches, announcements of welfare schemes and a stirring speech by chief minister Hemant Soren wherein he promised fast-paced development so that Jharkhand would not have to beg for funds after he completed his five-year term marked the JMM-led coalition government’s mega bash to celebrate its first year in office on Tuesday. “I promise that this state will not have to beg before anyone after five years if everyone cooperates and works towards a common goal. Be it World Bank or Government of India, we won’t have to beg before anyone for anything, if I get enough cooperation from everyone,” Hemant said, promising to speed up development so that Jharkhand is self-sustainable in the next five years. At a gala function held at the sprawling Morabadi ground here with over 1,500 people in attendance _ mostly seated at an arm’s length from each other _ Hemant showcased his government’s success stories, reflecting on how despite battling the Covid-19 pandemic and a severe financial crunch, the government was able to fulfil some of the poll promises in its first year in office. Hitting out at the previous BJP government, he said, “We were given an empty treasury when we formed the government. We were left with a crumbling health infrastructure to battle the Covid-19 pandemic. But we didn’t panic. Today, with zero testing facilities, we managed to ensure all districts and block levels have testing and treatment facilities. We also didn’t panic when our MLAs and ministers got infected, one of them (Haji Hussain) even died. Today, Jharkhand’s Covid management is being hailed by everyone… we are among the top states with low morality and high recovery.” Hemant noted how Jharkhand was the first state to bring back migrants during the lockdown and fed lakhs of people for months. “We had to rework our strategies for resources, reform taxation to generate our own funds. We also ensured that we keep our promise of allowing farm loan waivers,” he said, reiterating that the focus in the coming years would be on becoming self-sufficient in all respects. “Beyond mines, we have enough resources to develop—like tourism, sports, animal husbandry and so on. There are many states who are developed without mining. We can also do so,” he said. Addressing the challenges of employment, he said, “Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) will begin recruitment from January. Focus for the coming year will be on education, tribal upliftment, jobs and fulfilling other necessities, besides working towards exploring our areas of strength like tourism and providing the right market linkages to minor mineral forest produce.” State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon hailed the passing of the Assembly resolution for a separate Sarna code as one of the biggest achievements of the government towards tribal welfare. The sound of nagadas and traditional trumpets welcomed the gathering at Morabadi ground where security was tight to ensure compliance of basic Covid safety guidelines. As the crowd, including beneficiaries of schemes, sat under the giant hangers set up at the venue and waited for the chief minister, folk artist Nandlal Nayak’s troupe put up a dance performance. The function was scheduled to begin at 12.30pm, but Hemant arrived about half an hour late as he had gone to Raj Bhavan to call on governor Droupadi Murmu to greet her on the occasion. Among the VIPs who were present on the dais were former JMM supremo Shibu Soren, Hemant’s wife Kalpana, ministers Rameshwar Oraon, Badal Patralekh, Satyanand Bhokta and Congress Jharkhand affairs in-charge R.P.N. Singh. The Jharkhand State Agricultural Debt Waiver Scheme has been introduced to ensure security and sustenance of about 38 lakh farmers who cultivate approximately 38 hectares of land. The scheme will help farmers whose livelihood often comes under threat due to weather conditions or unforeseen circumstances like COVID-19. Its wide ambit includes both raiyat and non-raiyat farmers who hail from Jharkhand and are linked to a certain banks through Kisan Credit Card (KCC). Under this scheme, loans disbursed until March 31, 2020 will be waived for arrears of up to Rs 50,000. To ensure transparency, the chosen mode of implementation of the scheme is direct benefit transfer (DBT). One member per family can avail benefits of the scheme for which he/she needs to put in an application at Re 1 and submit a ration card as identity proof. Marang Gomke Jaipal Singh Munda Transnational Scholarship Scheme will provide an opportunity every year to 10 young students from scheduled castes, scheduled tribes, minorities and backward classes of the state to pursue their education in selected institutions of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. The Jharkhand Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (CSR)-2020 will focus on all-round development of backward areas of health, education, nutrition, employment and promotion of sports. Jharkhand Fasal Rahat Yojana/Scheme (JFRY) will enable farmers to avail of financial assistance in case of crop damage caused due to natural disasters or accidents. JharSewa Campaign was launched to ensure timely execution of 331 services under the Public Service Guarantee Act. It also serves as an interface for citizens to avail various citizen-centric services from respective government departments. The goal is to reach a state of “zero pendency” in terms of request for services. A helpline number (Dial *181) was started to provide any kind of assistance requested by women across the state at any given point of time. It will be able to provide immediate assistance, or guidance, to women who find themselves trapped in an uncomfortable situation. The number will also provide information on various government schemes and programmes. As many as 27 schools of excellence will be set up in the state. The total cost for this project is over Rs 120.70 crore. In a bid to ensure accessible education to everyone in the state, at least one intermediate-level school has been assigned to every district of the state. Jharkhand State Food Security Scheme will cover 15 lakh people not covered by the National Food Security Act. They will receive 5kg rice at Re 1 per kg. A separate ration card will be issued in the name of the female head of every family. The preference will be ascribed to primitive tribal families, widows, the abandoned, those suffering from incurable diseases and the elderly who are living with them. Chief Minister Livestock Development Scheme will focus on increasing production of animal husbandry products like milk, meat and eggs to augment household incomes. Universal Welfare for the Elderly Scheme caters to all senior citizens of the state who will receive Rs 1,000 per month as pension. Among the new projects that were initiated are the phase-II of Ranchi urban drinking water scheme (Rs 752.38 crore), Ranchi zone-1 sewerage drainage project (Rs 209.05 crore), Eco-tourism circuit in Dalma, Chandil, Getalsud, Betla, Mirchai and Netarhat (Rs 52 crore), 27 schools of excellence (Rs 120 crore).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-190
29-12-2020||Jharkhand||Better facilities at Begarhia for new settlers from fire zone ||The Jharia Rehabilitation Development Authority (JRDA) is set to deploy labour for day to day operation of water and power supply for the quarters of rehabilitated people of underground fire zones at their new place of settlement in Belgarhia to ensure betterment of basic facilities. A tender worth Rs 7.67 lakhs was issued on Tuesday deployment of labour for the operation and maintenance of water and electricity supply at 4,000 quarters of Belgarhia, which were built during the Phase II and Phase III of the construction. The move comes after Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner and former managing director of the JRDA Uma Shankar during his December 23 inspection at the site expressed discontent over  poor maintenance of electricity and water supply in certain pockets of the colony. He had instructed the JRDA authorities to constitute committees of local residents of Belgarhia to look after the issue. Executive Engineer of the JRDA, antosh Mishra said, “As the project is related to units that were constructed during the initial phases deployment of labour is being made by us. For the new quarters, operation and maintenance of the water supply system will be made by the committees.” At present, construction of 6,352 quarters in the locality has been completed in three phases, in which 5,000 families from different fire affected areas have been rehabilitated. Around 12,000 more quarters are still under construction. In a related development, the JRDA has decided to discontinue the old arrangement of  payment of electricity bills of the rehabilitated people from its own funds. Instead, it has decided to make the allottees of the quarters (newly settled families) to make payments of their electricity bill on  their own. At present, the monthly electricity bill of around 5,000 families rehabilitated from the different underground fire affected areas is being made by the JRDA itself. A total of  1.04 lakh families living in 595 underground fire affected areas of Jharia coal field region, including around 28,000 legal title holder families and around 76,000 illegal encroachers, are supposed to be rehabilitated to the safer place. However, only 5,000 families have so far been rehabilitated since March 25, 2020, when the process began.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-190
29-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ishan to lead Jharkhand in Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy||Dashing  southpaw Ishan Kishan will captain the Jharkhand squad  in the  Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 tournament beginning at various on January 10 next year. Jharkhand launch their campaign against Tamil Nadu in an Elite B tie in Calcutta on January 10. The 18-member squad comprises Ranji Trophy regulars of the likes of Saurabh Tiwary, Varun Aaron and Shahbaz Nadeem, to name a few. Young Jamshedpur-based left-hander Virat Singh will be Ishan’s deputy. He was in the Hyderabad Sunrisers team for the Indian Premier League (IPL) but did not play a single match. The team looks balanced and is expected to perform well in the tournament. “We have tried to pick a balanced team which has a blend of youth and experience. Ishan is in good form and was the natural choice to lead the side,” a Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) official said on condition of anonymity. Ishan, who originally hails from Bihar but represents Jharkhand in BCCI domestic tournaments, was the skipper of the Indian under-19 team in the 2016 World Cup, and played for Mumbai Indians in the recently concluded IPL in Dubai. He impressed with his solid batting and also contributed to Mumbai retaining the trophy. Tiwary and left-arm spinner Anukul Roy were also in the Mumbai squad. Experienced spinner Shahbaz Nadeem, who turned out for Sunrisers Hyderabad, is expected to play a handy role in the tournament. The selectors have not picked Jharkhand mainstay Ishank Jaggi, a technically sound batsman who is suitable for the longer format of the game. Team: Ishan Kishan (captain), Pankaj Kumar, Kumar Deobrat, Saurabh Tiwary, Utkarsh Singh, Anand Singh, Virat Singh (vice-captain), Vikash Vishal, Anukul Roy, Shahbaz Nadeem, Sonu Kumar Singh, Varun Aaron, Rahul Shukla, Monu Kumar Singh, Vivekanand Tiwary, Bala Krishna, Aashish Kumar and Satya Setu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-190
29-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government celebrates grand anniversary in Ranchi||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-190
29-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 152 fresh cases, one casualty in a day||The Covid-19 infection continues to remain a concern in Jharkhand even as its rural areas are witnessing a declining trend. On Monday, Jharkhand reported 152 fresh cases with Ranchi, Bokaro and East Singbhum all logging double-digit figures with one death occurring in Dumka. With 71 new cases, Ranchi comprised nearly half of the state’s cumulative caseload in the last 24 hours, Covid bulletin issued by the state health department has suggested. East Singhbhum clocked 30 cases while Bokaro logged 10 cases. Five districts remained free of any new cases during the same period and the rest reported infection in single digits. In the last 24 hours, a total of 154 were declared cured taking the total count of people defeating Covid-19 to 1,11,818 out of 1,14,420 total positive cases which came to fore in the state since the outbreak of the virus in March this year. The state currently has 1582 active cases and as many as 1020 have died so far. District wise, capital Ranchi has as many as 759 active cases out of 30,254 total positive cases wherein 29283 got cured and 212 succumbed. East Singhbhum, with 355 fatalities—highest among all the district, now has 205 active cases out of 17,789 people who have tested positive by far. The seven days growth rate of Jharkhand now stands at 0.13% vis-à-vis 0.15% in the country. Its seven-day doubling rate is 545.61 days compared to the national average of 450.26 days. Recovery rate in the state is 97.72% compared to that 95.80% nationally while mortality is 0.89%, well below 1.40% nationwide. Pakur district in Santhal Parganas along the Bengal borders, which became free of covid-19 cases last week, continues to maintain its status with no new cases coming to fore so far, while it had reported a total of 900 cases and two deaths since March.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-191
