30-12-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad hotels readies for New Year bash, while clubs cancel events||At a time when many across the globe are bothered about the mutated strain of coronavirus, several hotels across Dhanbad are readying to ring in 2021 in style. Given that major clubs of Dhanbad, including the Dhanbad Club, Union Club and Tata Steel Officer’s Club opting to cancel the New Year celebration programmed in view of the pandemic constraints, hotels like Wedlock Greens, The Reet, and The Wedding Bells have lined up a number of special live performances for the revelers of Dhanbad. However, most of the organizers claimed they would be following all the Covid-19 rules and regulations and would be having a limited number of guests. Adding colour to the celebration will be a number of stars and celebrated singers from Tollywood, Calcutta, Chandigarh, and more. Almost every hotel will be hosting a star performer. For instance, a Tollywood troupe will be performing at Wedlock Greens situated in Govindpur, while Band Spartans will regale the audience at The Reet situated on Hirak Road in Dhanbad. Chandigarh-based anchor Abhinav will be seen hosting the entire function at the Reet. DJ Riktam will be seen entertaining the revelers at Wedding Bells situated near Asharfi Hospital at Baramuri on New Year’s eve. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, the general manager of Wedlock Greens, Soumen Chakraborty said, “Our programme will begin at 8 pm sharp. However, the entry will be limited to the occupants of hotel rooms and a few regular visitors.” He added, “We will be observing the rules and guidelines laid down by the government. We will also follow the Covid protocols.” A Calcutta-based dance troupe will perform during their function. Ravi Anand, Owner of The Reet said, “The New Year celebration at our Hotel will begin at 7.30 pm on December 31 and the band titled, Spartan of Saregama fame will performing during function as the main attraction” Sharing the details of the function scheduled at Wedding Bells, proprietor Harish Singh said, “We assure full entertainment for our guests. We have renowned dancer Dola performing at our event, while DJ Riktam will also enthrall the revelers with his beats.” He added, “There will be no compromise on following the Covid norms. We have also made a proper arrangement for frequent sanitization of the hotel after every performance.” Meanwhile, other hotels like Sonotel, The Skylark, and Seventeen Degree which are known for their restaurants have lined up special dishes for their visitors. Special offers have been rolled out for those booking a room with them from December 30 to January 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-189
30-12-2020||Jharkhand||Killer dumper crushes a six-year-old boy on NH33 ||In a tragic incident, a six-year-old boy was killed in a road mishap when a speeding dumper hit the bike in which he was riding pillion with his parents, on Wednesday morning. The accident took place near Pata village, which falls on the NH-33 under Chandil thana area in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district, which is about 25 kilometres away from Jamshedpur. The couple was travelling from their house in Chilgu in Chandil to a relative’s place at Ichagarh with their only child to ring in the New Year when tragedy struck them at 10.30 am in the morning. A speeding dumper hit the bike from behind causing the vehicle to fall. The child due to impact was flung away from his parents only to be run over by the killer dumper. The vehicle even ran over the legs of the child’s father. The driver immediately abandoned the vehicle to make a narrow escape. Within 15 minutes of the mishap, a police party arrived at the spot and recovered the mutilated body of the boy before shifting it to Seraikela divisional hospital for post-mortem, as the couple wailed. OC, Chandil thana, Sanoj Kumar Chaudhury confirming the news said, “It appears as if the biker had deviated from his usual side to avoid a big pot-hole on the road. In doing so he reached almost on the middle of the highway, the speeding dumper which was coming from behind hit the bike,” said Chaudhury while talking to The Telegraph Online. The OC said that the boy, identified as Aditya Dev, had been crushed by the rear wheel of the dumper. The victim had been crushed beyond recognition. “We have seized the dumper and are trying to identify the driver as well as its owner on the basis of its registration number. We have also sent the injured couple to MGM Medical College Hospital for treatment,” said the OC. Notably, just two days back four people, including two women from the same family were killed in a road accident that took place on NH-33 near Daruda village which also falls under the Ichagarh thana area. A senior police officer pointed out that the number of road mishaps has increased recently as the work to widen NH-33 is still underway. “The national highway widening work is being done in parts. On the stretch where the highway has been completed, people tend to ride faster, but on the stretch where the work is yet to begin, is full of potholes, which the drivers or riders try to avoid. In doing so they do deviate onto the middle of the road and often ram into heavy vehicles,” said the police officer, requesting anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-189
30-12-2020||Jharkhand||Seraikela girl emerges as fastest sprinter in junior athletics tourney||Sixteen-year-old Lucky Kumari emerged as the fastest athlete at the 32nd East Zone Junior Athletics Championship, which concluded at Indira Gandhi Athletic Stadium in Guwahati, Assam on Tuesday. The teen athlete, a trainee at Tata Steel Athletics Training Centre, represented Jharkhand at the championship in Guwahati and claimed gold in the 100 m sprint. She followed it up with a silver in the 200 m in the girls’ under-18 age group. Lucky clocked  12.82 seconds in the 100 m race and 26.90 in 200 m. A resident of Adityapur in Seraikela-Kharsawan district, Lucky joined the Tata Steel Athletics Training Centre towards the end of 2017. She soon went on to impress everyone with her running skills, clinching to the first position in the state championship held in Ranchi in 2019. She also won bronze in the same discipline at the East Zone event, also conducted in Ranchi in 2019. “I have always had the dream to become a sprinter. I have improved a lot ever since I joined the Tata cradle. I am happy with my performance in Guwahati but want to win more medals for my state. I am working hard and also trying to build my stamina and endurance,” the teenager said. Tata Steel Athletics Training Centre coach Sanjeev Kumar, who accompanied Lucky to Guwahati, said his ward has the potential to make a mark in the discipline. “She (Lucky) is a medal prospect at the Asia level,” he remarked. According to him, diet and endurance were important components for athletes and he was trying to put this in Lucky’s mind. “My ward is very attentive but needs to build her endurance and core strength,” Kumar added. The mentor said he had plans to introduce Lucky to heptathlon as the competition among girls in India is not very strong. “Lucky will have a good chance to score points if she competes in multiple events. But I will switch her to heptathlon once she turns 18,” he said. Heptathlon comprises seven events -- 100 m hurdles, high jump, shot put, 200 m run, long jump, javelin and 800 m run. East Singhbhum District Athletics Association president M.N. Purty, vice-president Suchinder Singh, secretary Ravindra Murmu and joint secretary Birdhan Marandi congratulated Lucky for her achievements. Run by Tata Steel sports wing, the cradle operates from JRD Tata Sports Complex. Trainees from the city's surrounding areas hone their skills under experienced hands. Bagicha Singh, an Arjuna awardee, was the chief coach of the cradle before his retirement from Tata Steel in June this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-189
30-12-2020||Jharkhand||Clashes break out at coal town child reform centre||A violent clash broke out on Tuesday night at the Bhuda Child Reformatory in Dhanbad, when two groups of 92 inmates, including 43 convicts and 49 accused, started fighting among themselves. The inmates also hurled stones at the police team that arrived upon receiving the news, as well as at some reformatory staff, injuring a few of them. The warring faction also pelted stones at the adjoining houses late in the night. On Wednesday,  a team of the Juvenile Justice Board accompanied  by a team of Dhansar Police visited the site to take stock of the situation. The agitated local residents of Bhuda gathered outside the child reformatory to meet the team of the Juvenile Justice Board and lodged complaints about the regular disturbance in the area carried out by the inmates. They said that the inmates hurl stones on their houses occasionally and also pass lewd comments on girls by climbing up the terrace of the building. Confirming the incident, Additional District Magistrate (Law and Order) Chandan Kumar said, “This is a serious issue and we have instructed the Sub Divisional Officer of Dhanbad Surendra Prasad to look into the causes of the regular clash between the inmates and submit a report.” The conflict got initiated in the evening when a convict beat up an under-trial detainee leading to tension between the two groups, which gradually escalated with time and became violent at around 11 pm. This led the police team to arrive at the location and control the situation. Sources in the reformatory said that conflicts take place regularly between the convicts and accused inmates. Recently, fights broke out between the two sides on October 21 and November 8. Local residents of Bhuda living in the surrounding areas of the Child Reformatory Centre demanded its immediate shifting from the area citing their security is under threat. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Sunaina Devi, a local resident said, “The state of affairs at the reformatory can be understood from the fact that inmates keep parading on the terrace and boundary walls, gazing at women and girls and or our locality. They also pass lewd comments and occasionally resort to stone pelting at our homes.” Former councilor and local resident Upendra Kushwaha said, “The residents in the nearby areas are living in continuous fear. We have asked the members of the juvenile team to carry out a probe as many of these offenders seem much older than 18.” President of social organisation Jharkhand Gramin Vikas Trust Shankar Rawani said, “The issue is serious in nature and we demand a probe with regard to the presence of adult persons lying at the centre. A medical examination should be carried out to demand their age.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-189
30-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel literary meets cancelled in view of Covid-19||Tata Steel has decided to cancel its 2021 edition Tata Steel Bhubaneswar and Tata Steel Jharkhand Literary Meets in view of the zcovid-19 pandemic. The Bhubaneshwar and Jharkhand Literary Meets were 2016 and 2017 respectively, with the belief that culturally-rich regions like Odisha and Jharkhand need a festival that would celebrate literary and allied cultural pursuits, including dance, music, recitation, and theatrical performances. The idea was to take Odisha and Jharkhand to a wider world audience and to bring the world closer to the two culturally-rich states in eastern India. Since its inception, the literary meets have drawn leading authors and speakers from across India and the world. It has hosted eminent delegates such as Manoj Das, Ruskin Bond, Jayanta Mahapatra, Sitakanta Mahapatra, Ramakanta Rath, Nayantara Sehgal, Kiran Nagarkar, Sharmila Tagore, Ileana Citaristi, Mark Tully, Nandita Das, Amol Palekar, Uday Prakash, Harivansh Narayan Singh, Jairam Ramesh, Devdutt Pattanaik, Mahadev Toppo, Ashwini Kumar Pankaj, Vandana Tete and Rekha Bhardwaj among several others. The event has become an integral part of the annual cultural calendars of Bhubaneswar and Ranchi over time. Talking about the decision, vice-president (Corporate Services) of the company Chanakya Chaudhary said, “We are indeed disappointed to be unable to host the Tata Steel Bhubaneswar and Jharkhand Literary meets this year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.” He said that as a responsible corporate, health and safety of the patrons is of great concern to the company. “We hope to be back with the next edition of the premiere literary meets with increased participation of all our stakeholders,” he added. Director of the literary meets Malavika Banerjee said, “Tata Steel Bhubaneswar and Jharkhand Literary Meet’s plans for January 2021 are kept in abeyance in view of the pandemic. The edifice of this festival was hosting writers and speakers from India and overseas in Bhubaneswar and Jharkhand so that the discerning audiences there had a chance to hear and meet them.” “We will be back when a similar meaningful interaction is once again possible, with new speakers, new presentations and new energy. In the interim, stay safe and keep reading,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-189
30-12-2020||Jharkhand||Post lockdown, hunger pangs have worsened||A network of food activists has claimed in a study that after the nationwide lockdown, hunger continues to stalk the poor across Jharkhand for which the public distribution system needed to be improved so that it covers those who are denied benefits of government schemes. Releasing a report titled Hunger Watch Survey on Wednesday, Right to Food Campaign said a majority of households had revealed that living conditions were still much worse today than before the lockdown, the observation coming a day after chief minister alluded to having resolved the state’s hunger problem given that no hunger deaths had been reported in the last one year. The report of the survey, conducted between September 12 to October 10 covering 179 vulnerable households across the state, said that nearly all reported a reduction in monthly incomes since the lockdown began in March 2020. Half the surveyed households did not have any income in April and May, and a third did not have any income in the month preceding the survey. “Fifty-eight per cent of the respondents (of the survey) said that their household’s need to borrow money for food had increased since the lockdown started. Eleven per cent had to sell jewellery or some other item and 8% of the landowning households even felt compelled to sell land for buying food. Thirteen per cent households had at least one member who was not working before the lockdown but began working over the past 30 days. Another 40 per cent had a member who was unemployed earlier but was searching for work at the time of the survey. Only about a fifth of all respondents felt that their situation will improve over the next three months. A quarter thought that things would remain the same and almost 40 per cent expected their condition to worsen,” the report said. The findings have been made public at time when the state government is going to issue green cards to an additional 15 lakh people living below poverty line from next month under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). Among the various food security programmes, the public distribution system (PDS) functioned regularly during the lockdown. Ninety-four per cent households with a Priority or Antyodaya ration card or an APL/BPL card with an NFSA stamp got grain every month from April to August. Only Priority/Antyodaya card holders were entitled to free additional grain during the lockdown, but only 41 per cent of such households got this extra support every month from April to August, the report said. “The rest got the free grain only for only some months. Amongst those without a NFSA ration card, almost a third had applied for a card, but had not obtained one. Another 18 per cent were unaware that they could apply for a card. Sixteen per cent could not apply because they did not have all the required documents,” said the report. The study further highlighted that almost half the respondent households (48 per cent) reported eating less wheat or rice over the previous month, compared to before the lockdown. In another 18 per cent households, consumption of grain was significantly less. Considering that the disruptions due to the lockdown and the ongoing pandemic are likely to continue for several months, Right to Food Campaign has demanded that the government work towards universalisation of PDS and also provide subsidised pulses and edible oil. It has also called for reopening of anganwadis and including eggs in midday meals daily to tackle nutritional challenges. This apart, it has also demanded nutrition packages for vulnerable groups, opening of labour-intensive NREGA schemes, provision of universal social security pension of at least Rs 2000/month to all elderly, & single women and maternity entitlement of at least Rs 6,000 to all pregnant and lactating women in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-189
30-12-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI goes online with Verghese Kurien lecture ||The Xavier School of Management (XLRI) is set to host the seventh Dr. Verghese Kurien Memorial Oration, in memory of the Father of White Revolution and the man behind Amul,  on January 16, 2021. This time, the oration will be delivered by noted environmental activist Ashish Kothari,  founder-member of Indian Environmental group, Kalpavriksh. It will be conducted virtually in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. He would deliver the oration on the topic Ecoswaraj : Recovery Towards Justice and Sustainability. XLRI Director Fr. P. Christie said, “Dr. Verghese Kurien was an ingenious thinker, a revolutionary, and a social entrepreneur who ideated the world’s biggest agricultural development programme. It was his “billion-litre idea”, which made dairy farming India’s largest self-sustaining industry, with benefits of employment, incomes, credit, nutrition, education, health, gender parity and empowerment, breaking down caste barriers and grassroots democracy and leadership.” “XLRI instituted the oration in his memory to commemorate his legacy through propagating and disseminating the idea of an empowered, equitable and sustainable society,” he added. Christie added that the B-school was extremely happy to have  Ashish Kothari to deliver the seventh Dr. Verghese Kurien Memorial Oration. “His vast work on environmental issues like environment interface, biodiversity policy, and alternatives would help our students understand the current global environmental issues and inspire them to work for the greater good,” he said. Prof. Raghuram Tata, chairperson of XLRI’s Fr Arrupe Center for Ecology and Sustainability, said, “Dr. Verghese Kurien Memorial Oration on Sustainable Development is our humble initiative to pay tribute to the great visionary. With this annual oration, we aim to inspire and inculcate values of social entrepreneurial spirit in budding business leaders and social entrepreneurs.” Ashish Kothari is an Indian environmentalist working on environment and development issues. He is one of the founders of Kalpavriksh, an Indian environmental NGO. He has been associated with peoples' movements like Narmada Bachao Andolan and Beej Bachao Andolan. Kothari has also been a teacher of the environment at the Indian Institute of Public Administration, New Delhi. He has also been a guest faculty at several universities and institutes and Mellon Fellow at Bowdoin College, USA. He has served on the steering group or governing board of the CBD (Convention on Biodiversity) Alliance and Greenpeace International. At present, Kothari is the chairman of Greenpeace India’s board. Ashish Kothari has also worked as members of quite a few Government of India committees, including Environmental Appraisal Committee on River Valley Projects of the Ministry of Environment and Forests, the committee to Assess Implementation of the Forest Rights Act, and Committees to draft design the National Wildlife Action Plan and India's Biological Diversity Act. He is currently coordinating the Vikalp Sangam (Alternatives Confluence), a process that provides a forum for organisations and individuals working on development alternatives across India to come together.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-189
30-12-2020||Jharkhand||Two arrested for trying to extort money from tea seller||Chatra Police on  Wednesday said they had arrested two accused, including one from Gaya, for trying to extort Rs 5 lakhs from a tea seller. The officer-in-charge of the Pratappur Police Station confirmed the arrest and said that the two were trying to extort money from Naresh Prajapati, a tea seller, and had even put a poster of the Peoples’ Liberation Front of India, a Maoist outfit, on the wall of his kiosk on November 29. The incident became a talk of the town after the accused put up the poster and followed it with making threat calls to Prajapati, demanding money. He said that he earns a meagre amount of money every month by selling tea and fritters, and the extortion calls had even confused him. Prajapati said he was even threatened when he lodged an FIR in this regard, from the caller identifying himself as Saurabh Yadav. The police probing the case sent teams on Tuesday to arrest Amjad Ansari (28) from Tandwa of Chatra, and  Ranjan Saw (19) from Bahuara village under Imamganj Police Station of the neighbouring Gaya district of Bihar. Sub-divisional police officer Avinash Kumar said after getting the complaint, police started its investigation and tracked the mobile number from which call was made to the tea seller. He said they got the lead and tip off about the duo after which, they were nabbed and sent to jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-189
30-12-2020||Jharkhand||Over 20 passengers injured in bus-truck collision||Around 24 passengers sustained severe injuries when a bus collided with a truck on Wednesday morning at Kejhia Ghati of Dulmi, under the Gola block of Ramgarh. The collision further  resulted in the bus overturning and falling on an SUV that was just behind it. While several injured persons were rushed to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, the others were admitted to a local hospital in Ramgarh. Talking about the incident, eyewitnesses said that the bus and the truck were coming from the opposite directions and suddenly collided with each other. The overturning and falling of the bus on the SUV seriously injured its drivers and a few others. The Rajappa Police, under whose jurisdiction the accident happened, arrived at the spot immediately to rescue the passengers from the mangled bus and the SUV. Local residents, who gathered on the spot, helped police in sending injured people to Gola community health centre. Police had to bring a gas cutter to take out a trapped person from the mangled bus, which was travelling from Dhanbad to Ranchi. Traffic on the Gola-Sikdiri road got disrupted for hours due to the accident. State agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, who was travelling to Bokaro, visited the spot and asked the RIMS administration to provide better treatment facilities to the injured people admitted there. He had refused to change his route despite being advised to do so, to take stock of the situation. Patralekh also spoke to Ramgarh MLA of Congress Mamta Devi for updates, and assured her of all help from his side||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-189
30-12-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi reports 107 new cases, three deaths in a day||Covid-19 cases surged in the state beyond 200 and death toll neared half a dozen after a span of one week ahead of the year-end with party hotspots and picnic arenas gearing up for the New Year bash. On Tuesday, a total of 230 new infections surfaced with the state reporting five deaths came in the day, as per the bulletin issued by the state health department. As many as 203 were declared cured during the same period. State last crossed over 200 cases on December 23 while seven deaths were reported on December 12. Ranchi again led the death toll with three fatalities in last 24 hours while Dhanbad and Hazaribag witnessed one death each. Ranchi also reported 107 new cases, while Bokaro (15), Dhanbad (25), East Singbhum (26), Latehar (11) and Palamu (10) got cases in double digits. State’s total active cases rose to 1604 out of total 1,14,650 positive cases so far since the outbreak of the virus in March this year. Of the total cases, 1,12021 got cured while 1025 have died till date. State’s seven days growth rate now stands at 0.13% compared to 0.18% nationally. Seven days doubling rate is 531.94 days in regard to 392.91 days across the country, while the recovery rate is 97.70% in the state vis-à-vis 95.90%. Mortality rate is 0.89% as compared to 1.40% nationally. Ahead of expected turnouts at pubs, eateries and hotels for New Year eve parties on December 31, Ranchi district administration on Tuesday night issued stern directives to all party hosting joints to follow covid safety protocols. The directive added, "Entry of all visitor must be recorded in the proper logbook with their details such as an address, and phone numbers. All visitors must provide facilities of sanitisers and masks, hotels/restuarants/pubs must adhere to the government's other reopening guidelines. In case of violations, action will be initiated under epidemic act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-189
30-12-2020||Jharkhand||Coal India Limited to focus on raising production ||Coal India Limited (CIL) chairman Pramod Agrawal has laid out the task for Bharat Coking Coal Limited to increase the production to 30 MT annually and refused to help out its subsidiary from the poor financial situation. After a marathon two and a half hour meeting at the BCCL guest house at Dhanbad in the presence of chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) BCCL, Gopal Singh and other directors, Pramod Agrawal, an IAS officer of the 1991 batch, reviewed the strategy to increase production and sale and also look for alternative avenues. Speaking to media after the meeting, the CIL chairman said, “We reviewed the production, sale and despatch of coal at the BCCL and deliberated on means to further improve it. The focus is on increasing the production and achieving the target of 30 MT annually. If that happens BCCL financial condition would improve automatically and it would not need any body’s assistance.” Prodded further, Agrawal out rightly said that the BCCL has to find out its own way to improve its financial position and there is no other way. He also advised the BCCL to look for new markets for its product especially in steel sector and ruled out decreasing prices of coal in future. The CIL chairman further said that time has come to look for alternative sources of energy other than coal. “Demand for coal can last for a maximum of 25-30 years. We will have to look for other alternate sources like solar... CIL is aware of this challenge and is planning to venture into new frontiers,” said Agrawal. The chairman also said that BCCL will be expediting the rehabilitation of masses in the fire-subsidence hit area to avoid casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-190
