31-12-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city hotel sealed after 11 foreigners test positive ||The district health officials sealed the Fortune Park Centre Point Hotel here after 11 foreign guests tested positive for the coronavirus on Thursday. One hotel staffer has also tested positive. All of them have been quarantined at the hotel. District civil surgeon Dr RN Jha revealed that around 46 foreigners entered Jamshedpur between December 5 and 8. All of them had checked in at Fortune Park Centre Point Hotel in Bistupur. “Most of these international tourists hailing from countries like Philippines, Ghana, South Africa, New Zealand, and Zambia, were employees of an international firm and had come here for a contractual job at Tata Steel’s Pellet Plant. We got their swab test done at the Tata Main Hospital. Out of the 46 foreigners, 11 tested positive. We got the report on Thursday evening. After that we sealed the Fortune Centre Point hotel,” said Dr Jha while talking to The Telegraph Online. The civil surgeon further added that after the foreign nationals tested positive, the health department decided to conduct a sample test for all the hotel staff. “Of the 29 hotel staffers that underwent the Covid test, one tested positive. As a precautionary measure, we have not just sealed the hotel but have also quarantined all the occupants including the hotel staff inside the hotel,” he said. The detection of 12 Covid-19 cases has made the East Singhbhum health department officials intensify their screening operations at other hotels on Thursday evening, as many of them have organized special programmes for the year-end bash. According to a senior official at the district civil surgeon’s office, requesting anonymity said, “The district health department will have to be more vigilant in implementing Covid norms. Foreign nationals entering the city need to be scanned for the deadly virus. The detection of so many cases from a single hotel is ominous for steel city.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-188
31-12-2020||Jharkhand||RJD leader’s brother arrested for smuggling opium in Chatra||Chatra Police busted a gang of interstate opium smugglers on Thursday. The team of four includes Mozibur Rehman, brother of RJD leader Babu Kalal, two more men and a woman. The busted gang had eight kilograms of opium, Rs.4.61lakh cash, a car, one digital weight machine, and two mobile phones in possession, all of which were recovered by the police. According to the police, this gang has links with Mumbai drug peddlers. An investigation has been initiated in connection with this case. The arrested smugglers other than Rehman have been identified as Sarita Devi, Narendra Gupta, and Mohammad Javed. Sharing the details, SP Rishav Kumar Jha, revealed that getting a tip-off about the opium smugglers in Itkhori block, he immediately constituted a team led by DSP(headquarter) Kedar Ram, subdivisional police officer Avinash Kumar, and Itkhori police station officer-in-charge Niranjan Kumar Mishra, including an armed team of police jawans. He said, “The team conducted the raid in a house at Itkhori, where they nabbed the four smugglers and recovered the opium, cash, and other items.” Jha said, “We recovered around 4.7 kilograms of opium from Mozibur, around 2.5kilogram opium, and Rs.4.61lakh cash from Sarita.” According to him, they have been able to extract some more details of other smugglers who had managed to escape during the raid.” He added, “We will conduct an investigation and if we recover assets more than the known source of income of the arrested individuals then we will recommend the case to the enforcement directorate.” Talking about Rehman, he confirmed the smuggler’s political connection. “He is the brother of RJD leader Babu Kalal,” he said. “He is involved in this illegal business and is having connections with suppliers of other states as well,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-188
31-12-2020||Jharkhand||PM to launch housing project in Ranchi on Jan 1||Ranchi is among six cities of the country that will roll out the Centre’s ambitious housing project for the poor based on new technology that uses prefabricated structures to build low-cost environment-friendly homes. On New Year’s Day on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay foundation stones for the dwellings under the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs titled, Light Houses Project (LHP). The initiative, part of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), will be for economically weaker sections, ie, for those earning up to Rs 3 lakh per annum. Apart from Ranchi, the project will also be rolled in the first phase in Indore, Rajkot, Chennai, Agartala and Lucknow. Speaking to reporters on the eve of the ceremony, director of municipal administration under the state urban development department Vijaya Jadhav said that 1,008 houses are being built in Ranchi’s Dhurwa area on about seven acre land. “The idea of LHPs is to offer state-the-art houses at affordable rates. But these will be built in record time using latest technology. In Ranchi, the houses will be built using prefabricated structures, most of which will first be constructed in workstations and will be brought here for customisation. This way, houses will be installed quickly and the process will reduce environmental hazards,” she said. The cost of the houses, she added, would be borne by the Centre, state and the end user. Each house would be of 315 sq feet with a bedroom, kitchen, balcony, and toilet. “There will be water and power facilities, lifts, park and other amenities in the complex,” she said, adding that Rs 133.99 crore has been earmarked for the project. The department has roped in a Mumbai based agency, M/s SGC Magicrete LLP, for the job. The target is to complete the work in 12 months. The Prime Minister will also felicitate best performers to mark the occasion. While Jhumri Tilaiya Nagar Parishad will be awarded for good work in civic administration, Jharkhand will get the best community mobilization award, as per a statement from urban development department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-188
31-12-2020||Jharkhand||Local trains back on track in Ranchi, Chakradharpur from January 2021||South Eastern Railway (SER) has decided to restore local passenger train services in its Ranchi and Chakradharpur divisions from the New Year in deference to passengers’ wishes. Garden Reach, the headquarters of South Eastern Railway in Calcutta, released the schedule of trains on Thursday. The 08619 / 08620 Ranchi-Dumka Special will run daily from January 2. The train will leave Ranchi at 9.30pm and reach Dumka the next day at 7.25am. While the return train will leave Dumka daily at 6.55 pm. The train will reach Ranchi at 3.55 am the next day. The 68035/ 68036 Tatanagar-Hatia MEMU will be introduced from January 4. The train will leave Tatanagar station at 5.40am and will reach Hatia, the destination, at 10.45 am. The return train will leave Hatia at 6.10 pm and will reach Tatanagar at 11.05 pm. The 68037 / 68038 Ranchi-Tori MEMU will run daily from January 3. The train will leave Ranchi at 8.55 am and will leave Tori at 12 noon. On its return journey, the train will leave Tori at 11.30 am and will reach Ranchi  at 2.25 pm. Another train the 68039/ 68040 Ranchi-Lohardaga MEMU, will run daily from January 2. The train will leave Ranchi at 2.55pm and reach Lohardaga at 4.45pm. The return train will leave Lohardaga at 4.20 pm and will reach Ranchi at 6.20pm. The 08085/ 08086 Kharagpur-Ranchi - Special will be introduced from January 2. From Kharagpur, the train will leave daily at 4.40am and reach Ranchi at 12.35pm. The return train will leave Ranchi-at 3.40 pm and will reach Kharagpur at 10.55 pm. The 68135 / 68136 Ranchi-Lohardaga MEMU will be introduced from January 3. The train will run daily. It will leave Ranchi at 4.50am and reach Lohardaga at 6.20am. The return train will leave Lohardaga at 6.40am and reach Ranchi at 8.10am. The 68141/ 68142 Ranchi-Lohardaga MEMU will be introduced from January 2. The train will leave Ranchi at 6.30 p.m. and reach Lohardaga at 8.10 pm. The return train will leave Lohardaga at 8:30 pm and reach Ranchi at 9:50 pm. The 68041/ 68042 Adra-Barkakana (in Ramgarh) MEMU will run daily except on Sundays from January 2. The train will leave Adra at 4.55 am and will reach Barkakana at 9.45 am. The train will leave Barkakana at 2.05 pm and will reach Agra at 7:15 pm. The 58659/ 58660 Hatia-Rourkela-Passenger will run daily from January 2. The train will leave Hatia at 5.05 pm and will reach Rourkela at 11.15 pm. The return train will leave Rourkela at 4:40 am and will reach Hatia at 9:15 am. Another daily train was announced between Hatia and Tatanagar (58662/ 58661) with effect from January 2. Hatia-Tatanagar Passenger will leave Hatia at 4.25 am and will reach Tatanagar at 10:30 am. The return train will leave Tatanagar at 12.45 pm and will reach Hatia at 6.55 pm. The office of chief passenger transportation manager (CPTM) has appealed to passengers to use the National Train Enquiry System (NTES) App for updates, train stops and train timings before undertaking a journey. "We are also requesting passengers to follow all the necessary safety protocols before and during journeys in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic," said Sanjay Ghosh, chief PRO of South Eastern Railway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-188
31-12-2020||Jharkhand||State steps up vigil ahead of year-end bash at tourist locations||While a few states have come up with night curfews or other restrictions in view of latest concerns of new covid strains in the United Kingdom, the Jharkhand government has not yet announced any fresh advisories for the New Year bash on December 31 as well as January 1. However, the state disaster management department has urged revelers to maintain restraint and follow all the prescribed Covid safety norms in public places. As per the last advisory issued by the government ahead of Diwali, Chhath and subsequent festivals, the gathering limit has been increased to 200 indoors and 300 outdoors while the bursting of crackers is allowed only for 10 minutes from 11.55pm on December 31 to 12.05 am on January 1. Meanwhile, several district administrations have stepped up vigil both in terms of maintaining law and order and compliance of covid safety protocols. In Ranchi, the district administration has decided to press vehicles for random Covid checks at popular picnic spots in and around the capital on January 1. Deputy Commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said that the decision has been made in view of Ranchi continuing to get a major share of new infections on a daily basis out of the total cases in the state. On Wednesday, Ranchi got 87 out of 233 new cases while two fatalities were reported from the capital. “At popular falls and water bodies, wherever, people usually head in large numbers on January 1 every year, we will deploy mobile Covid testing vans for random testing. All those, who are caught violating norms like not using masks, overcrowding and others, will be made to take Covid tests,” Ranjan said, expressing concern over the increasing trend in Ranchi’s Covid-19 infections. “If required, we shall also go for slapping of cases against the violators,” he added. For the new year bash, the district administration in Ranchi has also issued guidelines to mandate all pubs, hotels and the likes, who have lined up programmes on the eve of new year, to maintain proper logs of the visitors. “We have already sent directives to all hotels, clubs and the likes to maintain a proper register of all the incoming visitors with their details of phone number and addresses,” Ranjan said. He added that the organisers have been asked to ensure that all safety protocols are maintained. “Party organisers will have to ensure social distancing, sanitisation facilities, and masks are available to one and all. Random checks will be done and strict action will be initiated on erring entities,” the DC said. Ranchi SP Saurabh said that patrolling teams both in four wheelers and two wheelers have already been implemented in sensitive areas where accidents or brawls were reported in the past. “On both days starting from Thursday, our focus will be to totally curb drunk driving, overspeeding and the likes to prevent accidents, for which both in rural and city areas random vehicle checking drives are already on,” he said. He added that police teams will be deployed at key areas where hotels and clubs are located for the safety of the public, while urging people to follow all safety guidelines. Police will also be deploying divers at key waterfalls and water bodies to prevent mishaps. Rural SP Naushad Alam warned picnickers from consuming liquor at public places. Similar advisory was issued in East Singhbhum too earlier this week and the administration has also put a ban on loud music at party hotspots after 10 pm. While the residents of Jamshedpur seem to filled with the enthusiasm for celebrating the year end and the New Year in and around the steel city,  dark cloud of Covid-19 which still hovers over the sky of the has led the district police to dampen the spirit of revellers. Unlike previous years there will be no New Year eve-bash given the district police's instruction not to hold DJ functions beyond 10 pm in public places and also in the hotels on the year end celebration. Senior superintendent of Police, Jamshedpur, M. Tamil Vanan while addressing media on Thursday said in the event of the DJ service is allowed beyond the 10 pm point, since people tend to hug each other while wishing a new year at the click of 12 o'clock, thus contributing to the spread of Covid-19 "Coronavirus is very much there. By Wednesday night 40 new cases of Covid was reported in the East Singhbhum district whereas the daily figure of new cases in the district would fluctuate between 15 to 20 for the past fortnight.  We have to see that all norms against the spread of Coronavirus like use of sanitizers and wearing masks are maintained by the people, even during the year end and New Year celebration," said Vanan. Significantly, the streets will also not bustle with activities on the New Year either.  With the Jubilee Park -- the main crowd puller -- remaining shut on the New Year too, most of the revellers will throng to Dimna for picnicking.  But the majority of the revellers are unlikely to visit the picturesque Dimna as the district health department officials will subject the visitors  to Covid test. Replying to queries, the senior SP pointed out that they have put up over 20 armed police beside five police officers at Dimna Lake area for Friday. "In all 22 checking points have been set up en route to Dimna and also Bhurudih Dam in Ghatsila from the city for both the year end as well as the New Year celebration.  We anticipate the new year celebration will pass on peacefully with so much checking on road beside the restrictions at the picnic spots," said the senior police officer, adding that those found unmasked will be taken to task. In the city, Bistupur Main Road happens to be a place of attractions for the year-end revellers who will have to spend the New Year eve amidst the deployment of heavy police force. In a similar bid, the Dhanbad District Administration has issued guidelines for new year celebration and also made sufficient deployment of security forces at strategic locations. The police have deployed forces in highways including Highways including at National Highway-2 and National Highway-32, where incidents of drunk driving are frequent. “The district administration team led by the Sub Divisional Officer of Dhanbad will carry out inspection of different picnic spots from Thursday night and ensure strict observance of Covid-related guidelines,” ADM (Law and Order) Chandan Kumar said. Dhanbad SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz said, “We have made sufficient deployment  of security forces at all picnic spots, highways and religious places.” “The focus will be on religious places as huge congregations of people arriving to seek blessings ahead of the new year are witnessed at these places,” said Minz. “Though it is practically not feasible to restrict people gathering at the site, we have instructed our officials to ensure gatherings happen at a specific time and regulate the crowd in order to avoid violation of Covid norms,” he added. Meanwhile, in Egyarkund, where the major picnic spot of district Maithon Dam is situated, the district administration led by Dhanbad Block Development Officer, Vijendra Prasad has instructed local fisherman committees to ensure strict observance of all Covid guidelines. They have been asked not to carry more than the allotted number of persons in boats and steamers, and to wear masks mandatorily among others. Similar arrangement has been made by the Binod Bihari Mahto Smarak Samiti at Bhatinda Falls in Moonidih area of Dhanbad. In Koderman’s Tilaiya Dam Superintendent of Police (SP) Ehtesham Waquarib visited the area to set up a helpdesk for picknikers and tourists. Waquarib said policemen deployed at this helpdesk will keep eyes on hooligans and if any such incident happens, they will immediately take appropriate actions. The dam attracts a large number of tourists around this time, which is why incidents of eve teasing surges. Waquarib said he has made available two bikes, life jackets and rope to the helpdesk, asking Tilaiya Dam outpost officer-in-charge Vishal Pandey to ensure proper patrolling in this area and to take legal action against troublemakers. The Koderma SSP asked people to enjoy their time at this picturesque location but not to create trouble for anyone. He asked them to follow Ccovid guidelines to remain safe from infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-188
31-12-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 233 fresh cases, two casualties in a day||Active cases and death toll surged further in the state on Wednesday with 233 new infections and two fatalities reported in the last 24 hours while 185 were declared cured, state health department’s Covid-19 bulletin has stated on Wednesday. Both the latest deaths were reported in Ranchi while it got 87 new cases out of state’s total caseload in last one day. Ranchi’s active cases are 769, highest across the state. Of 30,448 who tested positive in Ranchi since March, 29,462 recovered and 217 have died. Out of seven fatalities in the state in the past 48 hours, five emerged from Ranchi alone. On the other hand, East Singbhum, Bokaro, Dhanbad, and Hazaribag witnessed 40, 20, 18 and 13 new cases respectively. The state currently has 1640 active cases out of 1,14,873 who tested positive since the virus outbreak. The recovery figures stand at 1,12,206 and 1027 deaths. While Pakur district continues to remain free of infection out of the 24 districts, three others — Giridih, Godda and Khunti have active cases less than 10. State’s seven-day growth rate currently is 0.14% vis-à-vis 0.17% nationally while seven days doubling rate is 510.32 days that of 407.37 in the country. Recovery rate is 97.67% compared to the national average 96%, and the mortality rate stands at 0.89% in respect to 1.40% nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-188
31-12-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel eco-friendly long pipe conveyor||Tata Steel installed an environment-friendly long pipe conveyor (LPC) at its open-cast coal mines at West Bokaro division in Ramgarh district of Jharkhand on Wednesday. The facility, as part of endeavour to continually improve technology and drive productivity, was virtually inaugurated by Tata Steel chief executive officer and managing director T.V. Narendran. Congratulating the entire team, Narendran said: “The implementation of best-in-class technologies and sustainable practices are critical success factors for mining operations. The LPC would improve the productivity and help in reducing the environmental footprint in coal logistics, significantly,” In addition to the growth of technology in West Bokaro, the 4km LPC is an ambitious project of the company doing away with the 61-year-old mono cable and bi-cable ropeway system. LPC will bring coal and by-products from washeries to the Chainpur railway siding by replacing the existing ropeway transportation system. The conveyor is driven by controlled start transmission drives, comprising a steel cord belt with fire-resistant properties. Maintenance staff and all equipment will be borne by two maintenance trolleys atop the conveyor. This pipe conveyor will not only have zero spillage but will also be noiseless and improve productivity in the West Bokaro Division. The single unit can handle both coal and by-product grades and can carry 1200 tonnes per hour, making it much cheaper and safer than road and ropeway transport. The enclosed structure will ensure there is no degradation of materials along the way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-188
