03-06-2020||India||Centre amends Essential Commodities Act, landmark decisions taken to benefit farmers||Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Wednesday said that the government has taken three historic decisions in the field of agriculture during the cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier in the day. “Firstly, we have made farmer friendly amendments to the Essential Commodities Act,” Javadekar said. Under the proposed amendments, essentials like grains, oil, pulses, potatoes, onions have been excluded from the Essential Commodities Act, Javadekar said. “Farmers can now export or store these commodities as they wish. These are our farmers’ demands pending for nearly 50 years now,” he said, adding that these restrictions will not be applicable again until unprecedented circumstances such as a period of calamity, war or inflation arise. “As a result of this, farmers will get good returns,” the minister said. ALSO WATCH | ‘Big decision...’: Govt hikes procurement prices for 14 summer cropsAlso read: Covid-19 cases in India to cross 15K-a-day mark by mid-June, predicts ChinaThe minister explained how the Essential Commodities Act stopped the free flow of investment.“Farmers are free from the clutches of Agriculture Producer Market Committee,” he said, adding that farmers will now be able to sell produce anywhere and to the highest paying party.  Union Cabinet has approved 'The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020'. It will create an ecosystem where the farmers and traders will enjoy the freedom of choice of sale and purchase of agri-produce: PMO“These steps have been taken in tune with India’s vision to move forward as “one nation one market”. Also read: We will get our growth back, PM Modi tells India IncCabinet, chaired by PM Narendra Modi, approves historic amendment to Essential Commodities Act; regulatory environment liberalized for #farmers through this. Landmark decisions to benefit farmers and transform the agriculture sector: Union Minister Prakash Javadekar https://t.co/eq3KfIwLN6“Cabinet, chaired by PM Narendra Modi, has approved historic amendment to Essential Commodities Act; regulatory environment liberalized for farmers through this. Landmark decisions to benefit farmers and transform the agriculture sector,” the minister stated. Javadekar’s comments came during a joint press briefing with Minister of Agriculture, Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday. Union Minister for Agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar talked in detail about the amendments approved by Centre and discussed the many measures taken by the government in the past and during the Covid-19 to benefit farmers and to boost the agriculture sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landmark-decisions-to-benefit-farmers-taken-during-today-s-cabinet-meeting-chaired-by-pm-modi-javadekar/story-65SDXMWYFn7Ft8It7WsPON.html
