01-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Footfall at Tata zoo nosedives because of barricades at entries||Jamshedpur: The footfall at Tata Steel Zoological Park inside the landmark Jubilee Park has nosedived since the two entry points leading to the animal kingdom remain shut. The footfall at the zoo was expected to increase after gates of the Jubilee Park were thrown open for the public after a year-and-a-half on Sunday. But the two entry points (one near the Centre for Excellence and the other which leads to the Jayanti Sarovar) remain closed. Barricades have been put at both these entry points. The footfall at the zoo used to be around 1,500-1,600 every day before the pandemic but now it has come to almost half. (Jayesh Thaker)  Jamshedpur: Inspector general of Railway Protection Force (RPF) D.B. Kashar inspected security arrangements at the Tatanagar station in view of the upcoming Puja, on Friday. During the hour-long inspection, Kashar inspected the entry and exit points at the Tatanagar station besides the luggage-scanner. The senior railway cop also checked the CCTV cameras and functioning of the control room. Having completed the inspection, Kashar held a meeting with the RPF officials where he gave instructions to the subordinates regarding how to maintain a flawless security during the Puja when the passengers' flow does increase manifold. (Kumud Jenamani)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
01-10-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI wins Accenture B-School Challenge's fifth edition ||Global professional services leader Accenture on Friday announced top winners of the fifth edition of the annual Accenture B-School Challenge- 2021. The fifth edition of the annual contest focused on the theme ‘Signals of Change: Discovering new opportunities in a disruptive world.’ Aimed at igniting discussions on key changes catalyzed by the pandemic sweeping across today’s business landscape, the participants explored trends that pave the way for reinvention and growth. More than 8,500 students from 16 premier business schools across the country participated in the month-long competition held on a virtual platform. The grand finale featured eight finalist teams who were mentored by experts from Accenture. The participating teams presented case studies across diverse industries such as banking, telecom, consumer goods and retail, natural resources, energy, automotive and life sciences. The first prize was awarded to the team from XLRI. The Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Bangalore emerged as the first runners- up team followed by the second runner up team from Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, New Delhi. The top eight teams qualifying for the grand finale received a pre-placement interview opportunity with Accenture besides the winners who received other exciting prizes. The virtual challenge was divided into four stages. The first round was a rapid-fire online quiz where over 2,800 teams (each team comprising three members) participated, followed by round two which identified 482 teams based on business simulation where students stepped into the role of a CEO to make their company profitable. In the next round, the shortlisted 160 teams presented virtually to the Accenture leadership team and eventually top eight teams were chosen for the final round. They underwent a storytelling workshop to prepare for the final presentations and an in-depth industry master class to gain deeper business insights. The finalists were evaluated by a jury comprising industry leaders from various Indian businesses as well as senior leaders from Accenture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
01-10-2021||Jharkhand||21-year-old starts India cycle tour from steel city||Adhiraj Barua, a former student of Kerala Public School Kadma, set out on his maiden and longest bicycle journey on an All-India tour from the steel city on Friday. As a focused and high spirited student, the 21-year-old Adhiraj has become a passionate travel-geek. To fulfill his father’s dream, he set-out on the tour on his new favourite bicycle. He will be travelling across all the 28 states and eight union territories with the spirit of adventure that testifies where there is a will, there is a way. "I would be covering a distance of around 22,000km. Several organisations like Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA), Rotary Club of Jamshedpur, Lions Club and Bharat Sevashram Sangha have extended their co-operation in this great venture. I am grateful to those organisations and my alma mater," said Adhiraj. Kerala Public School Kadma will provide the much needed financial support. Adhiraj passed out from KPS Kadma in the year 2016. In this exciting journey he aims to conquer the highest motorable road on his bicycle, the Umlingala Road in Ladhakh. If he does this, he shall become the first Indian to reach a height of 19,300 feet, thus setting a world record on a bicycle. "This is a true testimony of an indomitable spirit and unflinching commitment to the goal. With this journey Adhiraj wants to spread the message of   national integration and environment conservation. He condemns forced child marriages that are still prevalent in certain parts of rural India and takes this opportunity to create awareness amongst the rural population," said Sharmila Mukherjee, principal of Kerala Public School Kadma. A good singer, Adhiraj said he wishes to sing the national anthem on the summit of Umlingala pass as a mark of respect to the nation. Director of Kerala Public School, Sharat Chandran, academic director Lakshmi Sharat and the entire fraternity of teachers, staff and students wished him good luck and a safe journey. The school had also organised an interactive session with him on his venture on Thursday afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
01-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi's first dedicated vegetable market finally ready ||The civic authority in Ranchi is ready with the capital's first dedicated vegetable market where over 300 sellers, who operate out of a road opposite Raj  Bhavan,  are to relocate, ensuring that Kishoreganj Chowk on Ratu Road will finally be opened up to ensure smooth flow of traffic. The market, built by Ranchi Municipal Corporation over  40,000 sq feet at Naga Baba Khatal at a cost of Rs 10 crore, is awaiting formal inauguration, deputy mayor Sanjeev Vijayvargiya said in Friday. “We have sent a proposal to the  chief minister’s office,  seeking a time for its inauguration. From our end, the vegetable market is ready, except for some minor finishing touches which will barely take a day or two to wrap up,” he said. The two-storeyed market has 195 spacious counters. It also has a basement.  “At least 300 fruits and vegetable vendors can easily be accommodated there. It  has passages on all sides for easy entry and exit. There are parking bays too,” he said. Once operational, he said, after vendors take up place there, the problem off traffic jams around Raj Bhavan and at Kishoreganj chowk at Ratu road would be over. Around  400 vegetable and fruit vendors sit along the road near Raj Bhavan every day from morning till night. This apart, autos and rickshaws too remain parked there, leading to perpetual traffic jams. Vijayvargiya said vendors would be allocated space using a lottery system. “Through lotteries, we will auction  space. Even for vendors, the vegetable market complex will be beneficial to do business as besides proper vending zones, there will be proper facilities for drinking water and toilets,” he said. RMC is also installing over 60 high-end CCTV cameras for security. The foundation stone of the Naga Baba vegetable market project was laid in 2017 when the Raghubar Das-led BJP government was in power. It was meant to be ready by 2020 but the project got mired in delays due alterations in design and  the pandemic. It is among a handful of civic projects that has been  completed  after the change of regime in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
01-10-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town bridge caves in  after flash floods||A flash flood in river Barkar caused due to  record rainfall of 309mm in Dhanbad, led to a portion of the  Purbi Tundi -Jamtara Bridge to cave in early on Friday, leading to disruption in traffic. The incident took place due to strong current of water in the river washing away the soil accumulated for the ongoing repair work and resultant increase of load on the existing pillars. The incident caused long queues of vehicles on both sides of the bridge including Baijrabad in Purbi Tundi area of Dhanbad and also towards the Nayanpur area of Jamtara. Local residents said that that several pillars of the bridge constructed 15 years ago were in dilapidated condition for long and repair work of the bridge has also been initiated recently according to which huge amount of silt has been deposited on the both the ends of bridge to provide support. Record rainfall caused due to Cyclone Gulab in both Jamtara and Dhanbad however washed away the silt leading to the increase of load on the existing  pillars which also faced the pressure of strong current of water passing through the river leading to collapse of one of pillars during the wee hours of today. The local residents however expressed anger claiming that no official reached the site of the incident till as late as 9am. Rakesh Singh, Circle Officer of Purbi Tundi, said, “We have informed the NH division  of state road construction department which on the other hand send its team to site and the movement of vehicles on the bridge has been blocked by carrying out trench cutting on both the ends of bridge.” “As water level is still high in the river the repair work can’t be initiated but the traffic has been diverted on the Kardaha route which is an alternative route connecting Purbi Tundi of Dhanbad and Jamtara,” said Singh. Meanwhile, the incessant also led to increase of water level in Maithon dam situated on river Barakar which as per records of the office the Manager Reservoir Operations of  Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) has reached 492 feet around 3 feet below the highest storage level of 495 feet on Friday morning at around 10 am. In Panchet dam situated on river Damodar, the water level has also reached to 427 feet three feet below the danger level of 430 feet. Apurba Saha, Public Relation Officer of DVC at Maithon said, “The situation is not good as we have to release 1.4 lakh cusecs of water cumulatively from Maithon and Panchet on Thursday and due to grim situation of flood in Asansol we are further storing the water in dam.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
01-10-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccination on slo-mo in Jharkhand, day's count 85,009 only||The immunisation campaign against Covid-19 continued at a low pace on Thursday as  Jharkhand  managed to vaccinate less than 1 lakh beneficiaries for the second day in a row, while the active caseload of the disease jumped to 83, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 84,797 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Thursday in the state. While 49,333 residents were administered the first dose of vaccine, at least 35,464 beneficiaries received the booster dose on the day, as per NHM data. Ranchi vaccinated about 12,000 residents , the highest among the 24 districts, while East Singhbhum administered vaccine doses to 10,000-odd beneficiaries. Over 8,000 residents were inoculated against SARS-CoV-2 virus in Dhanbad, while about 9,000 beneficiaries got vaccinated in Bokaro. At least 11 fresh Covid cases against only six Covid recoveries caused a spike in the active caseload of the disease in Jharkhand, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. Ranchi alone accounted for five of the 11 fresh cases, and the active caseload here rose to 49 as only three Covid patients recovered in the district. At least four cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection against only two Covid recoveries took the active caseload in East Singhbhum to eight. On the other hand, Khunti, which had zero active cases until Thursday, reported two fresh cases. At least 21 of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report fresh cases of Covid-19, but the number of districts with zero active Covid cases dropped to 11. As per government data, more than 1.35 crore residents in Jharkhand have received at least one dose of vaccine since the launch of the nationwide immunisation programme against Covid-19 on January 16. About 40 lakh of these beneficiaries have also received the second jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
01-10-2021||Jharkhand||Musical band for central housing scheme laggards||A unique initiative by a civic body in Jharkhand to use a musical band for “public shaming” of beneficiaries of a central housing scheme who have not completed their units even after getting the sanctioned amount has led to a higher completion rate of houses. The Lohardaga Nagar Parishad, one of the 45 urban local bodies in Jharkhand, has started the “public shaming” exercise using a band to perform at the doorstep of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana— Urban beneficiary and also announcing through microphone about non-completion of construction even after getting the sanctioned amount from the government. The exercise, which was started in August, has led to the Lohardaga Nagar Parishad topping the completion rate of houses under the scheme in the state in September, a remarkable feat for a civic body which was ranked among the worst five performers in the state-wide review in July. “We were issued a showcause during the review in August as we were placed in the bottom five civic bodies in terms of completion of houses under the PMAY-U scheme. After a lot of discussion we decided that public shaming of beneficiaries who do not construct houses was the only option left. We started with the performance of musical bands, who otherwise used to perform during wedding procession, along with an announcement through microphone of the name and the date on which the amount had been taken by the beneficiary,” said Lohardaga Nagar Parishad city manager Bijay Kumar. Initially, the beneficiaries were surprised on finding musical bands performing at their doorstep and even neighbours gathered hearing the noise. “It was only in the presence of a large gathering that we announced through the microphone that the beneficiary has got the amount for construction of a house under PMAY-U but has not constructed the unit and is depriving other rightful beneficiaries from the marginalised communities of enjoying the government benefits. We have found beneficiaries pleading with us to stop the announcement and give in writing the dates by which they would start construction of houses,” said Kumar. According to the data, in Lohardaga Nagar Parishad area a total of 4,217 beneficiaries were selected for the PMAY-U scheme and till July only 1,894 houses had been constructed. However, after the public shaming initiative began, the house completion figure as on September 29 has reached 2,197. “We are currently ranked top in Jharkhand in terms of completion of houses under the PMAY-U with a completion rate of 151 per cent,” added Kumar. The Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana— Urban was launched in 2015 with an objective to provide housing to all marginalised people by 2022. The scheme envisages building houses for beneficiaries who have an annual income of less than Rs 3 lakh. The houses have to be built over 320sqfeet carpet area within Rs 3.61 lakh, with Rs 1.5 lakh contribution from the central government while the state government contributes Rs 75,000. The remaining amount for construction of the house would have to be borne by the beneficiary. Usually, beneficiaries collect the government contribution but shy away from constructing houses under the scheme in urban areas, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
01-10-2021||Jharkhand||Asur Radio gets invitation from AMARC to share experience||Asur Radio, a unique community radio initiative devoted to preservation of the endangered language of the Asur tribe and their culture in the Netarhat area of Jharkhand, has received an invitation from the World Association of Community Radio Broadcasters (AMARC) to share its experience. “Suman Basnet, regional director of AMARC Asia-Pacific, spoke to us from Nepal to invite Asur Radio for sharing its experience and efforts for saving the culture and language of the Asurs,” said Vandana Tete, coordinator of the initiative. She said the invite was for a nine-day webinar, which began on Thursday, where representatives from India, Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan are participating. “It was just an introductory session today while the working sessions will begin tomorrow (Friday),” she further said. She said the forum would provide them an opportunity to throw light on the Asurs, a particularly vulnerable primitive tribe residing in Gumla and Latehar districts of Jharkhand whose language and culture is endangered. Asurs are known as ancient “metallurgists” who had the indigenous skill of iron-making centuries ago and a few of them can still do it. “But not many of them  (Asur community) speak their own language,” Tete said, adding that this was the reason that she and others at the Jharkhandi Bhasha Sahitya Sanskriti Akhara, a cultural outfit, got involved to help protect the Asur language. Asur language also figures in the Unesco list of “definitely endangered languages” and is among 119 Indian languages listed as belonging to “vulnerable”, “definitely endangered”, “severely endangered” and “critically endangered” categories. Attracting people towards their own language was the best way to save it, Tete said and hence the outfit started popularising it through Asur Radio in January last year. Radio Asur is, however, not a conventional radio channel that broadcasts content. It is instead a pre-recorded infotainment audio capsule of about half an hour duration that would be played at weekly haats (rural markets) in areas which have significant Asur population. “We couldn’t afford (conventional) radio broadcasting that involves a huge cost and also legal clearances,” Sushma Asur, one of the volunteers, said, adding that this was why they started reaching out to people by playing a pre-recorded infotainment capsule comprising a medley of music, messages and local news. The Akhara helped them get financial assistance for buying voice recorders, microphones and sound box. Volunteers like Sushma and Vivekanand Asur travel to the weekly haats and set up their instruments before playing the signature tune “Dahan dahan turrrrrr......”, a call in Asur language for singing and dancing. This draws the people who usually hang on for the entire duration, they said, adding that things were going on well till the lockdown was clamped across the country last year. They prepared such capsules during the lull period and planned to play them again in village haats after monsoon, they said, sounding hopeful that their efforts would help save a language from extinction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
01-10-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rainfall marks monsoon ‘end’ in Jharkhand||The monsoon “officially” ended in Jharkhand on Thursday with the state receiving heavy to very heavy rainfall at some places. “The monsoon was very active in the state during the past 24 hours till this morning when very heavy rainfall was recorded at many places,” Abhishek Anand, in-charge of the Ranchi Meteorological Centre, said on Thursday afternoon. Putki, on the outskirts of Dhanbad, received the maximum of 309mm rainfall during the 24-hour period while Bokaro got 290mm, Jamtara 244mm and Pakur 219mm, he added. The monsoon, which officially stretches for four months — June to September — ended on Thursday with the state receiving total rainfall of 1,043.4mm during the period which is just 1 per cent less than the average rainfall of 1,054.7mm, Anand further said, adding that “the departure is normal”. “The low pressure area that caused heavy rainfall, reducing the departure to just -1 per cent from the normal is now lying centred over the north Jharkhand-Bihar border,” Anand said. He said that the state was likely to receive more rain during the next three-four days. Palamau, Chatra, Hazaribagh and Koderma districts were likely to receive heavy rainfall during the next 24 hours, he further said, indicating that the negligible deficiency of 1 per cent could also be wiped out. The figures released by the Ranchi Met office on Thursday afternoon showed that the rainfall distribution was not uniform across the state during the four months from June to September. Some districts like Lohardaga (49 per cent), Jamtara (39 per cent) and Dhanbad (23 per cent) received excess rainfall while some others such as Pakur (-36 per cent), Gumla (-31 per cent), Chatra (-26 per cent) and Godda (-25 per cent) got deficient rainfall. The current spell of rainfall caused by cyclonic storm Gulab made up the rain gap and brought down the earlier deficit of 5 per cent to one per cent. If the rain continues till Thursday midnight, the current gap may also not exist, weather officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
