02-10-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town lawyers march to raise awareness on govt legal aid||Dhanbad’s legal fraternity, including judicial officers, lawyers, court staff and para-legal volunteers along with school students took out a march to raise awareness about the aid being provided to common people under the various schemes of the National Legal Service Authority (NALSA) meant for social upliftment and legal empowerment. The march was taken out by Dhanbad Legal Service Authority (DLSA) as part of the pan-India awareness and outreach programme of NALSA being conducted as part of a 13-day long Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav programme being organised to commemorate 75 years of Indian independence. The march was taken out under the leadership of Ram Sharma, Principal District and session judge of Dhanbad. It began at around 7am and reached the City Centre of Chowk of Dhanbad passing through Randhir Verma Chowk, SSLNT Women’s College and Dhanbad club, where dignitaries garlanded the statue of Mahatma Gandhi. The participants comprising Nitasa Barla, Secretary DLSA and other members of DLSA were holding placards bearing the different schemes of NALSA and Jharkhand Legal Services Authority (JHALSA). Talking to media at the sidelines of march, Ram Sharma, who is also the chairman of DLSA said, “Our Para Legal Volunteers will visit different villages of the district as  part of the programme which will continue till October 14 during which they will apprise people about the various welfare schemes of the government meant for the common people and also note down the names of people who are deprived of the benefits of the scheme and then coordinate with the concerned government department to ensure the benefit of such schemes for them.” Nitasa Barla on the other hand said legal help has been provided by NALSA’s 10 different schemes, including Legal Services to disaster victim through Legal Services Authorities; Victims of Trafficking and Commercial Sexual Exploitation Scheme; legal services to workers in unorganised sectors; legal services to children and their protection scheme; legal services to mentally ill and mentally disable persons; effective implementation of poverty alleviation scheme; Protection and effective implementation of tribal rights scheme; legal services to victims of drug abuse and eradication of drug menace scheme; legal services to senior citizens besides legal services to victims of acid attack scheme. She further said that a number of other schemes including Tripti, Manavta, Aatmnirbhar, Kartavya under the aegis of Jharkhand legal services authority, to provide the benefit of legal services to different people. On June 24, DLSA provided cheques worth Rs 20,000 each to eight children who lost both their parents during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
02-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi Smart City offers land at Re 1 for educational enterprises  ||Top ranking educational institutions of the country that would like to set up a campus at Ranchi Smart City, a project coming up in the HEC area of the state capital, will be given 25 acres of land at a token price of Re 1, Jharkhand government officials announced on Saturday at an investors’ meet held here. The meeting, which was piloted by the Ranchi Smart City Corporation (RSCCL) under the state urban development department and was held to brief prospective investors about the second phase of e-auction of plots , was  attended by about 100 people from real estate, hospitality, medical and education sectors. As many as 42 plots comprising institutional (10), commercial (16), public/semi-public (02) and mixed use (14), covering a total area of 218.03 acres, will be put for auction. A similar auction in the first phase was initiated in December last year which got completed in early 2021 during which 9 plots were sold. CEO of RSCCL Amit Kumar spoke about the project in detail. "Everything starts with a vision. When we began this project, the state government’s vision was to make it an educational hub. This is also the vision of the chief minister Hemant Soren. Therefore, we have decided to offer 25 acre land to educational institutions ranked 500 and below as per QS ranking of universities. In Bangalore, which is considered as an educational hub, the entire socio economy of the city hinges around this concept. Ranchi too has immense potential.” State urban development department secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey said besides education, medical infrastructure too was a priority. Highlighting why the smart city site would be the best bet for any investor, he said, “The existing city is saturated and the government is putting all its projects in this region, like, a new secretariat building, an IIM, host of banking entities, a mega residential project of 15,000-plus houses by the state housing board, among others." Ranchi is among 100 cities selected by the Centre for India’s Smart City Mission. In 2017, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu had laid the foundation stone, but work on the ground to set up basic infrastructure began only in 2019. The state urban development department, so far, has invested around Rs 800 crore for constucting facilities like a drainage system, command and control system and a  convention centre. The entire project is set up across 657 acres in the HEC area of which 37 per cent has been earmarked for greenery and open spaces in the master plan. About 278.52 acres of land covering around 51 plots of various dimensions are initially being auctioned in various phases, said officials. A few attendees, mainly from the medical sector, had some suggestions to offer. Dr Jogesh Gambhir, owner of Raj Hospital in Ranchi, advised the government to consider revising the land rates to encourage investments for hospitals. “For the medical sector, one of the terms for participating in the auction for plots is that the project should be of 500 beds. No hospital in Jharkhand is of 500 beds. This apart, making a 500-bed hospital viable isn’t easily. A 300-bed hospital can be viable with an investment of Rs 60 crore initially. However, the plot rate here starts at Rs 70 crore, which needs serious reconsideration,” he said. Dr Suhas Chaturvedi, director of Harmu Hospital, criticised some aspects of the Smart City Plan. “A plot size of 11 acre is proposed for a medical college. But whoever prepared the plans should have known that at least 25 acre is mandated for a medical college by National Medical Commission (NMC). I have serious doubts... no private player will not want to come at a time when the state government is struggling to run its own medical colleges,” he observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
02-10-2021||Jharkhand||State claims gold and silver on opening day of senior archery nationals||Jharkhand started their campaign in the 40th NTPC Senior National Archery Championship by claiming a gold and a silver in the Indian Round (shooting with traditional bows and arrows) at JRD Tata Sports Complex on Saturday. Asrita Biruily slotted home gold in 50m distance in women's individual category, Goldi Mishra bagged silver in 30m distance in men's individual section. Arjun Munda, Union minister of tribal affairs and president of Archery Association of India, formally inaugurated the championship in the presence of Chanakya Chaudhary, vice-president (Corporate Services), Tata Steel, Pramod Chandrukar, secretary general (AAI), Partha Mazumdar, regional executive director (Coal Mining, NTPC) and Farzan Heerjee, chief (Protocol and Sports), Tata Steel and office bearers of Jharkhand Archery Association (JAA). The event is being organised by AAI along with Jharkhand Archery Association (JAA) and hosted by Tata Steel’s Tata Archery Academy. Congratulating Tata Steel for hosting the championship, Munda said that the government is committed to promoting every sport and is working towards creating infrastructure, training of sportspersons and promoting and supporting coaches and players. "The government is committed to promoting sports and creating the required infrastructure for players and coaches," he added and thanked Tata Steel for hosting the event. Chanakya Chaudhary said Tata Steel is proud to host the nationals. "This event was planned as part of the celebration of 25 years of Tata Archery Academy (TAA), which was established on October 4, 1996. Jharkhand has a legacy of archery and has produced many prominent archers like Deepika Kumari, Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat who are the examples who have recently made all proud in the World Cup and Youth World Championships. Hosting this event in Jharkhand will motivate the local archers by watching the best archers from all over the country perform live." He added that Tata Steel is grateful to Arjun Munda for giving Jharkhand Archery Association and Tata Steel the opportunity to host this event and also the national camp for the selected archers in Jamshedpur. The 10-day long national meet will witness the presence of hundreds of eminent archers from across the country, team officials, sports control promotion boards, esteemed jury, among others. The action-packed event will have Indian Round, Compound and Recurve National (men and women). The championship is reserved for the Indian round on October 2 and 3, followed by compound events on October 5 and 6 and Recurve (Olympic) event on October 8 and 9. The Senior National is of immense importance as the top 16 rank holders in recurve (men and women) and compound (men and women) categories will be picked from this championship for the final trials to be held on October 10 and 11 at Jamshedpur. This will be the basis of the Indian team’s selection for Asian Archery Championship to be held in Dhaka. On October 4, Tata Steel will also observe the silver jubilee of the TAA, which was set up to encourage the indigenous talent of local youth. Since 1996, the Tata Archery Academy has successfully nurtured and trained talented youngsters to contribute to the greater glory of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
02-10-2021||Jharkhand||Woman dies of mucormycosis in Ranchi, first black fungus death in state after July 31||A 58-year-old woman, suffering from mucormycosis, died at the trauma centre of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) on Saturday after the fungal infection spread to her brain in barely two days since her hospitalization, leaving doctors with no time to plan a surgery. “Her condition deteriorated quite abruptly. I saw pictures of her clicked on September 26, and she looked fine in them,” said Dr Pradip Bhattacharya,  in-charge of the trauma centre at RIMS. “She was admitted here on September 29 after she could not open her eyes. We sent her samples for tests and were preparing for  surgery, but her condition continued to deteriorate as she did not respond to medication,” he added. This is the first mucormycosis casualty reported in Jharkhand since July 31, highlights data with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP). The state reported at least eight cases of black fungus from August 1 to October 1, but all of these patients responded to medication and were discharged from hospitals. Another patient of suspected mucormycosis was admitted to the old trauma centre of RIMS on Friday, doctors said. This patient was stable, but his hospitalization indicated a rise in cases of black fungus once again in the state, doctors added. According to the latest update from IDSP shared on September 27, there were six active cases of mucormycosis in Jharkhand and five of these patients were undergoing treatment in Ranchi. The Gumla woman’s death on Saturday takes the mucormycosis toll in the state to 32. “No mucormycosis casualties were reported at RIMS in the past couple of months. Even patients whose lungs were affected by the fungal infection have survived,” said Dr. Bhattacharya. According to sources from RIMS, surgeons from different departments held a meeting to decide on the course of action in the treatment of the woman who died on Saturday. However, after examining her condition, the surgeons unanimously decided to keep her on medication and go for a surgery once her condition improved, sources added. “Unfortunately, she did not respond to Amphotericin B, the anti-fungal drug commonly used for treating black fungus,” said a doctor from the new trauma centre at RIMS. Mucormycosis or black fungus is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. The line of treatment includes surgery and administering anti-fungal drugs, mostly Amphotericin B. Jharkhand notified black fungus as an epidemic earlier this year following directions from the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
02-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jabs for 900 on Day One of Dhanbad's mega vaccination||Dhanbad district administration launched a mega vaccination drive at IIT (ISM) shopping complex on Saturday  during which 900 beneficiaries were administered doses of the  Covishield vaccine. Kumar Tarachand, the  ADM (Law and Order) of Dhanbad who inaugurated the drive in the presence of  Dhanbad Civil Surgeon Shyam Kishore Kant and Vikas Rana and  District Reproductive and Child Health Officer (DRCHO)  Vikas Rana, said, "The special drive, besides helping the people of remote areas who could not book the slot online,  will also help  accelerate the vaccination drive in  the district.” Rana told The Telegraph Online , “The mega drive will continue at the same centre. Although we targeted  900 doses on the inaugural day, we will soon increase it to 2,000 doses per day.” Rana said the mega drive was being held  in addition to  vaccines being given  at other centres across the 10 ten blocks of the district including Dhanbad, Tundi, Topchachi, Govindpur, Purbi Tundi, Nirsa, Egarkund, Kaliasol, Bagharma and Baliapur. In Dhanbad on Saturday,  vaccinations were carried out at  54 centers, including 17 centers of Dhanbad Sadar, 12 of Jharia, seven of Topchanchi, six of Baghmara, four each of Nirsa & Tundi and two each of Baliapur and Govindpur. “Covishield  doses are being given at at the  mega drive but depending on the availability of vaccines, Covaxin may also be given,” Rana said and added that manpower for the  drive was being provided by Care India, an NGO carrying out a vaccination drive at Ranchi and Jamshedpur. Pratyusha Kumari, an M Tech (Electronics Engineering) student of IIT (ISM) who took the second dose of Covishield at mega camp said, “We returned  to thw campus after a gap of around 18 months on September 1. Since we arrived here after taking the first dose at our home town of Ranchi, we were concerned. But now that we got our second doss, we feel  quite safe.” Ravi Kumar Agrahari, a classmate of Pratyusha who also took the second dose at  the mega camp, said, “The arrangements at the mega camp were good and my parents back home at Siddharnathnagar in UP who were also concerned about our safety at the campus, felt getting to know that I had got my second jab on Saturday."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
02-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand plan to ease traffic jams in cities||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday announced that all cities facing traffic bottlenecks due to entry of heavy vehicles will get bypass roads to ease the pressure. After inaugurating the 400MW Itkhori power grid and transmission line in Chatra district on Friday afternoon, Soren said: “Several representatives placed a demand for a bypass road in Chatra. I would like to announce that the foundation stone for a bypass in Chatra would be laid in January. The government is working on identifying all those cities having the need for bypass roads and would soon approve plans for their construction to reduce traffic bottlenecks due to heavy vehicles.” The newly constructed 220/132/33KV grid at Itkhori having a total length of 108km has been built at an estimated cost of Rs 189.70 crore with an aim to ensure quality power supply to the region. With the commissioning of this grid sub-station and transmission line, the decades-long power woes in the districts of Chatra, Hazaribagh and Koderma are expected to come to an end and also reduce their dependence on the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) for power supply, officials said. “Seven districts of the state — Bokaro, Dhanbad, Giridih, Koderma, Ramgarh, Chatra and Hazaribagh — are fully dependent on the DVC for power. With the inauguration of the Chatra-Itkhori transmission line, the entire district of Chatra, along with parts of Hazaribagh and Koderma, would no longer have to remain dependent on the DVC as these areas would now receive power directly from the Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL), the state-owned power distribution company,” said an official of the JBVNL. The chief minister also announced the laying of foundation stone for another power grid at Dhada and a dairy processing plant in Chatra district. The chief minister said that the government will promote solar power plants. “Use your barren land and the roof of the house to set up a solar power plant. With this, not only will they be able to generate electricity for themselves, but the government will buy the surplus electricity. This will increase your income and you will become a partner in the development of the state. The government will give subsidy for setting up solar power plants,” said Soren. The chief minister warned those contractors and influential persons who allegedly encourage villagers to cultivate opium and stated that strong action would be taken against them. He also asked the villagers to take benefit of alternative sources of farming by engaging themselves in animal husbandry and other schemes of the government and assured they would be able to earn double of what they get from opium cultivation. The chief minister inaugurated 82 schemes worth Rs 275.45 crore and laid the foundation stones of 18 schemes worth Rs 91.79 crore along with the distribution of assets to the beneficiaries of various government schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
02-10-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant sets March 31 target  to link farmers with KCC scheme||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has set a target of March 31 next year to link farmers with the Kisan Credit Card (KCC) scheme and by October 15 this year for linking rural homeless people with housing schemes. The directive was issued during a review of the performance of the agriculture, animal husbandry and cooperative department in Ranchi on Thursday. According to sources in the chief minister’s secretariat, Soren was not pleased with the pace of issuance of Kisan Credit Cards. “All deputy commissioners in the 24 districts should take up KCC linkage with farmers on a priority basis and work in coordination with banks. All state farmers, both landowners and landless, should be linked with KCC by March 31, 2022,” an official quoted Soren as saying during the review meeting. There are nearly 38 lakh cultivable farmers (having own land) but the figure goes up to over 58 lakh, including the landless farmers. In the financial year 2020-2021, 13 lakh farmers were linked with the PM-Kisan scheme and in the current year over eight lakh have been included. “The bottlenecks lie with the rejection rates of KCC beneficiaries by the banks. The deputy commissioners are working closely with the banks in sorting out hassles of documentation so that the rejection rate is brought to the lowest. We are confident of attaining the target,” said Nisha Oraon, director of agriculture. The KCC is a government scheme that provides timely access to credit in the agriculture, fisheries and animal husbandry sectors. The scheme helps farmers in availing short-term loans and provide them with a credit limit to purchase equipment. It exempts them from the high interest rates for the regular loans offered by banks and reduces their reliance on moneylenders. During the review of the rural development department, Soren directed the officials to cover the needy and eligible beneficiaries with government housing schemes in rural areas and ensure that they are linked with the rural housing schemes of the central and state governments by October 15 this year. The chief minister also directed officials of the food, public distribution and consumer affairs department to ensure that all beneficiaries get the first lot of saris, dhotis and lungis (garments provided at a subsidised rate by the state government) before Durga Puja in the first week of October through the public distribution shops. Soren had re-launched an old government scheme named after his grandfather Sona Sobran, providing dhotis, saris and lungis at Rs 10 to poor families in Jharkhand last month. The scheme was discontinued by the erstwhile BJP-led government in 2015. The scheme covers 58 lakh BPL families. The ST/SC, minority department secretary, K.K. Soan, told the chief minister that by October over 16 lakh eligible matric students would be registered for government scholarship schemes in the state. The chief minister during the review of the energy department directed officials to prepare an action plan for setting up solar power plants as a business model providing income as it would act as an incentive for more people to take up this business. The deputy commissioners were directed to identify maximum land for solar power plants in their respective districts. The chief minister on Thursday reviewed 17 government departments in a marathon meeting that lasted till late evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
