03-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: IIT (ISM) Dhanbad’s Physics dept develops advanced luminescent material||Dhanbad: A research group comprising Prof J Manam, Prof S K Sharma and Dr. Sourav Das of IIT (ISM)’s Department of Physics, has developed advanced luminescent materials for defence and security applications. The Rs 37 lakh project, which has been on for three years has resulted in the development of a substance that can be used for tagging, tracking and locating defence applications. This material exhibits – ‘Long persistent luminescence’, a phenomenon in which material exhibits light after being exposed to solar light for a long time. The IIT (ISM) during the first 2 ½ years of research which began on from March 2019 developed long persistent phosphor material which gives emission to the Near Infrared Region (NIR) The material can be excited by the solar radiation during the day time and NIR radiation can be observed by night vision monocular for 24 hours. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Sourav Das said, “We began the project during March last year and have already prepared the material at the laboratory level and its application has also been made for which publication has already been made in a reputed journal.” He added, “This material has been developed for the first time in India. It took us 2 ½ years of the allotted three years to develop this material. Despite the institute remaining closed due to the pandemic, we have been able to meet the target.” This material is akin to the material used in the glowing duck, a toy for the kids. Praduman Choubey Jamshedpur: Nine fresh Covid positive cases have been reported during the past 24 hours in steel city. The sudden surge has sent the district health department machinery into a tizzy. With the Puja round the corner, the sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases, the health department and local administration have not only intensified Coronavirus sample tests, but have also re-imposed strict Covid-19 measures from Monday. Dhalbhum sub-divisional officer, Sandeep Kumar Meena confirmed the news. “From Monday, the administration will conduct random checking at the markets where unmasked people will be penalised. Not more than five persons will be allowed in a shop irrespective of whether people are in for Puja-shopping or not,” said Meena while talking to The Telegraph Online. The SDO maintained that the administration has also increased the Coronavirus sample tests besides intensifying the vaccination drive in and around the steel city. Meena pointed out that about 85 percent of people in the steel city have received a single dose of Covid jab. According to him, a door to door survey would be conducted to get everyone vaccinated in the next 10 days. Kumud Jenamani||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
03-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand gets ready to recruit professors for five medical colleges||The Jharkhand government has issued a notification for recruitment of at least 86 professors and 83 assistant professors to teach in five medical colleges, many of which faced flak from the National Medical Commission (NMC) over the dearth of teachers and a lack of facilities recently, officials said on Sunday. According to a notification issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, medical colleges in Dhanbad, Jamshedpur, Palamau, Dumka and Hazaribagh will recruit faculty members through a walk-in interview. The eligibility criteria for candidates have been set as per the requirements decided by the Medical Council of India (MCI) and NMC, the government notification, The Telegraph Online has a copy of which, stated. The teachers, as per this notification, will be recruited on contract basis for a period of two years, and their contracts will be renewed depending on their performance while teaching in the five medical colleges – Shahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital-Dhanbad, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital-Jamshedpur, Phulo Janho Medical College- Dumka, Medinirai Medical College- Palamau and Sheikh Bhikhari Medical College-Hazaribagh. The state government recently found itself in the crosshairs of the medical fraternity following a decision of the NMC to disallow admission for MBBS courses in three medical colleges in Palamu, Dumka and Hazaribagh. The NMC, after inspection, had put a hold on admissions in these three medical colleges citing a lack of facilities and faculty members. These colleges were set up during the former BJP-led government of Raghubar Das. The NMC’s decision came as a jolt for Jharkhand, a state that is already dealing with a crisis of doctors and healthcare professionals. The Hemant Soren-led government, however, was quick to take measure to address this issue with the chief minister himself asking officials concerned to intervene. The walk-in interview for the 169 vacancies will be held at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi on October 9 and October 10, the government notification stated. The recruitments would be made for as many as 23 departments and vacancies will be reserved for Scheduled Tribe, Scheduled Caste and Backward Caste categories as per the government norms for reservation in jobs. As per the government notifications, candidates recruited on the position of professor will be paid a monthly salary of Rs 2.5 lakh, while those recruited on the position of assistant professors will be paid Rs 2 lakh per month. However, the candidates will not enjoy any other monetary benefits from the government during their service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
03-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand wins 5 medals on final day of national archery meet||Jharkhand finished with 5 medals - 2 gold and 3 silver - on the concluding day of Indian Round (shooting with traditional bows and arrows) in the 40th NTPC Senior National Archery Championship at JRD Tata Sports Complex on Sunday. The pair of Goldi Mishra and Ritu Kumari won gold in mixed team event, edging out Maharashtra's Natasha Abhiman Dumne and All India Petroleum Sports Control Board's (AIPSCB) Huidrom rajpriyari and P Heruba Singh. Jharkhand's quartet of Ritu kumari, Asrita Biruily, Anku Kumari and Dipti Bodra claimed silver in the women's team event as Manipur's Moirangthem Baby Devi, Wangkhem Malesori Devi, Okram Naobi Chanu and Longjam Tomthinnganbi finished on the top. Maharshtra's Natasha Abhiman Dumne, Ojasvi Uday Salve, Tejasweeni Rajendra Shinde and Sakshi Bandu Tathe settled for the bronze. Jharkhand's Anku Kumari picked the second silver in the women's individual event even as Prabin Boro pocketed the gold. Okran Naobi hanu of Manipur managed a bronze. Asrita Biruily had bagged a gold in the women's 50 m distance while Goldi Mishra had won silver in the men's 30 m distance on the opening day on Saturday, taking Jharkhand's medal's tally to 5. Manipur finished with 8 medals 1 gold, as many silver and 6 bronze while AIPSCB won 6 medals - 2 gold, as many silver and bronze. The compound round event will be held on October 5 and 6 and will be followed by Recurve round (Olympic) on October 8 and 9. Tata Steel will celebrate the silver jubilee of the Tata Archery Academy on Monday. The elite cradle was set up to encourage the indigenous talent of local youth. Since 1996, the cradle has successfully nurtured and trained talented youngsters to contribute to the greater glory of the country. The Senior National is of immense importance as the top 16 rank holders in recurve (men and women) and compound (men and women) categories will be picked from the championship for the final trials to be held on October 10 and 11 at Jamshedpur. This will be the basis of the Indian team’s selection for Asian Archery Championship to be held in Dhaka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
03-10-2021||Jharkhand||Low-intensity quake felt in Jharkhand, epicentre at Jagannathpur||Earthquake in Jharkhand A low intensity earthquake measuring 4.1 on the Richter scale hit Jharkhand on Sunday afternoon. The New Delhi -based National Centre for Seismology which keeps a tab on earthquakes confirmed the tremor which took place at 2.22 pm and lasted for about three seconds. Talking to The Telegraph Online the head of IMD's Ranchi Met Centre, Abhishek Anand said, " National Centre for Seismology has confirmed the earthquake which was of low intensity. It caused no damages." According to Anand, the epicentre of the earthquake was at Jagannathpur in neighbouring West Singhbhum, about 110 km away from Jamshedpur and 185km from capital Ranchi. He said the earthquake took place at a depth of 10km under the earth's crust. IMD issues rain and thunder alert India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued an alert of rain accompanied by thunder and lightning in several parts of Jharkhand during the next 48 hours. An alert of heavy rain was also issued for Sahibganj, Godda, Pakur and Dumka till Monday morning. "The heavy moisture left by the recent low pressure area which on Sunday was lying over central Bihar would result in rain accompanied by lightning and thunder activity in several places across Jharkhand during the next two days. A north-south trough was also running across Jharkhand extending up to 4.5 km above mean sea level, " Abhishek Anand, head of IMD's Ranchi Met Centre said on Sunday. He said conditions continued to remain favourable for the southwest monsoon to start retreating from certain parts of northwest India from October 6. Light to moderate rain occurred at isolated places over Jharkhand since Saturday night. The highest amount of rainfall,  23 mm,  was recorded at Sahibganj. The steel city of Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas also experienced moderate rain on Sunday afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
03-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jamtara library project garners popularity across nation||The Jamtara district administration, a district which has garnered attention in recent years due to cyber crime, has developed 118 community libraries in each of the 118 panchayats spread over six blocks. The authorities have renovated dilapidated and unused government buildings where more than 5000 students of government schools and aspirants of various recruitment exams are studying on a regular basis. All the libraries have been adopted by one senior teacher of government school of the respective areas, where government officials and policemen also take regular classes after their duty hours to motivate the students. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Faiz Aq Ahmed Mumtaz, Deputy Commissioner of Jamtara, who is leading the Community Library project launched in November 2019 from Chengaidih Panchayat of Jamtara block said, “Besides the regular classes conducted every day we have arranged for special guidance classes on Wednesday and Sunday during which the government officials including police officers provide tips to the students to crack various competitive exams including Banking, Railway, SSC etc.” “All kinds of books including NCERT text books, competitive exams, General Studies, English, History, magazines and periodicals etc have been made available in all the libraries and books are continuously being donated by various people from different parts of the country through couriers etc,” said Mumtaz who himself takes classes. The library project has helped the students during the pandemic when schools and colleges were closed. They used the facility to carry out self study and also avail the guidance provided by the teachers and other government officials associated with the libraries. “Besides the text books and educational materials for competitive examination we have also made books on cookeries and foods available in order to attract women to the libraries,” said Ahmad and added that the library project of the district has become so popular across the country that administrations of several districts in North Eastern states have also followed the model. Khurshid Ansari, a villager and librarian of the first library established in Chegaidih Panchayat said, “Classes for the school students are conducted every day from 3pm to 5 pm everyday by two local B. Ed degree holders of our village- Wasim Akram and Maqsood Alam- while the aspirants of competitive exams carry out self study during the evening hours from 7pm to 9 pm.” “A lot of changes have taken place in educational environment of the panchayat ever since the establishment of the library on November 20, 2019 as besides the students, even the common villagers also visit to the library to read newspapers which we procure on regular basis,” said Ansari, a college graduate who earns his livelihood through farming on his land.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
03-10-2021||Jharkhand||Villagers in Latehar district pool funds for legal battle ||Residents of Piri village in Latehar district of Jharkhand have managed to collect nearly Rs 20,000 in a crowdfunding drive to fight a legal battle against the alleged killing of a villager by security forces on charges of being a Maoist. The legal formalities for filing a petition through a lawyer has been completed and the plea will be filed in the court of the chief judicial magistrate (CJM), Latehar, on Monday. “Everything including an affidavit of petitioner Jiramani Devi (widow of victim Brahmadev Singh) has been completed and the complaint petition would be filed in the court of CJM, Latehar, on Monday. The court will send the complaint to the police station concerned (Garu) for registration and investigation,” said legal counsel Birsa Munda. Residents of Piri in Ghasitola panchayat under Garu block had drafted a letter seeking donations from the villagers (there are nearly 100 households in Piri) and pasted copies of the letter in the government schools and also in the primary health centres and sub-health centres under the panchayat area. They had initially sought to collect Rs 30,000 through donations. “Jiramani Devi had submitted an application with Garu police station on June 29 demanding that an FIR be registered against security forces allegedly responsible for the death of her husband. But it has been over three months and the police are yet to lodge an FIR. Whenever we go to the police station we are threatened of being implicated in cases. We had no option but to approach the court but for that we needed funds to pay for hiring an advocate, cost of documentation and travelling expenses (distance between Piri and Latehar is over 78km),” said Bisweshwar Singh, 55, a landless farmer of Piri. “The FIR is yet to be registered by the police which is a violation of the constitutional right of an individual. The gram sabha has also written to chief minister Hemant Soren asking for action against the security forces for the fake encounter of innocent villagers,” said Siraj Dutta, a member of the Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (a conglomeration of human rights organisations). A team of human rights activists under the aegis of the Mahasabha had visited the village where Bramhadev was shot dead on June 12. The team in its fact-finding report released on June 23 claimed that innocent villagers carrying single-shot country-made guns were taking part in an annual hunting festival when they were fired at by security forces. “The security forces took Bramhadev Singh to the edge of the forest and fired three shots at him, which led to his death,” states the report, a copy of which was also submitted to Latehar deputy commissioner Abu Imran. “The FIR does not mention Bramhadev’s death by the police firing. According to the FIR, this incident was an exchange of fire in which the first shot was fired by the group of armed villagers and some people fled into the forest. The FIR also mentions that Bramhadev’s body was found at the edge of the forest. These statements are contrary to the facts,” the report states. It also says the police have filed a case against six Adivasis, including Bramhadev, under various sections (including the Arms Act). Lal Mohan Singh, secretary of the Akhil Jharkhand Khirwar Jansabha Vikash Parishad, a social outfit helping the villagers, said that they would continue to pool in resources for legal expenses and take the case to its logical conclusion. The CID is currently probing the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-31
