04-10-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Archery Academy celebrates 25 glorious years||Tata Archery Academy (TAA) on Monday celebrated its silver jubilee. To celebrate the academy’s journey so far, former Tata Sons director Dr. J.J.Irani, Tata Steel vice-president (Corporate Services) Chanakya Chaudhary, officials of Tata Steel sports young international archers and cadets of the TAA Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat, coach Purnima Mahto, trainees and coaches were present at a function hosted at JFC Media entre at JRD Tata Sports Complex. The elite cradle was set up to encourage the indigenous talent of local youth. Since 1996, the cradle has successfully nurtured and trained talented youngsters to contribute to the greater glory of the country. “Jharkhand has a legacy of archery and this academy has done its bit to produce many prominent archers like Deepika Kumari, Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat who are the examples who have recently  made all proud in the World Cup and Youth World Championships. The academy will continue to produce more international archers for the country,” said Chaudhary. Irani, former MD of Tata Steel, wished the academy his best wishes and said that the cradle has reached a milestone with its silver jubilee. For the uninitiated, the trainees stay at the Sports Hostel and are served a nutritious diet. The cadets also spend time in the gym and swim to build strength and stamina. They also pay stress on education. Training is conducted at a nearby ground. A sports psychologist has also been appointed at the academy and training is imparted in a professional manner by experienced coaches and support staff. A total of 170-plus cadets have so far trained and graduated from the cradle. The TAA-trained cadets have claimed 213 international medals and 875 national medals. Seven have donned country's jerseys in Olympic Games,  4 in World Championship, 3 in  Asian Games, 7 in Asian Championship, 7 in Commonwealth Games and 14 in World Youth Championship. Three mentors from the cradle -- Sanjeeva Kumar Singh, Purnima Mahto and Dharmendra Tiwari have been bestowed with the Dronacharya Award, 2 -- Deepika Kumari and Limba Ram -- are Padma Shri awardees and 7 -- Sanjeeva Kumar Singh, Deepika Kumari, Limba Ram, Jayanta Talukdar, Rahul Banerjee, Dola Banerjee and Atanu Das are Arjuna awardees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
04-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Coal town flyover reopens after 79-hour mega block||Dhanbad: Lifeline of Dhanbad – Bank More flyover resumed operation this morning at around 7 am after a mega block of 79 hours for load testing purpose, which was carried out by Subudhi Techno Engineers Pvt Ltd at the behest of Dhanbad District Administration. The load testing however dispelled the apprehension about the vulnerability of flyover. Talking to media, Vidyadhar Panda, Project Manager of Subudhi Techno Engineers Pvt Ltd said, “The flyover is in good condition and it is in no danger for the next five to ten years even without repairing but it’s life can be increased for 20 to 25 years after full fledged repair work.” Notably, during the comprehensive load testing work of the bridge, carried out from 12 am of September 30 to 7 am of October 3 the load capacity of its 12 pillars were done by putting weight up to 100 tonnes on them. “The weakest pillar of the bridge bent upto 3 mm after putting load of 100 tonne on it for more than 48 hours but the pillar straightened once the weight was removed,” said a representative of Subudhi Techno Engineers Pvt Ltd and added that the recovery of the pillar following the removal of the weight proved it’s strength. Praduman Choubey Jamshedpur: Chief general manager of Jharkhand circle KK Singh who was here on Monday to participate in BSNL’s 22nd foundation day celebration held at Golden Iris, a banquet hall in Golmuri mentioned that their emphasis would be on emerging as a top telecom service provider in fibre technology. Expressing happiness over the growth of BSNL’ s fibre -to- the- home (FTTH) business (also known as Bharat Fibre) Singh mentioned that the Jamshedpur Business Area of the telecom company is doing exceedingly well. “We want the Jamshedpur Business Area to set a target of providing 1000 monthly FTTH connections. Ranchi is also picking up the FTTH business,” said Singh. The Jamshedpur Business Area of BSNL currently provides around 750 monthly FTTH connections. So far the Jamshedpur Business Area has provided a total of over 17,000 FTTH connections. FTTH is the technology of bringing high-speed internet services using fibre optic straight away from the operator's switching equipment to a home. BSNL's  Bharat Fibre service delivers high speed internet service at home using optic fiber replacing the existing cable infrastructure. The business gained pace during pandemic. Pinaki Majumdar Dhanbad: Coal town traders are facing a difficult situation due lesser footfall ahead of festive season. Upset with reduced business ahead of Durga Puja they are  now demanding for the withdrawal of the Sunday lockdown that has been announced to ensure some liquidity in the market. They are demanding permission for the public to shop during the lockdown. The traders under the banner of chamber of commerce also sent out a tweet to Chief Minister, Hemant Soren demanding withdrawal of Sunday lockdown and to allow shops to remain open till 10 pm instead of 8 pm. Md Sohrab, former president of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce who tweeted to the Chief Minister yesterday said, “There is no logic behind the continuation of the lockdown on Sunday when the pandemic situation has improved significantly.” Praduman Choubey||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
04-10-2021||Jharkhand||Lakhimpur Kheri violence triggers protests across Jharkhand||Reacting to the violence in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri region incident, chief minister Hemant Soren tweeted on Monday night stating, "The heinous incident in #Lakhimpur yesterday is a blot on humanity & a blatant display of majoritarian cruelty by the Ruling Party in UP & at Centre. I strongly condemn their undemocratic  attempts to detain all Opposition leaders from meeting the bereaved families of the victims." It was not just limited to Jarkhand's CM reacting to the violence. JMM and Congress, the ruling coalition partners in Jharkhand, on Monday launched a scathing attack on the BJP led governments at the Centre and Uttar Pradesh over violence in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri region on Sunday in which at least eight persons died including four farmers protesting against the contentious farm laws. Congress burnt effigies of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath across the state to protest against the incident including the arrest of AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi and other leaders. Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha, a Left backed farm body, also held similar effigy burning stints at different blocks of Ranchi. MM on the other hand questioned the stoic silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, union home minister Amit Shah as well as of Yogi calling the incident as yet another instance of brutal murder of ‘democracy’. “Sunday’s violence in Lakhimpur Khera was a pre-planned attempt by BJP to kill farmers to thwart their protests ahead of the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. But what is more shocking is the way opposition leaders including Priyanka Gandhi, two chief ministers—Bhupesh Baghel (Chattisgarh) and Charanjit Singh Channi (Punjab)—were either arrested or denied permission to visit families of the deceased farmer’s is proof enough of how democracy has completely died in Uttar Pradesh. And in India, democracy under the Modi regime is almost on its deathbed,” said JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee. He also questioned the silence of BJP’s poster boys while minister of state in union home ministry Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, who along with son Ashish—who are accused of stoking violence—continue to remain free. “UP police has claimed to have initiated FIRs against them, but they are free. On the other hand, opposition leaders are being arrested. Amid all these, the PM, home minister and UP CM, maintain silence. How is an accused minister still in the ministry? This proves BJP’s concern for farmers,” he said. He then quickly added that the only reason why Modi and Shah don’t want to act against him (Ajay Mishra) is because they don’t want to upset bhramin voters before UP polls. He added, “JMM has been supporting farmer’s protest and will continue to support them in all their endeavours against the three black agriculture laws in future too.” Congress on the other hand hit the streets across different districts and burnt effigies of UP CM. Party president Rajesh Thakur said, “Killing our country’s annadatas (farmers), who are protesting peacefully for the past 10 months, will now prove to be a nail in the coffin for the BJP. We condemn the incident and the arresting of our leaders, who are fighting for the cause of farmers and the marginalised.” Notably, violence broke out in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday after four farmers with black flags were mowed down by a car linked to Union minister (Ajay Mishra Teni), days after he had warned that the protesters would be fixed in “two minutes” if they did not mend their ways. A total of eight people have died in a clash that followed thereafter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
04-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi Municipal Corporation to provide free laptops to all ward councillors||The Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) will soon provide free laptops to the ward councillors of all the 53 wards under the civic body as part of its digital push to encourage public representatives to address issues related to civic utilities online. “It also aims to get them habituated to using computers,” officials from RMC said on Monday. According to the officials, RMC has procured at least 55 laptops, one for each of the 53 ward councillors and one each for the mayor and deputy mayor. “The laptops should be made available to all the ward councillors by the end of this month. We will also provide basic computer training to them so that they can operate the portable computers and at least access emails and other important websites related to work,” said Ranchi Municipal Commissioner, Mukesh Kumar. “Distributing laptops among the ward councillors and training them to use the gadget will help the RMC achieve its target of going completely paperless and rely on digital mediums as far as possible,” said Kumar. He added that these days most of RMC’s documentation is done online. The ward councillors will get to use these laptops throughout their term and surrender the gadgets in “working condition” on the completion of their tenure as civic body representatives, informed the officials. “The laptops will remain government property, and the councillors will get to use them only during their tenure,” said an RMC official, actively involved in the initiative. “The training will be provided by the National Informatics Centre and the sessions will be focused on using various applications or websites that are used regularly for various works under the RMC,” the official said. He then added, “Many ward councillors do not have much knowledge about computers and may find it difficult to operate them if they were not trained.” Ranchi’s Mayor Asha Lakra admitted that providing laptops to the ward councillors will make their work easier. She said that municipal councillors in the city have been demanding laptops since 2018, but the process of providing the gadgets to them got delayed due to various reasons. “Providing laptops to ward councillors will obviously help. But I think this should have been done earlier,” she said. According to a source from RMC, the laptops provided to the mayor and the deputy mayor would be worth at least Rs.70,000, while those distributed among the ward councillors may cost about Rs.50,000 each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
04-10-2021||Jharkhand||Coming soon: Packaged holy water from Baidyanathdham temple||Deoghar district administration is all set to package and market holy water flowing out of Baidyanathdham temple after proper filtration and purification. Instructions in this regard has been given by Manjunath Bhajantri, Deoghar Deputy Commissioner during today’s meeting. The officials were inspecting the temple with regards to safety and security measures being taken inside the temple. He also discussed the possibility of integrating more women in the production unit of incense sticks, which are made from Belpatra and flowers used in the temple. Talking to media after the meeting, he said, “The neer (holy water) water flowing through 22 temples situated in Baidyanathdham temple complex flows into the drains and gets wasted. But now it will be stocked in the Mansarovar lake situated next to the temple after being filtered.” He mentioned about the holy water being effectively branded and marketed across the globe. Besides ensuring the availability of water for the devotees, this will prevent wastage of thousands of litres of water. Notably,  several tonnes of Belpatra and flowers used in the temple are already being recycled since 2018 to prepare compost after the installation of solid waste management machines by the Power Grid Corporation of India. Bhajantri used the opportunity to make a public appeal of abstaining from using single-use plastic bags and thermocol to ensure that the temple premise remains clean and green. Alok Mallik, newly elected President of Santhal Pargana Chamber of Commerce and Industry said, “We welcome the district administration’s initiative. We are ready to extend our support to the water filtration project, if the officials are ready to discuss things with us.” Sanjay Mishra, Senior Vice President of Shrine Board titled, Panda Dharmrakshni Sabha said, “The proposal is indeed good. We can understand the water harvesting and filtration part of the project, however, we are not convinced with the proposal for marketing the holy water. We would prefer this water to be distributed to all, even those who can't pay for it. We have a history of not charging for the neer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
04-10-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city: Brace up for traffic snarls during Durga Puja||With puja the traffic management in steel city is going to face a huge challenge in the  absence of a traffic DSP. The onus of managing vehicle movement during the festive period, this year will be managed by five traffic inspectors since the post of DSP (Traffic) is lying vacant since Babban Singh retired on September 30, 2021. With over five lakh vehicles in the city, maintaining vehicular traffic is one of the biggest concerns for the city police during the three-day Puja festivity. During this period a large number of vehicles remain on the roads, thereby giving a tough time to the traffic wing of the police. Superintendent of city police  Subhash Chandra Jat asserted that the task of maintaining vehicular traffic in absence of a traffic DSP during the Puja will be a challenging task. “The post of the DSP (Traffic) is not going to be filled before the Puja. The junior traffic cops will have to take instructions from five traffic inspectors instead of the traffic DSP, something which is very challenging,” said Jat while talking to The Telegraph Online. He also pointed out that a DSP is better experienced in handling the traffic snarls, a common feature during the Puja besides monitoring rash drivers. The senior police officer said that despite the Puja being held in a restricted manner, while adhering to the Covid protocol, the crowd of vehicle-borne revelers is expected to hit the roads for pandal-hopping like the previous year. “Despite senior superintendent of police M Tamil Vanan and myself overseeing the traffic management, the actual job of maintaining the traffic will be done by the five traffic inspectors,” said Jat. For the uninitiated, despite the Covid restrictons being in place over 350 public Pujas are being organised in the city. Traffic jams during the peak hours of the festivity are expected at Kashidih on the Straight Mile Road and Bengal Club in Sakchi, Circuit House Area in Bistupur, Tuiladungri in Golmuri and Telco.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
