05-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Six members of UP-based shooter Aman Singh’s gang arrested in Dhanbad||Dhanbad: Six members from the gang of UP-based shooter Aman Singh have been arrested by Dhanbad police for making threat calls to coal city traders. They have been demanding extortion money from different traders, property dealers and political leaders of Dhanbad. They also threatened them with dire consequences. Police seized four pistols, including a 9 mm, a 7.65 mm pistol, two country made pistols; four crude bombs; six live cartridges of 7.65 mm; four.315 mm live cartridges; one 9 mm live cartridge besides two motorcycles and seven mobile phones from those arrested. Three of them have been identified as Saddam Ansari (29) a resident of Jharia; Arun Kumar (25), a native resident of Siwan in Bihar and Suraj Kumar Gupta (20) a resident Kustore in Dhanbad have criminal history while the criminal antecedents of three others including two residents of Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh Anuj Kumar Singh and Zeishan Khan and one resident of Sheikhpura of Bihar, Rohit Kumar Tanti is being scanned. Sanjeev Kumar, Senior Superintendent of Police of Dhanbad said, “Several raids were conducted by the special police team led by Manoj Swargiyari Additional Superintendent of police in connection with bomb attack at Juhi Kia Showroom of Dhanbad based trader, Deepak Sanwariya of September 29, following which they were arrested.” “Two persons of the gang of eight involved in the incident are yet to be arrested. Raids are on to arrest them” said Kumar. Saddam Ansari who was involved in the several cases of coal theft in Jharia acted as kingpin of the gang and was in direct touch with Aman Singh. According to forensic experts who examined the seven mobile phones recovered during the arrest, they used to make extortion calls through WhatsApp calls and messages. Notably, Singh was arrested by police on May 3, 2017 in connection with former Deputy mayor Niraj Singh murder case of March 2017 and brought to Dhanbad jail on May 9, 2017. He was transferred to Hotwar Jail, Ranchi last year. Praduman Choubey Dhanbad: The announcement performance linked reward (PLR), also known as bonus worth Rs 72500 to each of 2.5 lakh employees of Coal India Limited, including 38615 employees of its Dhanbad based subsidiary, BCCL, following the agreement between management and employees has brought cheers not only on the faces of beneficiaries but thousands of small medium scale traders of the district. It is expected to bring the much needed liquidity in the market during the festive season of Durga Puja, Diwali and Chhath. Apart from BCCL, around 5 thousand employees of Mugma area of another subsidiary of coal town, Eastern Coalfields Limited, will also be benefitted following the finalization of PLR agreement between management and employees represented by trade unions, although the bonus will be credited in the bank account of employees on October 11. Though, ECL has more than 52 thousand employees but majority of its operational area lies in nearby areas of Bengal in Asansol and Raniganj Apart from BCCL and ECL, the festive bonus announcement for 11,000 thousand employees of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) and around 24,000 Dhanbad Division employees of Railway is also likely to be made soon. Tata Steel has already announced and provided bonuses to its employees in August itself during which around 2500 employees of Jharia Division have been benefited. Notably, a cumulative amount of around Rs 4 billion is likely to be pumped into the market ahead of Durga Puja scheduled on October 15. Talking to the Telegraph Online today, Rajesh Kumar Gupta, patron of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said, “he market was eagerly awaiting the announcement of finalization of PLR agreement of BCCL as it is the biggest employer of Dhanbad and since the bonus this year is around Rs 4,000 more than the previous bonus of Rs 68500, we have more reasons to rejoice.” “Since the bonus amount is generally not used in saving and rather invested in celebrating the puja by purchasing garments, footwears and electronic items etc,” said Gupta and added that the money is also used in purchasing FMCG items besides vehicles and jewellery during Dhanteras and Diwali. Praduman Choubey||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-10-2021||Jharkhand||Archery Meet: State archers perform below par at compound event||Jharkhand despite having a number of accomplished archers failed to shine on Day 1 of the compound at the 40th NTPC National Archery Championship hosted at JRD Tata Sports Complex. Delhi, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh shared the honours on the opening day of compound event at the 40th NTPC National Archery Championship at JRD Tata Sports Complex on Tuesday 1 bronze All the three states claimed 3 medals each. Delhi won 2 gold and 1 bronze while Madhya Pradesh pocketed 1 gold, as many silver and as many bronze. Maharashtra, on the other hand, bagged 1 silver and two bronze. All India Police Sports Control Board (AIPSCB), Petroleum Sports Promotion Board (PSPB), Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and AAI (Punjab) managed to bag one medal each, while Jharkhand drew a blank. Delhi's Abhishek Verma claimed the top slot in the men's 50x50 m distance with a score of 708 (out of 720) to pip Uttarakhand's Umesh Singh (706) and Delhi mate Aman Saini (706). Delhi proved their mettle in the men's team event with the quartet of Abhishek Verma, Aman Saini, Ritik Chahal and Kawalpreet Singh coming up with 230 points. Andhra Pradesh (227), represented by Kunderu Venkatadri, Manoj Kumar, Thirumuru Ganesh Mani Ratnam and Myneni Sai Charith stood second while Maharashtra (217) finished third with the combined efforts of Prathamesh Bhalchandra Fuge, Swami Sudhakar Dalvi, Rushikesh Arvind Gujar and Tushar Sanjay Phadtare. Ragini Marko, Muskan Kirar, Srishti Singh and Nikita Dagar of Madhya Pradesh finished at the top of the women’s team event with a score of 232, edging out AAI (Punjab) which scored 230 through Parneet Kaur, Prabhjot Kaur, Ritika Verma and Avneet Kaur. AIPSCB (226) finished with a bronze with the efforts of Monali Chandraharsh Jadhao, Komalpreer Kaur, Puja Kumari and Deepmala Meena. Vennam jJyoti Surekha of PSPB bagged gold in the women's 50x50 m distance with a score of 704 (out of 720), tripping Madhya Pradesh's Ragini Marko (699) and Muskan Kirar (698).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-10-2021||Jharkhand||State traders demand scrapping of Sunday lockdown in view of festive rush||Jharkhand traders have appealed Hemant Soren government to scrap or relax existing curbs on the functioning of markets during the weekend, especially on Sundays, in view of the festive season. After facing a massive slump in their business owing to the Covid-19 outbreak since March last year, different traders, mainly those dealing in garments, footwear, electronics and the likes, are banking on the current festive season starting from Durga puja for the revival of their businesses. While the state government has already eased its Covid induced lockdown by allowing almost everything in the last two months, it however is continuing with its weekend lockdown under which non-essential trades are still not permitted to run their business from Saturday night (8pm) till Monday morning (6am). Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), an umbrella outfit of different trade bodies, has urged to relax weekend lockdown too citing festive shopping. “Cases of Covid-19 is very much under control in the state. Ahead of Durga Puja, markets are slowly getting a steady footfall for festive shopping. But closure of major markets on Sundays is becoming a problem as majority of working class prefer to shop on this day. Therefore, we have urged the state government to relax Sunday lockdown during the festive season while everyone will continue to follow all the prescribed Covid-19 protocols,” said FJCCI president Dheeraj Taneja. Another official of FJCCI has also demanded for the extension of trading window during normal days. “Currently, markets, except eateries and bars are permitted till 10pm and rest only till 8pm. We demand all markets to also allow to keep their doors open till 10 pm as customers mostly come during evening and night hours on working days,” he said. Unlike last year, Durga puja this year too is expected to be a simple affair as government hasn’t allowed big ticket pandals and has curbed all kinds of fairs or hosting of events in and around its vicinity to prevent huge gatherings. Entry into the pandals has also been prohibited. Nevertheless, puja fever has caught on with the people visiting markets regularly in the last few days. A staff at Bharat Electronics said that compared to last year, they are expecting good business this time. “Covid was at its peak in our state around this time last year but the situation is different. Moreover, successive lockdowns coupled with loss of salary and jobs forced people to stay away from any kind of celebrations. But since the last one month, we have started doing good business again. Many have even placed advance booking for dhanteras and Diwali,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-10-2021||Jharkhand||No restrictions in home delivery of bhog during Puja, clarifies Banna||Puja committees across Jharkhand have been be allowed to deliver ‘bhog’ to the devotees at their homes during Durga Puja, however, “community feasts” and “bhog distribution programmes” will remain strictly prohibited as a precautionary measure against Covid-19, state disaster management minister Banna Gupta has clarified. Pointing at alleged misinformation being spread regarding bhog distribution during Durga Puja in the state, Gupta said that the government has not imposed any kind a ban on the home delivery of bhog during the festival, if the process is carried out with due adherence to the Covid-19 protocols. “I would request all the devotees in our state to taste prasad or bhog at home as we still need to be cautious about Covid-19,” said the minister. Meanwhile, the Ranchi district administration has refused to entertain the demands of puja committees to allow idols taller than five feet. Several puja committees had demanded that the government remove the five feet cap on the height of idols as taller idols may not lead to any violation of Covid norms and idol makers had already made taller idols by the time the government issued its guidelines for puja. The puja committees have been allowed to play mantras and other puja rituals on speakers, but playing songs remained prohibited. Special police patrolling teams will keep an eye on the violators during the festival and book them under the relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act. The district administration, after a meeting various puja committees, has issued elaborate guidelines for Durga Puja and Dussehra celebrations. Like last year, puja committees will neither be allowed to decorate areas around the puja pandals nor set up food stalls in the vicinity of pandals. As per the guidelines set by the district administration, devotees will not be allowed to enter inner section of the puja pandals. They will have to worship Maa Durga from a barricade set outside the pandals. Not more than 25 people, including puja committee members and priests, will be allowed to remain inside the pandals at a time. The district administration has decided not to allow minors to visit puja pandals in a move particularly aimed at averting the third wave of Covid-19, sources from Ranchi administration said on Tuesday, adding that all puja committee members and priests will have to be at least partially-vaccinated. Continuing the ban on religious processions, the administration has decided to allow only puja committee members to attend idol immersion rituals that will be performed at locations set by the administration in advance. For the second year in a row, Ranchi will not witness Ravan Dahan, a ceremony that attracts hordes of people from suburban as well as urban areas to the Morhabadi Ground here. The administration observed that allowing Ravan Dahan in public places could lead to huge gatherings, which may cause spread of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-10-2021||Jharkhand||Seraikela Puja to be organised sans government fund||Preparation for the state government-sponsored Durga Puja in Seraikela is in full swing, but the money for organising the puja celebration is yet to be remitted. This is for the first in the history of this government-sponsored Puja, which is being celebrated since 1948, that the fund has not been remitted before Puja. “The necessary fund would come from the Law department of the state government by August every year. But this year, it is yet to arrive. Puja festivity is all set to begin from Wednesday,” said Tapan Patnayak organiser of the government-sponsored Puja while talking to The Telegraph Online. Patnayak, the director of Chhau Nritya Academy, Seraikela maintained that the state government provides Rs 500000 to organise five Pujas and festivals, including Durga Puja, Kali Puja and Jagadhatri Puja in Seraikela and Kharsawan. Significantly, the Durga Puja beside other pujas and festivals celebrated in Seraikela are supposed to be government-sponsored because of an agreement between the Royal estate of Seraikela and the Union Government inked during the merger of the Royal estate with rest of the India in the year 1948. As per the agreement, the concerned government will have to sponsor the Pujas and festivals in Seraikela. “We organise the Durga Puja in a simple way, so it is being organised within a budget of Rs 100000 while we keep aside the remaining fund for other pujas and festivals. This year we are preparing for the Durga Puja on credit in the absence from the government fund,” he pointed out. Speaking about the preparation, Patnayak said they are following the Covid protocol. “The height of Goddess Durga’s idol and her children are below five feet. There will be no distribution of bhog and those in the age-group below 18 years will not be allowed to come inside the Puja venue,” he said. Seraikela sub-divisional officer, Ramkrishna Kumar, the 'Karta' for the Puja is scheduled to do the kalash sthapana ritual on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-10-2021||Jharkhand||Passenger buses allowed to stop by Dhanbad Railway Station at night||Taking the security of railway passengers into account, Dhanbad district administration has decided to tweak the new traffic rules. Thereby, making it possible for buses to stop by the railway station between 11 am to 8pm. However, the buses have been allowed to stop for only five minutes to pick the passengers heading towards their respective destinations - Katras, Bokaro, Hazaribagh, Aurangabad, Bihar Sharif, Asansol Burdwan etc. The new route plan for the night operation of passenger buses running between 11 PM to 8 PM, all the buses departing from Bartand based Bus Depot and heading towards Bokaro Ranchi Purulia route will be plying through City Centre- Raju Yadav Chowk (Bekar Bandh) - DRM Chowk – Railway Station Road- Bank More. Notably the stoppage for the buses on station road had been banned on September 3 in accordance with the new traffic plan of the district administration to control the traffic snarls in Dhanbad town area. Talking to The Telegraph Online today Om Prakash Yadav, District Transport Officer of Dhanbad, said “Only minor changes have been made in traffic plan that had been made effective from September 3 to allow stoppage of five minutes on the station road.” “The decision to allow the buses to stop at station road during the night for five minutes has been made in view of the security of the railway passengers. They were facing difficulty in reaching Bartand railway station, which is around two kilometres away from here due to unavailability of auto rickshaw,” said Yadav. “We have simultaneously notified the entry of transport vehicles including mini-trucks for loading and unloading of goods from 11 pm to 8 am,” said Yadav. He maintained that the arrangement was already in practice as per the traffic plan made effective from September 3 but they have notified again in a bid to avoid confusion. The bus operators however termed the measure as discriminatory as it is favouring night travellers only. Sanjay Singh, vice president of Dhanbad Bus Owners Association said “It is like favouring a few passengers who arrive during the night at Dhanbad Railway station while depriving others who reach here the city during day time.” “We will again demand the district administration to allow short span stoppage of five minutes for buses at the station road during the night as has been allowed for the buses during the night,” he asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: Social audit into free food scheme for primitive tribes||The Jharkhand government announced on Monday that it would get a social audit conducted into the free foodgrain scheme for the primitive tribes. “The food and civil supply department would get a social audit conducted into the Dakia Yojana,” state food and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said. He added that the scheme is meant for free delivery of 35kg of food grains every month at doorstep of those belonging to the particularly vulnerable tribal groups (PVTGs). “The intention is to identify the loopholes in the scheme and initiate remedial measures for ensuring smooth delivery of free food grains,” the minister further said, adding the audit schedule was also already finalised. The social audit unit that functions independently under the aegis of the state’s rural development department will conduct a door to door survey between October 22 and November 20 and complete hearings by December 22, Oraon informed, adding the government was serious to facilitate smooth running of the scheme. “I was the chairperson of the National SC-ST Commission when the National Food Security Act 2013 was being drafted and suggested that both the central and state governments should take the responsibility of delivering food grains at doorsteps of such people living in far-flung areas,” he said, adding the Jharkhand government had subsequently introduced the scheme in 2017. The scheme, known as Bishisht Janjati Khadyanna Yojana or Dakia Yojana for PVTGs, assures delivery of 35kg rice free of cost every month to about 73,000 families belonging to PVTGs who are spread across the state. There are 8 tribes identified as PVTGs in Jharkhand and those are the Asur, Birhor, Birjia, Korwa, Parahiya (Baiga), Sabar, Mal Paharia and Souriya Paharia. “I came across some lapses in the PDS (public distribution system) when I went on field visits during the pandemic and tried to remove those,” food minister Oraon said, adding he was hopeful the proposed social audit would also point out the lapses, if any, so that those could be addressed effectively. The social audit unit was requested to visit each of those estimated 73,000 families for gathering the problems they faced, the minister further said, adding he had already instructed his departmental officials to cooperate with the social audit team by providing related files and records to them. “It’s a welcome move that the state government decided to conduct social audit of the Dakia Yojana,” said Ashrafi Nand Prasad, the state convener of the Right to Food Campaign, adding that would help solve the problems faced by the hapless tribals. “The block level officials are supposed to organise delivery of food grains at their homes but they often ask ration dealers to do it and some of those dealers tamper with the food packets and deliver less than specified 35kg of food grains,” he said when asked about the lapses found.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
05-10-2021||Jharkhand||800 4G towers in Left Wing Extremism affected areas||There will be better mobile communication between security forces and district administration in the Left Wing Extremism affected areas of Jharkhand in the next six months. The Government of India has approved under the Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF) upgradation of 800 mobile towers (Base Transmission Stations) into 4G networks. “Following the approval of the plans by the Government of India we have started work of upgrading BTS in 800 locations in rebel hit areas. The work is expected to be completed within six months,” said chief general manager of BSNL Jharkhand circle, K.K. Singh who was in Jamshedpur to observe BSNL’s 22nd foundation day function. Sources in the state police said that the upgradation of 4G facilities would help them immensely. “The upgradation into 4G technology will be helpful in providing information about ultras movement from our informers in a better manner. The project will help not only in communication with the security personnel but also, for the residents of these areas. Apart from security issues it would also provide better connectivity and boost e-Governance, and economic activities in these areas,” said a senior police official associated with Maoist operations and based in Ranchi. Incidentally most of the Maoist bastion are in densely forest and rough terrains and fall in network shadow areas. “There is hardly any BTS in such areas and if the towers are installed in such areas it would be beneficial for the security forces and the locals too,” said the BSNL official. The BSNL chief general manager also announced that 24x7 customer grievance redressal mechanism for those availing fibre to home and other BSNL services will function in other important cities of Jharkhand by the end of October. “As of now in order to provide round the clock availability of technical expertise to take care of customer services issues, only Jamshedpur’s one network command centre for network operation (CCNO) is functional 24x7 from October 1. However by the end of this month other important cities like Ranchi, Dhanbad, Bokaro etc will have the round the clock facility. This facility will remain operational even on holidays,” said Singh. Incidentally, Jamshedpur business has been designated as the largest business area in Jharkhand circle in terms of fibre to home services accounting for nearly 45 per cent of the total growth of fibre to home connections in Jharkhand. “Customers who experience any FTTH service related issue can book complaint on 18003451500 (from any number) or 1500/198 (from BSNL number). They dial the CCNO number 0657-2301111,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-30
