06-10-2021||Jharkhand||IIT (ISM) offers cyber security tips to social media users||The exponential increase of internet users on social India platforms in India and rapidly evolving technologies is making new challenges surface other than aggravating the existing problems of cybercrime. In view of pressing need to increase cyber hygiene to prevent cybercrimes by inculcating habits of protecting oneself from such crimes, IIT (ISM) Dhanbad has launched a series of awareness programme. A lecture series on the first Wednesday of every month has been scheduled. The first lecture was conducted by Ajay Kumar, a cyber-security and IT risk management leader, today. Speaking during the occasion, Kumar said, “There is a popular adage that ‘Prevention is better than cure’. With the exponential increase in the number of internet users on social media platforms in India, it is warranted that we use technology cautiously.” He added, “We should be very cautious while sharing any personal information on social media and also selectively welcome only request from people we know personally and never accept the friendship request of a stranger etc.” Kumar who conducted the programme online also tipped the participants of the lecture to frequently change the password of social media accounts and also advised to close down the old and unused accounts. “We should always check the privacy setting of our social media account and ensure that we only share information within out network,” said Kumar. He added that regular checking helps to prevent the security caused due to inadvertent change in the setting. Kumar also advised to select longer passwords to make it difficult for tracking and further advised users from the same password for various social media platform accounts. IIT (ISM) signed has an MoU with Oges Solutions Pvt Ltd, a leading Artificial Intelligence/Machine learning based service provider. This MOU will help IIT(ISM) in getting AI/ML expertise in projects to meet Govt of India initiative to apply leading technologies in upstream and will also expose its experts to industry problems on Oges's Knowledge Acquisition platform Oges.info. “Oges has offices in Singapore and Gurgaon(India) and is an expert in providing digital solutions to Indian companies like ONGC and Cairn (Vedanta) and to E&P companies in Oman” said Deputy Director of IIT (ISM) Shalivahan who signed the MoU on Behalf of IIT (ISM). Oges has multiple AI based solutions and offers its expertise in implementing the latest digital technologies to Indian E&P companies since 2015. The MoU on behalf of Oges Solutions Pvt Ltd was signed by its Chief Executive Officer, Saurabh Srivastav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-10-2021||Jharkhand||Archery meet: Madhya Pradesh tops the medal tally with 6, Jharkhand draws a blank||Jharkhand archers cut a sorry figure on the concluding day of the compound event at the 40th NTPC National Archery Championship being hosted at JRD Tata Sports Complex on Wednesday. Jharkhand, which failed to win a single medal on Tuesday, continued with a poor show of performance by drawing a blank on Wednesday again. The bad show disappointed the coaches and officials of Jharkhand Archery Association (JAA) who said the performance of archers was unexpected and immediate attention needs to be given to improve the show. Madhya Pradesh topped the medal tally with 6 (1 gold, 2 silver and 3 bronze -- while Delhi won 5 -- 2 gold, 1 silver and 2 bronze. All India Police Sports Control Board (AIPSCB) claimed 2 medals (1 gold and as many bronze whereas Petroleum Sports Promotion Board (PSPB) finished with 2 gold medals. Uttarakhand, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and AAI (Punjab) won 1 medal each. Delhi's Abhishek Verma and Vennam Jyoti Surekha of PSPB emerged individual champions in the men and women category. The AIPSB pair of Monali Chandraharsh Jadhao and Bhagwan Das clinched the mixed team yellow metal with a score score 155. Delhi's Pragati and Abhishek Verma bagged the silver with 152 while Raginee Marko and Chirag Vidyarthi of Madhya Pradesh managed bronze with a score of 151. The senior national meet will end with the recurve event on October 8 and 9. Olympians Deepika Kumari and her husband Atanu Das are expected to reach Jamshedpur on Thursday to participate in the event. It remains to be seen how an out-of-form Deepika performs against Jharkhand's Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat who are presently in fine form and expected to shine in the recurve competition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-10-2021||Jharkhand||IT department to set up cyber forensic labs in six districts of Jharkhand||Information and Technology and e-Governance department has prepared a proposal to set up cyber forensic laboratories at least six of the 24 districts in Jharkhand, including one in Jamtara, a district that has gained infamy over the years for being the hub of cybercrimes committed across the country, officials from the department said on Wednesday. These laboratories will be used to conduct forensic tests on various electronic gadgets (mobile phones and computers) seized by the police from scene of crime and help the law enforcement agency solve criminal cases, officials said. The laboratories, officials said, “It will also help in tracking down perpetrators of crimes committed against in the cyberspace.” According to a source in the IT and e-governance department, the labs will be set up at Deoghar, Jamshedpur, Jamtara, Palamu, Giridih and Dhanbad. The department, this source said, will also sign an MoU with the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), a government-run organisation involved in research and development works in the field of information technology. “We are working towards setting up cyber forensic labs in the state. The work is in progress at different level for its implementation in different districts,” said secretary department of IT and e-Governance, KN Jha. Several cybercriminals involved in duping people living in metro cities have been traced down to Jharkhand in the past years, said the police. Besides Jamtara, on which a Netflix series has been made, Dhanbad, Giridih, Deoghar and other districts close to the Santhal Pargana region has become a den for cyber frauds, police say. According to police, “Cyber frauds often disguise themselves as trustworthy representatives of banks and finance companies over phone calls and ask for personal banking details of their target.” “Most cyber frauds use phishing to dupe people. The devices they use can lead to other links in their racket and help nab other such criminals,” said a police official from the cyber cell of Jharkhand Police. “Once the cyber forensic labs are ready, they will be handed over to the Department of Home Affairs,” sources from the IT department said. Earlier in July this year, the Ministry of Home Affairs had commissioned at least 18 cyber forensic labs across the country for fight cybercrime and crimes against women in the cyberspace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-10-2021||Jharkhand||Water aerodrome at Chandil dam to be a reality soon||If the initiative taken by the state’s tourism department for setting up a water aerodrome in the sprawling Chandil reservoir falls in place, then the region will emerge as a major tourist attraction. Following the state tourism department’s directive, Seraikela-Kharsawan district administration on Wednesday began making a blueprint of a proposed water aerodrome at Chandil dam. The blueprint is to be submitted to the tourism department within the next fortnight so that the water aerodrome may get functional as early as possible. Revealing about the ambitious project, Seraikela-Kharsawan deputy commissioner, Arava Rakkamal confirmed the news of the blueprint being made for the setting up of a water aerodrome at the Chandil dam. “We will submit a blueprint for the water aerodrome at the Chandil dam to the state tourism department within the next 15 days.  It is a good project in view of tourism as well as disaster management. We are working on the project on priority basis,” said Rakkamal while talking to The Telegraph Online. He said, “Tourists from Bengal, Odisha and Bihar besides Jharkhand come in large numbers, but after a water aerodrome is set up more tourists will visit the place for enjoying the aviation in the reservoir.” The deputy commissioner mentioned that it is a project of the Union Civil Aviation department. “Recently, the Union Civil Aviation department had shared a circular with the state tourism department. Following which, Amitabh Kaushal who is secretary, state tourism department, had asked us to send a blueprint on the Chandil dam which is the most suitable reservoir for such a project. We are, therefore, preparing the blueprint to be sent to the tourism secretary who is also the nodal officer of the project,” the deputy commissioner stated. He said, “Once the project gets the green signal they will start boosting the hospitality sector in Chandil keeping in view of the tourists’ inflow.” Located about 30 kms away from Jamshedpur, Chandil dam is along the NH-33 in Seraikela-Kharsawan district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-10-2021||Jharkhand||No community Durga Puja for steel city’s Circuit House Area||It’s no pandal, no idols and no rituals once again for the posh Circuit House Area of Jamshedpur. For the second consecutive year, the Northern Town and Circuit House Area Durga Puja Committee has decided to skip the festivities due to the pandemic. “We in consultation with our members have decided against holding any community Durga Puja this year too. We consider it as Goddess Durga’s wish for people to stay safe,” said a notice issued by the puja committee on Wednesday. The arch-shaped Durga Puja pandal at the Circuit House Area ground is a favourite meeting place for the affluent and VIPs.  It is also known for its bhog and cultural programmes like plays, the traditional dhunuchi naach and other musical extravaganza. Joint secretary of the committee, Umesh Dubey said, “We want people to stay safe and avoid going to mass gatherings. Pandal hoppers, especially all VIPs make it a point to visit our Puja. Apprehending a rush, we have decided to skip this year's Puja too.” According to him, the community Durga Puja at the Circuit House ground is being organised ever since its inception in 1947. This is the 74th year. It is one of the oldest pujas of steel city which draws a huge crowd. Local residents were disappointed, with the organisers giving it a miss. “Every year I along with my family spent considerable amount of time at the Circuit House Area Puja which provides a perfect ambience. We chat with our friends and enjoy the cultural shows. Last year we missed the Puja because of the pandemic. This year too we are disappointed to know that the organisers have taken a decision to skip the Puja,” said Aniruddh Lahiri, a businessman who stays at the Circuit House Area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
06-10-2021||Jharkhand||LIFE promises to help green crusaders in their legal battle||An environmental outfit, Legal Initiative for Forest and Environment (LIFE), has promised to help green crusaders of Jharkhand in their legal battle against violators of environment laws. During a workshop on environmental challenges before Jharkhand, organised jointly by LIFE and local environmental outfit Yugantar Bharti in Jamshedpur on Sunday, Delhi-based trustee and scientific adviser to LIFE, Rakesh Kumar Singh, said their organisation was ready to provide legal assistance to crusaders against violators of environmental norms. “The objective behind hosting such a workshop in Jamshedpur, the country’s first planned city, was to make those individuals who have an inclination for an environmental cause, aware about the glaring environmental violations by corporate houses. Now if the crusaders want to take up the issues we are ready to provide them legal assistance at the appropriate forum,” said Singh, who hails from Jamshedpur and has lodged cases against several instances of violation of environmental norms in Saranda and other parts of Jharkhand. He said that they would be hosting similar workshops in state capital Ranchi and in Dhanbad which is ranked among the cities with the worst air pollution in the country. One of the early successes of LIFE, one of the recipients of the 2021 Right Livelihood Award (to be presented in Stockholm in December) has been a case against the mining giant Vedanta in Odisha, which became a precedent-setting judgment. The Supreme Court recognised that the local community’s consent was required for such a project to commence. “Environment clearance compliance status is very poor for big corporate houses operating in Jamshedpur. As per Environmental Clearance (EC) norms, the compliance report should be easily displayed in the website. Even online emission data is also not present, which as per the EIA notification, should be put up on the websites of corporate houses. It also not present on the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board website,” said Singh. The workshop also pointed out that corporate houses have violated environmental clearance norms by extending their area of operation. “We also found that corporate environmental responsibility (CER) expenditure is not in the public domain. As per the government notification, CER expenditure should not be used for pollution control as work done for pollution control comes under environment management plan. Unfortunately, there is no transparency shown on this front by the corporate units in Jamshedpur,” alleged Singh. The participants were also informed about the difference between CER and corporate social responsibility (CSR). Jamshedpur East MLA and former cabinet minister Saryu Roy, who inaugurated the workshop, spoke about the poor air quality in Jamshedpur and prevailing conditions of the Subaranarekha and Kharkai rivers. He once again reiterated the urgent and dire need for restoration of the environment in this region, without which it will be difficult for the people to survive. He also raised the issue of illegal constructions being carried out by government departments, which according to him, needs immediate attention.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
06-10-2021||Jharkhand||Two-day workshop on child sexual victims in Ranchi||A sexually abused child undergoes physical, psychological and emotional stress and should be dealt with utmost care so that the victim is not traumatised further. A two-day workshop on “The role of child mental health professionals in child and law issues” that concluded at the Central Institute of Psychiatry (CIP) in Ranchi on Tuesday cautioned the participants saying the same and emphasising the need for keeping the victims’ tender age in mind. The workshop was organised jointly by the Centre for Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (CCAP) of CIP and Support, Advocacy and Mental Health Interventions for Children in Vulnerable Circumstances and Distress (Samvad) of the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (Nimhans), Bangalore, and was conducted by professor Shekhar Sheshadri of Nimhans and his team comprising doctors Sheela Ramaswamy and Kriti Tikko. While “Child sexual abuse and understanding and implementation of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act 2012” was discussed on Monday, “Children in conflict with law” was the topic for the concluding day. “Children comprise a large part of our population but mental health services made available to them are still meagre,” CIP director Dr Basudeb Das told The Telegraph while explaining the need for such discussions. Unfortunately, many cases of child abuse go unreported as the perpetrators in such cases are well known to the victims, if not close relatives, he pointed out, adding the victims are not only shy of reporting but also afraid in many cases. “In many cases, the mothers of the victims are forced to keep silence as they don’t have economic independence and as such can’t muster courage to go against the powerful male relatives or providers,” he explained. But the crime can be put in check only if the case is pursued well under the provisions of the Pocso Act, Dr Das further said, adding that would be possible only if the psychiatrists who are involved know the Act well and make string reports. That was why the participants were advised to understand the Pocso Act well and document such cases carefully, informed Dr Nishant Goyal who is in charge of CCAP at CIP. “Psychiatrists should behave with the victims in a friendly and informal way so that they feel confident and open up for discussing the cases,” he said, adding that would help document such cases in a convincing way. Psychiatrists are often invited to assess such cases and give expert opinion, Dr Goyal said, adding they could do the job better if they know the law well and make an assessment accordingly, he further said explaining why they should understand the legal obligations. “It’s the same while dealing with children in conflict with law,” said Dr Das, adding in that case the psychiatrists have to be conversant with the provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act 2015.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
06-10-2021||Jharkhand||Tribals not to give land for DVC's coal mining||Tribal residents of several villages in Latehar facing displacement due to the Damodar Valley Corporation’s 6MTPA coal mining project have given the call of na jaan denge, na zamin denge (will not give life, nor give land). Several tribal outfits namely Adihak Bhumi Raksha Morcha, Adivasi Sena, Jharkhand Rajya Visthapith Punarvasith Jan Aayog and Jharkhand Bachao Andolan have jumped into the fray in support of the villagers, who are adamant about not parting with their lands for the project. “It is a conspiracy of the PSU DVC to displace the tribals from their ancestral land. We have compiled the list of villages that were acquired by the DVC for their projects but are yet to clear compensation to the affected villagers. “Now they want to do the same in this Oraon dominated area as part of the Central government agenda to wipe out the tribal identity of the local people. We will not let it happen,” said Harendra Oraon, a native of Tubed village which is one of the villages to be acquired for the project. The tribal outfits will be going to the villagers listed for acquisition for the coal mining project of the DVC on October 9. “We will be meeting the villagers and chalk out future course of agitation taking them into confidence on October 9. While on October 11 we will be meeting JMM senior leader and MLA Stephen Marandi who chairs the Assembly committee formed to probe into tribal land transfers illegally and apprise him about the apprehension of the tribals. “We might also stage series of agitation in Ranchi and Latehar against the acquisition of land for the project,” said Adivasi Sena president Ajay Kachyap. In the first phase, as many as six villages will be affected by this project from which 6 million tonnes of coal is expected every year for 30 years. The affected villages include Ambajharan, Dhoniajharan, Dihi, Nawari, Mangra and Tubed (all in Latehar). “Around 7,000 people belonging to the Oraon tribe will get affected. Apart from this, 750 villages will be affected by different other plans under the coal mining project in different stages which includes diversion of course of the Sukri river, constructing 20 feet roads and laying railway tracks for the project,” said Vasvi Kiro, a tribal activist and former member of State Commission for Women and member of the Jharkhand Rajya Visthapith Punarvasith Jan Aayog. The coal project is being established to cater to the needs of a 1,000MW power project in West Bengal and 250MW power project in Chandrapura. An area of 750 acres of land is likely to get involved in the project on which Rs 1,300 crore is likely to be spent every year. Significantly, DVC obtained environmental clearance from the ministry of the forest environment and climate change for the Tubaid Coal  Mine Project in April 2020 and have offered revised rates of compensation to lure villagers. “The corporation has offered to pay Rs 27,36,700 for per acre of agricultural land and Rs 54,73,500 for per acre of residential plots. “In addition, offers were made for shifting allowance, house in R&R colony and absorption of the local workforce in the project. But some vested interest people are creating a disturbance,” said a senior DVC official associated with the project. Chief engineer, DVC Latehar, Subir Mukherjee, however, exuded confidence about the fate of the project. “We will settle all contentious issues amicably with the people and the project will kick-start soon,” said Mukherjee. As per coal block allotment data, the project is spread in 460 hectares which comprises 230 hectares of agriculture land, 162.4 hectares of forestland, 39 hectares of wasteland, 22 hectares of surface waterbodies and settlements spread over 1 hectare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-29
