07-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: PSA oxygen plant inaugurated in Jamshedpur hospital||Jamshedpur: A PSA oxygen plant was inaugurated at Sadar Hospital in Khasmahal locality of the steel city on Thursday, giving a boost in this government-run health hub. With a production capacity of 1,000 litres per minute, the oxygen plant was inaugurated online by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at 11 am today in presence of Jamshedpur MP, Vidyut Varan Mahto, East Singhbhum deputy commissioner, Suraj Kumar, district civil surgeon, AK Lal and doctors fraternity of the Sadar Hospital. "The oxygen plant that was inaugurated today is the first in its kind across Jharkhand. Work is on for another PSA oxygen to on the premises of the Sadar Hospital and it will also start functioning by the ending of October, " said Kumar. He pointed to apart from this, three PSA oxygen plants, capacity of 250 litres each are being set up at Ghatsila sub-divisional Hospital, at Chakulia, both in the rural belt and one at Mercy Hospital in Baridih. (Kumud Jenamani) Rare bird sighted at Canary Hill in Hazaribagh Hazaribagh: A rare bird sighted twice at Palamu Tiger Reserve before now spotted at picturesque Canary Hill in town through the lens of a young photographer and wild life enthusiast Amit Jain. The migratory bird which is identified as the chestnut winged cuckoo was the first rare bird spotted in the hill known for its abundance of butterflies and moths. State coordinator of the Indian Bird Conservation Network(IBCN), Satya Prakash confirmed the bird as chestnut winged cuckoo, and said this bird found is in southeast Asia and during winter migrates from Kerela to Sri Lanka. Canary always surprise researchers by having a variety of birds, moths and butterflies. This hill is a place for the world's most beautiful butterfly named peacock pansy. Independent researcher Mritunjay Sharma had discovered India's tallest anthill here getting place in Limca book. IBCN activist Murari Singh said the sighting of such birds confirm that Hazaribagh is a favourite place for migratory birds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
07-10-2021||Jharkhand||Bharat Coking Coal, Central Coalfields ramp up production to meet demands||Jharkhand based subsidiaries of coal India limited, including  Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL),  Central Coalfields Limited (CCL) and Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) have increased production and simultaneously augmented the supply of coal to power plants in order to tackle the crisis generated due to the depleting coal stock of power companies. The coal company is taking all sorts of measures, including insisting on its contractors to restrict the leave of employees during Durga Puja from two days to one day in order to ensure uninterrupted production. Notably,  the incessant rains during and after cyclone Gulab and heavy rains during monsoon have led to the decline in coal production and consequent lesser supply of coal to power plants. This crisis has been coupled with other factors like increased demand for power during October which in turn generated a coal stock crisis for power plants as a major source of power in the country. The situation is such that only four days of coal stock are left with all the power plants. Talking to The Telegraph Online,  PM Prasad, Chairman cum Managing Director of Central Coalfields Limited said, “We are taking all sorts of steps to increase production and ensure enhanced supply of coal to power companies as the situation is being monitored at government level” “We have increased the production of coal in CCL from 1.4 lakh tonnes per day to around 1.7 lakh tonnes to meet the power crisis and simultaneously ramped up the production at BCCL to 74-75 thousand tonnes per day”, said Prasad. “We supplied 18.5 rakes of coal yesterday via BCCL, increasing it from 12 rakes, and similarly the supply of coal through CCL has also been increased to 39 rakes yesterday from 14 rakes of the day before yesterday,” said Prasad and added that cyclonic rain has aggravated the crisis situation. “The situation was such that more than 270 mm rainfall was recorded in Dhanbad, which adversely affected coal production as well as supply of coal to power companies,” said Prasad. “Everyone is concerned about the situation, which is being monitored at Coal Ministry and Power Ministry level,” said Prasad. “If we are able to maintain the production flow at present then we will be able to tide over the crisis phase,” said Prasad.. Notably, BCCL has completely banned the entry of workers in the underground mines during heavy rains caused due to cyclone,s and production in open cast mines has also been affected due to rains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
07-10-2021||Jharkhand||Baidyanathdham Temple in Deoghar opens main gate for devotees||With the beginning of the nine- day Navratri festival, the district administration of Deoghar on Thursday opened one of the four main gates of Baidyanathdham temple of Deoghar for the convenience of the devotees visiting the temple from different parts of the country. So far the entry of the devotees in the temple was being allowed only through the VIP gate to ensure observance of Covid protocol in better manner ever since the temple was opened on  September 18 after remaining closed for more than 148 days following the second wave of pandemic. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Sanjay Mishra, Vice President of Shrine board Panda Dharmrakshini Sabha said, “The Singh Dwar situated on the north side of the temple was opened this morning at around 11 am marking the normalisation of the situation. We expect that the other two gates of the temple situated on the east and west sides would also be opened  gradually.” “Though, even after the opening of Singh Dwar from today the devotees would have to follow the same stricter  Covid norms as was in place ever since the reopening of temple on September 18 but it would add to the look of the temple,” said Mishra and added that entry at present in temple is provided only through advance booking through the online portal of the portal. Echoing sentiments, Alok Mallik, President of Santhal Pargana Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said, “The opening of the one of gate of the temple marks the gradual normalisation of the situation and as  trader we welcome the development as being a religious pilgrimage centre the trade of Deoghar largely depends of the flow of devotees from the different parts of the country and abroad to the Deoghar” In a related development possibilities of developing a corridor around the Baidyadham temple on the line of corridor situated around the Kashi Vishwanath Temple have generated as initial discussion in this regard was held between Nishikant Dubey, M. Godda MP and Arbind Singh secretary of the union ministry of Tourism was held last week. Talking to media, Dubey said, “The corridor that would be developed from Mansarovar pond near the Baidyanathdham temple and  would extend towards the BN Jhar road would help the devotees to  have the magnificent view of the temple even from some distance away and would be used only for footwalk of the devotees around the temple. “If the state government allots land for the development of the corridor its development can be initiated within one year,” said Dubey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
07-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi only district in the state with active mucormycosis cases||Ranchi is the only Jharkhand district left with active cases of mucormycosis, a disease that spread to at least 18 of 24 districts in the state in the past eight months and claimed 31 lives, latest data released by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) highlighted on Thursday. According to the IDSP, there were only three patients of Covid-induced mucormycosis in Jharkhand on Thursday, and all three of them were undergoing treatment in Ranchi, a district that accounts for 66 of the 168 mucormycosis cases and 11 of 31 casualties reported in the state so far. While the cases of mucormycosis have dropped significantly in the state, doctors have warned against complacency, citing the high fatality rate of the disease and poor immune response in Covid survivors with comorbid conditions. Dr. Pradip Bhattacharya, the in-charge of the new trauma centre at RIMS, where mucormycosis patients have undergone treatment, said that even though cases of this fungal infection have reduced, it was best to seek medical attention at an early stage if symptoms of the disease occur. “Symptoms can escalate in a short period of time, so it is best to seek medical attention at the earliest,” said Dr. Bhattacharya, adding that neglect of initial symptoms may lead to loss of vision or brain damage in patients. Mucormycosis or black fungus is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. The disease has a fatality rate of 50 per cent and the line of treatment includes surgery or administering anti-fungal drugs. Jharkhand notified black fungus as an epidemic earlier this year following directions from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Doctors say that Covid survivors should consult ENT specialists if they feel discomfort in their nose, swelling on one side of the face or pain. Black fungus is usually tested by endoscopy followed by a biopsy of samples collected from the patient. As per IDSP data, East Singhbhum has reported 25 cases of mucormycosis, the second highest among districts in the state, while 11 people were found infected by black fungus in Hazaribag. Among other affected districts, Bokaro reported nine cases, Dhanbad and Giridih reported eight cases each, while seven people were found infected in Ramgarh and six in Palamu. Among the 31 fatalities reported in the state, 11 deaths occurred in Ranchi, five in East Singhbhum, three in Ramgarh, two each in Dhanbad and Godda, and one death each in Bokaro, Chatra, Deoghar, Dumka, Garhwa, Giridih, Hazaribag and Koderma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
07-10-2021||Jharkhand||Tourists visiting Dalma wildlife sanctuary rues absence of elephants uphill||Tourists visiting the scenic wildlife sanctuary are missing the elephants, the main attraction at the sprawling 192 sq km reserve. All the jumbos have presently come downhill for their annual sojourn to the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in neighbouring Bengal. Some elephants have already slipped into Bengal while most are at the Jharkhand-Bengal border. A few jumbos are scattered in the jungles in the foothills of the Dalma sanctuary. Around 25 elephants, who don't migrate to Bengal, are also positioned in the foothills. Tourists from Jharkhand, Bengal, Odisha, Bihar and Chhattisgarh visit the sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur, to spend quality time amidst nature. Tourists prefer to stay at the accommodations (staff quarters) at Pinderabera, located 14 km from the main entrance at Makulakocha. Tourists also get accommodations at plush air-conditioned cottages, non-AC rooms and bamboo hut at Makulakocha. They take an uphill tour of the sanctuary to watch elephants at their playful best near watering holes and also visit the ancient Shiva temple located uphill. However, the uphill is presently sans the Asiatic elephants much to the disappointment of the tourists. "I went to Dalma hilltop with my family a couple of days back but we did not come across a single elephant. We also went to the Badka Bandh, Majhla Bandh, Neechla Bandh and Bijli Ghati but could not find the jumbos," said Mohit Jha, a businessman in Jamshedpur. Ravi Singh, another tourist from Jamshedpur, echoed Jha and said elephants are not present uphill and he missed the main attraction. "I thought of watching the jumbos but came back disappointed. Forest staff said the elephants have embarked on their migration to Bengal," Singh, who runs a homeopathy shop in Jamshedpur, said. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said elephants were in the foothills. "Some jumbos who were present uphill have moved downhill on their way to Bengal," he added. According to him, tourists would be able to watch the elephants if the jumbos, who stay at the sanctuary throughout the year, move uphill."However, this depends on the mood of the elephants. After all jumbos are moving animals," he added. The elephants migrate to Bengal via two designated corridors -- one from Jhunjka leading to Nutandih and the other from Burudih, passing through Narsingpur, Dalapani, Suklara and Aamdapahari. The jumbos will amble back to their Dalma home in February-March next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
07-10-2021||Jharkhand||State inaugurates health projects, including oxygen plants||The Jharkhand government inaugurated a slew of health infrastructure projects across the state, including 27 pressure swing adsorption oxygen plants established under the PM Cares Fund, a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to inaugurate the plants across the country at a virtual programme in AIIMS Rishikesh. The inauguration drew sharp criticism from Ranchi BJP MP Sanjay Seth who termed it as an insult to the Prime Minister. “The PSA plants were constructed under the PM Cares Fund as part of the Central government efforts to battle Covid pandemic. The inauguration of the PSA plants in Jharkhand by the state government a day before the PM inauguration schedule defies logic. It is an insult to the Prime Minister,” said Seth. Kanke’s BJP MP Samri Lal boycotted the inauguration programme held at RIMS Trauma Centre Auditorium in Ranchi on Wednesday afternoon, in protest against the state government’s decision. Chief minister Hemant Soren undeterred by the controversy went ahead with the inauguration of PSA oxygen plant at Sadar Hospital in Ranchi and also inaugurated central pathology lab, 256 slice CT-Scan, Cobas 6800 machines at the RIMS Ranchi which were built with state government funding. “It is part of the state government’s effort to upgrade health infrastructure in the state and be prepared for Covid pandemic in future. The pathology lab would remain functional round the clock and provide free of cost testing at par with international standards,” said Hemant Soren. Incidentally, the Cobas 6800 testing machine is the first such machine to be installed anywhere in Jharkhand. “Cobas 6800, a fully automated, high end machine for performing real time PCR testing Covid-19 in the service of the nation. COBAS 6800 will provide quality, high-volume testing with a high throughput of around 1200 samples in 24 hours. It will largely increase the testing capacity with reduction in pendency,” said health minister Banna Gupta. Significantly, Cobas 6800 is a sophisticated machine enabled with robotics that minimises the chance of contamination as well as the risk of infection to the health care workers since it can be operated remotely with limited human intervention The chief minister, however, left the inauguration of the PSA plants in 19 districts to state health minister Banna Gupta. The health minister also flagged off 10 ambulances for community health centres at Tamar and Lapung in the outskirts of Ranchi. The newly inaugurated PSA oxygen plants are at RIMS Ranchi, SNMMCH Dhanbad, MGM Jamshedpur and Sadar Hospitals at Garhwa, Giridih, Godda, Gumla, Hazaribagh, Khunti, Latehar, Lohardaga, Pakur, Ramgarh, Sahebganj, Seraikela and Chaibasa and medical college in Palamau. Though the chief minister’s office refused to give any comment on the controversy over inauguration of the PSA plants. But JMM central general secretary and spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharya said: “Oxygen plants come under essential commodities and the government need not wait for a suitable time to inaugurate it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-28
