08-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi plan to hold vaccine camps during festival days ||Ranchi district health department is keen on conducting special Covid vaccination camps in crowded places, especially malls, during the coming Durga Puja and Dussehra festivities. The department has sent a proposal to the Ranchi deputy commissioner for sanctioning  additional manpower to kick off the drive. Civil surgeon  Vinod Kumar on Friday said that the department was  awaiting a formal  in the next couple of days. “Besides the existing vaccination camps that are held in the capital on a daily basis, we have planned to set up mobile as well as static camps outside big malls, commercial establishments and the like to inoculate a floating crowd. This is one of the ways we are using to  curb a spike in Covid-19 cases," he said. He said the department had asked for about 450 additional manpower to be hired on contract  for the next three months. “We currently have about 150 people for collection of Covid-19 samples and about 100 for vaccination in the district. Once we get the required manpower, we will be able to speed up the vax coverage ,” he said. Currently, on an average, Ranchi is administering about 10,000-12,000 jabs daily. Kumar said the the department is  targeting to increase it four-fold during the main days  of the Puja. Even though the state government has imposed lots of curbs to keep Durga Puja festivities a low-key affair, there's a huge rush of shoppers already. Puja organizers are also working out measures to maintain Covid appropriate behavior at their premises. Ashok Purohit, president of the Ranchi Zila Durga Puja Samiti, said all  puja organizers will continue to follow the state government prescribed SOPs. “In pandals, only those who are vaccinated at least with one dose will be allowed entry to work during the pujas. At Rajasthan Mitra Mandal pandal, of which I am also the president, we have decided to sanitise the area daily through ozone powered fumigation,” he said. Ranchi Mahangar Yuva Dasta, a voluntary outfit that manages crowds, announced on Friday it would organise  free distribution of masks and sanitisers outside every big pandal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
08-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Congress leaders stopped on way to Lakhimpur Kheri, sit on dharna||Jharkhand Congress delegation led by state party president and comprising two cabinet ministers on their way to Lakhimpur Kheri district were stopped at Wyndhamganj in Sonbhadra district along Jharkhand-Uttar Pradesh border in the wee hours of Thursday. “The leaders had crossed the Garhwa district of Jharkhand but the UP police which had been expecting our leaders had heavily barricaded the entry point at Wyndhamganj and stopped them. “We had no option but to sit on a dharna at 3.30am and continued till 7am. Thereafter, the leaders returned back to their respective districts,” said Jharkhand Congress spokesperson Rakesh Kumar Sinha. Significantly, the delegation was led by state party president Rajesh Thakur and comprised state health minister Banna Gupta and state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh and several MLAs and had left Ranchi on Wednesday late evening by road route for Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of farmers killed. “We wanted to meet our leader Priyanka Gandhi and go to Lakhimpur Kheri. But excuses of Section 144 were made by the police. This is totally unconstitutional. The UP government is behaving in a dictatorial manner, they are not even ready to arrest us. It is such a cowardly government and they have no right to stay in power,” said Rajesh Thakur. A total of eight people, including four farmers. died in the violence that took place in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. Farmers outfit have alleged that Ashish Mishra Teni, son of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra Teni arrived with three vehicles around the time that farmers were dispersing from their protest at the helipad and mowed down farmers and towards the end also attacked SKM leader Tajinder Singh Virk directly, by trying to run a vehicle over him. Meanwhile, Congress leaders are awaiting instruction from party central leadership on future course of action. “We will continue to express solidarity with the farmers’ agitation and also with the bereaved family members of farmers killed in UP. “The leaders after spending several hours in the UP-Jharkhand border have started returning to their respective districts. We are waiting for a directive from party high command on the future course of agitation,” informed Rakesh Kumar Sinha. Left parties backed All India Kisan Sabha Jharkhand chapter which had burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath across different districts of Jharkhand on Monday have started holding meeting at panchayat and block levels to inform farmers about oppressive activities unleashed against farmers by the BJP-led government at the Centre and also in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
08-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to extend academic year ||The Jharkhand government will soon issue a notification for extending the academic session in state-run schools to mitigate the learning loss caused by the closure of educational institutions because of the Covid-19 pandemic, officials have said. “The decision is almost final after going through several surveys which pointed to loss of studies due to the Covid-induced lockdown and closure of offline classes for over one-and-a-half years. The extended academic session will be applicable till the year 2024,” said a senior official in the state education and literacy department. After a formal notification is issued later this month, Jharkhand will become the first state in the country to notify the extension of academic session, the official said. The idea has been proposed to continue this arrangement for the next two sessions. According to sources in the education and literacy department, the academic session for the year 2021-22 will not end on the stipulated March 31 but will continue till June 30. According to the new system, the academic session will be extended for three months. Subsequently, the session for the year 2022-23 will be extended till May 31 and for the year 2023-24 till April 30. After this, the session from the year 2024-25 will end on the predetermined date of March 31. Since schools have been closed for months due to Covid-19, classes are being held online. Students across the country have reported learning loss. A survey by the Azim Premji Foundation has found that 92 per cent of the children have lost at least one language ability, while 82 per cent have lost mathematical skills. A recent survey report titled “Locked Out: Emergency Report on School Education”, of nearly 1,362 schoolchildren (Classes I to VIII) in underprivileged households (where parents usually send their children to government schools) suggests that only 28 per cent of students in rural areas and 47 per cent in urban areas were studying regularly. The Jharkhand government is also planning to reopen schools for Classes I to V. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said that the government is taking a serious look into the issue. “Chief minister Hemant Soren is very sensitive about the matter of loss of learning due to Covid. We had opened the schools for Classes VI to VII in September this year. We are monitoring the situation. After the festivities are over and after evaluating the pandemic situation, we will take a decision on reopening classes between I and V too,” said Oraon. Education and literacy department secretary Rajesh Kumar Sharma said that deliberations have been held on the extension of academic session. “We have deliberated on it. However, no final decision has been taken so far. We have also sent the proposal on reopening primary schools between Classes I and V to the state disaster management department after the festivities. Only after we get the nod of the disaster management department will we issue a notification for opening of primary schools,” said Sharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
08-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi civic body revives abandoned park in 75 hours||Ranchi Municipal Corporation, the civic body of Jharkhand capital Ranchi, revived a park abandoned for over eight years in only 75 hours in a rare instance of alertness. The modification of the park situated near the Raj Bhavan which had turned into a space for throwing waste and had dense wild shrubs, into a recreation park was done following the directive of Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren in August. The decision to transform the park into a clean, modern, breathable, relaxing place full of amenities within 75hours was taken on August 15, 2021. Sunil Yadav, a local ward member, said: “This park used to be a place of attraction in the area. It is close to the district collectorate and district court premises and is the posh address of the capital city. People coming from different parts of the district to get their work done at the collectorate or court used to come and relax in the park. However, due to lack of maintenance and neglect, the park was abandoned. Gradually it became a dumping place of waste and had wild shrubs growing all over. After a while, no one would want to come and the park was closed and deserted.” The local ward member further said this park was selected for development as Dharna Sthal. “However, this would have disturbed the local residents as it would have only been used for agitation. We are grateful to the RMC officials for transforming the park and restoring its beauty” said Yadav. “On the occasion of 75th Independence Day, Aazadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, we took this challenge to transform this deserted park into a place of activities within 75hrs. During the process, a part of the park has been developed as a spice garden, wherein, more than 100 saplings of 10 different types of spices have been planted. Waste materials like tyres, plywood and other scrap materials have been used in a major part of renovation work done inside the park,” said RMC commissioner Mukesh Kumar. “Apart from the cleaning, few parts of the park have been restored to its original condition, such as an old railway track of toy trains surfaced during the renovation work. We tried our best to restore it to its original condition. To make the park a child-friendly space, a colourful touch has been added in every corner. A dedicated play area has been created for children,” said Mukesh Kumar. Additionally, RMC also has plans to open up a space inside the park where guests can have some snacks and refreshments. “We are planning on finding a way to ensure that the park remains a plastic waste-free space and sets an example for other parks in the city and state. This was a tedious target to achieve, but we worked on a mission mode to meet the deadline. More than 100 personnel were involved in the process. This was a joint effort of our officials, our support staff, our cleaning staff, everyone,” said RMC commissioner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
