09-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur’s joggers park all set to be renovated||Joggers’ Park along Kadma-Sonari Link road is having a steady footfall of fitness enthusiasts despite its renovation work being in progress. Located in a densely-populated area, people of different age group continue to visit the park despite the work for its paver blocks being in progress. Post noon, The Telegraph Online spotted a 63-year-old man, Kamar Khan, sweating it out while walking through the unsettled track. “I have been using this track ever since it came into being, which is a decade ago. It is good that the jogging track is being renovated, but the renovation work can not deter me from following my fitness routine,” said Khan, a businessman and resident of adjoining Dhatkidh locality. Like the elderly Khan, scores of residents can be seen carrying out morning and evening walk, jogging and yoga on the one-kilometer-long track from early morning till late evening even the renovation work is in progress. The renovation work of jogger’s park is being carried out by Tata Steel Utilities & Infrastructures Services Ltd (TSUISL), a subsidiary of steel major of Tata Steel. “The jogging track along the Kadma-Sonari Link Road is renovated. It is a long track and is likely to take couple of months to be completed the project,” TSUISL’s spokesperson Sukanya Das while talking to The Telegraph Online. She pointed out that the track is about a decade-old, and the constant usage has made the surface uneven at several points, adding that the joggers will have a pleasant experience when the renovation work is complete.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
09-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: Power crisis aggravates due to coal shortage||The ongoing power crisis due to coal shortage at power plants has led to frequent load shedding that lasts for several hours for those subscribing to power produced by different power plants owned by Damodar Valley Corporation and National Thermal Power Corporation. The situation can be accessed from the fact that BCCL is being forced to stop power supply for around six hours for different districts of Jharkhand that falls under its command area, including, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Giridih, Chatra, Koderma, Hazaribagh and East Singhbhum. This apart, the Kahalgaon (Bhagalpur)-based power plant of National Thermal Power Corporation is being forced to indulge in short supply of power due to the worst ever coal crisis. As a consequence, less power is being drawn in Jharkhand through the Dumka grid that is connected through the Kahalgaon power plant. Despite the fact the production as well as despatch of coal to power plants has been increased by different subsidiaries of Coal India Limited including BCCL, CCL and ECL, there is an acute power crisis. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Rajesh Kumar Gupta, patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry said, “The crisis has started to affect both the trade and industry during the most crucial time for business in Jharkhand, with Durga Puja being round the corner while the situation is more difficult for industry as industries can’t be run on inverters and generators.” “Though, the crisis was generated due to slump in coal production due to monsoon. The heavy rains and cyclone that followed made it difficult to mine. However, we are unable to understand the lack of preparation by the government in this regard,” said Gupta. “The sudden shifting back of many industries including the hard coke units from imported coal to Indian coal coupled with the decrease in production of coal during monsoon has aggravated the crisis,” further added Gupta. Echoing the sentiments, Nirmal Jhunjhunwala, President of Giridih Chamber of Commerce and Industry said, “The wrong policies of the central government are to be blamed for the coal crisis and the resultant power crisis in the country. If the situation continues for some time the economic growth of the country would be derailed as the smooth running of the industries is key for the growth of the country.” Similar was the reaction of Sanjay Baid, President of Bokaro Chamber of Commerce, “We are the worst hit victim of the power crisis in Chas as besides the four hours of official load shedding by DVC, several hours of load shedding by Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited is also being carried out as a result of which getting people are having to stay with electricity for over 10 hours a day.” BCCL CMD, PM Prasad, “We are working day and night to improve the coal production and supply to power companies. The situation is likely to normalize within a month.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
09-10-2021||Jharkhand||World Mental Health Day: Jharkhand suicide deaths low, but nowhere near WHO target||At least five persons per 1 lakh population in Jharkhand die by suicide, latest data released by the International Association of Suicide Prevention (IASP) has revealed, further stating that the probability of achieving the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) target of reducing suicide mortality rate by one-third by the year 2030 was hardly 10 per cent in Jharkhand if the current trends continue. According to the IASP, Jharkhand’s Suicide Death Rate (SDR) was one of the lowest among states and union territories in India. While the SDR in Jharkhand is likely to stay lower than most of the other states and union territories in India by 2030, there was 90 per cent probability that Jharkhand will fail to reduce suicide mortality rate in the next nine years, IASP’s prediction reveals. “Given the current situation, it seems quite impossible for the state to achieve WHO’s target of reducing suicide mortality rate. However, if the health department invests more in mental health and ensures medical support to people in need, we might be able to reduce suicides,” said Dr. Siddharth Sinha, Senior Consultant at Ranchi Institute of Neuro Psychiatry and Allied Sciences (RINPAS). The lack of awareness and stigma associated with mental health are the leading reasons for rise in cases of mental health disorders and suicides in Jharkhand, said Sinha, adding that timely medical intervention can reduce suicides by a significant rate. The WHO is set to observe World Mental Health Day on October 10. This year, the theme of the day is ‘mental health in an unequal world’, and the WHO plans to address disparities and gaps in awareness and accessibility to mental health treatment across the globe. Being a developing state, Jharkhand still struggles with limited infrastructure and resources in terms of providing treatment to people suffering from mental health disorders, say psychiatrists. “According to the National Mental Health Survey of India, conducted 2015-2016, we found the treatment gap to be more than 90 per cent for common mental illnesses. This may be a direct consequence of chronic under-investment, as governments spend an average of just over 2 per cent of their health budgets on mental health,” said Dr. Nishant Goyal, assistant professor of psychiatry at Central Institute of Psychiatry in Ranchi. While the Covid-19 pandemic gave psychiatrists an opportunity to raise the issue of under-investment in mental health, it also wreaked havoc on the mental health of several thousand Jharkhand residents, said Goyal, adding that unemployment, feeling of isolation and alienation coupled with the fear of the virus led to a significant spike in mental disorders in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
09-10-2021||Jharkhand||Judicial probe plea on Stan Swamy arrest anniversary||Protests and programmes were organised in Jharkhand, Kerala and Karnataka on Friday to mark the first anniversary of the arrest of octogenarian Jesuit priest and rights defender Father Stan Swamy who passed away in July this year in judicial custody. Over 150 rights activists and members of civil society organisations, Left parties and tribal outfits under the banner of Shahid Father Stan Swamy Nyaya Morcha staged a dharna for over two hours at the Raj Bhavan in Ranchi. Fr Stan was arrested from Namkum near Ranchi on October 8, 2020, by the National Investigation Agency. A delegation submitted a memorandum to governor Ramesh Bais later in the afternoon demanding a judicial probe into the “custodial killing” of Fr Stan and punishment for those responsible for his death, release other 15 arrested in the Bhima Koregaon-Elgaar Parishad case, immediate release of political prisoners lodged in prisons of Jharkhand and other parts of the country and repeal of draconian laws like the UAPA. “We have come to know about a letter written by three prisoners — human rights lawyer Surendra Gadling and cultural activists Ramesh Gaichor and Sagar Gorkhe — who were eyewitnesses to the inhumane treatment meted out to Father Stan Swamy, to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray a few days back. The letter claims that Stan Swamy’s death was an institutional murder. Since Stan Swamy was based in Jharkhand, we would like the governor to ensure that a judicial probe is ordered into his custodial killing so that those responsible are punished,” said Aloka Kujur, a member of the Adivasi Adhikar Morcha and a tribal rights activist. CPM leader and convener of the Morcha, Praful Linda, said the governor should take up the issue with the highest authorities and ensure that all political prisoners and human rights activists arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case are released along with political prisoners in other parts of the country. Fr Stan had spent a lifetime working among the Adivasi community in Jharkhand fighting for their rights. He was arrested from Bagaicha at Namkum by the NIA in October 2020 in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case and lodged in Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai. He died while undergoing treatment under judicial custody at a private hospital in Mumbai in July. His death had led to an outpouring of outrage as the 84-year-old was repeatedly denied bail despite his deteriorating health over nine months in jail. Kerala campaign Filmmakers, artistes and activists of Kerala under the banner of Capture Collective organised an online awareness and protest campaign to mark the occasion. Karnataka webinar The Indian Social Institute, Bangalore, to which Fr Stan was associated, organised a national-level webinar on “SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act: Challenges Today” to mark one year of his arrest. N. Paul Divakar, general secretary, Global Advocacy and Networks, National Challenges on Dalit Human Rights, Abirami  Jotheeswaran, general secretary of the All India Dalit Mahila Adhikar Manch, and Rahul Singh, general secretary, National Dalit Movement for Justice, spoke at the webinar. Father Stan had been associated with issues related to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for over four decades in Jharkhand and other parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
