10-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ongoing coal crisis affects Jharkhand Industries||The ongoing coal crisis caused by the decline in domestic production during monsoon among other reasons, has started to affect industries other than the power sector. Another reason for the acute shortage is the reduced import of coal from other nations. This is primarily because of the sudden hike in price for imported coal. The ongoing shortage is now affecting 3000 hard coke factories, TMT bar Industry, soft coke industries in Jharkhand. The 140 hard coke factories of Dhanbad, Giridih and Ramgarh that had been working on imported coke are the worst affected. The sharp hike in the price of imported coal during the last six months has added on to the difficulties of the local hard coke industries as the imported coking coal that was priced at around RS 18thosand per tonne is now being sold at Rs 30 thousand per tonne at the moment. Almost similar is the situation of pig iron industry, foundry industry and blast furnace industry as they were also thriving on coal imported from Australia that were brought in from Paradip and Haldia port through ships and later provided to hard coke factories which in turn used to convert the coal into hard coke. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Amitesh Sahay, owner of one of Hard Coke factory of Barwaddah, Maa Jagdhatri Hard Coke Industry, who is also President of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association said, “Majority of the hard coke industries is facing closure due to sharp rise in the price of imported coal as they are not getting the required coal from Coal India subsidiaries, including Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) or Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL)” Rajiv Sharma, General Secretary of JITA, held the wrong policies of the government owned coal major, Coal India Limited for the mess. He said, “During the nationalization of the coal industry, in early 1970s assurance was given to local coal based industries to provide coal on priority basis and the government also provided coal to Hard Coke Industries for some time but later the scenario changed.” Nirmal Jhunjhunwala, President of Giridih Chamber of Commerce and Industry said, “Majority of Thermo Mechanically Treated (TMT) bar industry that are in Giridih apart from the large number of Hard Coke Industries are on the verge of closure due to lack of availability of sufficient coal from BCCL, CCL etc and the hike in price of imported coal.” Mahesh Kejriwal, owner of a rubber roll industry in situated in Balidih based industrial park of Bokaro Industrial Area Development Authority said, “Though majority of the industries of BIADA are not directly dependent on coal as raw material but a few that are dependent Hard Coke Industries are facing difficulties due to coal crisis directly besides power shortage affecting the operation of industries in general.” Alok Mallik, President of Santhal Pargana Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said “The state government should also take lessons from the crisis and should facilitate the resumption of commercial mining operations  for which the bidding has been completed so that the crisis can be avoided.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
10-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur: Road accident cuts short trip to jab centre||Two persons travelling to a health centre on a motorcycle to get vaccinated died in a head-on collision with a tractor in Jharkhand's Seraikela-Kharswan district on Sunday, police said. The accident took place in Telai village in Rajnagar police station area when the duo, including a woman, were going to a vaccination centre in Chaliama, an officer said. The motorcycle collided with the tractor coming from the opposite direction and both the rider and the pillion rider were killed on the spot, while the tractor overturned after the driver lost control over the vehicle, he said. The deceased were identified as 24-year-old Manoj Gope and 44-year-old Sahiya Devi, the officer said, adding that the bodies were handed over to their families after the conduct of post-mortem examination. The tractor was seized but the driver managed to escape, he said, adding that a manhunt has been launched to nab him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
10-10-2021||Jharkhand||Monsoon starts to pull out of Jharkhand||The southwest monsoon started pulling out of Jharkhand on Sunday with weathermen saying a  complete withdrawal was expected in another 48 hours. "Conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from some parts of Odisha, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and most parts of Jharkhand during the next  two days, " said Abhishek Anand, head of IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The withdrawal line of the monsoon  was on Sunday passing through Motihari, Gaya, Daltonganj, Ambikapur,  Indore, Gandhinagar, Rajkot and Porbandar. Weathermen said withdrawal of the  monsoon was delayed this year. The process started from the north western parts of Jharkhand from October 6. Two back-to-back low-pressure systems originating from the Bay of Bengal added to the delay. Usually, the monsoon starts withdrawing from the northern parts of the country around the third week of September. The process gets completed in Jharkhand by the first week of October. Weathermen on Sunday said currently no  significant  weather conditions prevailed over Jharkhand. A cyclonic circulation over north Andaman Sea was extending upto 5.8 Km above mean sea level. Under its influence, a low pressure area was  likely to form over the same region during next 36 hours. It is likely to intensify and move west-northwestwards towards south Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh coasts during the subsequent four to five days. Statistics revealed that light rain occurred at one or two places over Jharkhand during the last 24 hours. The highest amount of rainfall (5 mm) was recorded at Bokaro. The forecast indicates mainly clear sky and  dry weather during the next 48 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
10-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand News Digest: Wild elephants damage boundary wall of Latehar’s Jharkhand Refractories||Daltonganj: A herd of wild elephants destroyed the boundary wall of Jharkhand Refractories in Balumath block in Latehar district. The elephants destroyed several sections of the wall at night. The owner of the Jharkhand Refractories Gopal Singh said, “We had a boundary wall surrounding 5 acre-radius of the factory where we prepare fire bricks. The elephants broke it in patches. At one place they damaged around a stretch of 40 feet and at another around 20,15 feet. The incident has made the owner incur a loss worth Rs 200000. He submitted a written complaint cum request for a compensation to the DFO Latehar Roshan Kumar. Forester Leyaqat said that he is aware of the destruction caused by the elephants. He said he would prepare a report once he resumes work. According to Singh, the elephants made two inroads into his Refractories in the past four or five days. Our Correspondent Hazaribagh: A clash broke out between hundreds of villagers and security personnel in Banadag coal siding, which falls under Katkamdag block. The incident left around 18 raiyats and a few policemen injured. The Raiyats in Banadag are against the coal siding which they claim is damaging the ambiance of the area and their cultivable fields. The villagers had been agitating for the past five days. They have charged Hazaribagh sadar MLA of BJP for running this siding and ignoring their problem, who has denied this allegation. BJP rivals including leaders of Congress, JMM and others backed this agitation that is disrupting coal transportation from this siding. As a consequence, 21-coal projects are getting supply of coal from Pankri Barwadih coal project of Barkagaon resulting in loss of RS.28.80crore to NTPC and around Rs.7crore to railways. Yesterday, well known Congress leader Munna Singh was arrested on charges of instigating the agitation and halting transportation. Sensing trouble, a huge team of police was sent with magistrates trying to convince villagers to end the agitation. But as police tried to apply force to call off the agitation, angry villagers began to pelt stones. Barkagaon Congress MLA Amba Prasad reached the spot and tried pacifying villagers. Till the report was being written around 150 agitators were present, stating that they would continue to protest till their demands are met. Vishvendu Jaipuriar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
10-10-2021||Jharkhand||35-year-old constable found dead in Sakchi police station||The dead body of a 35-year-old constable was found floating in a well located within the premises of Sakchi police station on Sunday morning. Identified as Ram Villash Paswan, the constable was posted at the Police Control Room, which is also located within the same premises. On Sunday at about 9 am when some constable had gone to the well for a bath, they discovered the dead body floating in it. The news was soon communicated to the fellow cops and senior officials who visited the spot to investigate. The recovered body was sent for autopsy at MGM medical college’s mortuary by the police. The well in which Paswan drowned is located behind the police barrack. Most of the constables’ bathe using tap water but many till date prefer to draw water from the well for their bath. This well has been there since the British rule era. Sakchi police station’s OC, Rajesh Kumar Singh said that they are sure of Paswan either having committed suicide or accidentally falling into the well. They have ruled out foul play. “We expect the cause of the constable's death to be ascertained by the autopsy. As of now, we have registered a case under the section of ‘unnatural death’,” said the OC while talking to The Telegraph Online. The OC, mentioned about Paswan being posted at the police control room where his duty was to attend to calls made on 100. “Paswan, a resident of Hazaribagh district was present on his duty on Friday, but on Saturday he was absent from the duty and nobody had seen him throughout the day and night,” mentioned OC. “The cop’s conspicuous absence from the duty as well as barrack since Friday evening. It is suspected that he either fell into the well accidentally or jumped into it for committing suicide in the night of Friday only,” said the OC. The police officer pointed out that several cops from the police barrack had gone to the well on Saturday also, but they failed to take notice of the body inside it because it was at the bottom of the well and came up on the water surface on Sunday only. The police have informed the family members of the deceased soon after recovering the body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
10-10-2021||Jharkhand||Human rights outfit urges NHRC to intervene into ‘custodial torture’  ||A human rights outfit has urged the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to intervene into the increasing cases of alleged custodial torture in Jharkhand. Arvind Avinash, secretary of the Jharkhand unit of the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), in a letter to the NHRC chairperson on Thursday evening informed about the increasing cases of torture of suspects in the custody of police and other law enforcement agencies in Jharkhand and termed it a violation of fundamental human rights. The letter cites the incident of May 1, 2021, when a 50-year-old man died purportedly after police thrashed him when he was out with his wife and younger brother during the lockdown. “The deceased’s wife filed a complaint with the Chouparan police station in Hazaribagh but as informed, till date, no action has been taken against the accused officers,” the letter states. The letter also informs about one Dhaneswar Mahto who is alleged to have suffered a heart attack in the custody of the excise department. “As per the statement of the wife of the deceased, despite the family members and the deceased himself complaining of poor health condition, he was not taken to the hospital until he collapsed. On August 25, 2021, another allegation of police cruelty surfaced when a four-year(-old) boy and his father (Deep Gupta and Sandeep Gupta respectively) complained of being brutally beaten by Sukhdeonagar PS (police station) in charge, Mamta Kumari over a matrimonial dispute. Till date no action has been taken against the authorities,” the letter says. The letter also referes to an incident on September 15 when hawker Sandeep Ram was picked by Jagarnathpur police and was allegedly tortured for three days in the lockup on the allegation of theft. “It was only when his health condition deteriorated due to continuous torture, he was taken to RIMS. The city SP (superintendent of police) states that he is yet to receive any complaint to take action, which is unfortunate as he is empowered to take cognisance of an offence even if there is no formal complaint made,” the letter adds. Avinash has requested the NHRC to take immediate action on alleged increase in police brutality in Jharkhand and pointed out that in none of the above cases an FIR has been registered so far. He has asked the rights panel to intervene in providing compensation to the victims and register an FIR along with departmental enquiry against the accused officials. Avinash has also written to Jharkhand chief secretary Sukhdeo Singh with copies to the director-general of police and inspector-general of police (prisons) about the rising cases of custodial torture in the state and cited the same incidents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
10-10-2021||Jharkhand||Black cat commandos of NSG rally to mark 75 years of Independence||Forty-seven black cat commandos of the elite counter-terrorism unit, the National Security Guard (NSG), touched down in this Jharkhand city on Friday evening as part of a nationwide rally to commemorate 75 years of Independence. The Sudarshan Bharat Parikrama, organised by the Union home ministry, aims to connect with the youth and instil in them a sense of patriotism and strengthen the spirit of national integration. The commandos, who are travelling in 15 Tata Harriers, learnt about the legacy of Tata Steel and the steel city of Jamshedpur. On Saturday morning, the “Black Cat Car Rally” was flagged off from near Tata Steel telephone exchange gate for Calcutta by Chanakya Chaudhary, Tata Steel vice-president, corporate services. The rally was initially flagged off from the Red Fort in New Delhi on October 2 and will tour India’s major war memorials and places associated with the freedom struggle passing through Agra, Jamshedpur, Calcutta, Lucknow, Varanasi, Bodh Gaya, Bhubaneswar, Berhampur, Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Hyderabad, Ongole, Chennai, Bangalore, Hubli, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Jaipur. Chaudhary said: “Tata Steel is glad to host the all-India car rally, Sudarshan Bharat Parikrama, of the National Security Guard as part of ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’. We are honoured to have the team of 47 NSG commandos, including 12 officers, who will be driving 15 SUVs as part of this journey. They will be continuing their journey further from the historic clean and green city of Jamshedpur that has recently completed 100 glorious years.” Rally leader Colonel O.S. Rathore said Jamshedpur acted as a great host and that the historic city created by Tata Steel is an important milestone for them. “Jamshedpur has a rich history and the team cherished every moment of their stay here. The team also visited the Centre for Excellence and saw the archives of Tata Steel and Jamshedpur to know the rich history and legacy of the Tata Group, Tata Steel and the steel city of Jamshedpur,” said Col Rathore. The 29-day rally will cover 7,500km and pass through 18 cities in 12 states of the country. Jamshedpur was selected as part of the rally because its host Tata Steel, which completed 100 years in 2019, and its founder Jamsetji Nusserwanji Tata is considered the doyen of the Indian industry. “Jamshedpur also has a deep link with Independence. Mahatma Gandhi visited Jamshedpur for the first time on August 8, 1925, at the behest of Dinabandhu C.F. Andrews, a then labour leader. Mahatma, who was accompanied by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, had the twin objective of visiting India’s first planned industrial township and resolving labour unrest there,” said a communiqué issued by Tata Steel. The communiqué further said that Gandhi during his stay in Jamshedpur had visited several places within the city and was also shown around the steel plant where he had commented: “Tatas represent the spirit of adventure.” “Tata Steel has been a resolute partner in the journey of self-reliance, by way of its innumerable corporate and philanthropic contributions to the country and its people. Be it in the field of industry, infrastructure, education or healthcare, the company has been the proud flag-bearer of Atmanirbhar Bharat, for more than a century now,” said a Tata Steel spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
10-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand archers shine in national championship||Archers from Jharkhand hogged the limelight with three gold, three silver and one bronze in the recurve section on the concluding day of the 40th NTPC Senior National Archery Championship on Saturday. Dipti Kumari from Ranchi defeated her statemate Komalika Bari to win gold in the individual women’s section while Simranjeet Kaur of Punjab bagged the bronze. Tata Steel archer Jayanta Talukdar won gold in the 70+70 metres segment of the men’s section with 680 points (out of a possible 720) while Bommadevara Dhiraj of Andhra Pradesh who scored 678 had to be content with silver and Parth Sushant Saunkhe of Maharashtra with 673 points finished third. In the mixed team event, the vastly experienced duo of Komalika and Talukdar gave the hosts another gold medal amassing five points while Madhu Vedwan and Sachin Vedwan of Uttar Pradesh finished second with three points and Prachi Singh and Kapish Singh of Rajasthan bagged bronze. Olympian Deepika Kumari, a native of Jharkhand and a product of Tata Archery Academy, who has joined the ONGC and represents the Petroleum Sports Control Board (PSCB), took the gold in the 70+70m women’s category scoring 665 (out of 720) while Komalika of Jharkhand with 655 points won silver and Simranjeet Kaur of Punjab had to be content with bronze with a score of 649. In the women’s team event, the Madhya Pradesh contingent comprising Amey Rai, Vitasa Thakur, Sonia Thakur and Mausam Singh sprang a surprise bagging the gold as the Jharkhand team of Komalika, Ankita Bhakat, Dipti and Laxmi Hembrom settled for silver. The Rajasthan team of Prachi, Amandeep Kaur, Varsha Sona and Pallavi Chouhan finished third. In the men’s team section, the Haryana contingent of Akash, Sachin Gupta, Basant Kumar and Jashandeep bagged gold as the Maharashtra team of Parth Sushant, Yashdeep Bhoge, Om Vikram and Ujwal Bharat Olekar won silver. The Jharkhand team of Jayanta, Mrinal Chauhan, Somai Murmu and Alpi Tudu finished third. Parth Sushant of Maharashtra won gold in the individual men’s event while Sukhchain Singh of Services and Amit Yadav of Madhya Pradesh finished with silver and bronze. The event, returning after a year, will be followed by trials on Sunday and Monday for selection of the Indian team for the Asian Archery Championships scheduled to be held in Dhaka in November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
10-10-2021||Jharkhand||Gun salute to goddess at JAP Puja ||For the Gorkhas in the Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP), shashtra puja (worship of the weapons) and offering gun salute are essential part of the invocation during Durga Puja. The Gorkhas, mostly men, attached to the first battalion of JAP stationed at Doranda in Ranchi have been maintaining the tradition for around 140 years. The tradition is believed to have begun soon after an armed constabulary named Bihar Military Police (BMP) was raised way back in 1880 and the Gorkha jawans in the force began celebrating Durga Puja in their traditional way. It continued uninterrupted since then though the name of the force changed from BMP to JAP after the new state of Jharkhand was carved out from Bihar in November 2000. “The rituals are done by JAP-1 and its commandant, irrespective of his/her religion, who leads us all as a guardian,” said the battalion’s Subedar Major Prabhash Chhetri, adding that all the important rituals are done in presence of the commandant. The JAP personnel worship the goddess as Navadurga for nine days, beginning on the first day of devi paksha or the day Mahalaya is observed. There is no idol and they welcome the goddess under nine different trees located in their compound. The jawans only place a kalash (sacred pot) on a bedi (holy platform) at the designated place near Tikko Hall where the current Commandant Aneesh Gupta was present during the ritual on Thursday, Chhetri further said, adding that Gupta would be present during all other important rituals. They will also bring out their weapons — from rifles to light machine guns, let alone their very own khukri — from the arsenal for worshipping them on Navami and offer gun salute accompanied by a patriotic tune played by their well-known band as a mark of obeisance to the goddess. The jawans, who are often required to fight extremist elements in remote jungles, and also their family members believe the goddess protects them during hard times. Hence, many women family members fast and join the men during the rituals. “We normally have to draw a lot for selecting the women from among the volunteers but that will not be done this year due to Covid restrictions,” Chhetri said, adding that this would be the second consecutive year when they would be following the restrictions. “Like last year, no bhog will be distributed this year too,” he further said, adding that all rituals will be done following the Covid restrictions. The government provides funds for worshipping Navadurga by the Gorkha battalion of JAP and no subscriptions are collected, they said. The Puja raises enough interest among the residents of the state capital due to its unique traditions of worshipping the weapons and offering gun salute to the presiding deity but their entry will be restricted because of the current pandemic situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-27
