11-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand News Digest: State HC to get new justice from Allahabad||Ranchi: Jharkhand high court will soon get one more judge after President of India Ram Nath Kovind approved transfer of seven high court justices to different states. Allahabad high court judge Subhash Chand is transferred to Jharkhand. Union ministry of law and justice issued a formal notification. With new addition, the number of judges in the high court will be 20. Last week, the high court had got four judges inform of justice Gautam Kumar Choudhary, Ambuj Nath, Navneet Kumar and Sanjay Prasad. All were administered oath two days ago. Born on Jan 1, 1963, justice Chand joined Uttar Pradesh Judicial Services in 2001. He practiced as a lawyer in initial years. In 2016, he became a District and Sessions judge and four years later got elevated as an additional judge of the Allahabad High Court. Our correspondent Ranchi: Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC), a constituent of the coalition government in the state, on Monday staged a four-hour long silent protest outside Raj Bhavan. The protesters were seen carrying placards criticising the Union government, seeking suspension of union home minister (state) Ajay Kumar Mishra, along with his son Ashis, an accused in Lakhimpur Kheri killing. Eight persons died in the violence which was triggered after Mishra’s car allegedly mowed four farmers to death. Talking to reporters at Raj Bhavan, Congress state president Rajesh Thakur said, “Our demand is suspension of the minister from the union cabinet. How can a person, who is charged of breaking the law, continue in the ministry? His son was arrested only after Supreme Court swung into action, but those who died will only get justice when the minister will be shown the door and fair probe is done.” Hazaribagh: A herd of wild elephants which separated from its herd, killed three including two women and an elderly person on Sunday night in Katkamdag block of Hazaribagh. According to villagers of Kuba Chichi village which falls under Adra Panchayat in Katkamdag, said that the elephant entered the village around 8 am and got on a rampage, during which two women namely Kriti Kujur (35) and Sabutari Devi (36) were trampled to death near Kuba kabristan. In a nearby village Sirsi, one 59-year-old Vishnu Ravidas also caught by the same elephant and killed. Katkamdag officials on reaching the spot and sent the dead bodies for post mortem to Hazaribagh Medical College and Hospital. Hazaribagh MLA Manish Jaiswal expressed grief over the deaths. Vishvendu Jaipuriar Dhanbad: The two accused held in Dhanbad judge Uttam Anand's death case was sent to judicial custody after their seven-day CBI remand ended on Monday. The 49-year-old district judge was allegedly hit by a heavy autorickshaw when he was out jogging near Randhir Verma Chowk in Dhanbad on July 28. The auto rickshaw driver had fled the scene immediately. A CBI team from Delhi produced auto driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma in the court of sub-divisional judicial magistrate and special magistrate, CBI, Abhishekh Srivastava, and pleaded for their judicial custody. The court, after hearing the plea of the agency, sent Lakhan and Rahul to Dhanbad Jail. Our bureau and PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
11-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand's folk singer spreads Covid-19 awareness ||Dhanbad-based folk singer, Harun Rashid (32) in continuation of his musical crusade against lack of medical awareness and ignorance in the state has shot a music video - Covid 19 se bachne ke liye tikakaran karana hai jan jivan ko bachana hai. The Hindi song sung by him has been shot with the help of local artists of Dhanbad, features the benefits of timely vaccination to prevent the spread of Covid. The video also features clippings of various people who have taken the jab including chief minister, Hemant Soren. Talking to The Telegraph Online Rashid, a teacher at a private B Ed College in Govindpur, Dhanbad, said, “The four-minute song shot at Bhuli, Dhanbad which was released by Art, Culture, Sports and Youth Affairs minister, Hafizul Hashan yesterday at his Jamtara residence.” He further added, “This is the second song composed and sung by me that aims at spreading Covid awareness as. During the first wave I had composed a similar folk song, apprising people about do’s and don’ts to prevent the spread of Covid 19, which was even used by the state public relations department.” “The basic aim of composing the song shot at local sites and in local language is dispelling the myth about side effects of vaccination and apprising people about the benefits of vaccination in keeping themselves, society and nation safe,” said Rashid. He added, “I have special love for the local culture, tradition, art and history of Jharkhand. I have been composing and singing songs on these issues since last 20 years” said Rashid and added that a Khortha song launched in 2013 focussing on the issues like tourist places, local festivals, wild life, forests and martyrs of Jharkhand was one of his best creations. Rashid, a Sangeet Visharad (equivalent to graduation) degree holder of Pracheen Kala Kendra, Chandigarh, who also imparts training in singing at Dhanbad said “I have composed over 20 albums in light vocal but majority of these are in khortha and Nagpuri languages and focuses of issues close to the heart to the common people of Jharkhand” Rashid however is unhappy over lack of recognition for his creativity. He said, “Despite my unique effort to raise awareness about Covid, the government machinery failed to felicitate the artist in order to recognize my effort.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
11-10-2021||Jharkhand||Threat of rain on Navami, Dashami in Jharkhand||The first three festive days of Durga Puja beginning with Shasthi on Monday will be bright and sunny. But Navami and Dashami (October 14 and 15) are likely to be cloudy with light to moderate rain, Ranchi Met Centre has forecast. " A study of various weather models suggested mainly clear sky and dry weather till October 13. Light and moderate rain is expected at isolated places over central, north-eastern and southern parts of Jharkhand on October 14 and 15, " said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He said that light rain or thundershowers are also expected at several places across the state on Saturday and Sunday (October 16 and 17) due to a system brewing over north Andaman Sea. Satellite pictures and chart analysis on Monday indicated formation of a cyclonic circulation over the north Andaman Sea, extending 3.1km above mean sea level. It is likely to intensify into a low-pressure area over East Central Bay of Bengal around October 13. The system is likely to move northwestwards and reach south Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh coast as a well-marked low-pressure around October 15. Monday's weather forecast also suggested no major changes in maximum temperature during the next four to five days over Jharkhand. During the past 24 hours, the weather remained dry over Jharkhand. The maximum temperature in Ranchi, Daltonganj, Jamshedpur, Bokaro, Deoghar and most other places was hovering between 31 and 34 degrees Celsius for the last two days. The southwest monsoon bade adieu to Jharkhand and neighbouring Bihar on Monday, Ranchi Met Centre said. IMD officials said conditions were favourable for further withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from most parts of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh neighbouring West Bengal and Odisha during the next 48 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
11-10-2021||Jharkhand||New archery champion from Jonah ||Dipti Kumari, who became the new women individual national archery champion, had more reasons than one to be happy. The girl, who will be 20 by the end of this year, not only became individual national champion at the 40th NTPC national archery championship that concluded in Jamshedpur on Saturday but also brought a recognition to the Birsa Munda Archery Centre, Jonah, a day boarding centre meant for imparting training to aspiring archers, that never had such a credit before. People who know Jonah for its majestic waterfall that draws huge number of tourists will now also come to know about the archery training centre that produced a national champion. “It’s a happy moment for all of us as the girl who had struggled a lot finally got the recognition she deserved,” said Rohit Koiri, the coach attached to that centre that found Dipti had potential and trained her since 2013. “It’s not the only laurel she won,” Koiri further said while speaking to this paper and added Dipti had bagged 2 gold medals and a silver in Cuttack in 2019 and was also a member of the gold winning team in the junior national championship in Uttarakhand earlier. “But Dipti had to struggle a lot,” he further said, adding she did not have a bow of her own and the centre, with its limited resources couldn’t help much. Buying her a bow was also beyond the capacity of her father, Kainath Mahto, who drives a pick-up van for a living, he added. Finally, after learning that Dipti was a very promising archer, Sudesh Mahto, Ajsu party chief and former deputy chief minister, donated her a good bow and required accessories in 2019, he informed. Though the bow helped her a lot, she couldn’t get over problems as she completed 18 years by the end of 2019 and became ineligible for the monthly stipend of Rs 500 that she would get as a trainee, Koiri informed. “I sometime even didn’t have the money to pay for an auto rickshaw to reach the training centre,” said Dipti who hails from Jonah village, a few kms away from the centre and added the new bow she got, however, helped her improve her archery skill. “Meanwhile, she also got a job with the Indo Tibetan Borader Police and that actually helped the family a lot,” Koiri further informed. “Yes, that’s true,” Dipti replied in the affirmative, adding she joined ITBP as a constable about five months ago and was now undergoing training in Haryana. “I hope so,” Dipti sounded positive when pointed out that her younger sister who also aspires to become an archer and undergoes training at the same centre wouldn’t face the same financial crisis as she did.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
11-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Assembly to host first Chhatra Sansad on October 31||The Jharkhand Assembly will convene a special session on October 31 to host the first-ever Chhatra Sansad or students’ parliament of the state. Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto said the event would be organised in association with PRS Legislative Research, a Delhi-based non-profit organisation. “The intention is to create an awareness about legislative processes among the youths and also to give them a first- hand experience through a mock session,” the Speaker further said, adding the youths have potential that need to be encouraged. Climate change is an important issue and some students have done remarkable job for creating awareness, he further said, adding the youths,  if given the chance, they can also become good parliamentarians in future. “The students have great potentials and some of them like Licipriya Kangujam of Manipur, Ridhima Pandey of Uttarakhand and Aditya Mukarji of Haryana have done remarkable job in creating awareness about environmental issues,” Speaker Mahto said, adding he was expecting the students to perform well in their upcoming Parliament. “This would be a mock session when both the treasury bench and the Opposition, selected from among the participating students,  will debate on a Bill that will be introduced in the House,” the Speaker further informed, adding the selected students would also be trained for the purpose at the new Assembly building the previous day (October 30). Nodal officers who would help in selection process were already appointed in all the six universities of the state so that they could coordinate preliminary selection of participants from across the state. “The interested students are required to submit write-ups between 500 and 700 words on any of the five given topics,” informed Assembly secretary Mahendra Prasad, adding the topics would cover issues related to climate change,  mining and environment, protection of forest resources, legal provisions for such protection and 75 years of Indian democracy. There will be an interview of selected candidates through video conferencing on October 27 when 24 students from as many districts would be short listed after they discussing their write-ups submitted b earlier, Prasad further informed, adding the students finally chosen by an expert panel would attend a workshop at the Assembly building on October 30 when they would be given a hands-on training before they participate in the event next day. “All the MLAs will be invited to attend the students’ parliament and we all will sit in the gallery that day,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-26
