12-10-2021||Jharkhand||Crackdown: Rims suspends 18 students from hostel over brawl||In a major crackdown, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) has opted to debar as many as 18 medical students from the hostel for a year, in connection with a brawl that took place inside the hostel premises. The state-run medical college formally made an announcement on Tuesday on the basis of a report submitted by a special investigation committee. According to the official notice from Rims, five out of the 18 students will be out of hostel campus for a period of one year, while the remaining 13 will not be allowed to enter the hostel area for three months. “During the punishment period, the students will not be allowed to avail mess service or share rooms with other classmates or medical fellows within the Rims campus,” read the order. “Students who are facing disciplinary action are from MBBS 2016 and 2019 batch and MS eye 2018-21 batch,” informed an official. Brawls between junior and senior students isn’t a new thing in Rims, but it is probably for the first time in recent years that such a major disciplinary action has been initiated by a state run medical college. “The medical college management as well as the health department is working to overhaul the image of Rims as a major tertiary health care body of the state and such incidents leave a bad impression. Therefore, it has been decided to adopt tough measures to better student discipline inside the college and hospital,” added the official, unwilling to be named. On Sep 5, a brawl broke out between two groups of undergraduate medical students at Rims hostel over an alleged post-exam celebration by junior students which became “too loud” for seniors preparing for PG NEET. Cops from the Bariatu Police Station had to rush to the college campus and pacify the two groups of students and prevent the situation from escalating.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
12-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand archers Komalika and Ankita in India squad for Asian Championship||Two women archers from Jharkhand, Komalika Bari and Ankita Bhakat, have secured berths in the 8-member national recurve squad for the Asian Championship to be held at Dhaka, Bangladesh between November 11 and 18. Other members in the women's squad include Ridhi and Madhu Vedwan. Purnima Mahato, coach of Jamshedpur-based Tata Archery Academy (TAA), has been appointed coach of the women's side. Both Komalika and Ankita are cadets of elite Tata archery cradle and have represented the country in international competitions. Komalika is being considered as an Olympic medal prospect thanks to her splendid performances in international events. She became the world junior champion after clinching the gold medal at the World Youth Archery Championship in Wroclaw, Poland in August this year. Earlier in June, Komalika and Ankita, along with Jharkhand mate Deepika Kumari, made the country proud by bagging gold in the World Cup Stage 3 in Paris. The men’s recurve side, on the other hand, include Kapil, Parth Sushant Salunkhe, Olympian Pravin Jadhav and Sukhchain Singh. W Ranjan Singh (Jr) is the coach of the men's outfit. The men’s compound team comprises Abhishek Verma, Rishabh Yadav, Mohit and Amit Saini while the women's side include Jyoti Surekha, Muskan Kirar Parneet Kaur and Priya Gurjar. Lokesh Chand and Richpal Singh Salaria will accompany as coaches of the men's and women's compound side, respectively. The national recurve and compound outfits were picked after a two-day selection trials conducted by the Archery Association of India (AAI) at the JRD Tata Sports Complex in Jamshedpur on October 11 and 12. The selected archers were part of the 40th NTPC Senior National Archery Championship in the steel city. “It's a balanced side which is expected to perform well at the Asian Championship,” said Sanjeeva Kumar Singh, member of the AAI selection panel. Badminton Jharkhand Badminton Association is organising the state senior (men and women) and junior (under-19 boys and girls) championships in Dumka and Hazaribagh, respectively. While the senior event (men and women) is scheduled from October 17 to 20, the junior championship will be staged between October 22 and 24. Shuttlers without Badminton Association of India (BAI) IDs will not be allowed to participate in either tournament. “Points from the senior and junior events will be added for the upcoming zonal and national championships,” said JBA secretary and BAI’s joint secretary K. Prabhakar Rao.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
12-10-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad collector exhibits his unique Air India collection||As Tata Sons acquired Air India after the bidding opened, a Dhanbad based philatelist and numismatist of national repute, Amrendra Anand, proudly flaunted some memorabilia related to Air India. His unique collection includes tokens provided to the passengers during pre-independence time, key rings provided to the passengers’ way back in 1932 and more. Anand, a retired development officer of Life Insurance Corporation of India, also has a collection of postage stamps issued in India as a special series of stamps after independence besides the air ticket purchased by him in 1992. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Anand said, “I have the habit of collecting unique things since the early stage of my career. So, I procured the token, key rings and postage stamps etc from different places and exhibitions.” The token issued during the pre-Independence era by Tata Airlines bore the monogram of Maharaja on one side and the sun’s monogram on the other. “Two key rings issued by Air India to passengers including the one of 1932 are also part of my collection, along with my Air India ticket in,” said Anand and that his collection also include the air ticket purchased by 1992. Divulging more details, Anand a native resident of Darbhanga, Bihar said, “While rummaging through my collections today I looked back at some of the articles issued during pre-independence for Air India when it was operated by Tata Airlines.” Anand’s personal numismatic museum at his home has 18 files of different varieties of coins, currency notes, cheques, hukum namas, hundi, khadi hundi, error notes, fancy notes, etc besides demonetized currency notes etc. His collection also includes Rs 1000 notes issued by George VI in June 1938 and demonetized in April 1946, Rs 1000 currency notes issued in 1954 and demonetized in 1978 and Rs 1000 notes issued in October 2000 and demonetized on November 8 this year. Anand, a member of about a dozen Philatelic societies across the country both the pre-independence and Post-Independence Period Stamps, including both the Feudatory Stamps used by independent princely states and Conventional stamps bearing the symbols of both the respective state and the British Empire. Anand, who has a separate museum for coins and stamps at his house, also talked about his other collection of postal stationeries that includes envelopes, post card, inland letters and registered letters ranging from 1862 to 1981 i.e from the era of Queen Victoria to King George VI in the pre Independence era. His postal stationery also has postcards of Queen Victoria and of Princely states like Jaipur and Travancore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
12-10-2021||Jharkhand||Bengal dhakis rue bad business in steel city||This Durga Puja, dhakis (traditional drummers) from West Bengal are having to face the brunt of the pandemic. Most of them travelling to steel city in search of work were in for a disappointment as the number of bookings have been reduced due to a sharp cut down in the Puja budgets. Despite arriving here in comparatively much less number, these traditional drummers who happened to be an integral part of any public Puja are distressed as they are not going to get proper remuneration from the organisers. From a grand event to being hosted as a small function for the second consecutive year due to the pandemic this year, the organisers have not been able to collect contribution and donation from the public. Hence, the organisers are not in a position to pay the dhakis their normal fees. “Most of the Puja organisers in Jamshedpur used to get paid around Rs 20,000 for a four-day-long drumming in a Puja pandal. But this time, the organisers not ready to pay the group even half the amount,” said Rabindra Patro, one of the dhakis while talking to The Telegraph Online, near Tatanagar station. A resident of West Midnapore’s Debra village, Patro (50) said last year he didn’t come to Jamshedpur due to the pandemic. “But this year having gathered that Puja is being celebrated with traditional gaiety in Jamshedpur, we reserved tickets in Ispat Express three days ago and travelled to Tatanagar on Monday morning. But there was no taker for us, " deplored the drummer. He said some of the Puja organisers had contacted them at the railway station, but offered too paltry an amount as remuneration. About 400 dhakis in groups of four, three or two used to come to the Tatanagar station from various parts of Bengal by 'Shasti' every year. Most of puja organisers would contact the dhakis at the station and would take them along after fixing their remuneration which would range between Rs 15,000 to Rs 25,000. Significantly, this year maximum 200 dhakis come to Tatanagar, but several groups are still waiting to get hired at a workable fee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
12-10-2021||Jharkhand||Nod to 26ft Durga idol in Jharkhand with conditions||The East Singhbhum district administration in Jharkhand has given conditional approval to an idol which is 26 feet high despite the state government’s Covid guidelines capping the height of idols at 5ft. The Anand Ashram Durga Puja and Kali Puja Samity at Rocky Maidan area in Kagalnagar under Sonari police station will worship the goddess who stands 26ft tall. “The organisers had to submit a written affidavit on the compliance of Covid guidelines including not closing the pandal on all four sides and barricading it to prevent the entry of visitors. “The affidavit also states that only the main organiser and his family members will be allowed to perform rituals inside the pandal. We had to take it as a special case as it pertained to a special vow of the main organiser. “However, they would have to make a separate idol of 5ft height for the other committee members,” said Dhalbhum sub-divisional magistrate Sandeep Kumar Meena. The founder president of the puja committee, Ashit Moitra, a resident of Adarshnagar in Sonari, explained the reason for building the idol in violation of the Covid guidelines stipulated by the government. “We had hired sculptors from Kumartuli in Calcutta and had started making the idol in May this year. The work was 90 per cent complete by August. “The state government guidelines for Durga Puja came out only on September 15. I had made a religious vow when I began the committee in 2012 that on the 10th year of the festivity I would make a huge idol of goddess Durga. I had to fulfil that vow. I got the support from several political leaders and the Jharkhand Central Durga Puja Samity who approached the district administration. “I am thankful to the district administration which has allowed me conditional approval,” said Moitra. He reiterated that the puja committee would be abiding by all directives of the district administration. “We have made two pandals with one hosting the main idol of 26ft which has been closed from all sides and barricaded. Only my family members are allowed to worship the main idol. “We have a separate pandal with a 5ft high idol for the other committee members. The local police station has deputed personnel to ensure that no other person enters the pandals,” said Moitra. The main idol costs nearly Rs 2.65 lakh while the other idol has been made for only Rs 13,000. Sources said that local Jamshedpur West MLA and Jharkhand  health and disaster management minister Banna Gupta helped the puja committee in getting the district administration’s approval. Gupta’s residence at Uliyan in Kadma is around 3km from the Rocky Maidan area in Sonari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
12-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Congress demands minister Ajay Mishra be sacked||Over 200 Congress Jharkhand state-level leaders, including several cabinet ministers, sat on a three-hour-long silent protest near Raj Bhavan in Ranchi on Monday demanding the sacking of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra whose son is charged for mowing down farmers in Uttar Pradesh. The Congress leaders led by party state president Rajesh Thakur demonstrated holding a placard demanding the dismissal of Union minister Mishra. The protest also had state rural development minister Alamgir Alam, state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh and state finance minister and former state president Rameshwar Oraon. Though the Congress workers did not raise any slogans but while speaking to the media, party spokesperson Rakesh Sinha said, “Even the Supreme Court has chided the present UP government on the issue and the manner in which the BJP government is trying to save the culprits of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, it is clear that justice cannot be achieved till Ajay Mishra is not sacked as the home minister.” Thakur condemned the manner in which the current BJP-led government is treating the agitating farmers who are raising their legitimate demands. “The Congress party is agitating for the arrest of the accused and justice for the victims and sacking of the Union minister. The BJP government has clearly shown its anti-farmer face. Recently when we from Jharkhand had gone to UP to join our national leader Priyanka Gandhi seeking justice for the farmers, we were stopped at the UP border. This shows that the UP government is scared of Congress agitation,” said Thakur. Badal Patralekh said that the three black agricultural laws that the Modi government has brought are death warrants for the farmers. “The Congress party has demanded an inquiry into the entire incident. The minister of state for home under whom the investigation has to be done is the father of the accused involved in the incident. It is a clear cut case of clash of interest in the path of fair investigation and we demand that the minister is sacked till the investigation is completed,” said Patralekh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
12-10-2021||Jharkhand||Expert advises Covid caution in Jharkhand during festivities||The Covid-19 situation in Jharkhand is under control but people should be cautious during the festive season so that the infection does not spread further, an expert has said. “The infection rate is very low but people should behave in a responsible manner so that Covid-19 doesn’t spread further during the festive season,” state epidemiologist Dr Praveen Kumar Karn said on Monday. He said special focus, according to the government guidelines, was needed in areas with higher positivity rates. Places with positivity rate of 5 per cent or more for over two weeks need special focus, he said, adding that Jharkhand did not have any such place at present. The positivity rate in Jharkhand remained much below 1 per cent during the first ten days of October. Though it slowed a slight increase on October 7, it was still limited to only 0.075 per cent, which again improved to 0.024 per cent on Sunday. The active caseload of the state also increased slightly during the period. Though only 87 active cases were there on October 1, it went up to 108 on Sunday. Ranchi and East Singhbhum are two districts that had most of the active cases while nine other districts recorded 2 to 6 cases in each. Ranchi district on Sunday had 45 active cases, four down from 49 on October 1, which accounted for 41.66 per cent cases in the state. But the number of cases increased in East Singhbhum during the period — from 8 to 32 cases, which accounted for 29.62 per cent of the state’s total active caseload. Barring these two districts, not a single of the remaining 22 districts of the state had recorded any positive case on Sunday. People from across and even outside the state visit Ranchi and Jamshedpur in large numbers, making these two cities vulnerable to Covid-19 infection. “The situation is certainly not alarming at the moment but the entry points must be kept under vigil to put a check on further spread of Covid-19 infection,” Dr Karn said, adding that people should also practise Covid-appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. On the top if it, vaccination of people will also help check the spread of infection, experts believe. But the vaccination drive was found to have slowed down, perhaps due to Durga Puja, during the period, they said. While 79,489 people got their first dose of vaccine on October 1, the number was reduced to 41,714 on October 9. But the vaccination number pick up will again after Pujas, said many who are associated with the inoculation programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
12-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand workers to return from Himachal Pradesh||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren’s prod has set the stage for the safe return of 150 migrant workers from the state who had been allegedly assaulted in Himachal Pradesh. The workers are scheduled to return in batches. Nearly 150 workers, mostly from West Singhbhum and Khunti districts of Jharkhand, had been working in power projects in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh for nearly four decades. However, some of them had indulged in fights with local supervisors over unpaid dues and other issues and had been allegedly assaulted by assailants instigated by the supervisors between October 2 and 3. The plight of the workers was shared by the villagers with the labour superintendent of Khunti, who tweeted to the Jharkhand chief minister. “On the instruction of the chief minister, the state migrant control room of the labour department interacted with Dharmendra Rathi, the owner of Norven Company located in Lumber, Kinnaur. Norven had employed the workers. “The state migrant control room coordinated with the Himachal Pradesh authorities to ensure that the company provides medical treatment for the injured workers,” said an official in the state migrant control room. Company owner Rathi assured the officials of proper medical treatment for the critically injured workers. Frightened workers who were demanding a return to Jharkhand were allowed to fill up the form. “We have train tickets for the first batch of 16 migrant workers and also the second batch of 24 workers. Gradually, we would be bringing back all the workers in batches. The workers do not want to stay in Himachal Pradesh after the incident,” said the official. The first batch will reach Koderma in Jharkhand by train by Tuesday and will be brought to their home districts. “The company has accepted the demand of sending one month’s salary and arrears to the workers in their bank accounts. An FIR has been registered at Kinnaur in the matter,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-25
