13-10-2021||Jharkhand||Wild elephant injures 25 at Daru block puja pandal||A wild elephant, separated from its herd after killing five persons, reached Daru block Puja Pandal. The jumbo’s sudden appearance triggered panic among the devotees, forcing them to take refuge at the Durga mandap. Around 25 people were injured during the rampage caused by the sudden appearance of the elephant. Elephant, which was moving in a herd of 17, had first killed two women and an elderly man in Katkamdag block on Monday morning. By night, it reached the Demotand and Pauhta area under Muffasil police station killing two men and injuring a woman. At Daru, the pandal was packed with hundreds of devotees when it walked there creating a stampede.Many took refuge at the Durga Mandap, where they were forced to spend the entire night fearing attack by the elephant. Puja pandal organisers played smart by blowing a music system in loud sound making the elephant move to an adjoining field. Eyewitnesses said that the elephant had tried to attack devotees but on hearing the loud music, it moved out. They said a huge attendance was at a mela (village fair) when the jumbo entered the fair. Forest department officials said, “Elephant which get separated from their herd always become dangerous.” They said that they were studying the behaviour of the jumbo. “If the killing spree continues, we will consider the option of gunning it down,” he said. Divisional forest officer R.N Mishra said, “There is a provision in The Forest Act which allows the killing of violent elephants.” Forest department is working on the plan to minimise human and elephant clashes in Jharkhand, he mentioned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
13-10-2021||Jharkhand||Old town Jharia carries on century-old tradition of Royal Puja||Devotees from different parts of Dhanbad throng Jharia Raj Durgabari (Goddess Durga Temple) situated at Purana Rajagarh or old fort of erstwhile Jharia princely estate to seek the Goddess’ blessings. Here, Puja is still performed as per the old tradition of the  Royal family. The day began with the Belbharani Puja or Kolabau Puja, which is performed early in the morning at around 5.30 am. The women folks of the royal family, under the leadership of Rani Snehlata Devi carried out navpatrika snan (bath)  in the royal pond, called the Raja Talab, situated near the old fort. Notably, during the early hours of Saptami, (seventh day of Puja)  goddess Durga is invoked in a group of nine plants bunched together and tied with the twigs of Aparajita  which is given a pre-dawn bath in holy water of a river or pond. In Jharia the Belbharni Puja or navpatrika snan of around 100 community puja is performed in Raja Talab only after the completion of navpatrika snan Puja of Jharia estate. “After the Belbharni Puja the puja was performed in  our Kothri Ghar of Shira Ghar where the Royal Sword Puja was also performed followed by Chandipath etc,”  said Rani Snehlata Devi wife of Kunwar Raja Bisheshwar Prasad Singh. Notably, Durga Puja began in Jharia estate over 300 years back during the reign of former Jharia King, Late Sangram Singh who constructed the Durgabari near the old fort. Not  only is the  puja of Jharia estate but the Dura Puja of four other vassals of Jharia estate based at Poddar Para, Mishir Para, Amla Para and Jharia main Road also began almost at the same time when the puja of Jharia estate began. And they are still performed in strict adherence with the old tradition. While the Puja at three of these places including Mishra Para, Poddar Para and Main Roa is performed by the descendants of three different priests; Durga Puja at Amla Para locality of Jharia is performed by ten different courtiers of Jharia estate. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Sujit Mishra, a descendant of the Sujit Mishra, a descendant of Late Nand Kishore Mishra, the chief priest  of Jharia estate who started Puja at Mishra Para in mid 19th Century, said,  “The puja at all the five places assumes special significance for the history of district and especially the residents of Jharia and despite the huge Pandals lighting arrangements at different places people do not forget to take the blessings of Jharia Rajbari puja before venturing on visit to see different Puja Pandals.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
13-10-2021||Jharkhand||Tourists head to Dalma Sanctuary for Durga Puja||This Durga Puja, the scenic Dalma wildlife sanctuary has turned out to be the most favoured get-away destination, with a huge number of tourists from Ranchi and Calcutta booking the cottages and rooms. According to sources in the sanctuary, the 192 sq km elephant abode is chock-a-block with this puja. Be it the plush air-conditioned cottages, non-air-conditioned rooms, bamboo cottages or the mud cottages in Makukalakocha or the three staff quarters at Pinderabera at the hilltop, all are booked till October 19. Majority of tourists who have preferred to spend quality time with their families in the lap of nature are from Calcutta, Ranchi and Jamshedpur. According to Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra, accommodations are booked till October 19, but they are open to entertaining requests for more bookings at a later stage. “It’s Puja rush at the sanctuary. All accommodations are booked till October 19. Tourists from Ranchi have booked the air-conditioned cottages till October 15 and visitors from Calcutta have reserved the facility (when it falls vacant) till October 19,” he informed. A staff at the Dalma range office in Mango said, “Calcuttans are already holed up at other accommodations, including the bamboo house and the mud house. Some families from Jamshedpur are also staying at the staff quarters in Pinderbera.” According to him, tourists from Calcutta booked accommodations at the beginning of this month. “We are not entertaining further requests as there are no rooms till October 19. But the enquiries are still pouring in for bookings post October-19,” he informed. Currently, there is no water or electricity crisis at both Pinderbera and Makulakocha facilities. Tourists enjoy spending time near a dozen-plus big and small watering holes, including Majhla Bandh, Chotka Bandh and Bijli Ghati, where the animals come to quench their thirst. However, the hilltop is presently sans elephants, some of whom are stationed downhill on their way to the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in neighbouring Bengal. Tourists also visit the Shiva temple located around 4km from the Pinderbera facility. The visitors can also enjoy a safe and comfortable ride to the top of Dalma Hills. Guard walls have been put up at vulnerable points along the 17km unmetalled road leading to the 900ft summit of the sanctuary. The roads, which have been repaired with patches of plain concrete cement, are also in good condition. Tourists can also hire trackers (village youths who work as daily wage earners) to visit the scenic spots. Visitors are needed to stock up on rations before dropping anchor at Pinderbera. However, they don't need to do the same at Makulakocha, thanks to a full-fledged kitchen and a cafeteria.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
13-10-2021||Jharkhand||Left backed farmers pay homage to martyred cultivators, soldiers||Farmers backed by the Left parties held candlelight marches in Jharkhand and lit candles at their homes in memory of the martyred soldiers and the farmers killed in recent violence. “It was an impromptu decision taken by farmers associated with the All India Kisan Sabha (farmer’s outfit of the CPI) and we agreed to join hands in it. In all the 24 districts of Jharkhand, farmers along with the Left parties staged candle light marches in memory of the farmers killed on October 3 and the soldiers martyred on Monday,” said  Sufal Mahato, state coordinator of Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangarsh Samanway Samity (an outfit spearheading  the farmers’ agitation in the state since November 2020). Five army soldiers were killed in an encounter that broke out in the forest area of Poonch sector in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday. Four farmers were mowed down by a convoy led by an SUV owned by Union minister of state for home, Ajay Mishra Teni, in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 when they were returning from a protest. The minister’s son Ashish Mishra was allegedly in the SUV. “Through the candlelight march we want to pay our homage to the martyred soldiers and also to the farmers who have died during the course of the protest against the new farm laws. We want to raise again the slogan of yesteryears ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’,” said Bhagwan Singh, a Sikh leader from Jamshedpur and a representative of the Mango Gurudwara Committee. The farmers outfit also threatened to burn effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah on October 15 if the Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra is not sacked by then. “As long as the Union minister of state for home is in office we do not feel that the police, which functions under the home ministry, will do a fair probe into the killing of farmers. If the Prime Minister and the home minister do not sack Mishra, then we will burn both their effigies on October 15. We will also stage a rail roko (stopping rail) agitation on October 18 in support of our demand for repeal of three new farm laws,” said Sufal Mahato. The three laws — The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 — were passed by Parliament in September last year. The farmers across the country have been seeking the repeal of the three agriculture laws. The protesting farmers along Delhi borders have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations. The government, however, has rejected these claims stating that the laws will only give farmers more options to sell their produce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
13-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand app for civic complaints||Jharkhand got its first mobile app of a civic body to address the complaints of residents. Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) — the state-owned civic body that supervises civic utilities in non-Tata Steel command areas in the city of Jamshedpur — on Tuesday launched the ‘Citygen’ app funded and developed by ICICI bank. “It would be the first such app for a local urban body in Jharkhand incorporating all civic utilities in one app. In the first phase, the civic body supervisors and officers will use the app and each of the establishments (commercial and residential) will be provided with a unique identity. We also plan to roll out for the residents of the city soon,” Krishna Kumar, JNAC special officer, said. Sources in the JNAC informed that at the moment the ‘Citygen’ app would be on a hybrid platform, but would be available on public domain for download by masses in December. “As of now it would be on a hybrid platform and can be accessed only by JNAC staff and supervisors. However, we plan to roll it out for common masses by this year-end. By then each of the beneficiary houses will get a unique identity and can fill up detailed information about problems pertaining to civic problems. Be it drinking water, septic tank cleaning, doorstep waste collection, street lights, clogged drains etc after downloading the app,” Kumar said. Significantly JNAC caters to over 50,000 residents in 10 wards outside Tata Steel company command areas. Those residing in Tata Steel command areas have utility services provided by Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited. JNAC solid waste management expert, Saurabh Kumar said that supervisors and staff through the app would get exact information about the residents, their locations and the problems plaguing them in terms of civic amenities. “As of now we do not have proper data about our beneficiaries. We would be assigning each of the beneficiary households with a unique identity, which would be available with the supervisors and staff. This will help the staff can plan out redressal of waste collection, drinking water, spraying of fogging machines and other problems,” Saurabh said. After the app is available on a public platform, residents can download it and enter their unique identity to log into the app. “Residents will be able to track the locations of doorstep waste collection vehicles. Lodge any complaint pertaining to civic problems seamlessly through their smartphones and get the problem addressed within a stipulated time frame. They can also download pictures of civic menace on the platform,” he said. There are over 44 local urban bodies and few nagar panchayats in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
