14-10-2021||Jharkhand||Coal India suspends e-auction of coal amid crisis||Amidst an unprecedented crisis for powerhouses, Coal India Limited has suspended the e-auction of coal till further orders in order to replenish the dwindling stock of power plants aggravating the difficulties of nonpower sector industries. Coal is provided to different industries through e-auction only and this move will only aggravate the difficulties of nonpower sector industries including hard coke industries, iron and steel Industries, TMT bar industry, soft Coke industries and pig iron industry. AP Singh, General Manager (Marketing of Sales) of Coal India Limited, has shot off a letter in this regard to his counterparts in the Marketing and Sales department to different subsidiaries of CIL including, Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL), Central Coalfields Limited (CCL), Western Coalfields Limited (WCL), Northern Coalfields Limited (NCL) and South Eastern Coalfields Limited (SECL) forbidding any e-auction until the situation stabilises. Singh in his letter further said that in case any coal company finds it necessary to liquidate any slow-moving coal stock through e-auction route without affecting the despatch to the power sector, the same may be communicated to Coal India along with proper justification before any such e-auction is planned. This comes on the day Union Coal Minister, Prahlad Joshi visited different coal mines of Central Coalfields Limited in Chatra district of Jharkhand including Magadh Amrapli, Chandragupt Sanghmitra and Ashoka Projects etc. Joshi took stock of coal production and the plan to augment coal production. He underplayed the coal crisis and said that the situation will improve very soon as coal production is likely to be raised at an accelerated rate after Durga Puja and the situation, which aggravated earlier this month due to incessant rains has already improved. Amitesh Sahay, a hard coke factory owner of Dhanbad termed the decision to suspend the e-auction of coal as impractical. He said that it would lead to the development of the situation of closure before the Industries which are already facing difficulties due to short supply of coal. Notably, more than 300 hard coke factories and other nonpower sector industries of Jharkhand which require coal as raw materials are facing a lot of difficulty for a couple of months due to a rise in prices of imported coal and at the same time facing a shortage of coal supply from BCCL, CCL, ECL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
14-10-2021||Jharkhand||New weekly festival special between Tatanagar and Kacheguda||In an attempt to ease the rush of passengers, South Eastern Railway (SER) has decided to run a  weekly festival special train between Tatanagar and Kacheguda  in the suburbs of Hyderabad. The train will  leave Tatanagar every Friday from October 15 and run till November 5. The return train will leave Kacheguda every Saturday between October 16 and November 6. According to a schedule released by the office of the chief passenger transportation manager (CPTM) at Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of South Eastern Railway, the Tatanagar-Kacheguda Special ( 08197 ) will leave Tatanagar at 5.15 am and will reach Kacheguda at 11am  the next day. On its return, the Kacheguda-Tatanagar special ( 08198) will leave Kacheguda at 12.45 pm and arrive at Tatanagar at 4 pm the next day. The special train will have four AC 3 - tier, eleven sleeper class and four general second class coaches and will stop  at Chakradharpur, Rourkela and Jharsuguda. SER spokesperson Neeraj Kumar said the special train would help clear the  festive rush. Booking of tickets for the train has begun. The Chhotanagpur Passenger Association welcomed the railway decision. "The railways took a wise decision as introduction of the special train will help clear the extra rush of passengers. It should have been introduced earlier this month, " said Arun Tiwari, secretary of Chhotanagpur Passenger Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
14-10-2021||Jharkhand||Navami rain mars festive spirit in Jharkhand||Several parts of Jharkhand experienced rain accompanied by thunder on Thursday due to the impact of a low-pressure  system over the Bay of Bengal coupled with a cyclonic circulation. Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Bokaro, Deoghar , Dumka and several other places in  central, north-eastern and southern Jharkhand woke up to overcast conditions with intermittent light rains. IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre had earlier warned of rain on Navami and Dashami (Thursday and Friday ) due to the influence of the low- pressure. The low-pressure area was lying over northern parts of central  Bay of Bengal  and an  associated cyclonic circulation  was extending upto 5.8 km above the mean  sea level. Head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said, " The low- pressure is likely to move northwestwards and reach  south Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh coasts during the next 24 hours." The forecast for Friday, Dashami (October 15 ), says generally cloudy sky with light to moderate rain or thundershowers  at a few places over central, north-eastern and southern parts of Jharkhand. Light rain with moderate thunderstorm and lightning is also expected at isolated places on Saturday and Sunday. The intermittent rain in Jamshedpur and several other parts of the state played spoilsport as people preferred to stay indoors on Navami. A duty officer at IMD's  Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta corroborated the forecast of Ranchi Met Centre. “ Various weather models suggest rainfall activity in  Jharkhand during the next two to three days due to the impact of the low-pressure and the cyclonic circulation," he said over phone from Calcutta. He went on to say that monsoon had already withdrawn from Jharkhand and most states but the prevailing low- pressure over the Bay of Bengal was triggering rains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
14-10-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren to attend national tribal dance festival at Raipur||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has confirmed his participation in the second national tribal dance festival to be held at Raipur in Chhattisgarh from October 28 to 30. The confirmation came after an invitation came from Soren’s Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel through a letter carried by Chhattisgarh parliamentary secretary and Congress MLA Vinod Chandrakar on Wednesday. The Chhattisgarh MLA handed over the letter to Soren at his residential office in Kanke, Ranchi, and apprised him of the primitive civilisations of the country and the world and the effort undertaken by the Chhattisgarh government in preserving and developing their culture and traditions by promoting tribal culture, folk dance, and folk music and folk arts through the “National Tribal Dance Festival 2021”. Significantly, ICCR (Indian Council for Cultural Relationships) will be hosting the second festival to be organised by the Chhattisgarh government. The first edition was held in 2019. However, there was no festival last year because of Covid. “The chief minister thanked Chhattisgarh MLA Vinod Chandrakar and extended his best wishes to the government of Chhattisgarh for the successful organisation of the festival and expressed eagerness to attend it,” said an official in the chief minister’s secretariat. Earlier, the Chhattisgarh MLA had also published details about the cultural programs to be presented by the artists in the form of tribal folk songs, music and dance from different states and Union territories and also from other countries. In the 2019 festival, also held at Raipur, around 1,800 artists from 25 states and three Union territories of the country and six other countries (Sri Lanka, Thailand, Maldives, Bangladesh, Uganda and Belarus) presented varied folk dance forms of their respective regions. For dances, there will be two categories, dances held during wedding ceremonies and dances held during other traditional ceremonies. Entries from states and Union territories will be closed on October 20. The top performers will be judged by a panel and there will be cash prizes for first, second and third position holders and consolation prizes. The winners, runners and third position holders will be given Rs 5 lakh, Rs 3 lakh and Rs 2 lakh, respectively. In marriage and sanskar category, Chhattisgarh won the first position while Jharkhand secured second position in 2019. “All participants will have to be in traditional costumes with live music performance. Pre-recorded music will not be allowed during performances. Respective states can send brief write-ups on their traditional dance form along with artists names and photographs on the email crgtribalfestival@gmail.com before October 20,” said a close aide to Soren.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-24
