15-10-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma elephant shows sign of recovery from arthritis after receiving infrared ray treatment||A 52-year-old captive elephant at Dalma that was getting an infrared ray treatment in its legs for arthritis problems has begun to show signs of improvement. The captive pachyderm, Champa, is now able to move its limbs freely and is no more lethargic. Dalma divisional forest officer, Abhishek Kumar said that the elephant's condition has improved so much that it remains in the Dalma's greenery for long periods of time, grazing and munching on its favorite food. "Generally, an elephant's life span happens to be 60 years. After Champa was down with the arthritis syndrome, we had left all hope of its recovery. But now it is almost alright following application of infrared ray in its affected legs, " said the DFO while talking to The Telegraph Online. The DFO pointed out that the remarkable changes in the elephant's condition were observed after some Ayurvedic leaves were  given to it besides the infrared ray treatment. "The infrared ray was started treatment on the advice of a vet in Bhubaneswar-based zoological park, Nandan Kanan, since September-end. But we began to give the leaves of 'Giloy' plant a week after. Ever since Champa started consuming Giloy leaves which have medicinal properties, she started recovering faster," said the DFO, who is also a vet. He stated that they are in a dilemma to determine whether the infrared ray is working for the fast recovery of the elephant or the Giloy leaves. "We have, therefore, decided to continue to subject the ailing elephant to the infrared ray and providing the Giloy leaves until it is not fully recovered, " said the senior forest officer who is monitoring the pachyderm's health regularly. Champa is lodged at an enclosure in Makulakocha village in the foothills of Dalma along with another captive elephant Rajni. A three-member team of vets was treating the ailing elephant ever since it showed the arthritis syndrome a couple of months ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
15-10-2021||Jharkhand||Durga Puja concludes with immersion of idols||Five-day Durga Puja festivities came to an end on Friday with the immersion of idols passing off peacefully. Of the 350-odd immersions scheduled for the day, over 100 Durga idols were immersed in various river ghats till 4 pm. Apart from police, Rapid Action Force ( RPF) and personnel from the district unit of Civil Defence and  urban civic bodies were also deployed to monitor the immersions. Officials of Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samiti (JDPKS ), the apex body which monitors Puja in the steel city, were also present at the river ghats. " Immersion is taking place peacefully in all the designated river ghats. Elaborate security arrangements were put in place by the East Singhbhum district administration to ensure security and maintain peace during the immersion, " said Ram Babu Singh, the general secretary of JDPKS. Subernarekha Ghat at Sakchi witnesses the maximum number of immersions followed by Pandey Ghat at Bhuiyandih , Domuhani Ghat at Sonari, Kapali Ghat also in Sonari , Dimna Ghat at Mango, Bodhanwala Ghat at Bistupur , Sati Ghat at Kadma and Baroda Ghat at Bagbera. Before the immersions, women took part in the ‘Sindoor Khela’ ritual, smearing vermilion on each other in various Puja pandals in Sonari, Kadma, Sakchi, Bistupur, Telco and elsewhere. Women offered sweets and prayers to the goddess while the young swayed merrily to the rhythmic beats of the dhak (drums). People were seen exchanging greetings on the occasion of Vijaya Dashami. Dhalbhum sub-divisional officer (SDO) Sandeep Kumar Meena said the administration had mobilised magistrates and deployed police to escort the processions to ensure that immersions were completed at the earliest. He said they had deployed divers  for any emergency. District civil surgeon A. K. Lal  also deputed medical teams at major ghats. Watch towers manned by police and district administration were also constructed at  Sakchi and Subernarekha river ghat . Power supply in non-Tata Steel command areas like Mango, Jugsalai, Birsanagar, Baridih, Shastrinagar and Sonari areas was interrupted for the second consecutive year. Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited ( JBVNL) usually cuts power on the day of immersion from  1 pm till  late night  in view of the processions. This is done as a precautionary measure to prevent accidents because of overhead wires that fall on the immersion route. But, because of a five-feet  restriction on idol height, JBVNL decided to provide uninterrupted power supply on  immersion day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
15-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur urban body's Durga Puja awareness drive on river pollution and waste segregation||An urban body of Jamshedpur, which was ranked the best among cities in Jharkhand in the Centre’s cleanliness survey in 2020, has taken up the cudgels to spread awareness on river pollution and waste segregation during Durga Puja. The Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) — the local urban body overseeing execution for the Swachh Survekshan — has not only put up awareness posters at all the well-known pandals but has also dug pits along the riverbanks to prevent pollution during idol immersion. “We were ranked the best in Swachh Survekshan in Jharkhand and have to be a good example for other local urban bodies. Segregation of dry and wet waste continues to be a problem during doorstep garbage collection in residential areas. We decided to spread awareness about the problem during Durga Puja among residents. We also spread awareness among organisers and the public against pollution of waterbodies during idol immersion and sought support to our efforts in preventing river pollution,” said JNAC special officer Krishna Kumar. Among the big cities, only Jamshedpur salvaged the state’s reputation by being adjudged the best medium city (with a population of 3-10 lakh) in the citizen feedback category. Overall, Jamshedpur ranked 13th in the country in Swachh Survekshan 2020. “Our sanitation officers had been visiting all the Durga Puja committees in our command areas and educating them about the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directive on idol immersion and prevent river pollution. We have pasted posters at all major pandals (over 40), known to attract a large number of devotees, on the importance of segregating dry and wet waste and disposing of all puja paraphernalia in the specially dug pits along riverbanks and only immerse the idol in the river as per rituals,” said JNAC city manager Ravi Bharti. The urban body along with Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services (formerly Jusco, the utility arm of Tata Steel) have dug pits along all major ghats of the Kharkai and Subernarekha rivers. The Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) conducts water quality assessment of waterbodies before immersion and post-immersion following guidelines of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). “The wastewater collected from the designated temporary artificial ponds/tanks/pits during immersion after ensuring on-site pre-treatment shall be discharged into or public sewers leading to sewage treatment plants/common effluent treatment plants,” the CPCB directive states. “The CPCB forbids the usage of thermocol, plastic and plaster of Paris in idol making in its revised guidelines for idol immersion. However, most of the puja organisers do use it especially for decorations of idols. We have decided to take out all such prohibited items before the idols are immersed in the rivers and collect it in the pits dug up for this purpose. The items would be then disposed of in effluent treatment plants,” a JNAC official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
15-10-2021||Jharkhand||Union minister Pralhad Joshi visits Ranchi for coal review||Union coal and mines minister Pralhad Joshi visited Jharkhand on Thursday amid a power crisis in the country due to shortage of coal and a directive to increase coal production. Joshi landed in Ranchi at around 10.30am and travelled by road to inspect the Ashoka open cast mines of the Central Coalfields Limited (a subsidiary of Coal India Limited) in Piparwar area of Chatra district. In the evening, the minister reviewed the performances of CCL and Bharat Coking Coal Ltd (also a CIL subsidiary) at the CCL headquarters in Ranchi. “We are aware of the coal crisis. At the moment our mandate is to ensure that maximum coal is supplied to the power plants of the country. I would like to assure that no problem will come in the way of supply of coal to power plants,” Joshi said after the review meeting. Later in the evening, the minister tweeted: “Reviewed coal production and off-take of CCL Ranchi and BCCL officials. Coal companies are making all-out efforts to scale up production and dispatch. Motivated employees to rise to the occasion and give their best to assure coal supply as per demand.” Joshi added: “Visited Bachra Railway siding in the CCL Ranchi where a rake is being loaded for dispatching coal to thermal power stations. Emphasised on loading proper quality and quantity of coal onto the railway wagons.” The minister is also learnt to have told officials during his visit to the Ashoka open cast mines to load proper-sized coal on rakes. “Visited Ashoka OCP of CCL Ranchi. With a peak rated capacity of 20 MTPA, it is one of the larger coal projects in CCL. Interacted with on-ground team and motivated them to increase productions and off-take from the mine,” Joshi had tweeted in the afternoon. Joshi had on Wednesday reviewed the performance of South Eastern Coalfields Limited’s (SECL) Gerva mine (Asia’s largest open cast mine) in Chhattisgarh before his visit to Jharkhand on Thursday. The minister is tasked with helping the CIL deliver an additional 200,000 tonnes of coal every day through 60 rakes. While the CIL’s annual production target is 670MT for the current financial year, off-take (amount of coal supplied from pitheads) is expected to be 740MT. Joshi said in a tweet on Wednesday: “Happy to share that cumulative coal supplies to thermal power plants from all sources including @CoalIndiaHQ recorded more than 2 million tonnes yesterday...” Apart from a sharp spike in electricity demand, growth in the number of consumers, inadequate stocking by power projects before monsoon, and heavy rains in September also hit coal production and dispatch, according to officials. In addition, lower generation from other fuel sources and non-payment of coal dues also contributed towards inadequate supplies, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
