16-10-2021||Jharkhand|| As cases rise, Jharkhand mandates strict test regime||Jharkhand health department has directed all deputy commissioners to ensure Covid tests for inter-district travellers at entry points of the districts in the wake of a rise in the active caseload of Covid-19 amid the festive season rush, officials said on Saturday. Additional chief secretary (health), Arun Kumar Singh has directed district officials to set up Covid testing booths at  entry points to prevent the spread of infection by inter-district travellers during the festive season, health officials said. While most of the travellers will be tested through Rapid Antigen Tests, the ones suffering from symptoms of Covid-19 may have to undergo RT-PCR tests as a precautionary measure, officials said. “The next 100 days are crucial in managing the Covid situation in our state. It is important to adhere to the Covid protocols during the festive season as any complacency may lead to a rise in cases,” Singh said. As per government records, the count of active Covid cases has more than doubled since September 20, mostly due to the festive season rush at markets and other public places. Data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) reveals that there were only 55 active Covid cases in the state on September 20, and by Saturday, the active caseload jumped to 130. While necessary guidelines for various festivals were issued by the government before Durga Puja, some of the norms were openly flouted as devotees thronged puja pandals and temples despite a government order restricting entry of devotees in puja pandals as a precautionary measure, sources said. According to health experts, the movement of people from one district to another may cause a rise in Covid cases as socializing during the festive season might make maintaining social distance difficult. Dr Ajay Kumar Singh, the state coordinator of Indian Medical Association (IMA) in Jharkhand, warned against complacency during the festive season and said that following social distancing norms until New Year was the need of the hour. “We need to be more careful during the festive season, and also ensure vaccination for as many people as possible at the earliest,” said Singh. Ranchi, which sees the highest number of inter-district and interstate travellers during the festive season, has been the worst-affected district in Jharkhand in terms of Covid cases and fatalities. As per government data, the active caseload of Covid-19 in Ranchi rose from 27 on September 20 to 61 on Saturday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
16-10-2021||Jharkhand|| Fire at Sakchi destroys shop, dairy unit ||A fire,  suspected to have been caused by a short-circuit, gutted a furniture showroom and a dairy unit operating at a building at Kashidih in Sakchi, a  commercial hub if Jamshedpur, early on Saturday. It took around two hours for  fire tenders belonging to the state fire department and Tata Steel to bring the blaze under control. The blaze engulfed the dairy unit first and then spread to the furniture showroom. District fire service officials said they were informed about the fire around 2 am, and the fire tenders reached the spot within 10 minutes. The fire tenders had no problem in reaching  the spot of the mishap close to  Pearl House. Timely intervention by fire fighters prevented the fire from spreading to other nearby shops including a car showroom. The extent of financial losses incurred by the owners if the shops could not be immediately estimated. But, sources in Sakchi market said the losses would be somewhere between Rs 20 lakh and Rs 25 lakh. Fire  station officer Gopal Singh said, "The fire was caused by a suspected short-circuit. A probe has been initiated by Sakchi police." He said power supply at Kashidih and its adjoining areas in Sakchi was snapped as soon as the fire broke out. This was the second major fire that broke out at Sakchi in the past five  months. On May 1, a similar fire caused by a short-circuit gutted around half-a-dozen shops at Sakchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
16-10-2021||Jharkhand||Petrol selling at Rs 100 a litre on Ranchi Ring Road ||In a major blow to residents of Jharkhand, the price of petrol at  pumps on the outskirts of Ranchi touched Rs 100 a litre on Saturday while those located within the capital are selling fuel at eight paise less, the unprecedented rise threatening to have cascading effect on cost of commodities and public transport. On Saturday, a litre petrol was selling for Rs 99.92 a litre at pumps within the city. Diesel on the other hand was being sold at Rs 99.44 a litre, said Pramod Kumar, the spokesperson of Jharkhand Petroleum Dealers' Association. He, however, maintained that a handful of pumps on Ranchi outskirts (Ring Road) beyond a 25-km radius from the city were  already selling for  Rs 100. "In Ranchi, we are only 8 paisa short of touching Rs 100 for petrol, and 56 paise short  for diesel. But, two-three pumps along the Ring Road are  selling petrol at Rs 100.11per litre. This difference is due to the distance from the main stockyard of the fuel company," he said adding that going by persent trends, the price will touch Rs 100 in Ranchi too. On October 14, petrol was selling at  Rs 99.27 per litre and diesel at  Rs 98.71 per litre. Commuters and transporters blamed both the Union and state governments for leaving people in the lurch. Rakesh Mishra, a Zomato delivery boy, said his earnings had dipped due to the hikes. "Because of the price hikes, I had transitioned to cycle for delivering and stopped using a bike to save on fuel cost. However, I am losing out on my commission as cycling for delivery is time consuming. For me, it's a Catch 22 situation," he said. Md Iftikar, a salesman at Main Road, who uses autos to commute, said that in last three months, his travel cost had  more than doubled while his salary has remained the same. "From Dhurwa to Main Road, I used to spend Rs 15 per trip. Now, citing covid lockdown and fuel price hikes, auto fares have gone up and I almost spend double the amount per trip," he said. An official of Ranchi Bus Owners' Association said that they were considering fare hikes across routes. "A meeting has been scheduled with all bus operators to take a call," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
16-10-2021||Jharkhand||6 killed in freak mishaps in Jharkhand||Six persons died in two mishaps across Jharkhand on Thursday. Two workers were killed when a concrete mixer machine came into contact with an overhead electric wire in Gumla district, around 100km from capital Ranchi. In Garhwa district, four persons who went fishing at a dam drowned after being caught in its radial gate. According to reports, several contract workers were engaged in the construction of a building in Gumla’s Dumratoli Mohalla. The workers were setting up a concrete mixer machine when its top part came into contact with a 11KW live wire. Two workers who died on the spot were identified as Roshan Kharia, 34, and Alka Toppo, 20. Ten injured workers were rushed to Gumla Sadar Hospital for treatment. In Garhwa, four youths had gone fishing at the Bhabani Khan dam under Sribansidhar Nagar police station and got stuck in the outlet pipes of the gates around 10pm. The bodies were fished out in the small hours of Friday after opening the dam gates in the presence of police officers. The deceased have been identified as Bablu Oraon, 25, Anil Oraon, 25, Amresh Oraon, 17, and Nagendra Oraon, 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
16-10-2021||Jharkhand||Durga send-off with Covid protocol in Jharkhand||Immersion of Durga idols took place on Friday without elaborate processions in keeping with the Covid-19 protocols in Jharkhand. Adhering to Covid guidelines, no Ravana effigies were burnt on Dussehra anywhere in Jharkhand on Friday for the second year in a row. Organisers in Jamshedpur, which hosts the maximum number of Durga Puja pandals in the state, had immersed all the idols by 8pm except the state’s tallest idol (26 feet) at Sonari. “The tallest idol at Sonari could not be immersed in time as the idol got stuck in electric wires and had to be taken back over fear of the vehicle getting electrocuted. The idol was supposed to have been immersed at the Domuhani ghat on the bank of the Kharkai,” said Rambabu Singh, patron of the Jamshedpur Kendriya Durga Puja Samiti, the apex body that coordinates Puja festivities in the city with the support of the district administration. The East Singhbhum administration had given conditional permission to the Puja organisers at Rocky Maidan in Sonari for the 26-feet idol, making an exception to Jharkhand’s Covid guideline that had capped the idol height at five feet, as the organisers had a religious vow. There was no report of any untoward incident anywhere in the state during the immersion ceremony. “The immersion ceremony passed off peacefully across Jharkhand. Elaborate security arrangements had been made at communally-sensitive pockets and also at immersion points along major ponds and river banks,” said Jharkhand police spokesperson and IG (operations) A.V. Homkar. In Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Ranchi and other big cities, the administration had arranged local divers at all the river banks for any eventualities during the immersion as most of the rivers are in spate following rains that continued till the first week of October. Most of the Puja organisers did not undertake massive processions with tableaus and instead opted for traditional dhakis to keep crowds at bay. There was no Ravan Dahan on Friday. “This was the second year in succession that there has been no Ravan Dahan in Ranchi or in any other parts of Jharkhand following the government guidelines on Covid-19,” said Munchun Rai, convener of Ranchi Zilla Durga Puja Samiti.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
