17-10-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain forecast in parts of Jharkhand||India Meteorological Department's Ranchi office has warned of heavy rain in isolated pockets of Jharkhand during the next 48 hours. "We are expecting heavy rain at isolated places over northern and central parts of Jharkhand during the next two days due to the impact of a low-pressure over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal. An associated cyclonic circulation was also extending up to 5.8k m above mean sea level," Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre, said on Sunday. Several places, including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Deoghar and Dumka, woke up to overcast conditions and intermittent showers on Sunday. Statistics revealed light to moderate rain occurred at a few places over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours. The highest rainfall, of 20 mm,  was recorded at Moharo in Dumka. Several other places, including Ranchi, Khunti, Jamshedpur, Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, Ramgarh and Dhanbad, experienced rain since last evening. Weathermen said the impact of the low-pressure is expected to remain till mid-week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
17-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand readies roadmap to vaccinate 3 lakh people a day||Jharkhand has prepared a roadmap to vaccinate at least 3 lakh residents against Covid-19 every day, a target set by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare under an intensive campaign aimed at covering the maximum possible eligible beneficiaries in the state, including the ones staying in remote forest areas, officials said on Sunday. In a letter addressed to deputy commissioners of all 24 districts in the state,  additional chief secretary (health) Arun Kumar Singh stated that Jharkhand was given a target of inoculating at least three lakh beneficiaries daily following a virtual meeting with Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya. The districts will have to do “micro-planning” in order to achieve the daily vaccination target, and take initiatives to identify and bring eligible beneficiaries to the nearest vaccination centre, Singh said in his letter, a copy of which is in possession of The Telegraph Online. In order to vaccinate forest dwellers and residents of remote villages, districts have been directed to prepare a route chart for mobile vaccination vans, that would travel to the interiors and vaccinate people there, the letter stated. There are about 60 such mobile vaccination vans in the state at present. “Set a separate vaccination target for hard-to-reach areas of the state and ensure the availability of mobile vaccination vans for running immunisation campaigns in such areas,” Singh wrote in his letter, further directing officials at the panchayat level to prepare a list of beneficiaries for special weekend vaccination drives on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. Singh asked districts to seek the help of Self Help Groups under Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotion Society (JSLPS) and civil society organisations to increase the reach of the immunisation drive. According to Singh’s letter, special Block Level Task Force (BLTF) will be set up to manage the  campaign. “Learn from the vaccination campaigns run in the past, and also take help of private healthcare facilities if needed,” the letter stated. As per government records, Jharkhand has administered the first dose of vaccine to more than 1.4 crore residents, and at least 44 lakh of them have also received the second jab. However, the state has never vaccinated more than 3 lakh residents on a day since the launch of the immunisation campaign against Covid-19 on January 16. On September 1, Jharkhand vaccinated over 2.05 lakh residents, the highest ever in a day, as per government records.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
17-10-2021||Jharkhand||Forest officials reunite elephant calf with its herd in Palamau Tiger Reserve||An eight-year-old male elephant calf was reunited with his mother on Saturday after four days of separation in the jungle of Morwai under the Chhipadohar west range of the Palamau Tiger Reserve. The calf had fallen in a village well on Ashtami which went unnoticed by the herd of the elephants. The villagers discovered the calf on Navami and rescued it with the help of saal tree poles. The well was 15 feet deep and three kilometres away from the hot water spring Tat Ha. Deputy director-north division of Palamau Tiger Reserve Kumar Ashish said, "We had succeeded in retrieving the elephant from the well but it was not the end of our job." "Our job was still too enormous. It was to reunite him with his herd," added Ashish. The elephant calf was fatigued and looked emotionally broken as he was away from his mother for huge long hours. The rescued male calf was crying for his mother. “As the calf moved in search of his mother, our team of 8 personnel led by forester in-charge Akhilesh Kumar and forest guard Mukesh Yadav and 6 trackers followed it,” said Ashish. The calf called out while moving but for most of the time his trumpet went unanswered. “It was in the jungle of Morwai that his trumpet was answered and we knew his mother was around. We found the herd of six elephants – three males, two females and one calf. The calf ran towards the herd and got beneath the legs of his mother,” stated Ashish. Ashish said the herd of elephants behaved like any human family. Every six of them touched the calf in sheer affection. Some touched the upper part of the body. Some his trunk. Some his tail. It was all to reassure the calf belongs to this herd only. Ashish said it took 30 hours to get the calf reunited with the herd after his retrieval from the well. Our forester in charge, forest guard and trackers slept for only two to three hours for three nights just to keep a watch on this calf, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
17-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand police issue high alert over Maoist bandh||Jharkhand police have issued high alert in all its 14 rebel-hit districts in view of the bandh call by the proscribed CPI (Maoist) in Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh on Sunday. The banned CPI (Maoist) in a communiqué issued on October 12 had called a daylong bandh in Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh on October 17 in protest against the killing of peaceful protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri and called upon the masses to support the bandh while expressing solidarity with the farmers’ agitation. In an emergency meeting held on Saturday, all the security wings of Jharkhand police, including district police, Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF), Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP) and special units to combat ultras — Jaguar and CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action) battalions — have been issued deployment orders in sensitive areas in view of the bandh call. “Security forces have been directed to be on high alert in view of the Maoist bandh call. The directive has also been issued to carry out area dominance and special operations in areas having information about Maoist presence. Additional forces have been deployed along national highways, railway projects, railway sidings and other development projects for area dominance,” said Amol V. Homkar, inspector-general of police (operations) and state police spokesperson. Homkar also said that a special vigil will be done in rebel-hit areas to ensure that commercial traffic is not affected by the bandh. “We are in touch with the police officials of bordering districts of neighbouring states to gather information and to chalk out joint operations,” said Homkar. A statement issued by Manas, spokesperson for the Bihar-Jharkhand-North Chhatisgarh and Uttar Pradesh Simant Regional Committee of the CPI (Maoist), said they are standing in firm support of the farmers and labourers and would continue to support their demand for a rollback of the three contentious farm laws introduced by the Narendra Modi-led BJP government. The statement, however, exempted emergency services like milk, water, medicines, ambulance and fire brigade from the bandh’s purview. Four farmers and one journalist were allegedly mowed down at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh on October 3 by an SUV belonging to Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, with his son Ashis Mishra alleged to have been present in the vehicle along with other cars in a convoy it was leading. Ashis was arrested on October 9 by Uttar Pradesh police. Altogether 14 districts of Jharkhand — Bokaro, Chatra, Garhwa, Gumla, Hazaribagh, Khunti, Latehar, Lohardaga, Palamau, Ranchi, Simdega and West Singhbhum — are affected by rebel disturbances. Several forest areas, especially Bura Pahar, Saranda and border areas in Khunti and West Singhbhum districts have active presence of Maoists who take advantage of the inaccessible terrain, dense foliage and the bordering states of Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Odisha to escape during police action. Security forces have been killed in such action in West Singhbhum and Latehar districts recently. Long-distance bus operators are opting for a wait and watch strategy. “We will see the situation on Sunday morning and then take a decision. As of now, we have decided not to cancel any bus services,” said Jamshedpur Bus Owners Association patron Upendra Sharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-23
