18-10-2021||Jharkhand||NHM contract workers on strike, demand HR policy||An indefinite strike of contractual workers at the Jharkhand unit of National Health Mission (NHM), demanding additional remuneration for extra services during the Covid-19 crisis and implementation of an HR policy, entered its eighth day on Monday despite assurance from officials that their demands will be met. The bone of contention, officials said, was the termination of senior contractual worker Jwala Prasad, who was allegedly involved in financial irregularities. The protestors have demanded reinstatement of the fired employee and accused senior officials of harassing him. NHM authorities, however, have stood their ground and refused to give in to any coercion for reinstating the  employee. “We have already agreed to their demand of preparing an HR policy for contractual employees. We are also open for dialogue, but for that they will have to at least come to office,” said NHM Director Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh. Another NHM official said that the government has already announced one month’s extra pay for frontline and healthcare workers who have worked during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Isn’t one month’s extra salary enough? We are doing our best to keep them happy, but we need to draw a line somewhere,” said the NHM official. About the demand of reinstating the terminated employee, the official said that a termination done as a disciplinary action cannot  revoked. “If the said employee feels cheated or wronged, he is free to knock on the door of the labour court, but we will not bow to someone found guilty of financial irregularities,” he added. The protesting contractual workers have claimed that several schemes run by the NHM have been hit due to their strike, but they were not willing to resume work until the government gives them an assurance in writing about fulfilling their demands. “They want us back because their work is getting affected. They have to give us in writing that they have agreed to all our demands,” said a contractual worker. Initially, about 140 contractual workers at NHM campus in Ranchi had gone on m strike. But gradually, contractual workers in other districts have also joined them, the protestors said. The contractual workers have also demanded a holiday on Sundays. According to NHM officials, about 40 contractual workers are drivers, about the same number of contractual employees work as computer operators and the remaining 60 are involved in “miscellaneous” activities. The contractual employees worked without  an off day for several months during the first and second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
18-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC to play 5 pre-season friendlies against ISL clubs in Goa||Jamshedpur FC will be playing 5 pre-season friendlies against Indian Super League (ISL) clubs in the run-up to the cash-rich tournament in Goa.  The Tata Steel-owned club will play the first friendly against Chennaiyin FC (October 27) followed by Bengaluru FC (October 30), Mumbai City FC (November 4) and Kerala Blasters FC (November 9 and 12). Jamshedpur open their ISL campaign versus SC East  after the pre-season friendlies against Bengal on November 21. The tournament kick-starts on November 19.  The Men of Steel started their pre-season at Don Bosco High School ground in Panjim on October 10 after an 8-day mandatory quarantine. Training is underway in the right ernest under head coach Owen Coyle.  The Scotland-born Coyle wants the players to find themselves in good rhythm, fitness and camaraderie before they begin their ISL journey.  "It's important to play friendlies before pre-season as it sets a rhythm for the players and they know where they stand in  various aspects of their game. It's good to have competitive minutes under their belt and it also gives us a chance to try and test new combinations. We are playing some good teams and I am sure the boys are looking forward to it," said Coyle.  Jamshedpur FC, who finished 6th in the last ISL season with 27 points, have never made it to the playoffs since making their ISL debut in the 2017-18 season. The club is desperate to come up with an improved show this time and try and qualify for the playoffs.  "We have a nice combination of Indian and foreign players and the club is very optimistic of making it to the playoffs this time. The players have mixed with each other before the tournament gets underway. The training is being conducted amid camaraderie and fun. We are hopeful that this would reflect on the team's performance," a team management member said from Goa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
18-10-2021||Jharkhand||Wildlife expert studies moth species in Dalma||The  Dalma hills immediately conjure images of elephant herds, given that it is home to a sprawling animal sanctuary. But few know that the hills are also home to over 300 species of moths that indicate the presence of a strong ecosystem. Raja Ghosh, who doubles up as a forester and wildlife expert, is carrying out a survey of the various species of moths in Dalma. "The presence of moths in any place reflects its environment. The cleaner the environment, the greater number of species of moths can be seen at a place. Dalma hill has over 300 species of moths, suggesting that it is among the  cleanest places in the region, " Ghosh told The Telegraph Online. The wildlife expert who is carrying out the survey has managed to identify over 250 species of moths so far. "A team from  Zoological Survey of India had come to Dalma  in 2009 for the study of moths species there.  During the team's four-day stay in the hill, its members had identified 198 species. But from my study I estimate the number of species would go beyond 300.  I have been devoting time and energy in the exercise since the past one month," Ghosh said. Ghosh, who is posted as a forester in the Dalma Wildlife Division, works primarily at night. "Unlike butterflies, most of the moths can be spotted during night time only and studying the species becomes a tiresome job, " said the forester, adding that the presence of different species of moths varies from place to place in Dalma which is spread over a 190 sq km.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
18-10-2021||Jharkhand||Cleaner ghats after Durga Puja in Jamshedpur||Jamshedpur, which hosts the largest number of Durga puja pandals in Jharkhand and witnessed over 350 immersions on Friday, had its river ghats wore a cleaner look on Saturday as compared to other years. As against puja paraphernalia, rotting flowers, idol frames clogging the river ghats along two main rivers of the city — Subernarekha and Kharkai — in earlier years, water bodies sported a cleaner look this year. “Usually we do visit the ghats the very next day of the Maha Dashami to see the ghats and coordinate with respective local urban bodies to get it clean before the Kali Puja and chhath festivities. However, Saturday we were pleasantly surprised to see most of the over 18 ghats sporting a cleaner look, barring the idol frames, there was no puja paraphernalia seen anywhere in the rivers,” said septuagenarian Rambabu Singh, patron of the Jamshedpur Kendriya Durga Puja Samity (the apex body which coordinates with administration and civic bodies during puja festivities). Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), the state-owned civic body, regulates the cleaning activity during major festivals in the company (Tata Steel) and non-company command areas in the industrial city of Jamshedpur, patted its back along with Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructures Services Limited. “We had carried out an intensive awareness campaign this year with all Durga Puja committees about the importance of segregating puja paraphernalia and other items like thermocols which are prohibited by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) from immersing in rivers. We also informed the puja samitis well in advance through posters about specially dug water pits along river banks and dropping the paraphernalia, havan materials and other decorative items used on Durga idols at the pits and only immerse the idols at the river. Our efforts seem to have yielded the results,” claimed JNAC special officer Krishna Kumar. JNAC had also deployed personnel to direct the devotees and puja committees to throw their puja items in the specially dug pits and those violating the norms were shouted upon by the volunteers. Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board member secretary Y.K. Das, however, preferred to wait for the water quality assessment report. “As per CPCB directive we had carried out samples from all major rivers across Jharkhand before immersion, on the day of immersion and after immersion. We would be tabulating the samples test report soon and only then we can say if the river water has been less polluted this year,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
