19-10-2021||Jharkhand||Coal-hit, power crisis cripples Adityapur industry hub||Production has been adversely affected at over 700 units at Adityapur Industrial Area near here due to the ongoing power crisis with most compelled to run their factories for barely four hours a day. Adityapur Small Industries Association (ASIA) president Santosh Khetan said the entrepreneurs have been dealing with the crisis for the past fortnight and many are contemplating shutting down their units for now. "There are over 1,400 units in  Adityapur. While half of these units have switched over to JUSCO-supplied power, the others are using power supplied by Jharkhand Bijli Vitaran Nigam Ltd (JBVNL). The ones depending on JBVNL power are badly  affected," Khetan told The Telegraph Online. The ASIA president said that ever since the electricity crisis cropped up a fortnight ago,  functionaries of the industry association are holding meetings regularly to  put pressure on  JBVNL to improve the supply situation. "As a majority of the industries are ancillary units of automobile giant Tata Motors  and have to meet precise production schedules, erratic power supply has cost them dear," Khetan pointed out. One of the executive members of the industry body observed, "After suffering a setback  for more than a year due of the pandemic, this problem of power supply  has broken the backbone of entrepreneurs." JBVNL general manager-cum-chief engineer Paritosh Kumar admitted the discom was faced with a  crisis. "We are getting very little  electricity as thermal power plants were hit due to coal  crisis. But the power supply position is expected to improve shortly, " he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
19-10-2021||Jharkhand||Diwali diyas made by special athletes a big hit already||Diwali diyas modelled and painted by students of a school for the  intellectually impaired are selling fast in the run-up to the festival of lights on November 4.  Students of Jeevika, a Jamshedpur-based NGO working for the welfare of special children and adults, have modelled and painted about 8,000 diyas. Buyers for the diyas are not only from the steel city but also from Hyderabad, New Delhi and other cities.  Jeevika founder Avtar Singh said over 40 per cent of diyas have already been sold and enquiries were pouring in every day. "Our students (read special athletes) worked hard and came up with these beautiful diyas. The diyas are being despatched from our NGO in Sonari. Some of the orders have already been packed and ready for despatch. We'll also put up stalls at our school for selling diyas," he added.  According to Singh, a seven-time national cyclist who led the India cycling team in the 1982 Asian Games in New Delhi, friends of buyers living in the steel city have been asked by their acquaintances in New Delhi and Hyderabad to collect the diyas from us and despatch them. Outstation buyers pay money through digital means," he said.  The special athletes, some of whom are national and international medal- winners, modelled and painted the diyas at their homes during the pandemic. The clay diyas were procured from a potter in Asanbani in East Singhbhum. The diyas were brought to Jeevika and were subsequently distributed to the special athletes at their home. The intellectually impaired completed varnishing and subsequently painted the diyas.  Students of Jeevika also worked on the diyas at their school (Jeevika) when the Covid situation improved. They also poured wax in the diyas, price of which range from Rs 5 to Rs 150 each.  Ganga Bai, Akash Sharma, Ankit Mukherjee, Ryan Francis and Pankaj Kumar remained busy for about four hours daily at the Jeevika centre. They are assisted by Anuradha Kumari, a temporary staffer of Jeevika.  Beside diyas, special students have also worked  on decoration pieces as well as  eco-friendly bags The diyas – in various shapes and sizes, the most unique being the turtles – are a hit among people of Jamshedpur and Ranchi. The diyas invariably get exhausted much before Diwali.  Ganga Bai, who won a gold and two silver medals at the Special Olympics International World Summer Games in Athens, Greece, in 2011, said she was happy to be working on the diyas. “Mujhe painting karna bahut pasand hai. Khush hu ki hamare  dwara banaya gaya diya ki achhi maang hai (I love painting. Happy about diyas made by us has a good demand),” she said.  Three of Ganga Bai's paintings had featured in the 2016 annual calendar of Tata Steel.  The intellectually impaired also stand a chance of getting cash from the special school after Diwali. “We have plans to recognise the toil of our students. Their hard work and patience should be recognised,” said Singh.  Jeevika is striving hard to bring special athletes to the social mainstream. Some of its students have got married and are leading a happy live. Seven of its students have landed employment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
19-10-2021||Jharkhand||Speed-sensing cameras to be operational in Ranchi soon||At least 10 speed sensing cameras, installed a year ago at various locations in and around the state capital under the Smart City project, will soon be operational and help check road accidents caused by speeding, police said on Tuesday. These cameras could not be used by the district administration for a year due to a lack of software integration between Smart City Corporation and the traffic control room of Ranchi police, DSP (Traffic) Jitwahan Oraon said. “The National Informatics Centre is developing a software through which Ranchi police will be able to slap a fine on violators caught on speed sensing cameras and take necessary action under relevant sections of the Motor Vehicles Act,” said Oraon, adding that the cameras are likely to be operational by November. Oraon said coordination between Smart City Corporation and traffic police was needed to operate the speed sensing cameras as the Smart City Corporation does not have the authority to slap fines on traffic rule violators. Even the traffic signals functioning across the state capital were installed under the smart city project. Speed sensing cameras use motion sensors to detect the speed of  vehicles, police said. The cameras can also click pictures of vehicles that cross the speed limit on a given road. These pictures can be used to send challans to offenders and also check if they were violating other traffic rules. In Ranchi,  speed sensing cameras were installed between Bagaicholi Bawanipur Chowk and Kharsi Daag Outpost, Shaheed Maidan and Dhurwa roundabout, Rampur Tiraha Ring Road and Ranchi city, Tilta Ring Road and Ranchi City, Piska More and Pandra, Satellite Colony Chowk and Dibdidh bridge, Mesra Railway Over Bridge and DPS Greater Ranchi, Kanke Ring Road and Birsa University, Ranchi College Playground and State Guest House, and on the Hinoo Airport Road. Speed sensing cameras were only placed at accident-prone locations and roads where incidents of racing and stunts by bikers and car owners were reported in the past. “Many accidents have been reported due to speeding in areas where speed sensing cameras have been installed. The cameras will not only discourage people from crossing speed limits, but also save lives of pedestrians and commuters who fall prey to the misadventure of some drivers,” said another police official. Some of the areas where these cameras have been installed fall under the jurisdiction of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), and the district administration is  in talks with it  to help use them effectively, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
19-10-2021||Jharkhand||Dams, reservoirs overflow as incessant rain batters Jharkhand||The incessant rains during the last two days have led to a rise in water level at almost all dams and water reservoirs of Damodar Valley Corporation situated in Dhanbad and its surrounding areas including Maithon and Panchet, owing to which these dams had to discharge water. As per the morning data, Maithon Dam situated on river Barakar the water was flowing at 480.64 feet, around 15 feet below the danger level of 495 feet. Panchet dam situated on river Damodar flowed at 411.85 feet around 14 feet below the danger level of 425 feet. Meanwhile, the water level of other reservoirs including Tilaiya Dam located in Koderma district on river Barakar also rose to 1215.58 feet, less than seven feet of the danger level of 1222.09 feet. The Tenughat dam situated on river Damodar in Bokaro district flowed at 852.89 feet while the water level of Konar dam situated in Hazaribagh district over Damodar river reached 1397.51 feet. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Apurba Saha, Public Relation officer of Damodar Valley Corporation at Maithon said, “Three gates of Maithon and Panchet each were opened during the last two days due to heavy rains as the cumulative release of around 42262 acre feet of water was carried out from both dams during the last twenty-four hours. “Though the situation is under control now, the inflow in Maithon yesterday was around 14423 acre feet while the outflow was 23251 acre feet” he said and added that the inflow in Panchet was 50491 acre feet while the outflow was 19011 acre feet. Meanwhile, the heavy rains also led to a rise in the water level of Topchanchi lake, a man-made lake made up of 10 water channels flowing through Parasnath Hills which overflowed at 75 feet. The rains also affected the coal production and despatch in several collieries of BCCL, ECL and CCL at a time when all efforts are being taken to replenish the dwindling stocks of different powerhouses across the district as around 14 rakes of coal were despatched yesterday from the different collieries of BCCL against the target of despatch of 18 rakes. Chanchal Goswami, Director Technical of BCCL while talking to media said, “The rains have affected coal production up to 68 to 70% yesterday but we are trying to ensure the despatch and there is no cause of concern at the moment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
19-10-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Ranchi highest contributor to spike in cases during Pujas||Ranchi continues to witness a spike in active Covid-19 cases with at least 11 fresh cases of coronavirus infection surfacing here on Monday against only four Covid recoveries, taking the count of active cases to 86, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. At least 14 fresh Covid cases against 11 Covid recoveries took the active caseload in Jharkhand to 125 on Monday. As per  a National Health Mission (NHM) bulletin, Bokaro, East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum reported one Covid case each on Monday. However, all these three districts witnessed a drop in the active caseload. Ranchi alone logged 86 cases, accounting for nearly 70 per cent of the active cases of Covid-19 in the state, and was the highest contributor to the rise in cases reported in the state during Durga Puja. The active caseload in the district had dropped below 40 before Durga Puja. Jharkhand on Monday tested swab samples of at least 31,610 residents and 0.04 per cent of them were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus. So far, over 3.48 lakh people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand and 98.49 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. The state on Monday vaccinated close to 85,000 residents against Covid-19, a report from the NHM highlighted. As per provisional data, the state on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine to 36,390 residents, while the second jab was administered to as many as 48,607 beneficiaries. Dhanbad vaccinated more than 10,000 residents on Monday, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, while Ranchi administered vaccines to about 9.000 beneficiaries. About 7,000 beneficiaries were vaccinated in East Singhbhum. As per government data, more than 1.42 crore residents have received at least one dose of vaccine against Covid-19 and at least 43 lakh of them have also received the booster dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
19-10-2021||Jharkhand||Course on integrated programme in management begins at IIM Ranchi ||A new course, integrated programme in management, began at the Indian Institute of Management, Ranchi, on Monday. The IPM is a full time 5-year blended course for business studies from undergraduate to postgraduate level or an integrated BBA-MBA programme and the students will be given an MBA degree on successful completion of the course. The first batch was inducted into the new programme at a function that was held in a hybrid mode and had Union minister of state for education Subhas Sarkar attended it as the chief guest. While both minister Sarkar and the students attended it virtually, IIM-R director Shailendra Kumar Singh and the faculty members were physically present on the occasion. “The IPM begins with 120 students in the first batch who were selected on the basis of their performances in the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT),” IIM-R director Singh informed, adding the institute that had begun in December 2009 with just 44 students enrolled in a single programme was now offering as many as seven attended by about a thousand students. “The young minds of India are now leading the start-up scenario globally and I hope this course will create business leaders of tomorrow,” Sarkar said on the occasion, adding the students should aim at becoming job providers, not job seekers. “The students should cultivate a culture of modern wizardry blended with traditional wisdom as that will help create innovative ideas which, in turn, will help solve complex problems,” he further said, adding that “a multi-disciplinary holistic education would work as a catalyst to promote peace and unity in our diverse society”. “Never stop learning as the real journey begins at the end of your course,” Praveen Shankar Pandya, the chairman of IIM-R board of governors, advised the students, assuring they joined a very good institute whose national ranking improved from earlier 45th to the present 21st position within just a few years. “Rest assured your children will be in good hands and you will never repent the investment you are making now,” IIM-R director Singh also assured the guardians. The curriculum was deliberately prepared to balance cognitive development with cultural growth by engaging the students both within and outside the classroom, IIM-R had earlier said about the course,  adding the programme would comprehensively cover subjects related to various aspects of management studies. The students who took admission this year were required to pay a course fee of Rs 14 lakh for the first three years of the programme while, for the rest two years, they will have to pay the same fee as would be payable by the MBA students that time, it had added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
19-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur start-up offers to ‘manufacture happiness’||Four professionals have joined hands to start a venture which claims to be the country’s first start-up for “manufacturing happiness”. The Happy Tribe, founded in early 2020 by Jamshedpur-based motivational speaker and entrepreneur Santosh Sharma and three others, claims to have benefited more than 1,000 professionals, entrepreneurs, industrialists and students. “India being ranked 144 out of 149 countries in 2020 in the UN Happiness Index (ranked 139 in the 2021 UN Happiness Index) made us think that a country which has high per capita income is not in the top 10 in the happiness index. When the idea was taking shape, I was joined by Mumbai-based Amit Jha and Saurabhi and Jamshedpur-based Milan Joshi to form The Happy Tribe,” said Sharma. Jha was heading the online initiative of Mahindra and Mahindra but resigned to join The Happy Tribe, while Saurabhi, who had worked for Infosys and Colgate, also quit the corporate world to increase “more smiles per person” and Joshi has served in Wipro. “The 21st century has taught us that we may have a big bank balance, the best of cars, houses and everything but that may not guarantee happiness. The world is becoming a more and more unhappy place to stay. Hence, The Happy Tribe aspires to manufacture happiness. We believe happiness to be both a science and an art and the most sought-after experience and emotion people will look for in the 21st century,” said Sharma, who has been giving motivational lectures in business schools across the country. “New-age consumers have seen manufacturing of steel, cement, chips but now they’ll see manufacturing of happiness. They will themselves become the manufacturer by being a smart well-being factory themselves. Consumers have seen delivery of material products like pizzas, web series, mobiles, clothing at their home. Delivery of happiness is now going to be done similarly but with a huge twist as the experience is going to enhance manifold at almost no cost when compared to the benefits. Our mission is to increase more smiles per person globally,” said Sharma. “We are both a B2B (business to business) and B2C (business to consumer) organisation increasing the happiness quotient individually and in organisations with multi-pronged benefits,” Saurabhi said. The Happy Tribe has in its research found that more than 80 per cent of unhappiness is self-created as one does not know how to receive, process and respond to situations. Because of this defective process, one exports unhappiness all around, the research found. “Money has increasing returns to scale only till our basic needs are satisfied. Once this is achieved, money has a decreasing return to scale as far as happiness is concerned. All the highs and lows of life tend to meet the baseline of happiness of any individual, organisation or country for that matter,” added Saurabhi. The Happy Tribe toolkit has natural and scientific tools that are mental, emotional, biological and psychological in nature. “Many of us are not even aware of it (happiness), forget about using it effectively. And they come naturally with us. Professionals, youth, kids, sports persons and homemakers have already started manufacturing happiness and situations that used to put them off are being handled more happily. Depressive tendency and negative energy are now being used more effectively to create chhoti-chhoti khushiyan (small moments of happiness),” said Sharma. “In the era of consumerism, we try to buy happiness like a movie ticket to beat boredom but these are short-lived. Also Internet and social media is adding to a lot of complications and superficial emotions which are making us unhappy,” said Sharma, who was invited to speak on The Happy Tribe at Symbiosis Institute of Business Management, Pune, and Arka Jain University, Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
19-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand trains hit briefly by SKM rail roko ||Farmers backed by the Left parties took part in the rail-roko agitation on Monday, as part of the six-hours pan-India call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, in protest against the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri district in Uttar Pradesh. However, the rail-blockade stir was confined primarily to Namkum near Ranchi, few stretches in the Chakradharpur railway division, Godda railway station, Sahebganj and Palamau station. “We had undertaken the stir called by the SKM, an umbrella body of farmers’ unions, which has been spearheading the farmers’ agitation since last year against the Centre’s three farm laws enacted last year to protest against the killing of four farmers by the son of Union minister of state for home at Lakhimpur Kheri. But since it is the festive season and rains, the farmers had not been able to gather at most of the station,” said Sufal Mahato, the state coordinator of the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangarsh Samanway Samity (an outfit spearheading the farmer’s agitation in the state since November 2020). The farmer leader, however, said that they had blocked the stretch near the Namkum station and near railway stations of Godda, Palamau and Sahebganj for nearly half-an-hour before police arrived and drove them away from the agitation site. “The farmers and the Left parties leaders raised slogans for sacking of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra and also repeal of the farm laws and strict punishment for all accused involved in the killing of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri. The Kharagpur-Hatia passenger train was stopped for half-an-hour after which the police cleared the track,” said Mahato. The All India Kisan Sabha (a CPI farmer’s front) state unit leader Ajay Singh and Kisan Sangram Samiti’s leader Sushanto Mukherjee said that they have already started planning for taking out protest rallies on October 26, which marks one year of the farmer’s agitation near Delhi border, across all blocks of the state. The three laws — The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 — were passed by Parliament in September last year. The farmers across the country have been seeking the repeal of the three agriculture laws. The protesting farmers along the Delhi borders have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations. The government, however, has rejected these claims stating that the laws will only give farmers more options to sell their produce. South eastern railway chief public relation officer, Niraj Kumar, said that trans services were not disrupted at any where in the railway zone during the farmer’s agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-22
