20-10-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant promises a bonanza for hockey cradle Simdega||Chief minister Hemant Soren laid the foundation stone for an international hockey stadium complex, a 50-bed hostel and a host of other facilities together worth over Rs 27 crore in Simdega while inaugurating the 11th Junior National Women's Hockey Championship on  Wednesday. The chief minister also inaugurated various welfare schemes worth Rs 32 crore and distributed assets to the tune of Rs 28 crore to beneficiaries. As many as 79 youths were also given appointment letters. In all, as many as 26 teams from various states are taking part in the tournament which will pave the way for promising players to find a place in the junior women's national squad. Hosts Jharkhand started well, beating Tamil Nadu  8-1. In other matches, Karnataka beat Bengal 16-0, Assam beat Rajasthan 6-0 and Punjab won against Puducherry 18-0. Simdega, considered to be a nursery for hockey in Jharkhand, is hosting a national championship for the second time this year after the sub-junior national meet for women in March. Hemant spoke highly of Simdega's  reputation as a hockey hub, pointing out how it has been churning out excellent players all along. In the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics, Salima Tete from the district was part of the Indian team which put up a spirited show despite losing out on a medal. Referring to the ongoing championship, Hemant said, "Such events will further boost the game and players prospects not just in Simdega but for entire Jharkhand. Whenever there is a possibility, the Jharkhand government will happily step in to host such competitions." The chief minister also reiterated his commitment towards players, saying that the state government was working continuously to provide jobs for players as per a new sports policy. He said that a few months back, the government provided employment to about 39 players. Hockey India president Gyanendro Ningombam, officials of the sports department and the Simdega district administration were also present at the opening ceremony held at SS Balika High School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
20-10-2021||Jharkhand||Health workers' stir spreads, may derail Covid vaccination drive||The termination of a contract worker by the Jharkhand unit of National Health Mission (NHM) has triggered a widespread agitation that may soon impact the ongoing immunisation drive against Covid-19 in the state where healthcare is largely dependent on such a workforce. It all started with the termination of one Jwala Prasad, a state programme manager in NHM, over alleged financial irregularities earlier this month. Soon,  Jharkhand Health Employee Welfare Association (JHEWA), an umbrella body for contractual healthcare workers in the state, called an indefinite strike demanding reinstatement of Prasad. The strike which started on October 10 fast spread to the districts and blocks of Jharkhand, and now, even some of the Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANM) associations have agreed to hold a meeting with the striking contract employees on Thursday to decide whether to join the strike or not. The immunisation drive will be adversely affected if the ANMs join the strike. Paramedic staff, block-level programme management staff and Ayush doctors from different districts joined the strike at NHM campus in Namkum on Wednesday. These healthcare workers have also stopped reporting daily vaccination data and other health-related details, one of the protestors said. “We do not want the immunisation programme to suffer because of our movement, but the government authorities will leave us with no other option if they continue nto be adamant,” said a contractual healthcare worker, who refused to reveal his name fearing blacklisting by the authorities. However, Jwala Prasad, the man for whom several hundred contractual workers have joined hands against the authorities, did not shy away from sharing his side of the story with The Telegraph Online. According to Prasad, he had forwarded the requisition of an NGO for funds worth Rs 5.75 lakh for running a welfare campaign in the state to higher officials in NHM. While his letter only requested the higher authorities to consider the request of the  NGO, some of the officials at NHM accused him of financial irregularities and favouritism, and slapped a showcause notice on him followed by a termination letter, he added. “How can they accuse me of financial irregularities when no financial transaction happened? This is only a conspiracy to get rid of me because I speak for the rights of contractual workers, many of whom have been working without pay for several months,” said Prasad. According to the JHEWA, there are close to 8,000 contractual workers, including nurses and healthcare professionals, working under NHM in Jharkhand. If all the contractual workers join the strike, then the immunisation drive will come to a standstill in many parts of the state, said the protestors. While the protesting contract healthcare workers have also demanded the implementation of an HR policy and paid leave in exchange of the additional services they provided during the Covid-19 crisis, they clarified on Wednesday that reinstating Jwala Prasad was their first and foremost demand. NHM Director Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh, however, refused to entertain the demand of reinstating Prasad. He said that NHM authorities will agree to all the demands of contract workers, but not have a dialogue over reinstatement of a “tainted” employee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
20-10-2021||Jharkhand||After rain, IMD now warns of fog across Jharkhand ||After the rain brace for fog and mist. On Wednesday, IMD's Ranchi weather office issued an alert of fog and mist in several districts of Jharkhand during the next 24 hours. "The prevailing low-pressure and  associated cyclonic circulation has left much moisture in the air. This will trigger fog and mist in the next 24 hours in several parts of the state. The fog would result in poor visibility early in the morning, " said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Met Centre. He said dry weather with mainly clear sky would prevail for the next 72 hours, and ruled out  the possibility of rain till Sunday, October 24. Various weather models, including satellite pictures, indicated no significant system which might impact Jharkhand's weather in the next three to four days. The low-pressure area moved to  Bihar and has become weak. The associated cyclonic circulation was also hovering over Bihar extending upto 1.5km above  mean sea level. Met statistics revealed that  light to moderate rain occurred at many places and very heavy rain at one or two places over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours. The highest amount of rainfall, 130 mm, was recorded at Khusiyari in Dumka district. Sahibganj also recorded very heavy rainfall of 118 mm. Ranchi, Jamshedpur and several other places in Kolhan region recorded light rain below 5 mm in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
20-10-2021||Jharkhand||Government schoolteacher in Jharkhand teaches charity||A government schoolteacher in Jharkhand teaches charity through his deeds to students. A school teacher in an upgraded government school in once rebel-affected Patamda block of East Singhbhum district uses the bulk of her salary in the distribution of garments and blankets to the poor in villages close to her school. The 43-year-old Harprit Kaur, a resident of Gurudwara Road in Mango, Jamshedpur since being deputed as a Hindi teacher in Upgraded High School Gobarghusi, Patamda in 2019 has so far distributed new and used garments (including woollen clothes during winter) and blankets in nearly six villages namely Gobarghusi, Ladaidungri, Dwaridih, Sabar Basti, Ghorabandha and Dhusra which are situated within 7km radius of the school and nearly 150km from the state’s capital Ranchi. “Usually my students act as my informers. They inform me about needy persons in villages and then I go along with students and meet the gram pradhan (village head) during school hours and after arranging clothes (used and new) during weekdays I usually distribute it at the targeted villages on Sundays. I ensure that my social activity does not affect my professional assignments,” said Harprit. Significantly, Patamda and Bodam were once under Maoist dominated areas situated close to the Barrabazar, Bandwan areas of Purulia district of Bengal. The school hour during Covid times are between 8 am and 12 noon (though school teachers have to stay in school till 2 pm). She draws energy from the happiness seen on the faces of the poor villagers and draws inspiration from her father a retired railwayman. “Usually, the poor villagers ask me if I am selling the clothes for some amount and get pleasantly surprised when I inform that I am distributing it for free. The happiness on their faces gives me energy to continue with this endeavour of arranging clothes, collecting them from friends and driving (a car) all the way to villages on inaccessible terrains. I get motivated from my father who was a retired railway locomotive pilot and used to do similar work during his off-days,” said Harprit. She is already preparing her children to carry the mantle. “I ask my daughter (an eighth-grader) and son (doing graduation in commerce) if they are willing to accompany me. Fortunately, they have always been with me during the clothes distribution work. I hope that they would continue similar work wherever they are settled in life,” added Harprit. The clothes are given by friends, well-wishers and relatives. “Initially, I used to purchase new ones and also distribute used clothes in good conditions. But gradually my colleagues in schools, friends and relatives knowing my endeavour supported me with clothes (usually used clothes) and blankets,” said Harprit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
20-10-2021||Jharkhand||Witch-hunt charge against BJP leader in Giridih||A relative of a local BJP leader has lodged a police complaint against him for assaulting her for allegedly practising witchcraft in Giridih district of Jharkhand. An FIR has been lodged with Giridih Mufassil police station on October 15 night by the 42-year-old woman (name withheld on request), who is related  to BJP leader and Giridih Zilla Parishad vice-chairperson Kameshwar Paswan. According to the FIR, the main accused, along with his wife Nirjala Devi, brother Mukesh Paswan, his father Badri Paswan and mother Devanti Devi, forcibly entered her house in the morning. The area is around 189km from state capital Ranchi. “They started assaulting me and threatened to tonsure my head and cut off my tongue for practising witchcraft. They blamed me for the disease afflicting their family members. Nirjala Devi and Devanti tried to cut her hair and when her son Ajit Kumar opposed he too was assaulted and was dragged out of the house near a Kali temple,” the FIR states. The FIR further alleged that the attackers only left after neighbours started gathering at the spot but while going away they snatched a silver coin tied around her neck and also threatened her of dire consequences if the matter was reported to police. Giridih Sadar sub-divisional police officer Anil Kumar Singh confirmed the registration of the FIR. “We have received the FIR and a case has been lodged against Kameshwar Paswan and others in the Mufassil police station under case number 209/21 and Sections 341, 323, 379, 504, 34, 3 and 4 of the IPC. The police are investigating the case and legal action will be taken against the culprits only after a probe,” he said. Kameshwar, an influential coal trader of the area, rubbished the allegations as baseless. “She stays in our neighbourhood and is our relative. She had been making such baseless allegations to tarnish my public image as I had opposed her for encroaching a public thoroughfare. I am ready to face any probe from the police. She had earlier too made such false allegations,” he said. The woman, however, said she had proof of injury marks from the attack and eyewitnesses to corroborate the incident. She alleged the accused had earlier also tried to intimidate her to leave her house as they are eying her property. The woman’s husband passed away in 2010 due to liver cirrhosis. According to the National Crime Records Bureau data for 2019, Jharkhand was ranked third in witch-hunting cases and recorded 15 murders related to the crime. Chhattisgarh with 22 witch-hunting deaths tops the list. According to the Free Legal Aid Committee, an organisation working for awareness on witch-hunting in Jharkhand, the state witnesses nearly 45 cases of death and assault due to witch-hunting annually. Committee member Prem Chand said that mostly women are targeted in rural areas by vested interests and relatives by branding them witches taking advantage of superstition prevalent in the people in order to grab their property.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
20-10-2021||Jharkhand||JMM MLA claims bid to destabilise UPA government in Jharkhand||A ruling JMM legislator has lodged an FIR against a former office-bearer of the party and a businessman for allegedly offering him money to destabilise the UPA government in Jharkhand. Ghatsila (in East Singhbhum district) MLA Ramdas Soren in an FIR lodged with Dhurwa police station in Ranchi on October 12 has accused former JMM treasurer Ravi Kejriwal and businessman Ashok Agarwal of offering him money at his Ranchi residence to leave the JMM so that they can start a new party and form the government along with the BJP in Jharkhand and also offered him the post of cabinet minister. Ramdas has also alleged that Kejriwal had contacted him on mobile phone two-three times seeking to know the amount of money he needed to leave the JMM and join hands to form a new party. The FIR alleges that there is a conspiracy to topple the elected government in the state. According to sources in the JMM, Kejriwal was the treasurer of the party’s central committee and was considered close to both party chief Shibu Soren and chief minister Hemant Soren. Kejriwal was expelled from the party in August 2020 after complaints of financial irregularities. Kejriwal also faced accusations of raising funds for the Soren family during the erstwhile Raghubar Das-led BJP government. Ranchi senior superintendent of police Surendra Kumar Jha confirmed the registration of the FIR. “An FIR has been registered and police are carrying out a probe. Hatia SP Vineet Kumar is investigating the case,” he said. State drinking water and sanitation minister and JMM lawmaker Mithilesh Thakur said that such attempts by vested interests would not be able to topple their government. “We are in absolute majority and all the MLAs of constituent parties (JMM, Congress, RJD) are in perfect coordination and would not fall victim to allurement by any party,” said Thakur. Rajya Sabha MP and Jharkhand BJP unit president Deepak Prakash termed it as an internal matter of the JMM. “It is purely an internal JMM matter and the BJP has got nothing to do with this issue,” said Prakash. This is the second such allegation to surface in the last three months. Congress legislator from Bermo Anup Singh alias Jaimangal had lodged a complaint at the Kotwali police station on July 22 against some people trying to lure ruling party MLAs to topple the government, who were staying in Ranchi hotels. Following the complaint, the special branch of the state police carried out raids in several hotels and arrested three persons from a hotel along Lake Tank Road in Ranchi. The arrested accused Abhishek Dubey from Palamau, Amit Singh and Niwaran Prasad Mahato (both from Bokaro) were charged with luring MLAs of the Congress with cash and hatching a conspiracy to topple the JMM-led UPA government. A case had been registered against the accused under Sections 419, 420, 124A, 120B and 34 of the IPC, Section 171 of the Representation of the People Act and Sections 8 and 9 of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The Ranchi SSP said the police are still continuing their investigation into the July case. In the 81-member Jharkhand Assembly, JMM has 30 MLAs, Congress 18 and RJD 1, which makes the ruling UPA tally 49. The Opposition BJP has 26 MLAs while its ally Ajsu has 2. The majority mark is 41.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-21
