21-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand cabinet nod to new bungalows for ministers||The Jharkhand cabinet, headed by chief minister Hemant Soren,  approved the construction of new  bungalows for all 11 state  ministers in the upcoming Ranchi Smart City at a cost of Rs 69 crore on Thursday. Executed by the state urban development department, the Ranchi Smart City project is coming up on 657 acre land in the  HEC area of which about 278.52 acres of land, bifurcated into 51 plots of various dimensions, are being auctioned off in phases. State urban development department is executing this project. The cabinet also approved around Rs 27.42 crore as the state's  share for construction of a World Trade Centre in the Smart City. The total cost of the project will be shared with the Union government. An official of the state urban development department said, “The idea of a world trade centre (WTC) is to provide a one-stop platform for international business and trading opportunities for various organisations in Ranchi. As per the plan, it will house offices for exports, currency exchange centres, among others.” The cabinet also approved a plan of the state social welfare department for setting up half-way homes exclusively for those who have  recovered from mental illness and disabilities. “In the first phase, three half-way homes with  30 beds each,  will come up in Ranchi, Dhanbad and East Singhbhum,” state cabinet coordination department secretary Vandana Dadel said. A total of 17 proposals were taken up by the state  cabinet on Thursday. It was also decided to free up seven iron ore mines from captive use criteria for state-owned companies and put them on auction. The government also fixed a minimum support price for this year’s paddy procurement at Rs 2,050 per quintal in the general grade category and Rs 2,070 for grade A category. “The paddy procurement rule has also been amended under which each farmer can sell up to 200 quintals of paddy. This is to ensure that farmers get maximum benefit of paddy procurement. A target of 8 lakh metric quintal procurement  has been fixed this year,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
21-10-2021||Jharkhand||Winter likely to arrive early in Jharkhand this year ||Weathermen have hinted at an early winter in Jharkhand this year. Met department officials said on Thursday that their conclusion was based on the observations of various weather models. "This year, rainfall activity in Jharkhand, both during pre-monsoon season and during the four- month monsoon that ended in September, have been normal and quite impressive in some of the districts.Temperatures this winter are likely to remain slightly above normal but the season is expected early in Jharkhand and several other states. The findings of South Asian Climate Outlook Forum (SASOF) also suggest early advent of winter in our country, " said a senior official of IMD-New Delhi. He, however, said that IMD would conduct further  analysis  and come up with a report on whether the coming winter season will be severe or not. A climate analyst at IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre said that the wind pattern over the state is expected to change to north-westerly  in the first week of November, when people will start feeling a nip in the air. People usually get a feel of the  winter in Jharkhand around mid-November. After its advent it takes about a week or so for the complete onset of winter. But this year, the advent of the cold season is expected in early November. "The prevailing weather condition suggests winter will arrive early. The good monsoon rain resulted in good water in the soil, hence maximum fall in the temperature is likely to be observed, " said a duty officer at IMD's local observatory in Jamshedpur. During the past 24 hours, Jharkhand experienced light rain at isolated places, according to Met data.  The forecast indicates dry and clear weather in most parts of the state during the next 72 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
21-10-2021||Jharkhand||Saranda plans to use gadgets to stem man-animal conflicts ||The Jharkhand forest department plans to use electronics-based gadgets to try and prevent man-animal conflicts in the Saranda forests of West Singhbhum. Currently, an  Animal Intrusion Detection and Repellent System is being used as a pilot project in and around Asia's largest Sal forest reserve, spread over 820 sq km, where elephants often enter farmland, destroy crops and also wipe out food from homes. This leads to man-animal conflicts, sometimes leading to fatalities. The system would help in controlling this problem to a large extent, officials feel. The system can distinguish between humans and animals. The solar-powered machine gets automatically activated once an animal comes within its range. The sensor alarm also gets activated once animals come near farmlands or human settlements. This alerts villagers who can then take preventive measures. "This apart, infrared rays also get released from the machine. Elephants are very sensitive to infrared rays and change their direction after coming within its range. The machine also immediately informs foresters through a GSM network. It also has a camera which records movement of elephants," the forester said. The machine can also help identify elephant herds which will lead to effective and accurate population count too. According to research by World Wide Fund for Nature in India, the success rate of Animal Intrusion Detection and Repellent System is 86 per cent. Plans are afoot to install these machines in 18 villages in and around the Saranda forest division. Eight machines have already been installed as part of the pilot project at Gua and Sasangda forest ranges. Saranda divisional forest officer C.M.P. Sinha said the pilot project comes under Wildlife Management Plan and Tata Steel Long Products Limited is funding it. "The forest department was working towards installing an Animal Intrusion Detection and Repellent System for some time. Based on the results, more such machines would be installed in Saranda," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
21-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi airport to install latest in-line baggage screening for passengers ||Passengers travelling from the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi will no longer have to stand in long queues to get their luggage screened manually at the departure area as the airport authorities have decided to install the latest In-Line Baggage Screening (ILBS) system, which will automate the process  at the check-in counter with minimal manual intervention, airport officials said on Thursday. “Passengers will be able to directly move to the check-in counter without taking the trouble of passing their baggage through the X-Ray scanners once the ILBS system is installed,” said the director of Birsa Munda Airport, Vinod Sharma. “We have set a target of installing the ILBS system by November 15,” he added. According to Sharma, the latest ILBS system will not only help passengers save time, but also enhance security at the airport by detecting explosives and items prohibited in aircrafts with more efficiency. At present, passengers have to first fall in line at the baggage screening centre where their luggage is screened manually, and then move to the check-in counter. The process of getting baggage screened manually often becomes time-consuming during busy hours at the airport, inconveniencing passengers who are either running late or are unwell. The decision of installing ILBS system has been taken in compliance with the latest security norms of the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS), said airport officials, adding that the latest ILBS system is already operational in some of the busiest airports in India. The Ranchi airport will also get two new aerobridges, the moveable tunnels that connect airport buildings to the aircraft and help in hassle-free boarding or deboarding for passengers, Sharma said. At present, the airport has two aerobridges. The additional two aerobridges will help in easing flight movement. Currently, at least 20 flights connect Ranchi to New Delhi, Bangalore, Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad. The Birsa Munda Airport, which bagged the top position in Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) last year, at present has a 75 meter basic strip, which is the minimum length required for any airport. The basic strip is likely to be extended to 140 meter. Ranchi was likely to get more flights earlier this year, but the second wave of Covid-19 caused a delay in the process, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
21-10-2021||Jharkhand||Human rights outfit ask for proper probe into Palamau gang-rape||The Jharkhand chapter of human rights outfit People’s Union for Civil Liberties has moved the Palamau superintendent of police seeking his intervention into the alleged unsatisfactory investigation into a gang-rape case and harassment of the Dalit victim by police personnel. In a letter addressed to Palamau SP Chandan Kumar Sinha on Tuesday, general secretary of the PUCL Jharkhand chapter Arvind Avinash said: “The victim has been constantly harassed by the investigating officer (IO) and the SC/ST police station in-charge of Palamau by not conducting the investigation as per the law in a serious case of gang rape, resulting in direct/indirect benefit to the accused persons. The victim, a pregnant lady coming from a low caste, has clearly stated in her FIR that she was gang-raped by accused Abhishek Kumar Chandravanshi and Dilip Kumar Chandravanshi in a brutal manner on the fateful night of August 4.” “The victim has also stated that on the previous occasion also she has been raped by the accused multiple times and once again on August 24, the accused raped her and hit her with sticks. When the victim was going to the Ramghar police station on August 25, she was threatened by the accused person to not file any case, after which she somehow managed to reach Medininagar SC/ST police station to lodge a case against them. However, despite there being a clear allegation of gang rape, the official at Medininagar SC/ST police station did not include Section 376D of the IPC which deals with allegations of gang rape,” the letter said. A case (SC/ST case no. 08/21) was registered in connection with the incident on August 27 under Sections 341, 323, 448, 504, 506, 354 and 34 of the IPC and under Sections 3 (1) and 3 (2) (VA) of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. It also alleges that the victim was not medically examined (mandatory according to the Code of Criminal Procedure) and according to the letter written by her to the Palamau deputy inspector-general of police, even her statement was not recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC. The PUCL letter also alleges that the woman was kept in police custody for nearly 24 hours when she went to lodge an FIR and no action has been taken against the accused so far. The letter requests that the victim should be immediately provided police protection as she is being constantly threatened by the accused persons who are pressuring her to withdraw/compromise the case and seeks adequate compensation to enable the victim to recover from the mental/physical trauma that she has suffered and that the case be transferred to the CID or the special branch for a fair probe. The PUCL has threatened to approach Jharkhand High Court if no response is received from the police within seven days of receipt of the letter. Copies of the letter have also been forwarded to Jharkhand DGP Neeraj Kumar Sinha and chief secretary Sukhdev Singh. Repeated attempts to contact the Palamau SP on his official mobile number failed to evince any response. Palamau DIG Raj Kumar Lakra said that he had received a request from the victim’s family. “I remember receiving a request in this case from the victim’s family and had asked the police station official concerned to do the needful. I will look into the status of the case and inform on Thursday,” said Lakra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
21-10-2021||Jharkhand||National junior women’s hockey championship begins at Simdega||The 11th national junior women’s hockey championship began at Astroturf Stadium in Jharkhand’s Simdega on Wednesday. “It’s really a pleasure to be present at the opening of two national hockey championships at the same venue in less than a year, that too during the pandemic,” said chief minister Hemant Soren, referring to the sub-junior national tourney that was held at the same venue earlier this year. “We sincerely want that Jharkhand is identified with sports the same way it is done with its minerals and natural beauty,” he further said after declaring the meet open. For promoting hockey in Simdega that is known as the nursery for the sport, “foundation was laid for another stadium of international standard here today”, said the chief minister who did the honours a while ago. Simdega is called the cradle of hockey as its children, despite facing poverty, pursued hockey sincerely and went on to play at national and international levels, including Olympics. The girl players also impressed equally. Salima Tete of the district represented the country in the Tokyo Olympics recently while three other girls are attending a national camp in Bangalore at present. “Over 500 players and officials from 26 states have assembled here for 10-day tourney that will conclude on October 29,” Hockey Jharkhand president Bholanath Singh informed when contacted in Simdega, adding “the matches were being telecast in 196 countries, courtesy World Hockey Federation”. The teams from 26 participating states have been placed in 8 different pools. The best teams of each of those pools, to be decided after 6 days of pool matches, will then vie for the title in the knockout stage, beginning October 26. “The national junior women’s team will also be selected during this championship,” informed Hockey Simdega president Manoj Konbegi, adding the tourney became more important for the players due to this reason. Salima was first chosen for the national team when an edition of the same championship was organised in Ranchi in 2015 and she continued to represent the country even at the senior level and finally in the Olympics. The opening day of the tourney witnessed four matches where goals were showered by winning teams. The first match was played between the teams from Karnataka and Bengal when the latter conceded a defeat by 16-0. In the second, the Punjab team trounced the Puducherry team by 18-0 while Assam defeated Rajasthan by 5-0 in the third match. In the fourth and the last match of the day, the team from Tamil Nadu lost to the hosts Jharkhand by 1- 8. Tamil Nadu was, however, the only defeated team of the day that scored a solitary goal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
21-10-2021||Jharkhand||Newborn stolen from Dhanbad govt medical college hospital||A newborn was allegedly stolen from outside the labour room of a government medical college hospital in Jharkhand’s Dhanbad on Tuesday evening, police said. According to police officials, an unidentified woman carried away the baby girl, who was born a couple of hours ago, from the Shahid Nirmal Mahato Medical College and Hospital (formerly called Patliputra Medical College and Hospital) in Dhanbad on Tuesday evening. This is the third time that there has been an alleged breach of security at the hospital this year. In July, a mentally challenged woman was allegedly raped at the hospital while in September a youth attempted to molest a patient’s attendant. A source in Seraidhela police station said: “Gudia Devi, a resident of Bhuli township in Dhanbad, had delivered a baby girl at around 2pm on Tuesday. After delivery, when the mother was being administered with saline, the infant was given to her grandmother who was waiting outside the labour room following all protocols.” Another woman, who said she was pregnant and sitting outside the labour room for a long time, admired the baby and wanted to cuddle her, the source said. “The unidentified woman pestered the grandmother to take the child in her lap. Finally in the evening the grandmother relented and gave the infant to the woman who started cuddling the baby. The grandmother went to the nearby ward to bring her mobile phone. On returning she found that the woman had vanished with the infant. It was then that she raised an alarm and started searching for the baby,” said Seraidhela police station officer-in-charge Kishore Tirkey. The hospital administration informed the police and also scoured the CCTV footage to ascertain when the woman left the hospital with the baby. Dhanbad additional district magistrate (law and order) Kumar Tarachand blamed the infant’s grandmother for the theft of the baby. “After recent incidents, the hospital authority on the directive of the district administration has increased the number of CCTV cameras to over 36. There are nearly 30 security guards. We have also set up a police outpost in the campus of the hospital. What can anyone do if a family member hands over a few hours old baby to an unknown person?” questioned Tarachand. He, however, said that an FIR has been registered and the police are investigating the case and hoped the baby would be recovered soon and the culprits nabbed. Medical college superintendent Dr A.K. Barnwal refused to comment on the incident. “We have handed over the case to the police and it is their responsibility to investigate and nab the culprits. I cannot say anything more on the issue,” said Dr Barnwal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
