22-10-2021||Jharkhand||Meet Covid warrior Ravi, he offered free auto rides during the 2nd wave||An auto-rickshaw driver from Ranchi is among a handful of Covid warriors who have received  salutations from the Union government for going out of their way to  help scores of people during the brutal second wave of the pandemic. As India achieved the historic feat of having administered 100 crore Covid-19 vaccinations on Wednesday, the Union Ministry of Steel  released a 3.07-minute documentary (biopic) on Ravi Agarwal (21) as a thank you gesture for his efforts to save several lives in Ranchi by offering free auto rides to Covid patients. “I am deeply humbled by this gesture of the Union government. I have been flooded by phone calls since last night about the video that was released on the   ministry's  twitter handle. But honestly, whatever I did was only with the intention of  helping the helpless,” remarked Ravi, who lives in Kokar and is currently pursuing his B.Com final year from Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav College while also working as a newspaper hawker. Ravi is younger of  two siblings. His elder brother is currently searching for a job. Their parents are aged. “My father used to sell vegetables to run the family. But a few years ago, I asked him to stop, saying we would do the earning from now," said Ravi. During the first wave of the pandemic, Ravi said he offered to distribute food free, buy and deliver ration to the needy and also supply medicines. “I did all that to do my bit for society at a time when everyone was stressed with the pandemic,” he said. During the second wave of the pandemic, Ravi recalled, even Covid patients were finding it difficult to reach hospitals. “It was because ambulances were scarce, or not willing to ferry people. All ambulance services were fleecing people by charging  exorbitant rates. That was when I decided to offer free rides to the medically hapless. I mentioned my number and pasted it on the auto and also posted it on my social media account,” he recalled. Soon he was swamped with requests from all across Ranchi. "My intention was only to help people in and around my locality but I started getting calls from as far as 40-50km. I never declined  anyone," he said adding that even though he would get 350-400 calls he could help about 10 per cent of them, given his financial and logistical limitations. The steel ministry also released a similar 3.22- min video on veteran doctor and Padmashree Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, a renowned name of Ranchi, who since he started  practising in 1966,  has been offering medical consultation to people only at Rs 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
22-10-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel announces sports scholarships for children of staff||Tata Steel has come up with sports scholarships for children of its permanent employees.  The scholarship scheme is for unemployed children of employees who have participated or have won medals in national or international competitions. Applicants can apply under two categories – under 20 and under 25 years of age. The last date for submitting applications is December 1. According to the scholarship scheme, selected candidates who have represented India internationally will be given a sum of Rs 10,000 per month, while those who have won medals at the national level will get a monthly stipend of Rs 6,000.  The scholarship will be given to general sportspersons (male and female) for sports recognised by the Indian Olympic Association (IOA). The disciplines recognised by IOA includes - aquatics, archery, athletics, badminton, basketball, billiards and snooker, bowling, boxing, cycling, equestrian, fencing, football, golf, gymnastics, handball, hockey, judo, kabaddi, karate, kayaking and canoeing, kho-kho, modern pentathlon, netball, rowing, rugby, sailing, shooting, squash, table tennis, taekwondo, tennis, triathlon, volleyball, weightlifting, wrestling, and wushu.  Apart from general category, specially-abled sportspersons (male and female) can also benefit from the scholarship scheme. Five males and females falling under the intellectually/physically/visually challenged and hearing impaired categories will be considered for this category.  Applications can be filled and sent to the company’s sports department at JRD Tata Sports Complex.  “Applications can be sent to office.headsports@tatasteel.com or anand.m@tatasteel.com,” an official of the company's sports wing informed. The 5-member committee will go through the applications and finalise the successful candidates.  Tata Steel’s contribution to sports is well-known. Besides setting up four sports academies for football, hockey, archery and sport climbing, the company also runs training centres for athletics, handball, archery, basketball, golf, swimming, table tennis, boxing, chess and karate. The company also boasts of having a dedicated sports department that employs former and current international sportspersons.  Several children of Tata employees hone their skills under experienced hands at training centres which operate from JRD Tata Sports Complex.  The steel giant has, in the past, produced international sportspersons, including archers Deepika Kumari, Jayanta Talukdar, Komalika Bari, Ankita Bhakat and athlete Sinimol Paulose to name a few.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
22-10-2021||Jharkhand||Thief in PPE steals Rs 50-lakh jewellery in Garhwa of Jharkhand||A thief wearing a PPE kit stole jewellery worth Rs 50 lakh from a shop in Garhwa of Jharkhand early on Thursday, police said. Police sources said Lal Mohan Soni, owner of Kittu Pari Jewellers in Rocky Mohalla under Garhwa Sadar police station area, lodged a complaint about an unidentified person stealing jewellery from his locked shop. “During our investigation of the CCTV footage, we found one person wearing PPE kit and carrying a bag leaving the shop. “The thief had not broken the shutters to enter the shop which is on the ground floor while the owner stays on the first floor. “The owner suspects that a thatched hut situated adjacent to the building might have been used to reach the roof and enter the house. “At the moment we are investigating the case and cannot say how many persons were involved in the crime,” said Garhwa superintendent of police Anjani Kumar Jha. Police said the CCTV footage shows a person wearing a PPE (personal protective equipment) kit and face covered with a cloth to escape identification leaving the shop with a bag on his back around 3am. “We suspect that the incident took place between 2 and 3am early on Thursday. We suspect that someone who is close to the family or who knows where the key of the almirah where jewellery is kept might have committed the act,” said a senior district police official. The shop owner has in his complaint stated that all family members had gone to sleep on Wednesday night on the second floor. The complaint stated that the key of the almirah was kept near the bed on the first floor from where the thief must have got access to it, opened the almirah, took the jewellery and escaped from the house. Police found that no shutter or lock had been broken in the house. Garhwa is around 250km from Jharkhand capital Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
22-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government bid to reduce ration weight complaints ||The Jharkhand government is planning to make it mandatory for ration shop dealers to use electronic weighing machines linked to electronic point of sale devices (ePoS) in a bid to reduce complaints of beneficiaries allegedly being cheated by some dealers. Addressing a workshop organised by civil society organisations and the state chapter of Right to Food Campaign on Thursday, minister for food, consumer affairs and public distribution Rameshwar Oraon said the step is part of an effort to make Jharkhand a “zero hunger state”. “We do get complaints of PDS (public distribution system) dealers giving less quantity of food grains to illiterate rural beneficiaries while noting down correct entries in the ePoS machines. “The department has already given its proposal for the integration of ePoS devices with electronic weighing machines. The proposal will get a nod from the state cabinet soon. We hope to make it functional across all PDS shops before December-end,” said Oraon, a retired IPS officer who had also served as chairman of the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes. Oraon, a Congress leader, further said that this would bring transparency in the distribution of food grains. “We do get records of sales registered in ePoS machines. If there is any attempt by a PDS dealer to distribute less amount of food grains by weighing less, it would be recorded immediately in the ePoS machines and will expose the ration dealers to punitive action,” said Oraon. The Union government had in June this year had asked states to promote the use of electronic weighing machines and their integration with ePoS devices. Under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), the Centre provides 5kg of wheat and rice (food grains) per month per person to around 80 crore people at a subsidised rate of Rs 2-3 per kg. “The department of food and public distribution issued a notification in June 2021 to ensure right quantity to beneficiaries in distribution of subsidised food grains as per their entitlement under the NFSA 2013,” a state government official said. “While distribution through ePoS devices ensures that subsidised food grains are provided to the rightful beneficiary through biometric authentication, integration of such devices with electronic weighing scales would ensure that the beneficiary is given the right quantity of food grains by the fair price shop dealer as per his/her entitlement,” the official added. Oraon told The Telegraph that to tide over mobile network problems cropping up in shadow areas, the base transmission station (BTS) in such places are being upgraded to 4G standard so that ePoS devices function properly. “Apart from up-gradation of mobile network, we also have plans to install boosters for those PDS shops having problems which would enable proper coverage. “The government will not shy away from technological intervention to ensure seamless and transparent distribution of food grains for all beneficiaries,” said Oraon. According to the NFSA 2013 data, there are over 2.64 crore beneficiaries in Jharkhand while the state government under its own green card scheme has set a target of reaching out to 15 lakh people. There are nearly 25,500 PDS dealers across the state. “We have covered over 12 lakh beneficiaries as part of the state government green ration card schemes,” said an official in the food and consumer affairs department. Balram Jo from the Right to Food campaign suggested the opening of public service centres at all blocks, opening of a training centre for ICDS personnel and increasing coverage of food security schemes in the state. Johnson Topno, the regional programme head of Phia Foundation, delivered the welcome address. Jharkhand State Food Commission chairman Himanshu Shekhar delved on the importance of government departments working in tandem with it and civil society organisations to ensure that beneficiaries get proper food grains. There were presentations on the status of various government initiatives to improve food and nutrition security in Jharkhand, the status of women and child nutrition in the state and the promotion and preservation of the local food system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
