23-10-2021||Jharkhand||Elephants run amok in Chakulia; attack villagers, destroy standing crops ||Elephants from Bengal are damaging standing crops and targeting villagers at Chakulia block of East Singhbhum, 90 km from Jamshedpur, and Jharkhand foresters cite a trench dug along the Bengal border as the root cause of the problem. A herd of 26 elephants is anchored in the jungles of Chakulia, not very far from human settlements, and is unable to move back into Bengal because of the trench, Jharkhand foresters claim. An elephant attacked a woman near a jungle in Chakulia while she was going to work at a cowshed late on Friday afternoon. The elephant lifted Salge Hembrom of Bhatkunda village with its trunk and flung her across a distance of around 20 metres. The 25-year-old  suffered a fracture in one of her legs. In another attack, one Budheswar Sabar of Badaichatti village also broke one of his legs earlier this month. The herd is also damaging standing crops in several villages of Chakulia block and wiping out food stocks from homes. Petrified villagers remain holed up in their homes in the evenings. The herd also damaged a statue of martyr Rantu Murmu in Amlagora on the Bengal border. Chakulia range officer Digvijaya Singh said the trench dug by Bengal foresters forced elephants to remain anchored in Jharkhand. "We are helpless and cannot drive away the elephants. The trench has been dug on the elephant corridor," he said. Speaking over the phone from Chakulia, the range officer said they have communicated the problem to senior forest officers and requested them to initiate talks with their Bengal counterparts. A forester said the situation in Chakuklia forest range was not good as one never knows when he or she will come across the herd. "There is unrest among villagers who are being targeted by elephants. They are also angry since they are losing their standing crops. Elephants will not leave Chakulia till the trench issue is resolved," he added. Foresters and village youths are keeping a watch over the movement of the herd from Bengal. "Food and water are not scarce, and the elephants are enjoying their time. Some jumbos usually remain in a belligerent mood and often move out from the herd to chase and attack humans. Man-animal conflict is taking a serious turn," another forester said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
23-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand ready with 'Back to School Campus'  to ramp up attendance||Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) has prepared a proposal to run an extensive campaign aimed at improving the attendance in schools by rebuilding trust among parents that schools are safe and incorporating activities for students to renew their interest in attending in-person classes, officials said on Saturday. The proposal, "Back to School Campus", has been sent to the State Disaster Management Department, and it will be implemented in campaign mode to increase attendance of students at schools once the department gives its go-ahead, said Abhinav Kumar, the coordinator of quality education at JEPC. “The enrollment percentage is still the same at schools after lockdown. However, the attendance has dropped drastically,” said Kumar, adding that only about 50 per cent of the enrolled students were actually attending in-person classes after the schools reopened, and a campaign was needed to encourage the daily presence of students at schools. As per government data, there are over 42 lakh students studying in classes 1 to 12 in about 35,000 government schools across the state. While about 50 per cent of students above class 6 were attending school,  attendance was lower in the junior classes. The campaign, Kumar said, has been divided in three steps. The first one is to ensure enrollment of such children who stopped going to school after the lockdown, while the second step is to build trust in parents that it was safe for their children to attend in-person classes at schools. In the third step, the JEPC plans to run fun activities at schools to ensure that children develop an interest in going to schools and do not feel that it is forced upon them. A JEPC source said the mandate of getting a consent form signed by students' guardians stating that they were willing to send their children to school had become one of the lacunaes in the system. “Parents are already apprehensive about sending their children to school. Asking them to sign a consent form in such a situation reduces their trust in the school administration,” he said. Schools across Jharkhand remained closed from March 2020 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. While most students attended virtual classes during this period, in-person classes resumed only for a brief period between the first and the second wave of the pandemic. The Jharkhand government resumed in-person classes for students of class 6 to  10 last month amid strict adherence to Covid protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
23-10-2021||Jharkhand||Howrah to Shalimar terminal change for 8 passenger trains||As many as eight South Eastern Railway trains, some of them going  through Tatanagar and other stations of Chakradharpur division, will have a new address of origin  soon. SER has decided to shift the starting station, from Howrah to Shalimar, of  passenger trains that stop at Santragachi (in both Up and Dn directions).The move is to ease the  load on Howrah station – the busiest railway junction of the eastern region. According to SER's Garden Reach (Calcutta) headquarters  on Saturday, the  Howrah-LTT Special, which goes via Tatanagar, will start from Shalimar from November 4. While returning, it will end it's journey at Shalimar from  November 2. Similarly, Shalimar will be the originating and terminating station for: Officials at the SER headquarters said there will be no change in arrival and departure timings at Shalimar and at other enroute stations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
23-10-2021||Jharkhand||Students body to congratulate Modi on hitting century over fuel prices||A federation of students is planning to congratulate the Narendra Modi government on completing a century. Not over the 100 crore Covid jabs the government is tom-tomming but over fuel prices crossing Rs 100 a litre in Jharkhand. Deciding that sarcasm is the best form of protest, the All India Sikh Student Federation (AISSF), Jharkhand-Bihar unit, began a WhatsApp drive around Friday noon to encourage people to write congratulatory messages to Modi for achieving the feat of “fuel prices crossing 100”. The messages are to be written with pen and paper and submitted at local AISSF offices, to be couriered in bulk to the Prime Minister’s Office along with the student body’s covering letter. Satnam Singh “Gambhir”, president of the AISSF, Jharkhand-Bihar, told The Telegraph that the federation, which has about 1,000 members in Jharkhand alone, was expecting to send at least 5,000 letters, packed in 10 boxes. On Thursday, petrol prices reached Rs 101.23 a litre and diesel prices Rs 100.9 a litre in Ranchi. “Within a few hours, we had collected nearly 500 congratulatory messages (till 4.30pm) in Hindi,” Gambhir said. “The messages are to be written on A4-size paper with a red sketch pen. Along with a covering letter on our (AISSF) letter pad, we will be couriering the messages --- 500 per packet – to the PMO from Saturday.” The AISSF’s covering letter says: “Petrol diesel ki shatak lagane se Bharat ki janata mehngai ki mar se trahi-trahi kar rahi hai jisme apka sahyog saraniya hai. Iss nek karya ke liye Jharkhand ki janta apko badhai sandesh bhej rahi hai. Kripya swikar kare.” Translated, it means: With petrol and diesel hitting centuries, India’s people are reeling under inflation. Your contribution to this has been significant. Jharkhand’s people are sending you congratulatory messages for this noble deed. Please accept them. The sender is “apke prashanshak (your admirer)”. “We have a target of collecting 5,000 messages, which we will be sending to the PMO within a week,” Gambhir said. One of the messages the AISSF has received reads: “Petrol diesel per shatak lagan ke liye Pradhan Mantriji to bohut bohut badhai (Congratulations to the Prime Minister for scoring a century on petrol and diesel).” Another says: “Mahangai dayan khai jat hai (The inflation witch is devouring us).” The AISSF had earlier too launched a programme of ridicule against the Centre, holding a series of interest-free petrol "loan melas" in February when petrol prices crossed Rs 95 in Jharkhand. People needed to make down payments of Rs 10 at AISSF counters and hand in a post-dated cheque for the rest of the amount, depending on the volume of petrol they planned to buy. The AISSF issued them a slip against which the petrol stations sold them petrol. The student body later reimbursed the petrol pumps. Pramod Kumar, spokesperson for the Jharkhand Petroleum Dealers Association and proprietor of the Ranchi-based Shambhavi Fuels, said the Centre had ignored fuel dealers' demand for a rollback of VAT. "We shall request the Jharkhand government to reduce the state VAT by five per cent and make up the loss through increased sales of fuel," he said. "We are witnessing a more than 30 per cent decrease in fuel sales. If prices are reduced in Jharkhand, the bulk purchasers who are now buying fuel from neighbouring states will resume buying it from Jharkhand." State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon ruled out any slash in VAT, arguing such a step would make it "difficult for the government to sustain its development activities". "We are continuing with the 22 per cent VAT of the erstwhile BJP government," he said. "Since the imposition of the GST, the states have been left with hardly any avenue to earn taxes. It's the Centre that should slash VAT."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
23-10-2021||Jharkhand||Row over Hemant Soren cabinet's nod for ministers’ bungalows ||Jharkhand’s two major political parties started squabbling over the construction of bungalows after its approval by the Hemant Soren cabinet. The ministers have been residing in renovated old quarters belonging to either state government or Heavy Engineering Corporation (HEC) for the past 21 years since the state was carved out from erstwhile Bihar in November 2000 and no new accommodation was ever built for them. The Soren government, for the first time in the state’s brief history, approved during a cabinet meeting on Thursday evening a proposal for constructing bungalows for 11 ministers within the proposed Ranchi smart city area, indicating the chief minister would continue to live in CM House, the present official residence located on Kanke Road. The cabinet also sanctioned Rs 69.91 crore for the construction after a detailed project report have already been prepared by a Delhi-based agency. The BJP that never misses an opportunity to criticise the present government was prompt in expressing its resentment over the proposal. “The state government that always grumble over its thin coffers should have instead used the amount for developing infrastructure at hospitals,” said BJP spokesperson Pratul Nath Shahdeo. “Not only that, the said plot of land was actually earmarked for setting up a skill development park that would help provide livelihood and employment opportunities to scores of job aspirants,” he added while speaking to The Telegraph. The Congress, a major constituent of the ruling combine in the state, was also not in a mood to take it lying down and, as expected, reacted without delay. “The Soren government took up something that should have been done by the BJP that was in power for maximum duration in the state,” Congress leader and immediate past spokesperson Alok Kumar Dubey said on Friday, adding the party did not take any initiative for solving the problem though the state Assembly and secretariat continued to run from and the ministers lived in hired buildings of the HEC. “Let alone constructing new residential buildings for the ministers, some BJP leaders are still occupying the government accommodations they were allotted earlier and should have vacated later,” Dubey alleged. The quality of construction of the Assembly and high court buildings that the BJP leaders took up when they were in power during the past two decades was really poor and invited criticism, he further alleged, adding the BJP should have learnt from the progress made during the period by Chhattisgarh and Uttarakhand, the two other states that were also born at the same time with Jharkhand. The Soren government didn’t spend huge amount of money on installing tall statues but instead took certain pro-people initiatives like enhancing wages of MGNREGA workers, Dubey argued in favour of the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
23-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government gears up for sweeping fill-up of vacancies ||The Jharkhand government is gearing up for a sweeping fill-up of vacancies in the state-owned sectors as part of its electoral plank of completing recruitment in government departments within two years of governance. The beginning would be made in the education sector with the recruitment of almost one lakh teachers in two phases. Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahato, speaking to reporters in Bokaro on Thursday had announced that 97,000 teachers would be appointed in government schools. “In the first phase, there will be the recruitment of 26,000 teachers out of which 13,000 would be para-teachers and 13,000 would be teachers eligibility test (TET) qualified candidates. The examinations would be conducted through the Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC),” said Mahato. The minister added that thereafter another 71,000 teachers would be appointed in the second phase. “There would be a windfall of opportunities in the education sector and youths should start preparing for it. There is a massive shortage of teachers in Jharkhand. In such a situation, the teaching work is also affected. In view of this, the state government has decided to recruit teachers on a large scale. I have already given my nod to the recruitment process,” said Mahato. Sources in the Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) said that the recruitment process for the first phase of 26,000 posts would be completed by January 2022 while the second phase of 71,000 teachers would be completed by March-April next year. “This would be the first such occasion after the creation of Jharkhand that such large scale recruitment of teachers would be taking place. In fact, the last JPSC examination for teachers was held way back in 2016,” said a source in JEPC. Chief minister Hemant Soren had in a meeting of the department of personnel, administrative reforms and Rajbhasa on Thursday directed to expedite the appointment process. “Even the Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission (JSSC) and JPSC should expedite the recruitment process by establishing better coordination with government departments. Recruitment should not be allowed to remain pending from any department,” Soren had said in the meeting. He also asked the government departments to remove all the obstacles and discrepancies in the recruitment policy, service conditions and publish the advertisement for appointments in different departments by this month end. Soren said all the departments should ensure that the changes which have been made in appointment policy in category three and four jobs by the Personnel Administrative Reforms and Rajbhasa department should be followed by all the other departments “There are nearly 5.25 lakh government posts out of which only 1.95 lakh have been filled so far. The maximum number of vacancies lies in the school education department (1,04,000) followed by home, jail and disaster management department (nearly 74,000), 35,000 in the health department, 4,036 in the legal department, 3,500 in agriculture, 3,464 in drinking water and sanitation and water resources department and 2,000 post in the road construction department. Significantly, youths in certain parts of the state had got restless and started a social media campaign ‘Jharkhand Yuva Mange Rojgar’ from June 21 reminding the ruling dispensation about the promise of providing jobs in their election manifesto during the 2019 Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
