24-10-2021||Jharkhand|| Hosts Jharkhand beat Kerala 10-0 for a quarter-final berth||Hosts Jharkhand cemented their spot in the quarter-finals of the ongoing 11th national hockey women's (junior) championship in Simdega by thrashing Kerala 10-0 on Sunday. As the game began, Jharkhand’s Deepika Soren led the charge by scoring in the 3rd minute. Seven minutes later, Rajni Kerketta hit scored another. Goals rained at regular intervals as Jharkhand players breached Kerala's porous defence at ease. Rajni and Mahima Tete scored three goals each while Deepika netted two goals. Alin Dungung and Amrita Minj too joined the party by scoring  one goal each. “The team played like  champions,” remarked Manoj Konbegi, president of Hockey Simdega, elated after the quarter final berth. He added that the entire team was on a positive frame of mind after winning both the matches played so far. A total of five matches were played on Sunday which marked the fifth day of the tournament. At the time of filing this report, Haryana beat Assam by 23 goals, Punjab thrashed Delhi 6-1, and Karnataka won over Pudduchery 12-1. Haryana and Maharashtra too ensured quarter final berths. Simdega district administration started allowing spectators at the  Astroturf stadium from Saturday but number of people were  restricted, said deputy commissioner Sushant Gaurav. He said  about 350 fully vaccinated people were given entry tickets per day. “In order to prevent any chances of Covid-19 infections, only a handful of fans per day are being allowed for the matches. Entry tickets are on a first-come-first-serve basis only to those who are fully vaccinated,” he told reporters. The Simdega administration has also roped in five LED vans which is touring various  parts of the district to beam the  matches live. The action is being relayed through the state hockey federation’s social media page and Jhargov.tv, a state government run web-television.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
24-10-2021||Jharkhand||Pollution board ready to monitor noise, air quality during Diwali||The regional office of Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) in Adityapur  will monitor noise pollution in as many as 13 places, two more than last year,  and ambient air quality in three places two days before and on the day of Diwali on November 4. The regional office, located in neighbouring Seraikela-Kharsawan district,  has started  groundwork for the survey after receiving a formal  circular from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), New Delhi, on Saturday. A board official, S.K. Goswami, said that the decibel survey would be carried out in 13 residential, commercial and silence zones while air quality will be monitored at Bistupur, Adityapur and Golmuri. "Two new points near Tatanagar railway station at Telco have been added this year for the  survey, " he said. According to the official, three teams would be constituted for carrying out surveys before and on the day of Diwali. The pollution watchdog would monitor ambient air quality by using respirable dust samplers that  help in monitoring total suspended particles in the air apart from other pollutant gases like sulphur-dioxide and nitrogen-dioxide. Some of the major places where the decibel check will be carried out include Sakchi, Bistupur, Golmuri, Sonari, Kadma, Adityapur, including Tata Main Hospital (in Bistupur) , near St Joseph's Cathedral in Golmuri and the new civil court premises at Bhuiyandih. Two portable noise meters would be used for monitoring the noise pollution. Last year's survey revealed that Sakchi roundabout, a crowded commercial centre,  topped the noise chart with 125 decibels (dB) on Diwali night while respirable suspended particulate matter (RSPM)  at  Golmuri was recorded 209 microgram per cubic metre (µg/m3). Under CPCB norms, the permissible noise level in a commercial zone is 55dB between 10pm and 6am and the prescribed Respirable Suspended Particulate Matter ( RSPM) in ambient air is 100µg/m3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
24-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Covid-19 dashboard not updated since October 8 ||The Covid-19 dashboard of the official website of Government of Jharkhand has not been updated since October 8 owing to the ongoing strike of contractual workers in National Health Mission (NHM), who are responsible for compiling data and sharing it with the concerned departments every day. “Since contractual workers in  districts have also joined the strike, the process of compilation and sharing of Covid-19 related data has been hindered,” said a contractual worker at NHM involved in data management. While the state’s website is still reflecting stale Covid figures, the official website of Government of India showed updated figures on Sunday. Government of India’s website showed an active Covid caseload of 202 in Jharkhand, while Jharkhand’s Covid dashboard reflected an active caseload of 112. “Mostly NHM workers are involved in data management, so the delay in updating Covid data on Jharkhand government’s website could be due to their strike,” said state epidemiologist Dr Praveen Kumar Karn. “However, we have been sending updated data to the Centre regularly,” he added. NHM contract workers went on an indefinite strike on October 10 to demand reinstatement of state programme manager Jwala Prasad, who was terminated on charges of alleged financial irregularities. Under the banner of Jharkhand Health Employee Welfare Association (JHEWA), contractual healthcare workers including data managers, Ayush doctors and other medical staff have joined the strike also demanding the implementation of an HR policy and introduction of paid leave in exchange of extra work done on Saturdays and Sundays during the Covid-19 crisis. The strike entered its 14th day on Sunday, and continued to hamper several other activities run under NHM across the state. According to the striking healthcare workers, all the routine immunisation programmes and the various campaigns run for women and children in the state have been hit because of the strike. The striking contractual workers have also accused senior NHM officials of misbehaving with them and not paying salary to some of the workers for months. Meanwhile, some Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANM) associations have extended their support to the striking contractual workers, a development that is likely to affect the ongoing immunisation drive against Covid-19 in the state. “If NHM authorities do not agree to our demands, then ANMs will also join us in a day or two,” said another striking contractual worker, adding that many contractual healthcare workers who work on the field have not received payment for several months. However, NHM authorities have decided not to reinstate the terminated state programme manager at any cost. They have verbally agreed to other demands of the striking contractual workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
24-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt urged not to exclude Odia language from teachers training course||A delegation of Odia community leaders met Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday and requested him to roll back the decision to exclude Odia as a regional language for the primary teacher training course. The delegation under the aegis of Odia Bhasa Bikash Parishad (language development council) was led by a member of the Seraikela royal family, Aditya Pratap Singhdeo, and accompanied by Chakradharpur JMM legislator Sukhram Oraon. “There are over 15 lakh Odia speaking people in Jharkhand. We expressed our dismay at the recent decision of the Jharkhand Academic Council in its advertisement published in September on the primary teacher training exam in which Odia language has been excluded from the seventh paper (regional languages). We strongly demanded that the decision should be rolled back,” said Saroj Pradhan, president of the West Singhbhum unit of the Parishad. Other demands included the appointment of Odia teachers in all Odia medium schools of Jharkhand (most of which have been merged with Hindi medium schools), providing Odia subject textbooks for Classes I to X in Odia medium schools and payment of honorarium to 160 teachers appointed for the education of Odia language by the Utkal Sammelani (a socio-cultural organisation of Odisha). “We also expressed concern before the chief minister on the posting of Odia teachers in Hindi medium schools by the education department,” said Pradhan. Members of the delegation claimed that the chief minister gave them a patient hearing and assured them that their complaints would be discussed with officials concerned and their problems would be resolved soon. The Biju Janata Dal (BJD), the ruling party in Odisha, BJP and the Congress have already started exerting pressure on the Jharkhand government to roll back the decision. Even Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who hails from Odisha, had written to the Jharkhand chief minister in this connection. Pradhan had written to Soren on October 1 seeking intervention into the issue of non-supply of Odia textbooks to Odia students and appointment of Hindi-speaking teachers in Odia medium schools in bordering villages and “securing” Odia language education for its Odia speaking population. Odisha school and mass education minister and senior BJD leader S.R. Dash in a letter to his Jharkhand counterpart Jagarnath Mahato earlier this month had said that exclusion of Odia language from the teacher training course by the Jharkhand government has created an “atmosphere of dissent, distrust and discomfort fanning controversies among the Odia speaking people in Jharkhand and border districts”. Dash urged Mahato not to exclude Odia language from the curriculum of the teacher training course meant for primary teachers in the neighbouring state. The advertisement published by the Jharkhand Academic Council on September 20 for primary teacher training exam had excluded Odia language from the seventh paper while languages like Sanskrit, Bengali, Urdu, Ho, Mundari, Sanathali and Kudmali were included. A delegation of Utkal Sammelani led by state president and advocate Rabindra Nath Satpathy will also meet Soren on Sunday to discuss the same issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
