25-10-2021||Jharkhand||Visitors to Ranchi providing wrong contact details to dodge quarantine||Several passengers travelling to Jharkhand from other states by trains and buses have gone traceless after testing Covid positive during routine tests conducted upon arrival in the state, officials said on Monday, claiming that such passengers were trying to dodge quarantine by providing incorrect wrong contact details. While the count of active Covid cases in Jharkhand has already quadrupled in the past one month, passengers providing wrong addresses may cause a further rise in cases by infecting locals they come in contact with, officials added. Covid testing teams deployed at Ranchi Railway Station have been having a tough time convincing all passengers to undergo rapid tests upon arrival. A healthcare worker deployed at the station said that many passengers tried to dodge Covid testing at the railway station and run away from the staff deployed there to conduct Covid tests. Many of these passengers were even reluctant to show their address proof, which only carries their permanent address, and not the address of the place they would go to in Jharkhand. “Contact tracing is an important step to prevent the transmission of virus in localities here. Many passengers travelling from other states have tested positive for Covid-19 lately, and it is time they start acting responsibly,” said Ranchi Civil Surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar. The government’s concern over interstate passengers triggering a rise in cases is justified as several people travelling to the state from Odisha and Bihar were found infected recently. On October 23, at least 55 passengers, who got down from Tapaswini Express and Rourkela Passenger Train at the Hatia Railway Station in Ranchi, were found infected by coronavirus. As per data compiled by the health department, the active caseload of Covid-19 had jumped to 224 by Monday morning. Ranchi, which is well-connected to most other Indian states, alone accounted for 145 of the 224 active cases in Jharkhand. While Ranchi has been reporting a spike in cases since Durga Puja, fresh Covid cases have also surfaced in some of the districts that had zero Covid patients until Dussehra. Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Arun Kumar Singh has also urged interstate travellers to act more responsibly upon their arrival in Jharkhand in a bid to keep Covid cases under control. Compliance to Covid protocols by commoners was the most important step in keeping Covid cases under check in the state, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
25-10-2021||Jharkhand||Minister inspects steel city ghats ahead of Chhath||The steel city is getting ready for Chhath, the biggest festival of Jharkhand and neighbouring Bihar which will be celebrated on November 10 and 11 this year. Local legislator and state health minister Banna Gupta on Monday inspected the Subernarekha Ghat in Sakchi, the biggest river ghat which draws the maximum number of Chhath vratis during the two- day festival. The minister was accompanied by officials of two civic bodies - Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) and Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC). Gupta is understood to have asked civic body authorities to ensure proper cleanliness of the ghat so that the festival could be celebrated smoothly. All the major ghats in and around steel city, including Subernarekha Ghat at Sakchi, Kapali in Mango, Domuhani in Sonari, Pandey in Bhuiyandih, Bhuiyandih ghat, Sati in Sonari, Substation ghat at Kadma, Bodhanwala in Bistupur and Baroda ghat at Bagbera, draw thousands of devotees during Chhath. The minister asked the civic body authorities to clean and level the ghats by the first week of November. Apart from cleanliness of river ghats streetlights and halogen lights would be set up on river banks for the convenience of the devotees. Chhath would also be celebrated at the premises of the sprawling Surya Mandir at Sidhgora, which has two artificial ponds. On Monday, a cleanliness drive was undertaken at an artificial pond (popularly known as C2) in ISWP township close to Telco, where people celebrate Chhath every year. A company official supervising the cleaning operation said that the drive was undertaken following a directive from the East Singhbhum district administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
25-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand recruits teaching doctors for new medical colleges ||The Jharkhand government recruited some teaching doctors, raising hope of facilitating medical studies for more students in new medical colleges of the state. Following walk-in interviews of willing doctors, the government offered jobs on October 20 to 43 professors and associate professors on contract basis, initially for two years, mostly for the three newly opened medical colleges in Dumka, Hazaribagh and Daltonganj. The admission process that was stopped in these colleges last year for lack of adequate faculty and infrastructure would be opened and students would be allowed to take admission this time. These medical colleges, established under a centrally sponsored scheme, enabled 300 more aspiring students of the state to study medicine, 100 in each of those. Both the central and state governments had also released required funds for establishing these colleges by upgrading the existing district hospitals at Dumka, Hazaribagh and Daltonganj. Accordingly, the first batches comprising 100 students were given admission in each of those three colleges in 2019-20. But the National Medical Council (NMC) stopped admission to those colleges the next year (2020-21), citing lack of infrastructure and faculty. Following this, chief minister Hemant Soren wrote a letter to then NMC chairman Dr Suresh Chandra Sharma in November last year requesting the latter not to stop admission process when the same for 2020-21 had just begun. When his letter yielded no positive results, Soren approached then Union health minister Harsh Vardhan the next month (December 2020), seeking his intervention. “This (the NMC decision of stopping the admission process) has sent a shockwave among the aspiring students of this poor, backward and tribal state,” Soren said in his letter, adding these colleges were “located in aspirational districts where the Union government was keen on improving the education system and the Niti Aayog was monitoring (the districts) in all spheres”. “The state is fully aware and committed to fulfilment of the NMC norms,” he further wrote to the Union health minister. Meanwhile, after the state government tried to fulfil the requirements, NMC allowed admission into the new medical college in Dumka recently but the not in the rest two. “It’s good to learn that many faculty members have been appointed, raising possibility of students getting admission to those medical colleges,” Ranchi MP Seth told The Telegraph. Besides fulfilling aspirations of the deserving students, these medical colleges are also expected to cater to the people of those areas by treating them locally so that they need not come to Ranchi for treatment, he added. “Now that 36 of the 43 faculty members have been recruited for these new colleges, we are hopeful admission would also be allowed in the remaining two in Hazaribagh and Daltonganj,” said another faculty member who did not like to be quoted. Though the students lost the chance last year, they would now get the benefit if these colleges are allowed to admit them, he further said, adding 200 medical seats mean a lot for aspiring students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
