26-10-2021||Jharkhand||Spike in fuel price makes firecrackers dearer in steel city||Firecrackers will be costlier this Diwali due to Covid-19 pandemic besides other reasons. With the festival of lights being almost a week away the heat of hike in cracker prices is being felt by hundreds of cracker dealers in steel city. According to them, the prices of the crackers will be up by almost 20 percent in comparison with  the previous years. They have cited rise in fuel price and Covid-19 restrictions as the main reason behind the hike. Sources familiar with the cracker market also held Covid protocol restrictions responsible for denting the cracker production in Tamil Nadu's Shivakashi, which is the main hub for cracker production of the country. “Apart from the low production caused by the Covid restrictions, the hike in the prices of petrol and diesel is also another main reason. This is why the crackers are being sold at a 20 percent higher rate in the wholesale market this year, “ said Lochan Mangotia, one of the leading crackers dealers of the steel city while talking to The Telegraph Online. In Jamshedpur, crackers and other fireworks worth over Rs 10 crores are sold every year during the festival of light. While about 50 percent of the crackers are bought by the retailers from the Ranchi-based crackers dealers -- Trade Friends and Sahu & Sons, another 50 percent are brought by four crackers wholesalers operating here directly from Shivakashi. About 300 retailers sell firecrackers at different localities of the city on the basis of temporary licenses issued by the district administration. Bijay Sahu, a key member of the Sahu & Sons' management confirmed about the hike in the prices of firecrackers this year. “Generally, prices of crackers are raised by five percent every year, but this year there has been a 20 percent hike in the prices of crackers. The main reason behind such price hike is the low production in Shivakashi crackers hub due Covid restrictions and second reason being the unusual hike in the fuel rates,” said Sahu while talking to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
26-10-2021||Jharkhand||17 passengers flee Hatia station after testing Covid positive ||At least 17 passengers travelling to Ranchi by trains from Maharashtra and Odisha fled the Hatia Railway Station premises on Tuesday after testing positive for Covid-19 during routine Rapid Antigen Tests, some of them even switching off their mobile phones to evade contact, officials said. An ambulance was parked outside the Hatia station to take Covid positive passengers to either quarantine centres or hospitals. Four magistrates were also deployed there to ensure that passengers who test positive do not escape. However, almost all the 17 passengers refused to wait for their rapid test results and “literally ran” away from the staff deployed at the station, eyewitnesses said. Ranchi Deputy Commissioner Chhavi Ranjan had on Monday directed officials to ensure that all passengers testing positive for Covid-19 upon arrival at stations or the airport should not be allowed to go home. Ranjan was not available for his comments on Tuesday's fracas. However, Ranchi Sub Divisional Officer Deepak Dubey said that an explanation for the laxity will be sought from the magistrates who were deployed there. “We will seek an explanation from the magistrates and also strengthen deployment of forces at railway stations. We would also request passengers to cooperate with us for the safety of Ranchi residents,” said Dubey. Health officials have admitted that travellers from other states were contributing to the spike in Covid cases in Jharkhand. While all district administrations have been directed to intensify Covid screening among passengers, many Covid positive passengers went traceless in the state lately, posing a risk. During inspection at Ranchi Railway Station on Tuesday, officials found that some passengers even tried to dodge Covid tests by jumping over fences and barricades. “They did not listen to any of our requests,” one of the inspecting officials said. More than 100 passengers tested Covid positive in rapid antigen tests conducted on October 22 and October 23 at Hatia Railway Station. However, they tested negative for Covid-19 in confirmatory RT PCR tests, the results of which came a few days later, Ranchi Civil Surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar has clarified. However, some of the passengers who tested Covid positive in rapid tests at Hatia station earlier this week were found to be Covid positive even in confirmatory RT PCR tests. Labourer dies of Covid A Jamtara resident who recently returned home from Bangalore died of Covid-19 on Tuesday, doctors said. According to local sources, the deceased, who worked as a labourer in Bangalore, returned to Jharkhand on October 22. On Monday, his haemoglobin count dropped to an alarmingly low level and he died while he was being taken to Dhanbad for treatment. As per data compiled by the health department, as many as 5,136 people have died of Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
26-10-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad auto drivers stage protest against erroneous regulation||A month after the implementation of new regulations for auto-rickshaws in Dhanbad, which put a cap on the number of auto rickshaw entering Dhanbad town to 2500 from around 10,000, over 100 auto drivers plying their vehicles on the town route staged a massive ‘dharna’ near the district headquarters to protest against the erroneous selection of auto rickshaw to ply in town. The protestors staged the ‘dharna’ under the banner of Seva Dal Chalak Sangh claiming irregularity in the selection of auto rickshaw from areas to ply in town. They expressed unhappiness over the denial of permission for those previously plying on the town route to continue operating in Dhanbad. The agitators further claimed that despite submission of all relevant documents demanded by district transport department to get permit, they are being barred from operating in the coal town. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Shiv Kumar Sharma, an auto driver traditionally plying on Karkend to Dhanbad route said, “I have been earning around Rs 20 thousand per month by ferrying passengers from Dhanbad to Kenuda before the implementation of auto regulation but ever since the new rules came into effect (September 20) I am earning nothing. I am waiting for the permit to ply on the same route despite submission of all relevant documents sought by district transport office.” “I am the sole bread earner of my family. My seven-member family was completely dependent on my earnings. Now, I am clueless about how to eke out a living for my family,” rued Sharma. He claimed they would be compelled to submit the keys of their vehicle to the District Transport Office if they do not get permission to ply on the town route as it is not possible for them to ply on remote route like Chirkunda, Tundi or Mahuda which lies over 40 kilometers from the district headquarters. Sunil Singh, another auto driver operating on Jharia-Dhanbad route said, “No criteria were followed while selecting the auto rickshaws to ply on the town route. The permit has been granted on a first come and first serve basis.” He demanded a comprehensive probe in this regard. Notably, as per the new auto regulation six routes for auto rickshaw have been divided into parts, which aims to restrict entry of large numbers of auto rickshaws in the coal town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
26-10-2021||Jharkhand||Now, health workers deployed for Covid tests across Ranchi threaten stir over salary delay||Contractual healthcare workers deployed at railway stations, bus stands and airport in Ranchi to conduct Covid tests of incoming have threatened to go on strike as a mark of protest against the non-payment of salary for two months in a move that could cripple the government’s Covid screening mechanism to prevent the spread of infections. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar on Tuesday said that he had requested these healthcare workers to continue providing their services for at least a couple of more days, assuring them that he would ensure the disbursement of their pending salaries as soon as possible. “I have requested healthcare workers on Covid testing duty to be patient for a few more days. I have spoken to authorities in the National Health Mission (NHM), and I am trying my level best to ensure payment of salary in the next couple of days,” said Kumar, adding that some changes in the bank accounts through which NHM disbursed salaries was the reason behind the delay. Currently, about 700 contractual workers are deployed across Ranchi district to conduct Rapid Antigen Tests and RT PCR tests at railway stations, bus stands, the Birsa Munda Airport and other strategic locations in the state capital. “We are risking our lives by coming in contact with several thousand passengers daily while testing them, and the government is least bothered about our needs,” said a Covid testing staffer deployed at Ranchi Railway Station. “If we do not get our salary soon, then we all will go on strike,” he added. Several thousand contractual workers under NHM have already been on strike since October 10 demanding reinstatement of a terminated employee and implementation of an HR policy. The striking healthcare workers have claimed that the NHM did not pay salaries on time to many of them despite having funds. “Our strike will continue, and more people will join us in the days to come. This will not end anytime soon,” said a striking healthcare worker. As per government data, the active caseload of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 195 on Tuesday morning, and more than half of these cases were in Ranchi, the district which has reported the highest number of cases and fatalities in the state. While more than 100 patients tested positive for Covid-19 in rapid tests conducted at Hatia and Ranchi railway stations in the past week, a majority of them tested negative in confirmatory RT PCR tests conducted later, the civil surgeon said on Tuesday, claiming that the rise in cases was not as alarming as it had seemed initially going by tests at railway stations. However, Ranchi’s efforts to keep a check on Covid cases will suffer if the staff deployed for Covid testing go off-duty, Kumar admitted. He said that he had also sought funds from the district administration to pay contractual healthcare workers in Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
26-10-2021||Jharkhand||Bay system brewing, may impact Jharkhand weather||After a short breather, Bay of Bengal is getting ready to host another low-pressure hub later this week. Weathermen at IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre said on Tuesday that a cyclonic circulation had formed over south east Bay of Bengal. "Doppler radar inputs suggest that the cyclonic circulation is expected to intensify into a low- pressure over central Bay of Bengal in the next 24 hours or so, " said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Met Centre. He, however, said that it was too early to say whether the system would intensify into a cyclonic storm. Met officials at IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta spoke on similar lines. "Satellite pictures and other weather models suggest formation of a cyclonic circulation over south east Bay of Bengal. The cyclonic circulation is expected to concentrate into a low-pressure in the next 24 hours, " said a duty officer there. Several places across Jharkhand, including Ranchi, Jamshedpur and its adjoining districts, saw haze and formation of clouds on Tuesday which weathermen said was due to the impact of the atmospheric circulation brewing over the Bay of Bengal. The sun played hide and seek with clouds through the day. Ranchi Met Centre, in its forecast, issued on Tuesday afternoon, suggested no significant change in both day and night temperatures during the next 72 hours. Met statistics suggested that both Jamshedpur and Sahebganj recorded the highest maximum temperature of 32.5°C in the past 24 hours while the lowest minimum temperature of 16.6°C was recorded at Chaibasa in neighbouring West Singhbhum district. Weathermen confirmed that the south-west monsoon had withdrawn completely from the country on Monday, resulting in favourable conditions for the early advent of winter in Jharkhand. But the formation of the cyclonic circulation and the low- pressure system would result in an unfavourable wind pattern for the next few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
26-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand thrash Punjab, enter semis of national junior women's meet||Hockey fans of Jharkhand  rejoiced on Tuesday after the state team stormed into the semi-finals of the 11th national junior women tournament in Simdega by thrashing Punjab 6-2. Haryana and Chandigarh too sealed their semi-final slots by winning their respective matches during Tuesday's quarter final clashes. Jharkhand’s Elina Dungdung led the charge by scoring three goals in the 31st, 47th and 52nd minutes. Rajni Kerketta smashed two goals in the  49th and 57th minutes while Deepika Soren scored in the 39th  minute to take the team’s tally to 6. Kamapreet Kaur and Harpreet Kaur scored a goal each for Punjab. An elated Hockey Simdega President Manoj Konbegi maintained that Jharkhand had entered semi-finals of the tournament for the 10th time in a row. “Jharkhand has won all their matches so far in a convincing manner. We are sure of clinching the championship trophy this time on our home ground,” he said, adding that he was expecting some of the state's players to be selected in the national junior squad based on their performance in this meet. The  tournament is being viewed with attention   by a panel of Hockey India selectors as well as officials.  “Three years back, Salima Tete earned her berth in the national team through this tournament itself. Later, she went on to cement her place in the senior squad and ultimately represented the country in this year’s Tokyo Olympics,” said Konbegi. Hockey Jharkhand president Bholanath Singh also congratulated the team. “Jharkhand has always been regarded for its hockey talent and it is encouraging for all of us that all our teams are doing exceptionally well across all formats for last few years,” he opined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
26-10-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant stress on govt schemes' awareness||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren at separate functions on Monday stressed on the need to  create mass awareness of  government schemes. The assertion from Hemant Soren, the JMM working president, comes close on the heels of his message to the JMM district presidents and district secretaries on Friday at Ranchi to let party cadres inform masses about government schemes. “Everyone should get the benefit of the development plans and welfare schemes of the state government. The district administration and elected representatives should ensure that these schemes get wide publicity at the grassroots level in villages. The administration should hold meetings at villages and panchayats and inform people about schemes and enable them to get it benefits,” said Soren at a function organised in Hisaguttu in Barhait block of Sahebganj district around 2.30pm. Barhait is the home constituency of the chief minister. An almost identical address was given at another public function in Boarijor block of Godda district, two hours later. “The Covid cases are on the decline and the government has now started speeding up developmental and infrastructural strengthening activities in the state. We managed to fight the Covid situation in a better manner with our resources and now are focused on development activities. The district administration should ensure that people at the last mile get the benefit of the schemes and that can happen only if they are aware of the schemes,” said Soren. Interestingly, the chief minister had also stressed people’s connection with the JMM district presidents and secretaries at the party organisational meeting on Friday at his residence in Ranchi and directed the party workers to create awareness about the government schemes and improve people connection. Party insiders claimed that the strategy is to make people aware about government welfare schemes ahead of the panchayat polls scheduled later this year. Soren in the address at both Barhait and at Godda spoke at length about the dhoti-saree schemes for the poor ration cardholders, the new schemes to provide employment through MGNREGA schemes like Birsa Harit Gram Yojana, Nilambar Pitamber Jal Samridhi Yojana, Shaheed Poto Ho Khel Vikas Yojana, Phoolo Jhano Aashivard Yojna and Mukhyamantri Pashudhan Yojana and asked the villagers to join these schemes and take full benefits. He also announced that there would be no need of ration cards for availing widow pensions. Soren also informed about government plans of giving eggs six days a week to children in government schools, and universal pension for those above 60 years of age. Soren also inaugurated schemes worth Rs 34.83 crore including a power sub-station at Godda and distributed assets worth Rs 8.50 crore to beneficiaries of government schemes and laid the foundation stone of schemes worth Rs 36 crore. While in Sahebganj, Soren laid foundation stones of 27 schemes worth Rs 18.45 crore and inaugurated a project worth Rs 30.21 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
