27-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ahead of Diwali Dhanbad Municipal Corporation flags off ‘no encroachment’ drive||Shops extending a stall or two along the roadside to sell lights and other decorative items during Diwali is a common annual feature for the festive season. However, keeping the risks involved, Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) has initiated action against street encroachment to prevent Covid rule violation during shopping for Diwali. As encroachments lead to congestion. Instructions in this regard have been given by DMC to different shop keepers to desist from any encroachment of the road leading to congestion. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Anil Kumar, Food Inspector of DMC, said, “We will begin the inspection drive from tomorrow. We will be visiting Bekar Bandh area, where we will convince the shop keepers and particularly those engaged in selling Puja related articles, besides decorative articles and food outlets among other.” He added, “We have also carried out a similar drive at Bank More area earlier this week during which we issued stern warning to shopkeepers extending their shops along the pavement or road side area near Urmila Towers. We will visit the area again, tomorrow.” He further maintained that restaurants and food outlets engaged in selling sweets often put up tents outside their shops to cater to the increased demand, this often leads to roadside congestion and traffic snarls. “We also appeal to trade body Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry and its over 50 units spread across the district to convey the message to the shopkeepers on the behalf of DMC. This comes as a preventive measure to avert the possible rise of Covid cases during the festive season when large numbers of people are also returning to their respective homes to celebrate Diwali and Chhath,” said Kumar. “Any compromise with the Covid guidelines may prove fatal,” said Kumar. Welcoming the drive, Prabhat Surolia, President of Bank More Chamber of Commerce said, “We welcome the DMC initiative. But we are also appealing to the administration not to penalize the shopkeepers only but also to take action against the encroachment of parking lots which adds on to traffic snarls in the market places.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
27-10-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant unveils veggies market, revamped park in Ranchi||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday inaugurated two key urban projects in the state capital— a dedicated vegetable market complex and a revamped park - aimed at enhancing civic amenities of Ranchi, his gift coming days before Dhanteras and Diwali. At Naga Baba Khatal opposite Raj Bhavan, the city’s first organised vegetable market complex has been constructed by Ranchi Municipal Corporation over 40,000 square feet by spending close to Rs 10 crore. The two-storeyed market has 195 spacious counters and a basement to house at least 300 fruit and vegetable vendors. It has passages on all sides for easy entry and exit and parking bays alongsode with a food court. Hemant said he hoped that the new vegetable market would help rid the city of traffic snarls due to vendors hogging roads.  “Now, maintaining this place and putting it to good use is everyone’s responsibility,” he added. RMC officials maintained that the idea of an organsied vegetable market in this area was primarily aimed that addressing the existing problem of vendors occupying road space. They said RMC would soon allot shops to vendors through a lottery system. Notably, the foundation stone of the vegetable market was laid in 2017 when the Raghubar Das-led BJP government was in power. It was meant to be ready by 2020 but the project got mired in delays due alterations in design and the pandemic. At Harmu, Hemant unveiled the Sadar Patel Park at the housing board colony in ward number 26. It is spread over 12,687 sq feet. Rs 2.5 crore was spent on it.  The park has fountains, manicured gardens, walking trails, an open gym, badminton and tennis courts, benches, sliders, cafeteria and a 7-feet statue of Sardar Vallabhai Patel. “This park was in utter neglect but I am happy that RMC and the urban development department has converted it into a beautiful park, which will cater to all age groups. For elders, there are separate spaces for yoga or just to sit and relax amid the natural environs. For children too, there are enough options to play,” he said. Ranchi MLA C. P Singh, MPs Deepak Prakash and Sanjay Seth, and RMC officials were present during the two launches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
27-10-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS to check rapid test kits after high number of false positives||An expert committee at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) will examine Rapid Antigen Test kits distributed among healthcare workers in Ranchi following complaints of faulty test results, officials said on Wednesday. The Ranchi district administration wrote to the National Health Mission (NHM) to examine the RAT kits provided to the district after more than 100 passengers tested positive at railway stations and bus stands in the past one week, but were found to be Covid negative in confirmatory RT PCR tests conducted on the same day, officials said. As per records shared by Ranchi Civil Surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar, of the 3471 people tested through RAT on October 22, at least 59 were found to be Covid positive. However, all these 59 people tested negative for Covid-19 in confirmatory RT PCR tests conducted later. Similarly, on October 23, of the 2,759 samples tested through RAT, 71 were found infected by coronavirus, but none of these 71 samples tested Covid positive in RT PCR test. “An expert committee at RIMS will examine the RAT kits to check if there was something wrong with them,” said NHM Director Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh. The decision of getting the RAT kits examined by an expert committee, comprising doctors and researchers, was taken by Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Arun Kumar Singh after the Ranchi district administration wrote to the NHM twice, highlighting possible faults in the test kits. Ranchi sub divisional officer Deepak Dubey said that getting such a high number of positive results on rapid tests of samples that eventually tested negative in RT PCR was a concern. However, a doctor at RIMS said that rapid antigen tests were usually more sensitive than RT PCR, and the high positivity rate could be attributed to the fact that many people had some level of antigen in their body, either due to exposure to the virus or vaccination. As per the standard operating procedure, passengers arriving at railway stations, bus stands and the airport in Ranchi are tested through Rapid Antigen Test as well as RT PCR if they do not produce a negative result of RT PCR test conducted within 72 hours prior to their journey. While rapid test results are out in 10 to 15 minutes, RT PCR test results usually arrive after several hours. The passengers who test positive in rapid tests are secluded from other passengers and kept in isolation until their RT PCR tests arrive, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
27-10-2021||Jharkhand||Security tightened at rail stations, bus stands to ensure Covid positive patients don't flee||Ranchi district administration has beefed up security at railway stations and bus stands to stop passengers who test positive for Covid-19 upon arrival from fleeing, officials said on Wednesday, a day after at least 17 passengers fled the Hatia station after a positive rapid antigen test. Ranchi Sub Divisional Officer Deepak Dubey said that following Tuesday’s incident, the district administration sought deployment of additional security personnel at railway stations and bus stands in a letter addressed to the Senior Superintendent of Police SK Jha. “We have been assured deployment of at least 120 police personnel at bus stands and railway stations across Ranchi to stop Covid positive passengers from running away,” said Dubey, adding that at least 90 police personnel will be deployed at Hatia and Ranchi stations, while the remaining 40 will be deployed at Khadgada Bus Stand and ITI Bus Stand. Several passengers travelling to Ranchi from other states by train have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past couple of weeks and some of them managed to dodge quarantine by providing wrong addresses and contact details. However, Tuesday’s incident triggered panic as all the 17 passengers who tested Covid positive upon arrival at Hatia fled despite the deployment of magistrates at the station. Some of these passengers even switched off their mobile phones to avoid any communication with the district administration. “We have been requesting passengers to cooperate with us. It takes hardly 10 minutes to get rapid test results, but many passengers do not want to wait,” said Dubey. Even though many passengers who tested Covid positive in Rapid Antigen Test did not test positive for Covid-19 in confirmatory RT PCR tests, all passengers testing positive in rapid tests should be isolated until their RT PCR test results arrive in order to protect other people in the city, officials said. As per government data, there were as many as 190 active Covid cases in Jharkhand on Wednesday morning, and more than half of them were from Ranchi alone. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr. Vinod Kumar has said that interstate travellers were contributing to the spike in cases here, and screening them was an important part of keeping Covid-19 under check.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
27-10-2021||Jharkhand||Coal secretary smug on domestic production  ||The current crisis has shown that domestic coal production can easily fulfil thermal power requirements of the country, Union coal secretary Anil Kumar Jain said on Tuesday. Addressing the inaugural session of the third Jharkhand Mining Conclave organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) at a hotel in Ranchi on Tuesday, Jain provided statistics to buttress his point. “Taking the positives from the coal crisis that hit the nation, it has been shown that domestic production without any imports can easily fulfil the requirement of thermal power in India. Domestic coal-based power plants have generated 24 per cent additional power whereas generation in plants which use imported coal has gone down to minus 30 per cent,” said Jain. He further highlighted the logistical issues faced by the coal sector during monsoon. “Coal India dispatches 13 to 14 lakh tonnes of coal during the rainy season and it rises to 19 to 19.5 lakh tonnes in other seasons. Amid the challenges, the industry should learn to adapt to the market conditions,” said Jain. He suggested that the coal producers/commercial miners should become quality and market conscious now as in the coming days the coal market might be changing from a seller to buyer market. “It is a good time for consumers and challenging for the producers. The industry players should improve quality, cut down on costs, be prepared to tackle logistic challenges in sidings and dispatch with modern processes.” Tata Steel vice-president (corporate services) and CII Jharkhand state council chairman Chanakya Chaudharye said: “Machinery and equipment for the mining sector are of prime importance to the success of Indian manufacturing. At a time when India seeks to chart a course towards raising the share of manufacturing in GDP, as well as expand mining as a foundation for growth, there is a need to accord special attention to the manufacturing of mining equipment.” CII Jharkhand mining panel convener and chief raw material strategy, corporate strategy and planning, Tata Steel, Somesh Biswas, said that if the country has to reach its full potential, the mining sector, which is undoubtedly one of the most important growth engines of the nation, has to play a major role.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
