28-10-2021||Jharkhand||Anjana Deogam's quest to educate village girls ||Anjana Deogam regularly visits villages at the Potka block of East Singhbhum. Her initiative would fill any girl of her age with pride, and she is leading by example. Her visit to these villages is aimed at educating village girls about their health issues, including sex education and reproductive health. The 25-year-old Anjana, who resides in Sarjamda on the outskirts of Jamshedpur, covers 40 km (up and down) to bring about a change in villagers' life. Anjana is associated with Kriya Foundation, and is educating and spreading health and hygiene awareness among village girls. Kriya Foundation, an NGO, strives to empower every woman and child in their career growth in order to  help them make informed decisions about their physical and mental strength. Anjana is educating the village girls through "It's my body" programme. "I travel alone in my scooty and visit Heselbera village at Potka block. It's a weekly exercise which I have been into for the past two years. I think educating and spreading health awareness among village girls is of paramount importance since they are very ignorant about it. Besides overall health, I also try to focus on reproduction, menstrual cycle and also educate the girls about their rights," Anjana said. According to her, there are changes which take place in the  body of an adolescent girl which they are not aware of. As a result, they face multiple physical and social problems. "Besides Heselbera, I also cover three more nearby villages. I educate around 700 girls through this programme," Anjana informed. She said girls were initially very hesitant in the initial period of her visits to the villages. The girls are least aware about sex and reproduction. "However, now the hesitancy is a thing of the past and girls have become very forthcoming and inquisitive about their health issues. They are keen to know and get educated about sex and reproduction. I am very happy with the changes," Anjana said. Anjana added she faced problems since parents of girls were not interested in making their wards a part of the health programme. "However, it took a lot of convincing from my side before they relented. I told the parents about the importance of health education and how it would benefit their children. The elders in the village are slowly and steadily understanding the importance of health education but I think a lot more needs to be done," she elaborated. "We got to know about our rights ever since didi (Anjana) started visiting our village. We now tell our parents that like boys, girls can also do all the work," said Dukhni Soren of Heselbera village. "Our parents did not allow us to leave home and play games. But now we are playing football and also becoming aware about the menstrual cycle and taboo attached to it. We are no less than boys and have all the right to make progress in life. This happened due to Didi (Anjana)," said Rakhi Murmu of Heselbera.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
28-10-2021||Jharkhand||BIT Sindri students excel in Innovation Cafe Hackathon||A team of BIT Sindri B Tech Students titled Ursa Major comprising three B Tech Students, including Sakshi Srivastava (Production Engineering), Subhada Mandavi  (Electronics and Communication Engineering) and Ayushi Priya (Electrical Engineering) bagged the first runners up position in Innovation Cafe Hackathon organized by Hindustan Unilever the results of which were announced this evening. The team which offered a solution to a problem statement, Alternate Feedstock Choices for  FMCG products got a cash prize of Rs 50 thousand besides a certificate for their achievement in competition  during which the IIT Madras team got the first prize. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Sakshi Srivastava said, “Altogether 3,560 students from across the country participated in prelims round held in September after which only 70 students qualified for the 2nd round and after the 2nd round 12  qualified for the final round which was held on  October 22 the results of which were announced today. Expressing satisfaction at the achievement of students, Ghanshyam Rai, Head of Department of Physics of BIT Sindri who is also the Training and Placement Officer (TPO) of the institute, said, “the  institute is very happy with the achievement of our students as it will inspire more students to participate in such competition." Meanwhile, Kumar Bharat, a 3rd year B Tech student of BIT Sindri also excelled in regional level event of India Skill Competition held in Patna during which students of eight different states including, Jharkhand, Bihar, Bengal, Odisha, Assam, Tripura, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar took part earlier this week. Bharat’s  work on Computer Numerical Control (CNC) Turning helped him to get certificate of merit from Phagu Chauhan, Governor of Bihar during the event held from October 23 to 28 organized by National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) Rai while Talking to The Telegraph Online, said, Bharat a student of B Tech Mechanical Engineering earlier secured 1st rank in state level event of India Skill Competition held  during August 24 and 25 at Ranchi and received certificate of merit from state skill development minister Sayanand Bhokta and also got prize from Jharkhand Skill Development Mission Society (JSDMS). Rai, while elaborating about the work of Bharat, said, “Bharat’s intervention  was in the field of CNC Turning which is a subtractive machining process where a cutting tool is placed against a spinning piece to take material off.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
28-10-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Over 2 lakh recipients fail to turn up for second jab in East Singhbhum||East Singhbhum district administration is on a text message sending spree to about two lakh individuals who failed to turn up for their second dose of Covid vaccine. The administration was prompted to issue such requests as people failed to turn up for their second shot. The officials are now engaged in convincing them to take the second dose, despite having missed taking it within the stipulated gap. In the SMS sent to the recipient, the district administration is seen earnestly requesting them to get their second dose despite having missed the due date. District disease surveillance officer, Sahir Pall said, “Maybe those who did not turn up for the second dose have stopped fearing of getting infected with Coronavirus. There could also be some other reason for them having missed their second jab, but it is the responsibility of the district administration to have them completely vaccinated,” said Pall while talking to The Telegraph Online. According to the data shared by the district health department, on Thursday, 13,20,717 people had taken the first dose of the Covid vaccine in the East Singhbhum district and 5,66,890 people their second dose. It also revealed that two lakh people failed to take their second dose. Around 80 percent of the total recipients had taken Covishield vaccine which requires a period of 84 days’ gap to be eligible for the second dose. The remaining 20 percent recipients had taken Covaxin vaccine which has a waiting period of 28 days for the second shot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
28-10-2021||Jharkhand||Simdega: Jharkhand to play Haryana for junior women's championship||Jharkhand stormed into the finals of the 11th Hockey India junior women championship underway in Simdega by thrashing mighty Maharashtra 3-1 on Thursday, making an entry into the penultimate stage of the prestigious event for the third time in a row. Hosts Jharkhand will take on Haryana for the summit clash on Friday. On Thursday, an aggressive Jharkhand, however, restricted them to play defensive right from start and also managed to pick the net at regular intervals to outshine the rivals. All three Jharkhand goals came in the form of penalty corners in the 14th, 42nd and 50th minute of the game. Maharashtra scored their only goal in the 17th minute. In another semi-final clash, Haryana defeated Chandigarh 3-2, sealing their berth in the finals. Hockey Jharkhand president Bhola Nath Singh said that going by the current performance of the team, Jharkhand was sure of lifting the champions trophy. “The players have been on a winning streak since the start of the tournament. Now, it’s just a matter of one final match. Even though two best teams have made it to the finals, our players are in good shape. We are hoping of a memorable outing on Friday,” he said. Hockey Simdega president Manoj Konbegi said the final would be played from 3pm. State sports minister Hafizul Hassan will be present as the chief guest. During the inauguration of tournament on October 20, chief minister Hemant Soren rolled out several projects for the promotion of the game in Simdega, regarded as the nursery of hockey. “The final challenger will be played from 3pm and the game for the fourth position between Chandigarh and Maharashtra will be played from 9am in the morning (Friday),” said Konbegi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
28-10-2021||Jharkhand||NHM sanctions Rs 94 cr to pay salaries of local health workers ||The National Health Mission (NHM) has sanctioned Rs 94 crore for disbursement of salary to district-level contractual healthcare workers following a strike threatened by unpaid healthcare workers deployed at railway stations, bus stands, airport and other strategic points in the state capital for Covid testing. “A sum of about Rs 94 crore has been sanctioned by the government for the payment of salary to district level contractual workers. The payment will be made soon,” Managing Director of NHM Dr Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh said on Thursday. Earlier this week, contractual healthcare workers deployed at various points in the state capital for conducting Covid tests had threatened to go on a strike over non-payment of salary for two months. Ranchi Civil Surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar admitted that contractual healthcare workers involved in Covid-related duties in Ranchi did not receive their salaries for two months. The civil surgeon had also written to NHM and the district administration to ensure payment of salary to contractual healthcare workers in the district. At present, about 700 contractual workers are deployed across Ranchi district to conduct RAT and RT PCR tests at railway stations, bus stands, the Birsa Munda Airport and other locations in the state capital. Rs 5 crore has been sanctioned for payment of salary to contractual workers in Ranchi. East Singhbhum, Deoghar, West Singhbhum, Giridih, Godda and Hazaribag were also allotted Rs 5 crore each, while Bokaro, Chatra, Dhanbad, Dumka, Garwah, Gumla, Sahebganj and Saraikela were allotted Rs 4 crore each. Rs.3 crore was sanctioned for each of the remaining nine districts in Jharkhand. Several thousand contractual workers under NHM have already been on strike since October 10 demanding reinstatement of a terminated employee and implementation of an HR policy. The striking healthcare workers have claimed that the NHM did not pay salaries on time to several contractual workers despite having funds. The funds sanctioned recently will not be used for payment of state level NHM workers, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
28-10-2021||Jharkhand||IMD forecasts rain-free Diwali in Jharkhand||The weather won’t play spoilsport in Jharkhand this Diwali, IMD officials have confirmed. Both IMD’s Ranchi and Patna Met Centres predicted on Thursday rain-free days in Jharkhand till November 5. This year, Diwali will be celebrated on November 4. IMD forecasts say dry weather, most likely with mainly clear sky, will prevail in most districts of Jharkhand till the first week of November. "We are expecting dry weather during Diwali as no significant synoptic situation prevails over Jharkhand, " said Abhishek Anand, head of IMD’s Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Ranchi Met Centre also predicted no significant change in night readings during the next 24 hours. However, the forecast indicates a fall in night temperature by two to three degrees Celsius from Saturday. Some places were, however, Thursday witnessing formation of low clouds on Thursday due to the impact of an anti-cyclonic circulation over Gangetic Bengal, said weathermen. The maximum temperature in Ranchi and Jamsehdpur was hovering between 27 degrees Celsius and 31degree Celsius for the last two days, which is normal during this time of the season. In Deoghar, Sahebganj and Pakur, the day’s reading was slightly higher than the average normal recorded during this time of the season. Night temperatures in most parts of the state were two to three degree Celsius above normal in the last couple of days. Ranchi and Chaibasa in neighbouring West Singhbhum recorded the lowest minimum temperature of 18.2°C in last 24 hours. Weathermen hinted at change in wind pattern to northerly, which would help in bringing down night readings after 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
28-10-2021||Jharkhand||Weekly Covid positivity rate doubles in a month in Jharkhand||The weekly positivity rate and fresh cases of Covid-19 have doubled in the past one month, indicating a steep rise in the coronavirus trajectory in Jharkhand during the festive season, figures compiled by the health department highlighted on Thursday. As per weekly data calculated by the health department, as many as 78 people were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus in Jharkhand from September 20 to September 26. The count of fresh Covid cases reported in the state jumped to 197 in the period between October 18 to October 24, government data further revealed, indicating a more than two-fold spike in weekly Covid cases. The positivity rate too rose from 0.03 per cent in the period between September 20 to September 26 to 0.07 per cent in the days between October 18 to October 24. Jharkhand tested as many as 3,09,744 swab samples for Covid-19 from September 20 to September 26, while 2,67,125 samples were tested from October 18 to October 24. The positivity rate as well as the count of fresh cases rose most significantly in Ranchi in the past one month, government data revealed. Ranchi alone accounted for 42 of to 78 Covid cases reported from September 20 to September 26, and 129 of the 197 cases reported from October 18 to October 24. The positivity rate here jumped from 0.10 per cent in the last week of September to 0.27 per cent from October 18 to October 24. “Ranchi has reported the bulk of fresh Covid cases in the past one month. The positivity rate has also increased in the district, which could be a concern if Covid protocols are not followed sincerely in the days to come,” said state epidemiologist Dr Praveen Kumar Karn. Despite the rise in cases, the fatality rate was zero per cent in Jharkhand during the period between October 18 to October 24. Experts believe that vaccination against Covid-19 may have played an important role in saving lives of people who got infected recently. “There have been cases where vaccinated individuals have tested positive for Covid-19. But they did not suffer from severe symptoms and recovered without hospitalization,” said Ranchi civil surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar. As per government data, over 1.43 crore residents have received at least one dose of the Covid vaccine in Jharkhand so far, while close to 50 lakhs of them have also received the second dose. The active Covid caseload in the state, as per government data, was 162 on Thursday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
28-10-2021||Jharkhand||Teacher’s stick hurts student’s eye in class in Ramgarh district ||A student of Class VI has suffered an eye injury accidentally after a para-teacher allegedly wielded a stick to control commotion in a government school in Ramgarh district of Jharkhand. The parents of the injured boy alleged that the para-teacher had used the stick to beat some students on Tuesday and also thumped it on the bench when a portion broke away and struck the right eye of their son. Ashok Karmali, a resident of Sargadih under Gola block, said his 11-year-old son Vivek studies in Class VI at the Upgraded Middle School. The area is around 60km from state capital Ranchi. “We were informed at around 2pm about the incident. My son came home with blood oozing from his right eye. He told me that para-teacher (appointed on a contract basis in Jharkhand) Karpoori Pramanik Thakur was agitated as the students were shouting while he had gone out to attend a call on his mobile phone. In a fit of rage, the para-teacher shouted and took up the stick to beat students and also banged it on the bench. A portion of the stick then broke away and flew into my son’s eye,” said Ashok. The parents said the boy was taken to a local eye hospital in Peterwar where he received primary treatment and was referred to Ranchi. The boy was on Tuesday night referred from an eye hospital in Ramgarh to the Kashyap Memorial Eye Hospital in Ranchi for advanced treatment. The parents have not lodged any complaint in connection with the incident in the local Barlanga police station so far. The Ramgarh district administration has ordered a probe into the incident. “On the basis of the information received, we have asked the block education officer (Mahabir Prasad) and block development officer Santosh Kumar to probe into the incident and submit the report within a day. We will take action against the para-teacher on the basis of the report,” said district superintendent of education-cum-district education officer Sushil Kumar. “I was accompanied by the BDO, the village mukhiya (chief) and up-pramukh (deputy chief) during our visit to the school where we interacted with the students as part of the investigation. The students told us the para-teacher used the stick while explaining lessons. As the students were shouting he had banged the stick on the bench during which a portion had broken away and struck the eye of the boy. Though it was an accident, we would recommend action against the teacher for carrying a stick to class,” said Prasad. Section 17 of the Right to Education Act, 2009, prohibits any child being subjected to physical punishment or mental harassment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
