29-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand loses to Haryana 3-2, manages silver||Hosts Jharkhand failed to lift the winner's trophy after losing to Haryana by 3-2 in the finals of the 11th national junior women hockey championship in Simdega on Friday. Riding high on a flawless performance in the tournament, the hosts were upbeat while taking the field.  Jharkhand took an early lead after Deepika Soren converted a penalty in the fifth minute. But four minutes later, Haryana levelled the score by netting a goal. Upping the ante, the visiting team struck twice in the 19th and 21st minute, taking a 3-1 lead. Even though Jharkhand’s Ropani Kumar scored a  goal in the 39th minute,  the team failed to match their aggressive opponents and settled for a silver. In the match for the third spot earlier in the day, Maharashtra beat Chandigarh  6-2 to win bronze. Hockey Simdega president Manoj Konbegi said that the best team won. “Winning and losing are part of the game but we are happy that both the teams played like true finalists,” he said. Jharkhand coach Pratima said the girls missed a few opportunities in the high-pressure match. “We began on a positive note with a 1-0 lead but failed to capitalise on the opportunities during the course of the game. Haryana played aggressively and succeeded in restricting our attacks. We will work on the gaps for future tournaments,” she said. As many as 21 states participated in the tournament which began on October 20. The tournament was originally slated to be held in April but was postponed to October in view of the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
29-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ahead of Diwali, Jharkhand scraps 8pm deadline for markets, malls||Jharkhand has scrapped weekend lockdowns to allow markets and malls to stay open even on Sundays, in a major relief to traders ahead of Dhanteras and Diwali. Decisions on relaxing Covid curbs were taken following a meeting of the state disaster management authority (SDMA) under the aegis of the chief minister on Friday ahead of upcoming festivals. Addressing a press conference at Project Building,  state health and disaster management minister Banna Gupta said the government had decided to allow Dhanteras, Diwali and Chhath festivals without any major curbs. “We have ended Sunday lockdowns and done away with the 8pm deadline for markets. We also want festivals to be celebrated properly. Hence, the government is allowing them. But it doesn’t mean that people can turn complacent. The pandemic is far from over and, therefore, we have to continue following all the prescribed protocols to ensure that cases don’t spike again,” said Gupta. Asked about Diwali and Kali puja specifically, he said guidelines would be issued soon. "For pujas, the guidelines will be similar to those issued during Durga puja. As far as bhog is concerned, it can only be home distributed,” he said. . Among the other decisions, Gupta said coaching centres had been allowed to start classes for class 10 students. Games can be held at stadiums, but with  50 per cent capacity and swimming pools can be used only by fully vaccinated people. Marriage functions can be held with 500 guests. “Earlier, for coaching centres, students of only 18 years and above were allowed. Now, this has been relaxed further,” he said, adding that the ban on processions and exhibitions would, however,  continue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
29-10-2021||Jharkhand||28 IIT (ISM) faculty members in world's top 2 per cent scientists: Stanford University list||At least 28 faculty members of IIT (ISM) have figured among the top 2 per cent scientists in a global list compiled by Standford University. Every year the Stanford University of US releases data for the top two per cent of researchers across the world based on their research publications which are published by Elsevier’s publisher. The list of scientists prepared by Stanford University on the basis of Standardized Citation Indicators including, information on citation, overall impact of citation, etc. As per the method, all researchers are classified into 22 scientific fields and 176 sub-fields. Field- and subfield-specific percentiles are also provided for all scientists who have published at least five papers. Giving details, Rajni Singh, associate dean (IRAA) Media and branding of IIT (ISM), said the exhaustive list of scientists in various disciplines has 1,59,683 persons from across the world including notables from India like RA Mashelkar, former director-general of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research; Ahmad Kamal, pro-vice-chancellor of Jamia Hamdard University, etc. The IIT (ISM) researchers include - Ajay Mandal of Petroleum Engineering; Himanshu Gupta of Management Studies; Vineet Kumar Rai and Prashant Kumar Sharma of Applied Physics; Subodh Kumar Maiti, SR Samadder and Gurdeep Singh of Environmental Science & Engineering; Suman Dutta of Chemical Engineering; Sarat Kumar Chandra and Sekhar Chandra Dutta of Civil Engineering. Also included are - PK Jana, GP Biswas, Tarachand Amgoth of Computer Science Engineering;  GS Seth, Ranjeet Kumar Mukhopadhyay, Amron Chattopadhyay of Mathematics and Computing; V Mukherjee and Sukanta Das of Electrical Engineering; Tapan Kumar Sengupta; Subrata Kumar Ghosh and Amit Rai Dixit of Mechanical Engineering; Raghvendra Kumar Chaudhary and Sanjeev Kumar Raghuwanshi of Electronics and Communication Engineering. A maximum of four members of IIT (ISM) that are included in the list is from the Mining Engineering department including Partha Sarthi Paul, Devi Prasad Mishra, AK Mishra and Upendra Kumar Singh of the Mining Engineering department. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering Department, Amit Rai Dixit, who also figured in the list, said, “The survey has been launched by Stanford University since last year and the selection has been made on individual achievement in the field of each research publication of each scientist.” Dixit, who coordinated the project for the development of a disinfection chamber developed by IIT (ISM) during last year can destroy micro-organisms like Covid-19 using ultraviolet radiations, further said, “The inclusion of 28 faculty members of IIT (ISM) marks an achievement for IIT (ISM) in the field of research and development.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
29-10-2021||Jharkhand||Tata firms join hands to set up 41MW grid connected solar projects in Jharkhand, Odisha ||Tata Steel and Tata Power, two flagship companies of the salt-to-software conglomerate, have come together to develop a grid-connected solar project in Jharkhand and Odisha. The two companies on Friday signed a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) for a duration of 25 years to set up 41MW solar project, which will be a combination of rooftop, floating and ground-mounted solar panels. As a part of the project, Tata Power will develop Photo Voltaic (PV) capacities for Tata Steel at Jamshedpur (21.97MWp) and Kalinganagar (19.22MWp). Under this PPA, at Jamshedpur, Tata Power will develop rooftops PV with 7.57 MWp ( megawatt peak) capacity, while floating and ground-mounted capacity would be 10.80 MWp and 3.6MWp, respectively. The ground-mounted PV will be installed at the Sonar airport in Jamshedpur. Kalinganagar in Odisha will have 9.12 MWp rooftop PV capacities, and floating PV will constitute 10.10 MWp. The estimated energy generation through 41.19MWp solar project is 6,02, 80,095 kWh for the first year. During its lifetime (i.e. for 25 years), the total energy generation would be 1,40,93,61,488 kWh. Friday's announcement is yet another milestone in the common quest of both companies to become a sustainability-driven enterprise, committed to exploring clean energy solutions. In March 2021, the two companies had announced to develop a 15MW solar project at Jamshedpur. This project would generate an average of 32 MUs ( million units ) of energy per year. It will help offset  an average 25.8 million Kg of carbon-di-oxide annually. Thanking Tata Power for partnering on this  important initiative, Tata Steel  CEO and  managing director T.V.Narendran said: “Sustainability has always been a core principle that is embedded in our business philosophy and is backed by a long-term, holistic vision of achieving identified targets. We have taken several definitive steps across the value chain to reinforce our sustainability credentials. In recent past, projects on power generation from solar and non-conventional energy source have gained momentum across our operating locations. We will continue with our pursuit of clean energy solutions and expand our renewable energy footprint." Tata Power CEO and managing director Praveer Sinha said: “We are glad to collaborate with Tata Steel to help reduce their carbon footprint and reaffirm the Tata Group’s commitment towards the adoption of clean energy. Tata Power and Tata Steel have been collaborating for a long time to meet the energy requirements through cleaner means. This blended solar PV project is yet another milestone in our shared vision of a better tomorrow and we look forward to working closely with them for covering all their other plants across the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
29-10-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren: Tribal dance fest reflects honour||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday said the national tribal dance festival was an honour to communities which have been deprived educationally, socially and economically. Soren inaugurated the National Tribal Dance Festival and Rajyotsava 2021 at Raipur along with his Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel. “This is not just a dance festival, but an honour to those who have been educationally, socially and economically deprived. This is a message to the whole country that if we want, this section can also walk with us. There are departments created in their name but the community is deprived of its rights and facilities leveraged to them. I also come from a tribal community. Even if I had not been chief minister of Jharkhand, I would have attended this programme,” said Soren, and wished all the best to more than 1,000 artistes from 27 states, 6 Union Territories and seven other countries. Soren said the fest was an opportunity for all people to get acquainted with the tradition and culture of the tribal society. “Tribals will get energy from such events and they will be able to keep their civilisation and culture intact. In addition, the fair held on the campus will also showcase the amazing potential of these communities, which is naturally associated with them.” Soren heaped praise on the Chhattisgarh government for helping these communities by giving minimum support price for forest produce. “I believe that the country and the states can develop only when the villages prosper. Work should be done in the direction of increasing the purchasing power of the villagers and uplift of the underprivileged, backward, poor and marginalised section of the country,” he said. The Jharkhand chief minister mentioned the sporting prowess of tribals especially in hockey and archery and also informed about his government’s full scholarship scheme to meritorious tribal students for higher education in the UK and Ireland. During the festival, a dance competition will be organised on themes of marriage rituals, traditional festivals, harvest rituals, agriculture and other traditional methods. Artistes from Jharkhand will perform Kadsa under the marriage ceremony ritual category and Oraon and Chhau dance under the harvest ritual. Soren and Baghel jointly played thodka (tribal trumpet) at the traditional musical section of the festival. Before leaving for Raipur, Soren had announced on Wednesday evening that all departments will be hosting camps at the panchayat level as part of the “Sarkar Apke Dwar” (Government at your doorstep) programme to mark two years of his government. “The Sarkar Apke Dwar camps would be hosted at over 4,400 panchayats in the state from November 16 onwards till December 29 (when he was sworn in as chief minister in 2019) and people would be linked to welfare schemes of the state government,” Soren had said. Sources in the chief minister’s secretariat said that this year, assets would be distributed to beneficiaries in all the five administrative divisions (Santhal, North Chotanagpur, South Chotanagpur, Kolhan and Santhal Pargana) in a phase-wise manner by Soren till December 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
