30-10-2021||Jharkhand||Two-hour window for bursting crackers on Diwali ||Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board has decided to allow bursting of crackers  only for two hours from 8pm during Diwali a day after the Hemant Soren government eased lockdown curbs for the festival. Saturday's JSPCB order also allowed bursting of crackers during Chhath from 6am-8am. For Christmas and New Year's eve in December, crackers will be allowed between 11.55pm to 12.30am, said JSPCB’s member secretary Y.K.Das. He said that anyone found violating the rules would be booked under Section 188 of IPC and relevant sections of the Air Pollution Act, 1987. “The orders have been sent to all districts asking for compliance,” he said. Another official added that as per the ruling and  guidelines of the Supreme Court, the National Green Tribunal and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), noise levels of t crackers should not exceed 125 decible (DB). “Sale and use of crackers beyond 125db is prohibited in the state,” he said. A salesman at Trade Friends, one of the larger wholesalers of crackers in Ranchi,  said that all  stocks compied with  government prescribed standards. “All the crackers today come with details about  noise limits and with an announcement if they are permitted or not. Therefore, even people buying them can easily find those details on the box,” he said. This year, Ranchi district administration has permitted retail sale of crackers only  at four locations—Morabadi, Kutchery, Harmu ground and Bariatu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
30-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi councillors get Rs 5 lakh each for road building||The urban development department has allocated close to Rs 18 crore for construction of roads in areas within the jurisdiction of Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC), officials from the civic body said on Saturday, claiming that funds have been distributed among all the 53 ward councillors, deputy mayor and mayor for work in areas under their respective wards. Ranchi deputy mayor Sanjeev Vijaywargia said that each of the ward councillors in Ranchi have received a fund of at least Rs 5 lakh for constructing roads wherever they find necessary. The fund will also be used for the repair of existing roads and the laying of the drainage systems. “There are many areas within the city where there is a dire need for construction of roads. Distributing the funds among ward councillors decentralizes the process of road construction, and ensures that every ward of the city gets at least one new road,” Vijaywargia said. However, there was no fixed length of roads that has to be constructed within the city limits. An RMC official said that the idea was to improve road connectivity in areas that are in need of new roads, and there is no project aimed at constructing a set length of roads in the city. “There are many slums in the city that do not have proper roads. The construction of roads will improve accessibility of certain areas,” said the RMC official. A majority of the road construction work under this initiative will begin within the next six months, sources said.  RMC sources said tenders have also been floated for construction of roads in Argora, Pundag and areas close to the Pahadi Mandir premises. The RMC recently distributed laptops among all civic body representatives in the city to encourage the use of digital means in approving projects and sharing updates related to the status of various works done under RMC. Details of all the road construction projects undertaken in the city will also be shared online with concerned authorities by the ward councillors. Several roads in the city were dilapidated after monsoon showers, and were in dire need of repair, RMC officials said. The drainage system also needs to be improved in some areas of the city that witnessed waterlogging. Owing to the poor drainage system, many roads in the city, especially the part of VIP road connecting Argora Chowk to Shehjanand Chowk, witnessed severe waterlogging.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
30-10-2021||Jharkhand||Thousands of Covid-19 vaccine doses destroyed in Khunti fire||Several thousand doses of Covid-19 vaccines were destroyed on Saturday morning after a fire at the cold storage room of a community health centre (CHC) in Left Wing Extremism-affected Khunti district, about 50 km  south of state capital Ranchi, police said. The fire, caused due to suspected short circuit, also damaged medicines worth several thousand rupees, sources said. However, the healthcare workers deployed at the CHC managed to save at least 3,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines from getting damaged and doused the fire with the help of local residents, sources from the hospital added. However, there were no casualties. Khunti SP  Ashutosh Shekhar said that the fire broke out early in the morning and burnt almost everything kept in the cold storage room. The police, he said, have asked the electricity department to inspect the site to determine  the cause of fire . “Prima facie, it seems that a short circuit caused the fire. We have asked electricity department officials to inspect the site,” said Shekhar, ruling out any chances of foul play by rebel outfits active in the district. Khunti Deputy Commissioner Shashi Ranjan did not respond to phone calls from The Telegraph Online on Saturday. However, the officer in-charge of Arki Police Station, Pankaj Kumar, said that the deputy commissioner has directed a probe into the matter. “As of now, it is difficult to estimate the loss. Our investigation is underway and our team has already visited the spot to get a clearer picture of what happened and how much damage was caused,” said Kumar. A  source from Arki CHC said that there were limited staff members on duty when the fire broke out, but the few staff members on duty acted spontaneously and doused the fire with the help of some local residents. Covid-19 vaccines are usually stored at a temperature between  2 degrees Celsius and 8 degrees Celsius. According to sources in the health department, the electricity connection in all the vaccine storage points across Jharkhand were examined before the nationwide immunisation drive against Covid-19 was launched back on January 16. This is the first incident of fire breaking out at a Covid-19 vaccine store room in Jharkhand. In January, fire broke out at the Pune facility of vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India and caused at least five casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
30-10-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city: Offline karate event makes a comeback||Karate is all set to make an offline comeback in the steel city on Sunday. East Singhbhum District Karate Championship will be organised at the Community Centre in Sonari on Sunday. Around 100 karatekas will be seen displaying their talent during the day-long event, which is being organised by the District Karate Do Association of East Singhbhum ( DKAES) and supported by Urban Services (CSR), Tata Steel. The rules of Karate Association of India (KAI) will be followed for the championship. Kata and Kumite, according to age and belt category of participating boys and girls will be allowed. The championship will be held under the guidance of 12 qualified judges and 3 qualified referees. "The last offline district karate championship was organised in Jamshedpur in 2018. The Covid-19 pandemic had restricted the karatekas indoors although we did conduct the state championship on a virtual platform earlier this year. The karatekas of the district are happy and eager to perform at the district championship," said  Shihan L. Nageshwar Rao, secretary of Jharkhand State Do Karate Association and DKAES. "I am extremely glad to get an opportunity to perform in an offline event. Remaining indoors owing to the pandemic was very boring. I thank the district karate body for organising the event. I am looking forward to the championship," said Rahul Kumar, a young karateka from Jamshedpur. Other karatekas also expressed similar views. Champions' Trophy, Runner's-Up Trophy, 3rd Runner-Up Trophy, Best Karateka (separately for boys and girls) Trophy, medals, certificates and mementos will be handed over to the participants. Banna Gupta, minister of health medical education,  family welfare and disaster management will be chief guest during the opening ceremony at 11.30 am. Anand Menezes, Olympian and senior manager of Tata Steel sports wing, B. Marandi, area officer of Sonari Community Centre of Urban Services (CSR), Tata Steel and Amit Khandelwal, president, Marwari Yuva Manch and JSKA president R. Ravi Prasad will also grace the occasion. Sabita Mahato, JMM Ichagarh MLA and chairperson of State Pollution Board will be the chief guest during the closing ceremony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
30-10-2021||Jharkhand||Railways to operate special trains to ease chhath rush ||Considering the rush during the Chhath festival,  South Eastern Railway has  decided to run a special train between Durg and Patna. The special train will run via various stations in Jharkhand's Ranchi and Chakradharpur divisions. The train will leave Durg on November 7 while the return train will leave Patna on November 8. According to the schedule released by South Eastern Railway's Calcutta-based headquarters on Saturday the  Durg-Patna Special will leave Durg at 8.50 am and will reach Patna at 5 am , the next day. Operating in the opposite direction, Patna-Durg Special will leave Patna at 7 am and will arrive at Durg around 5 am, the next day. The special train will have two composite coaches (2AC-cum-3 AC coaches), four sleeper class and ten general second class coaches and will have stops at Jharsuguda, Rourkela, Hatia, Ranchi, Muri and Bokaro Steel City. Chhotanagpur Passenger Association welcomed the railway decision for introducing the special train. “The special train will make things convenient for passengers. The railway took a right decision by deciding to introduce the train which will pass through various stations in Jharkhand,” said Arun Tiwari, senior functionary of Chhotanagpur Passenger Association. The four- day Chhath festival, the biggest in Jharkhand and Bihar, will begin on November 8 with 'Nahaye Khaye' followed by 'Kharna' the next day . Devotees will offer obeisance to Sun God on November 10 and 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
30-10-2021||Jharkhand||Work on Bokaro cement plant from November ||Cement manufacturer Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited, a subsidiary of Dalmia Bharat Limited, will start construction of its 2MT plant in Bokaro of Jharkhand in November. A communiqué from the Jharkhand chief minister’s office said that Hemant Soren is likely to lay the foundation stone of the plant in November. G. Keerthi, Bokaro regional director of the Jharkhand Industrial Area Development Authority, told The Telegraph that 16 acres of land were allocated to the company earlier this month. “The cement manufacturer had given commitment for expansion of their existing plant during the launch of the Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy (JIIPP) in August in Delhi. The project clearance committee meeting of JIADA was held earlier this month and we had allocated 16 acres to the manufacturer at Balidih in Bokaro,” said Keerthi. A release issued by the chief minister’s office said that the 2MT plant, according to the agreement signed by the company in Delhi, will be built at an estimated cost of Rs 577 crore. The work will commence in November and the plant construction will be completed in a year. Dalmia Bharat Limited had in August this year unveiled a long-term plan to grow its cement capacity in the country and raise its manufacturing capacity to 110-130 million tonnes per annum by 2031. Dalmia Cement (Bharat) had inked three memorandums of understanding with the Jharkhand government in August to invest Rs 758 crore in the state. In addition to expanding its existing capacity of 3.7MT through de-bottlenecking, the company plans to set up a new grinding unit, taking the overall cement manufacturing capacity at Bokaro to 6.3MTPA. In line with its commitment to curb carbon emissions, the company has signed a pact with the Jharkhand government to set up a solar power plant to provide clean energy to the state. The company will further invest Rs 250 crore for the solar power plant. “At Dalmia Cement, we are committed to contributing to India’s growth story in terms of aiding the creation of world-class infrastructure, generating clean energy, and making India Atmanirbhar,” Mahendra Singhi, MD and CEO, Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited, had said during the inking of the MoU in Delhi in August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
