31-10-2021||Jharkhand||Bengali Classical singer unveils ‘Bangla Chhath Geet’||Intended at promoting Chhath songs among people, a 44-year-old Bengali Classical singer, Anindita Banerjeee has sung two Bengali songs which were launched today during a function organised at Durga Mandir Mandap of Dhanbad. The songs have been released under the banner of Studio Higher Octave of Bokaro. Each song of seven minutes was also composed by Banerjee herself. These musical compositions uploaded on the official YouTube channel of Studio Higher Octove became an instant hit among the Chhath revellers. Talking to The Telgraph Online, Banerjee said, “I have started singing chhath songs since last year. My song titled Chhath mayer koto je mahima se kiar mukhe bola jaye launched last year has received altogether 9847 k hits on YouTube.” She further added, “This year, like the previous year, I have composed and sung two songs including the one titled, Nutun kore jachhi tumay abar chatth ma tumi sara daay, and other titled Otho go he suruj dev uday hober samay holo, argh debo samay holo, have been sung in traditional folk tunes of Chhath song.” Mritunjoy Bhattacharjee, music teacher of Delhi Public School, Bokaro who directed both the song videos said, “Though this year, like last year faced a lot of difficulties in recording as well as making the videos of the songs due to Covid restrictions but by the grace of the Sun god we succeeded in coming up with the songs which have been released today.”. Banerjee wife of Barun Kumar Banerjee, a Tata Steel Sijua group mining engineer said, “Though born and brought at Bishnupur in Bengal I initially could not understand the meaning of the words of the traditional Chhath song during the initial period although the I could feel the devotion inherent in song but with the passage of time I understood the meaning of the song and decided to offer my gratitude to Sun god by singing the Chhath song.” Banerjee, daughter of Bishnupur’s famous sitarist Alok Kanti Acharya, said, ‘I initially learnt Rabindra Sangeet from Maya Sen of Bengal but after my marriage, when I shifted to Dhanbad in 1999 I learnt classical Hindi song from famous classical singer of Dhanbad, Balkishan Singh alias Munna Bhaiya for several years.” “This effort is not only a cultural awakening but it is also a heartfelt tribute to Chhath Puja the most famous and virtuous festival of Hindi language which has transcended the boundaries of language and community”further said Banerjee. “Bangla Chhath Geet  has given a cultural gift not only to the Bengali Community of Jharkhand and Bihar but also to the Bengali speaking people living in West Bengal, Assam who worship Chhath Maiya with joy and reverence,” summed up Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
31-10-2021||Jharkhand||Over 70% eligible population  partially vaccinated in Ranchi||More than 70 per cent of eligible beneficiaries in Ranchi, the worst-affected Jharkhand district in terms of Covid caseload and fatalities, have received at least one dose of vaccine against Covid-19, government data revealed on Sunday. Besides Ranchi, only East Singhbhum and Ramgarh districts have managed to inoculate more than 70 per cent of the eligible population. At least 75 per cent of the close to 7 lakh eligible residents in Ramgarh and  85 per cent of the nearly 17 lakh eligible residents in East Singhbhum have received the first dose of vaccine, highlights government data. As per the state health department, at least 15,07,282 of the over 21 lakh  beneficiaries in Ranchi have received the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19. On the other hand, as many as 6,51,400 residents here have also received the second jab. The vaccine coverage for the first dose is about 71 per cent in Ranchi, while that for the second dose is 31 per cent. The health machinery in the state is now focused on ensuring that the second dose beneficiaries are administered the jab on time. State Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Arun Kumar Singh recently wrote to health officials, directing them to intensify vaccination and claiming that timely immunisation was the most important part of overcoming the Covid-19 pandemic. The state is also set to launch door-to-door vaccination campaign in order to improve the vaccination coverage. However, the health department in Jharkhand is yet to achieve the set target of administering at least 3 lakh jabs daily. “The coverage for the first dose of vaccine is quite encouraging. We are focused on ensuring that the second dose beneficiaries also get their jabs on time,” said state epidemiologist Dr Praveen Kumar Karn, adding that several initiatives are to be taken in the days to come to encourage vaccination even in the far-flung villages. As per government data, there are a total of 2.41 crore eligible vaccine beneficiaries in Jharkhand. The state has so far managed to administer the first dose of vaccine to at least 1.49 crore residents, about 62 per cent of the total eligible population. Over 55 lakh residents, about 23 per cent of the total eligible population, have also received the second dose of vaccine. Barring Garwah, all the remaining 23 districts in Jharkhand have administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to more than 50 per cent of the eligible population. Despite having a low eligible population of 9.67 lakh, Garwah only managed to administer the first dose of vaccine to 47 per cent of this population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
31-10-2021||Jharkhand||TMH launches new facility for cardiac care||Tata Main Hospital (TMH) has introduced a new facility for cardiac care (IVUS - FFR) that helps conduct complex angioplasty procedures seamlessly. The facility was used for the first time on Saturday for cardiac cases. IVUS (Intravascular Ultrasound) helps in better strategizing angioplasty cases and ensures optimal stent deployment. FFR (Fractional Flow Reserve) is a modality to assess functional significance of coronary lesions to know whether revascularisation will be of benefit or not. With this development, TMH can now match the best hospitals  in performing complex angioplasties. TMH, a corporate hospital owned by Tata Steel,  has introduced seamless access to the hospital and its  clinics for persons with disabilities and senior citizens above 75 years for doctor consultations, diagnostics and medicines without prior appointment. TMH continues to cater to increased patient load of over 16.5 lakh OPD patients and 60,000 admissions annually with year-on-year increase of customer satisfaction and advocacy measured through a robust Net Promoter Score ( NPS ) methodology. Net Promoter Score  is a customer loyalty and satisfaction measurement taken from asking customers how likely they are to recommend product or service to others on a scale of 0-10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
31-10-2021||Jharkhand||Gumla chief of banned outift gunned down||Chief of the Gumla unit of the banned rebel outfit, Jharkhand Jan Mukti Parishad (JJMP), Sukar Oraon, was allegedly shot dead by members of his own cadre late on Saturday night at a nondescript village under Ghagra police station, police said. JJMP rebels riddled Oraon’s body with bullets while he was asleep, and fled with arms, ammunition and cash he had in his possession, sources added. Police recovered about a dozen empty cartridges from the spot. The bullets were of AK-47 and INSAS rifles, sources said. While the motive behind the murder was not clear yet, prima facie, it seems that Sukar’s aides killed him over levy. Gumla SP Ehtesham Waquarib did not respond to phone calls from The Telegraph Online on Sunday. However, an inspector rank official in the district police said that disputes over distribution of levy often led to bad blood among insurgents in Jharkhand. However, police ara not ruljng out the possibility of Oraon dying in an encounter between JJMP and CPI (M). In July, the CPI (Maoist) had issued a poster threatening to kill four JJMP operatives namely Pappu, Ravindra, Sukar and Mandu, accusing  the  JJMP of spying on their cadres for the police. Oraon was earlier with the CPI (Maoist). In 2009, he ran away from CPI (Maoist) along with weapons. He was a native of Lohardaga. As per police records, JJMP is one of 17 splinter outfits active in Jharkhand. At least 19 of 24 districts in Jharkhand are LWE-affected as per figures with the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). Members of these splinter outfits, police say, are nothing more than hired guns and thugs who have unleashed a reign of terror on  villagers in the hinterlands of Jharkhand. They are involved in trafficking children, extorting levy and even killing for sport, police say. JJMP had claimed responsibility for the killing of BJP leader Jaivardhan Singh in Latehar last year. In 2017, at least three BJP leaders were shot dead by splinter outfits in various districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
31-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: Call to promote solar power in farming||The use of solar energy in agriculture can help Jharkhand save Rs 12,465 crore and prevent carbon dioxide emission of over 36.4 million tonnes in the next 15 years. This was indicated in a document outlining a road map of energy transition in the sector that was unveiled by state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh at a function in Ranchi on Friday. Considering that Jharkhand is a predominantly agricultural state despite its industrial tag, the Centre for Environment and Energy Development (CEED), Jharkhand Renewable Energy Development Agency (JREDA) and Central University of Jharkhand came up with the structural road map aided by constructive policy initiative, infrastructure and market support. “It’s an important document as it chalks out a strategic path for increasing agro productivity,” Patralekh said. Contrary to the popular conception that agriculture is a loss-making venture, it is actually a promising sector as it contributes 13 per cent to the state’s economy whereas it consumes less than 3 per cent of electricity, the document said, explaining why emphasis should be given on agriculture. The energy consumption in agriculture was expected to increase at an annual rate of 12.09 per cent from 2017 to 2037, the document said, adding that power requirement for the sector would go up from 256 billion units (BU) in 2017 to at least 1,987 BU in 2037. “This is a strong argument in favour of using renewable energy that can not only help manage the climate change impact caused by fossil fuel-based economies but also rejuvenate the agriculture sector,” CEED chief executive officer Ramapati Kumar said. The report noted that solar energy usage in agriculture processes will help the state add solar capacity of 4,250MW in 15 years, ending 2037-38. Solarisation of 2.34 lakh grid-connected pumps and installation of 4.05 lakh standalone off-grid solar pumps can cater to the demand of around 700MW power, it further said. “As a state nodal agency, we are committed to promote infusion of renewable energy in every sphere of economic activity,” JREDA director K.K. Verma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
