02-11-2020||As expected||Pulwama politics||The PM hits the nail on the head when he says the country could have done without the ‘unwanted statements’ given after the Pulwama attack. However, the blame cannot be selective and subjective; the entire political class — the ruling dispensation and the rivals — needs to introspect. A united, bipartisan national response to any terror attack demands a political resolve to refrain from publicly raking up issues that undermine the working and ethos of the security and strategic affairs establishment. That’s an unrealistic expectation. A perpetual election cycle makes it more so. Even the Pakistan minister’s bragging followed a poking reference to the glaring weaknesses of the Khan government by an Opposition leader.The Pulwama attack has remained at the centre of policy, security and analyses, but driven more by the polemics of nationalism. There is still not complete clarity on the how and why of it, despite the voluminous NIA chargesheet. It has named JeM’s top leadership, all based in Pakistan, as the masterminds. Any forward movement from New Delhi’s perspective, as in the 26/11 case, is not on the cards. The debate should centre on taking Islamabad to task after its self-goal. Internal politics only dwarfs the larger issue of dismantling the terror infrastructure in the neighbourhood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/pulwama-politics-164712
02-11-2020||As dense smog and haze once again envelope the northern region||Tackling straw burning||Paddy straw burning cases in Punjab rose five-fold in the beginning of October as compared to the corresponding period last year and Haryana has till now witnessed 1,000 more cases of farm fires than last year. These facts are illustrative of how divorced the government’s schemes are from the actual needs of the farmers on this score. No matter how well-meaning the strictures, ordinances, committees, policies and subsidies envisaged to reduce farm fires may be, unless they strike a chord with the majority of the agriculturists — mainly the small and marginal ones — it is difficult to stop them from striking a match to the residue.Monitoring the air quality or imposing crippling fines on the errant farmers must be supplemented by doable measures. The machinery, including Happy Seeders, at present is too costly, the subsidised machines do not cover all peasants, and buying of paddy straw briquettes by companies is too meagre. Clearly, funds provided to deal with the large-scale operation are inadequate. Imaginative ways out of this persistent problem are urgently required. While big corporates could come forward with a helping hand, a cess to pay the farmers in lieu of stubble sold on the lines of levy slapped on car sales to fight pollution is also worthy of consideration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/tackling-straw-burning-164713
