03-11-2020||That the situation in Punjab remains in a state of flux after the farm legislations passed by the Centre is evident from the letter written by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh to BJP chief JP Nadda||Captain’s letter to Nadda||The disruption of goods trains hampered the functioning of thermal power plants and it remains to be seen how the essential supplies, along with foodgrain procured this kharif season, will be transported and distributed if the lockdown gets extended amid warnings of a second wave. The controversy over farm laws saw the SAD-BJP ties under strain, with Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigning from the Union Cabinet on the ground that she was not consulted. As the CM called it a violation of the principles of federalism, the Punjab BJP chief faced assault and the meeting called at the level of the Union Agriculture Secretary to sort out the issue proved to be inconclusive. All this has added to the sense of drift.Along with Punjab, Rajasthan has also passed laws to override the Centre’s farm legislations. They will now have to be routed through the ministry concerned for presidential assent. All this has been done within the framework of the Constitution which also means the need for evolving mechanisms to find a way out of the impasse instead of heading for a confrontation. Punjab should call a meeting of all political parties and stakeholders to evolve a common stance inviting the Centre to play the moderator.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/captains-letter-to-nadda-165106
03-11-2020||IN a sign that the Covid-scarred Indian economy is limping back to normalcy||GST fillip||It’s noteworthy that despite the dip in revenue in previous months of this fiscal, the government has issued Rs 1.27 lakh crore worth of income tax refunds and Rs 70,000-crore GST refunds so far. Under the Rs 73,000-crore package announced last month, advance payment of a part of wages was made to Central government employees and cash was offered in lieu of leave travel concession. More such liquidity measures are needed to stimulate consumer demand and investment.Amid the green shoots, it will be a tall order to make the GDP growth rate turn positive as early as January-March 2021, as hoped for by the RBI. The struggling industry, particularly the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), can be firmly back on its feet only if exports and private investment return to somewhere near pre-Covid levels. Here, the government’s intervention has to be timely and facilitative. The World Bank expects India’s growth to rebound to 5.4 per cent in the next fiscal (2021-22). Need-based and time-bound stimulus can go a long way in achieving such a turnaround.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/gst-fillip-165105
