07-11-2020||A fresh surge in Covid-19 cases reported from states like Delhi and Kerala raises questions about the handling of the pandemic. It seems little heed is being paid to the warnings of a second wave during the festival season||Covid resurgence||The directive of the Supreme Court to ban or regulate the use of disinfection tunnels and the spraying of chemical or organic disinfectants on humans is welcome, but it also indicates that there is no clear view on the preventive measures. While the easing of the protocol will help in the revival of economy, basic safeguards should be in place to ward off the infection.Several countries in Europe have opted to impose fresh regulations amid the prospect of a second wave of infection. But lockdowns are said to be effective only if imposed early and require careful unlocking, which calls for deft handling of the process. That Covid-19 has become a political issue is evident from the BJP chief lauding PM Modi for his grasp of the situation while implying that Trump’s electoral setback was because of mishandling of the pandemic. It is all the more reason for the government to consult, coordinate and frame clear policies to put the country on the path of recovery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-resurgence-167199
07-11-2020||It is a tad unfair to attribute what may appear as outlandish populism in a political party’s manifesto to pure electoral adventurism. The promise made||75% jobs for locals||The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill’s potential to clear the test of constitutional correctness looks slim. There was no dearth of voices of dissent in the Assembly itself — that the proposed legislation violates the right to equality, opens floodgates of similar discrimination in the matter of jobs to Haryanvis elsewhere, goes against national integration. A former CM objected to the quota cap of any district in employment at 10 per cent. Industry leaders have been blunt about how the move could hurt the business-investor sentiment and encourage a gradual shift out of the state.A unit opting for outside talent for jobs that pay up to Rs 50,000 a month is a reflection on the state’s under-preparedness in skilling its youth. Recognising, and working on, the deficiencies seems a rational proposition. Imposing domicile, territorial and numerical conditions and expecting businesses to train under-qualified, unskilled candidates is an unrealistic projection. Such deliberation in the time of the pandemic defies logic. Job creation is a burden that weighs heavy on the government. The proposed legislation may score high on optics and intention, but the message is ambiguous for both the prospective employers and employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/75-jobs-for-locals-167198
