11-11-2020||That Aishwarya Reddy||Bright life snuffed out||The frustration and disadvantage due to the break in education is aggravated among the brilliant lot of students who desperately want to continue with their classes and score well. Their sensitive minds delve into dark depths of despair as they sense the pitiable plight of their parents scraping up meagre resources so that their dream is not cut short. The all-consuming darkness, at times, becomes overwhelming for some vulnerable teenagers. The heightened hopelessness of stressed students is ripe ground for suicidal tendencies, intensified for want of proper psychiatric care. Aishwarya’s last note sums up the poignancy: ‘Because of me, my family is facing many financial problems. I am a burden for my family. My education is a burden. If I can’t study, I can’t live.’Helplessness arising out of unaffordable smartphones, computers or the Internet — vital for online classes — is the recurring theme. That youngsters should prefer to snuff out their lives is a sad reflection on the deepening economic and digital divide. The absence of effective and supportive educational and governmental measures in this regard is worrisome. A survey revealing that only 8 per cent of households with school/college students have both a computer and an Internet connection shows that there is much to be done. So that no student is deprived of studies or pushed to the brink for lack of facilities, increasing the budget for e-learning will help plug the gaping e-gaps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bright-life-snuffed-out-168948
11-11-2020||The verdict in the closely contested Bihar elections will have its progressive significance. The results have shown that coalition politics continues to be relevant. Both the NDA and the Mahagathbandhan have done well in the state||Bihar election verdict||The NDA in Bihar had managed social cohesion, but with the BJP going past ally JDU in numbers, equations will have to ensure that there is no slide as progress depends on stability. The plight of the migrant workers who went back in large numbers after the outbreak of the pandemic also needs attention. Development projects need a big push in Bihar that has seen its options shrink after the carving out of mineral-rich Jharkhand. Whether the new government is able to open up avenues for the working class will remain critical. Infrastructure and agro-based industry will need renewed thrust for lack of employment avenues will translate into unrest.Young leaders like Tejashwi Yadav and Chirag Paswan injected freshness into the electoral arena with their energetic campaign. That despite their limitations, they picked up the gauntlet and mirrored the aspirations of a new generation will remain an encouraging feature for the polity. It also marks a stage of transition and the present arrangement may well be the precursor to a generational changeover in the state’s politics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bihar-election-verdict-168944
