17-11-2020||IT is a cause for concern that the talks between the farmer organisations and the Central Government have remained inconclusive. The Centre has tried unsuccessfully to convince the farmers that the farm legislations are in their interest. It also sought to allay apprehensions over the MSP and the mandi system on which depends the livelihood of millions. While it announced that the MSP was there this season||Stalemate over farm laws||The farmers have been insisting on letting only the goods trains ply. The goods trains helped in transporting essentials during the lockdown and blocking them not just hurts the state economically, but the country as a whole. Already, supplies to the Army are getting affected amid the onset of winter. The resumption of passenger trains should be a countrywide decision and not specific to Punjab, keeping in view the fact that train services are yet to be resumed fully. To add to this is the fear of another Covid wave.With the elections in Punjab due in early 2022, the standoff may have a bearing on the performance of the political parties. Both the SAD and the Congress have taken a firm stand on the Centre’s farm laws by opposing them, but the prolonged crisis may aggravate the state’s problems. The Bihar results might have been encouraging for the BJP, but it will need to tread with guarded realism in Punjab. The BJP is looking at the rupture of its alliance with the SAD as a grand opportunity to contest all Assembly seats, opening offices and expanding its footprint all across the state. Beyond an electoral alliance, the SAD-BJP tie-up was a social coalition and an ugly break-up should not hurt farmers’ interests and the state’s well-being.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/stalemate-over-farm-laws-171341
17-11-2020||ON November 5||Nitish dwarfed||The BJP, which narrowly missed becoming the single largest party in Bihar, has firmly established the balance of power by picking Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi as deputy CMs. This model is already operational in Uttar Pradesh, where the party had recorded a landslide victory in the 2017 Assembly elections. The key difference is that in Bihar, the deputies might function as de facto CMs, riding on their party’s dominant position. With the BJP’s high command having played a big role in the NDA’s victory, Nitish could find himself under relentless pressure from the ally’s leaders in Patna as well as New Delhi.The fact that the RJD has emerged as the single largest party leaves Nitish with very little room to explore other options. The BJP now has the luxury of taking credit for all the good work and blaming Nitish whenever things go wrong. Though the JD(U) chief stays the CM, Bihar is now essentially a BJP-ruled state. And the voters have every reason to expect special treatment from the Centre in terms of welfare schemes and development works. It could prove to be a win-win situation for Bihar residents, provided the BJP-JD(U) combine ensures a strong and stable government as well as good governance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/nitish-dwarfed-171336
