18-11-2020||Rattled by the shortage of doctors and other health staff in government facilities||Doctor’s posts go abegging||This does not bode well. The continued paucity of experts indicates a longer wait for poor patients, especially in rural areas — home to nearly 65 per cent of the population — for proper medical care on their doorstep. The reason for this dismal state of affairs is not difficult to gauge: lack of enough incentives. Though last September, the government raised the salary of MS/MD doctors from Rs 70,000 to Rs 1 lakh and the special remote area incentive from Rs 20,000 to Rs 60,000, it needs to follow up on why the hike is not attractive enough. Why has the condition deteriorated so much today from a time not too long back (2008-09) when the PPSC was rocked by the ‘jobs for cash’ scam in the recruitment of medical officers?Over the past decade, fresh post-graduates are pushing away from the public sector. The main reason is the lure of the more lucrative pay, perks and promotion avenues in the private sector or the overseas greener pastures. This need is further fuelled by the necessity of repaying the loan of medical education, the cost of which has spiralled in this period. The relatively poor diagnostic facilities and other infrastructure in government hospitals give them little scope for improving their skill sets. Punjab must spend more on healthcare to retain its specialists and, consequently, aid the ordinary citizens crying for affordable treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/doctors-posts-go-abegging-171877
18-11-2020||Criminalisation of politics has remained under judicial scrutiny over the past decade or so||Tainted candidates||Half of the winning candidates in the just-concluded Bihar Assembly elections have serious criminal cases registered against them, including those related to murder, rape and kidnapping, according to the Association for Democratic Reforms. In February this year, days after the Delhi Assembly polls, the Supreme Court had ordered political parties to upload details of pending criminal cases against their candidates and specify reasons for preferring the tainted ones to those with an unblemished record. The court had also asked the Election Commission to report non-compliance of this order. It seems no such exercise was carried out during the Bihar polls.There is no gainsaying that candidates accused of committing or plotting heinous crimes should have no place in the electoral arena, even if they have high winnability and popularity. Such politicians have to be kept out of the fray till they are cleared of all serious charges by the court. Any dilly-dallying by Parliament on this issue is uncalled for. The legislature needs to play its constitutional role by framing a law that provides for the weeding out of criminal elements at the pre-poll stage itself. Voters can make an informed choice only if they are fully aware of the candidate’s background. Political parties’ reluctance to commit themselves to electoral reforms has proved to be a major stumbling block so far. They must be held accountable, at long last, for banking on their black sheep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/tainted-candidates-171875
