20-11-2020||The standoff between the protesting farmer unions and the government over the restoration of rail traffic in Punjab needs immediate attention. The farmers have been demanding that the movement of goods trains be restored first in the state. The Railways||Lifting rail blockade||The Railways played a vital role when the lockdown came into effect. Not only did it keep the supply chain intact, it also plied special trains to ferry migrant workers to their destination though there was a row over the ticket fare, with several state governments coming forward to foot the bill. The Railways also made use of the pandemic to rearrange its priorities by making PPE kits, ventilators and providing coaches to serve as isolation centres as has now happened at Shakur Basti in Delhi in view of the fresh surge in Covid cases. All this has meant additional expenditure for the Railways that has seen an organisational restructuring. With train ticket prices surging, the transporter may well cede ground to road and air transport.Restoration of transport services remains integral to resumption of normalcy post lockdown. Curtailing it will also amount to restricting people’s right to free movement. The disruption of supply — of men and material — will not only affect welfare schemes but also hamper the resumption of economic activities. The state government as well as the Centre need to find a way out of the logjam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/lifting-rail-blockade-173057
20-11-2020||Delhi is sinking deeper into the Covid quagmire. The national capital’s biggest single-day case spike and the highest single-day death toll so far have both been reported this month. Over one lakh new coronavirus cases were recorded between November 1 and 16. After the outbreak of the pandemic in March||Delhi’s Covid crisis||How horribly bad things were in the city-state had been red-flagged by the case of Covid-positive cop Amit Kumar, who was forced to knock at the door of one hospital after another in May. The 32-year-old died after he failed to get timely medical attention. Six months later, the situation seems to have only worsened. The blame game between the AAP government and the BJP-ruled municipal corporations has hit medical services. Resident doctors of hospitals run by the MCD (North) had to resort to a hunger strike in October over the non-payment of salaries for months together. Ironically, healthcare was one of the poll planks that had helped Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP record a landslide victory in the February elections.In September-October, experts had warned of a fresh surge during the festive season amid a drop in air quality, partly due to stubble burning in neighbouring states. However, the mismanagement being witnessed now has laid bare the inadequacy of all the planning. State and Central governments, along with local bodies, must stop passing the buck. Covid control measures will yield little as long as agencies keep working at cross purposes. The residents, too, need to behave responsibly for their own good. Hopefully, the four-fold hike in the fine for not wearing a mask will make them see reason. Otherwise, Delhi’s failure may undermine the country’s efforts to contain the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/delhis-covid-crisis-173058
