25-11-2020||That important Army positions||Vacant posts in the Army||It is after a gap of six weeks that the Ministry of Defence has approved the posting of a regular Director General of Military Intelligence, who coordinates human resources and technical inputs on enemy movement and action along the border. Important posts of the Director General of Infantry who advises on equipment, battle worthiness, training and modernisation along with the DG of Army Aviation, in charge of flying operations, have been waiting to be filled. Promotions and postings of officers in the ranks of Major Generals and Lieutenant Generals also have been cleared after months. For a frontline force, it is only natural that its men should get their due.Some time back, the military had proposed raising the retirement age of jawans. ‘I am looking at manpower costs. Why should a jawan serve for 15-17 years when he can work for 30 years? We are losing trained manpower,’ CDS General Bipin Rawat, who is also the DMA Secretary, had said. There was also a proposal to cut the pension of those seeking premature retirement. The defence forces have been facing the task of modernisation amid a slender hike in budgetary allocation. The tension at the border, while straining resources, might as well offer an opportunity to transform the forces.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/vacant-posts-in-the-army-175361
25-11-2020||The prospects of a relatively cheap||Bolstering corona battle||The meeting comes a day after the Supreme Court, while noting that the pandemic has worsened, sought status reports from the Centre and all states on the steps taken to deal with the situation. The surge in several urban centres has resulted in governments enforcing strict measures. Uttar Pradesh is already testing Delhi residents at its border and has capped the number of wedding guests at 100, while night curfew has been imposed in four districts of Himachal Pradesh. Maharashtra has made it mandatory to undergo RT-PCR test for those who wish to come to the state from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa.The AIIMS director feels the vaccine protection could extend from nine months to a year, helping break the chain of transmission. Coronavirus will become endemic but won’t disappear, becoming a much milder disease instead. It is only by 2023, it is believed, that the infections would become lesser. That’s a long haul. Hence, the PM’s suggestion to the states against going lax on testing, to work towards lowering the positivity rate and most importantly, to chalk out detailed plans on mass usage if and when a vaccine is ready.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bolstering-corona-battle-175359
