26-11-2020||Undeniably||World is our stage||Decoding why a creative work has won a particular laurel is not easy or simple. But a couple of things could have swung things in Delhi Crime’s favour. The series stood out for nuanced performances, realistic treatment and sensible and sensitive handling of a rather difficult subject. Though it brought forth a discomfiting truth and was criticised by a few for being too partial to Delhi Police, the dramatisation can’t be accused of pandering to a western eye or any other gaze. Mehta describes it best, ‘It was born out of sadness, anger, frustration, and ultimately, compassion.’The rise of OTT platforms and arrival of big players like Netflix and Amazon have consistently raised the bar and redefined entertainment, which in Bollywood parlance has been essentially star-driven. If Sacred Games and Lust Stories won Emmy nominations last year, this year too more than one Indian web series were in contention in different categories. Indian web series are fast acquiring a cutting edge, rivalling the best in the field. As the government decides to play moral nanny and brings OTT platforms under the ambit of the Information and Broadcasting Ministry, it must bear in mind while framing rules that the makers are allowed to breathe free and creative liberty is not forsaken for grandstanding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/world-is-our-stage-175850
26-11-2020||The farmers’ agitation against the farm laws||Farmers’ march||The utter disconnect between the two sides has been a major obstacle. The protesters have tried to dictate their terms to the Centre, taking a call on which trains would ply and which won’t. The railway authorities, in turn, insisted on unrestricted and unconditional passage for all trains. Both the state government and the Railways incurred heavy losses due to the disruption of rail services. Earlier this week, the farmer bodies did make a concession, albeit for a 15-day period, ending the two-month-long suspension of train movement that had hit the supply of coal, fertilisers and other essential goods to Punjab.Ruling out the revocation of the ‘pro-farmer’ laws, the Centre has been slow to gauge the gravity of the situation. In the past two months, the government has held only two rounds of talks with the farm unions; on both occasions, the deliberations remained inconclusive. On October 14, the farmers walked out of a meeting with the agriculture secretary, complaining that no minister was present to hear them out. Finally, on November 13, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar met the union leaders, but to no avail. The Centre needs to proactively engage with the stakeholders and address their concerns. And the protesting farmers should realise that they might run out of popular support soon if they are perceived to be a public nuisance and a disruptive force. Confining themselves to the negotiating table, instead of blocking rail tracks and roads, is their best bet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/farmers-march-175849
