01-06-2020||Jalandhar||Sewage, industrial waste flood roads in Kalia Colony||As industries have restarted operations in Focal Point areas, woes of residents residing in Kalia Colony too have begun to resurface.The residents said since the lockdown there was no overflow of sewage in their area. Now that factories have reopened, the chemical-laced sewage water has started flooding roads.Ankur Gupta, a resident of Kalia Colony, said: “Red-coloured smelly water is overflowing from our sewer almost every day, making our lives hellish. It used to happen earlier too but as the industries were closed due to lockdown, we did not face the problem then. It is now about 10 days since the problem has started affecting us again.”Dinkar Sehgal, another resident of the colony, said: “There is already the threat of coronavirus and flowing of industrial waste into the residential colony has made the environment more unhygienic for everyone. We have met the councillor and even MC officials but to no avail.”The area councillor, Sushil Sharma, who resides in the same colony, said: “Today was the worst day for residents of the colony. Dirty water was flowing outside my house also. Even now, there are around 30 residents standing outside my house complaining about the issue. I have talked to the Commissioner and the Mayor about it but they have no solution. I have told them that it is unfair to punish the residents in such a way and they should ask industrialists in Focal Point areas to set up their own sewage disposal system. The domestic sewage line should not be taking their effluent. It is illegal and is being done owing to political pressure. Tomorrow, I have a meeting with the Mayor over the issue and will try to sort it out.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sewage-industrial-waste-flood-roads-in-kalia-colony-92626
01-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||Poor condition of road irks residents||Jalandhar, May 31As the movement of people for work and other activities has started in the city, the authorities concerned have started receiving complaints regarding poor road infrastructure.Residents of Green Wood Avenue, near the hockey stadium, Mithapur, which falls in ward no. 28, here, have complained about the dilapidated condition of the main road that leads to their locality due to which the residents have been facing difficulties.They said despite giving repeated complaints to the area councillor, MLA and Municipal Corporation officials concerned, no concrete efforts had been taken to resolve the issue.Talking to this correspondent, Ramandeep Singh, a resident of the area, said the entire stretch had been lying in a poor condition since the past two-and-a-half years.“On many occasions, residents had written letters to the MC, area councillor and had met MLA Pargat Singh requesting immediate repair of the road, but nothing has been done so far.”“We understand that demanding the repair of the road during the pandemic seems bit unfair, but the monsoon is arriving soon and it would be difficult for us to pass through the potholed road accumulated with water,” he added.He said even street lights in the area had been installed after residents contributed money from their own pockets.“We were tired of demanding street lights, hence we decided to get it installed on our own,” he rued.Another resident Gurjeet Singh said the road had completely worn out, leading to an uneven surface scattered with stones all over. “Even commuters face a tough time while driving their vehicles. During rain, people have to wade through accumulated water and slush on the road, posing risk to their lives. The elderly face a lot of inconvenience while crossing the stretch,” he said.He said when they contact MC officials, they always say that a tender had been floated and they would soon start the repair work but the reality was that the MC had failed to take notice of many such roads in various localities of the city. The civic body had not even carried out any survey related to civic amenities in city.Area councillor Balraj Thakur said as the work of laying water pipeline in the area was stopped midway due to the lockdown, the construction work of the road got delayed. He assured that the work on the road would be done at the earliest.Meanwhile, MC XEN Rahul Dhawan said a list of all such localities had been prepared by the MC. “A few contractors have been working at the moment due to the Covid-19 outbreak, so we had first begun to repair commercial roads. Soon, we will cover residential areas too,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/poor-condition-of-road-irks-residents-92627
01-06-2020||Open House||Resumption of flights may undo progress made||Airlines should take strict precautionsCivil Aviation in India has been one of the worst-hit business sectors in the wake of coronavirus pandemic. With gradual easing of lockdown restrictions, the Centre's decision about partial and conditional resumption of domestic flights despite surging cases of infection is right. This well-conceived step will help in economic rebound, rescue the cash-strapped and debt-ridden airlines from further crisis a la Jet or Kingfisher, and facilitate the return of thousands of desperate people stranded away from their homes and workplaces in various states across the country. But the new move proved a damp squib on the opening day, with chaos and confusion prevailing at the airports and the cancellation of several flights, which left hundreds of people disappointed, courtesy state governments' differing institutional/home quarantine protocols for all domestic flyers, official apathy and an incredible flip-flop on the management of operational issues. Scared of viral transmission, a majority of people are reluctant to go to crowded airports. Though the Aviation Ministry has prescribed price bands for fares, air travel will resume in a slow, careful and tightly phased manner. The airlines should take strict precautionary measures to make the environment safe and comfortable for passengers. In the current scenario, government financial support and consumers' confidence are essential to sustaining commercial viability of the aviation industry.DS KangAn Ill-timed and unwarranted moveThe move of starting the Jaipur-Adampur-Delhi flight is ill-timed and thus unwarranted. While the state is struggling to cope with Covid-19 pandemic, it will add unnecessarily burden on already overstressed administrative machinery of all stakeholders. In case of emergencies, special flights can be arranged to facilitate movements from one point to the other with strict compliance of social distancing norms and lockdown discipline. The flights can be resumed once the spread of pandemic starts receding and average position stabilises across interconnected states of destinations. After all, air connectivity in normal circumstances is a positive sign of economic prosperity.Jagdish Chanderthe decision will prove to be failureThe Ministry of Civil Aviation has been robust in announcing the start of domestic flights in India, keeping in mind the restrictions and relaxations of Lockdown 4.0. In India, the corona cases have increased, enumerating 83,004 on May 27, 2020. One reason for this is minimal regulations to check on the influx of migrant workers through Shramik Special trains. The government has taken a nominal step for the regulation of corona spread in the form of Aarogya Setu App, to monitor and screen positive cases in vicinity. However, blatant violations of the procedure and narrow escapes were witnessed. Freshly released guidelines for domestic flyers (asymptomatic passengers) will be allowed to go with advice to self-monitor health for 14 days. On developing symptoms, they should inform the District Surveillance Officer (DSO) or the state/national call centre on 1075. Those on business trips and a negative report shall be quarantined for seven days. However, this is completely voluntary and does not carry any serious repercussions. The Delhi-Adampur flight scheduled on May 24, 2020, saw failure for turn-up of six passengers. Hence, starting flights between Jaipur-Adampur-Delhi, will prove to be unsuccessful.Pahul SondMove doesn’t augur well for peopleThe Covid-19 induced lockdown and thereafter, the clamping down of the curfew in the state of Punjab and all over India sent shock waves all around. No one can deny the fact that almost every sector has suffered a heavy loss. The civil aviation sector, too, got a deadly blow. It does not mean the current regime at dispensation is entitled to take a hasty decision to resume flights at the state level and at the national level. The financial loss of any kind can be made up with the passage of time. But once the precious lives of worthy aviation personnel and passengers are lost, the loss may turn out to be irreparable. So, the move of our worthy law makers and deemed rulers does not augur down well with its own people. Observing and analysing the spike in the range and domain of Covid-19 cases in the aftermath of lifting of certain restrictions, I can firmly say that the resumption of the Jaipur-Adampur-Delhi flight services may prove to be Achilles heel for all of us. Undoubtedly, specific precautions and strict norms are being followed by the staff and the passengers. Even then, the threat looms large over our heads. In this scenario, how can the government justify its decision to give a green signal to air services? A single symptomatic case is enough to spoil the concerted efforts of hard working and dedicated corona warriors. Moreover, contrary to the official announcement, the 90-seater SpiceJet received only six passengers on the day of resumption of the state aviation services. The government should wait for some more days before taking any concrete decision. It is the moral duty of the citizens also to back the elected representatives to the hilt for their own welfare and for safeguarding their fellows. Let us all unite and take a vow to work in a coordinated manner to bring our country back on the track of progress and prosperity.Simranjeet Singh SainiAirlines must observe strict protocolsPunjab has done a commendable job to contain the virus. Now, resuming air travel is a good move by the state government. The Centre has already issued guidelines for domestic travel, advising passengers to download Aarogya Setu app on their mobile devices and is asking states to ensure thermal screening at the departure point of airports. The air passengers should always wear a face mask while travelling because it is vital. Besides, maintaining social distancing and minimum touch must be followed. Vulnerable persons such as the elderly, pregnant ladies and passengers with ailments are advised to avoid air travel. Airlines must observe strict protocol because any spike in infections may jeopardise future operations.Saahil HansResuming air travel is welcomeResuming air travel is welcome. The airlines authority must consider the importance of maintaining social distancing. If the airlines could survive without any show for 60 days, they can very well manage with 33 per cent less capacity. With middle seats being occupied, physical contact is certain. Airlines must be stringent regarding the screening of passengers. Infrared thermometers should greet domestic passengers arriving at the airport.Shailja ThakurGovt’s plan sure to fall flat on its faceMy jaw dropped when I read the plan of the government which is sure to fall flat. The timing for such an announcement couldn't be more inappropriate. Right now, with curfew relaxation and the opening of the markets, I for one feel quite uncomfortable stepping out of the house unless it's an absolute must. Though we have to learn to overcome this fear by following precautions, we cannot be certain if each and everyone is toeing the safety norms. Life is not going to be the same for a few more months. Hence, the very idea of starting a flight to these destinations when people are scared to travel locally would be a complete disaster. The government can concentrate on poor migrants, people who are without a livelihood, probably starving silently; however, their focus seems to be to generate more moolah even if it comes at the cost of getting infected by coronavirus. Herd immunity will need time to build up. It would be wiser if they wait till conditions are absolutely normal and one can travel without fear.Dr Manveen MannHeavens won’t fall if flights aren’t resumedPM Modi has the habit of making sudden impulsive decisions without consulting experts or other political parties about the same. Demonetisation, GST, nationwide lockdown and curfew are examples of such thoughtless decisions causing much inconvenience and misery to people, traders and industry and now, this sudden decision of starting domestic flights from a particular date without consulting the CMs of the states. So, different states are asking for different dates and keeping passengers in quarantine for different days. Though aviation and other sectors are suffering losses because of the lockdown, heavens would not fall if it is delayed by a few more days and consensus will have been reached and confusion avoided. Even public is in a fix and dilemma over the exact timings and schedule of different flights.Dr JS WadhwaQUESTIONThe MHA has announced the opening of shopping malls, hotels, restaurants and places of worship in Lockdown 5.0. Do you think it is wise to open these places of high footfall at a time when Covid positive cases are on the rise?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (June 4).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/resumption-of-flights-may-undo-progress-made-92628
01-06-2020||---||Farmers partially relieved as traders from other states buy muskmelons||Jalandhar, May 31Relaxations given in the lockdown in the past few weeks have brought partial relief for muskmelon growers.Now, 1,000 trolleys have reached the main Roopewal mandi in Shahkot where traders from eight states are buying their produce. Though the situation this year is not as good, the farmers have said that it has improved a bit as compared to the past few weeks.The farmers have said while earlier they were getting buyers only from Punjab, now some old traders had also started taking their produce directly or indirectly.“They have established their contacts through some middlemen here and have made bulk purchases of muskmelon directly from farmers in the fields this year,” said Joga Singh, a farmer and sarpanch of Chak Chela village in Shahkot.The farmer said in the beginning, the price of the fruit was Rs8-9 per kg and now, it has fallen to Rs5-6 per kg. “We are okay with the price as it had dipped down to Rs3-4 per kg around this time last year. We do not expect a further dip in the price as the area under muskmelon has fallen this year. Many farmers have shifted towards maize cultivation as they feel that it is a more remunerative crop,” said Fakir Singh from Seechewal village.According to the data of the Horticulture Department, muskmelon has been sown on 2,587 hectares and watermelon on 866 hectares this year. As of now, varieties, including Madhu and Golden Glory, are being sold for Rs15-20 kg in retail. Bobby variety is being sold for Rs20-25 per kg.Dr Naresh Kumar, Deputy Director, Horticulture Department, said, “We ensured a hassle-free movement of muskmelon traders from Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttarakhand and other states.” As part of the planning to check the Covid spread, market committee officials split the main Roopewal village mandi in Shahkot into four big venues to maintain social distancing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-partially-relieved-as-traders-from-other-states-buy-muskmelons-92629
01-06-2020||Jalandhar||State IMA seeks rollback of fee hike||The state unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) through its president Dr Navjot Singh Dahiya and general secretary Dr Paramjit Mann in a press release have condemned the exorbitant fee hike for medical students in the state.The IMA office-bearers maintained that the fee hike of such magnitude would virtually play a havoc with the medical education by causing scarcity of medical professionals, which would ultimately hit the healthcare services by making both medical education as well as access to the healthcare services out of the reach of the common man.“It is a paradox that while the whole world is passing through the Covid-19 pandemic and there is emergent need to promote medical education and research but the exorbitant hike in fee for the medical students will hinder parents to get their wards to go for expensive medical courses,” said Dr Dahiya. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/state-ima-seeks-rollback-of-fee-hike-92801
01-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||‘There is an urgent need to address the challenges of e-learning’||Jalandhar, May 31Amid the pandemic, the structure of schooling and learning, including teaching and assessment methodologies, have been completely changed.Rachna Monga, principal, Sanskriti KMV School, said as e-learning is ‘new normal’, there is an urgent need to address a few serious challenges pertaining to quality and effectiveness in online learning.The way schools have been conducting online classes right now is not what we call a systematic approach. Internet speed, technical issues, data problem and other problems have been troubling parents and teachers since the first day of online classes. Imposing hard and fast rules won’t work. We need to have a proper structure, technology, internet connectivity and other gadgets to ensure quality education. — Rachna Monga, Principal, Sanskriti KMV SchoolShe said there is no doubt that school principals and teachers across the country deserve appreciation for their swift response to the pandemic amid the lockdown restrictions. Their willingness has resulted in a spate of online classes, motivating learners to continue with their academics and other co-curricular activities.However, as there is no certainty when things are going to be normal and as the government has been asking them to learn to live with the virus, there is a need for a more holistic approach, she added.“The way schools have been conducting online classes right now is not what we call a systematic approach. Internet speed, technical issues, data problem and among other problems have been troubling parents and teachers since the first day of online classes. Imposing hard and fast rules won’t work. We need to have a proper structure, technology, internet connectivity and other gadgets to ensure quality education”, said the principal.She added that it is time they need to opt for research and analysis on how to give overall personality development using technology. “The best brains of our country must develop some system where the rounded development of personality takes place and it provides opportunities for interaction and hand-on experiential learning,” she said.On being asked how she has been managing to keep the morale of the staff and students high during the pandemic, the principal said she had made yoga and meditation mandatory for all teachers and students. “The online classes began with meditation at 8 am followed by academic classes. This has been introduced to boost learning and ease stress among students as well teachers,” she added.On post lockdown plans and strategies, she said she plans to open the school in phases.“First, we will call all teaching and the non-teaching staff. From July 10, we plan to deliver lectures to students straight from our classes as we have the availability of smart boards in all classes. Thereafter, we plan to call students of senior most classes — XI and XII. We need to first educate senior students about maintaining physical distancing and following precautions,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/there-is-an-urgent-need-to-address-the-challenges-of-e-learning-92630
01-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||Regaining glitter in jewellery business to take some time||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 31Amit Chopra, owner of Leader Jewellers, feels that the current situation due to the corona outbreak in different parts of the world is certainly affecting the jewellery business in a big way, but he is hopeful of some normalcy in the coming months.On a daily basis, 60-70 per cent customers are visiting our store. But normalcy will return once customers, especially women, visit the market without fear. These days, most of our customers are those who could not purchase ornaments during marriages in the lockdown months. The usual customers arestill missing. — Amit Chopra, owner of Leader JewellersWeddings, one of the biggest drivers of gold purchases, usually happen in summer, but this year most functions have been postponed due to the lockdown.Some local jewellers, however, also admitted that they are prepared to witness the worst sales this year. As per the market trends, the jewellery business has plunged to its lowest.Chopra said,” On a daily basis, 60-70 per cent customers are visiting our store. Both buying and selling of gold is taking place, but the normalcy in the market will be back once customers, especially women, visit the market without much fear. These days our most customers are those who couldn’t purchase ornaments during marriages in the lockdown months. The usual customers are still missing.”The leading dealers rued that there is no immediate relief for the industry. Even if the shops have been allowed to reopen, buying gold jewellery won’t be a priority for people. It will be difficult to bring back customers to showrooms.The owner of Shree Ganpati Jewellers, near Company Bagh Chowk, said, “Most customers are visiting to take an opinion of the market and enquiring about the prices. On a daily basis, seven-eight customers visit the shop and hardly anyone makes the deal. Earlier, nearly 10-15 customers would come just for the purchase. The jewellers are also concerned over the rising prices of gold in the market. The price per 10 gm has crossed the 45,000-mark, which was around Rs 34,000-Rs 38,000 when the lockdown was announced.”Meanwhile, customers are of the opinion that no major purchase should be done amid the hiked prices. “My daughter’s wedding was on April 26, but we used our traditional jewellery purchased years ago. The complete shopping is still pending. As the gold price has witnessed a sharp increase, I am buying only required ornaments for gift,” said Ratan Singh, a customer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/regaining-glitter-in-jewellery-business-to-take-some-time-92631
01-06-2020||Amritsar||55-yr-old found killed in Attari||‘Give atta, dal to middle class’Jalandhar: In a letter to Ram Vilas Paswan, Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Mayor Jagdish Raja has urged the minister to consider middle class families under the Right to Food Act amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The Mayor in the letter has said that 35 per cent of the needy people are covered under the Act but people from the middle class have also got affected in the crisis. The Mayor in the letter has requested the minister to provide atta and dal to middle class segment of society. At this time 70 per cent people need help, the Mayor stated. Simran, a private school teacher, said: “The business of her husband has been badly affected during the crisis. It is difficult for them to make both ends meet”. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/55-yr-old-found-killed-in-attari-92632
01-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Absconding tenant booked in NRI couple murder case||Phagwara, May 31The Phagwara police have booked the killer of a Canada-based NRI couple, who was reportedly found murdered with sharp weapons at their residence in Onkar Nagar here on late Saturday night.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Satinder Singh on Sunday visited the crime spot and said the killer had been identified as Jagdev Singh, alias Jassi Dholi, a resident of Nangal Colony Chachoki. He was a tenant of the deceased.The SSP said the killer was absconding since Saturday morning and police parties were dispatched to Rajasthan, Haryana and Delhi to nab the killer. SHO (City) Onkar Singh Brar said the victim couple had been identified as Kirpal Singh Minhas(67) and his wife Davinder Kaur (65).He said the couple came to Phagwara from Canada in November 2019 for a few months and had been stuck here due to the lockdown. They were planning to return back. The SHO said though the room of the deceased was seemed to be ransacked but nothing was found missing.Meanwhile, the SSP said the killer was a tenant of the victims and did not pay rent for the past several months. The police have registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC and kept the bodies in the mortuary of the Civil Hospital. The police had been searching for the absconding tenant, the SSP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/absconding-tenant-booked-in-nri-couple-murder-case-92622
01-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||Migrants start moving to Ludhiana to catch special trains||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 31As no Shramik trains are being operated from the city railway station currently, migrants stranded here have started moving to Ludhiana.Migrants in large numbers could be seen at the bus stand daily to board buses to Ludhiana. As the intra-state bus services resumed from May 20 onwards, buses are plying to various districts on a daily basis.Gurdeep Singh, a supervisor at the bus stand ticket counter, said, 25 buses today ferried passengers to Ludhiana. The migrants failing to board Shramik trains in Jalandhar and Amritsar are considering Ludhiana as the last escape to return to their towns in UP and Bihar.As per the directions of Transport Minister Razia Sultan, only 50 per cent occupancy is allowed in buses.Yogesh Yadav, a native of Gorakhpur, who was residing at Bhogpur here, said, he did not receive any registration message from the administration here to board the special train. “One of my friends in Ludhiana told me that special trains are running from Ludhiana as well, hence without wasting a minute I immediately reached the bus stand to board a bus,” added Yogesh.Prashant Kumar, another daily wager, who along with some of his friends had arrived at the bus stand from Amritsar, said they didn’t have any means of survival left here, so after waiting for almost a week here they’re expecting to board a special train from Ludhiana. Even after the relaxations in the lockdown 4.0, most migrants rued that they couldn’t get work here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/migrants-start-moving-to-ludhiana-to-catch-special-trains-92623
01-06-2020||---||Now, get DL on same day||Jalandhar, May 31In a major citizen-centric initiative aimed at facilitating people of the state, from June 1, the state government will deliver driving licences (DLs) to applicants on the same day when they would be applied.Secretary, Regional Transport Authority ( RTA), Barjinder Singh, said from June 1, the Transport Department would be resuming a number of services for people.He said from now onwards, learner’s licence, permanent driving licence, renewal of licence and duplicate DL would be issued on the same date when they would be applied.Singh said in the first phase, 30 learner’s licences would be issued to applicants 15 minutes after they apply for them on the same day on the driving track, provided all documents were complete.For making permanent licences, 20 slots had been kept. He said after the perusal of documents and test, the licence would be issued to the applicants on the same day between 3pm to 5pm.“If anyone wants to get it delivered at home, he would also have the option of getting it on his doorstep,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-get-dl-on-same-day-92624
01-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||No containment zone in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 31While the district at one point had as many as 50 areas under containment zones, the areas have now been reduced to a mere three cluster zones.In the fresh guidelines issued on May 29, the district administration listed the three areas as cluster zones and as per directions of the Civil Surgeon, it was also declared that none of these areas will be sealed by the police.Currently not a single area in the district has been sealed as no area is under containment zone. The three areas which have been declared as cluster zones are the Industrial Area, Red Cross Bhawan and New Jawahar Nagar.Notably, the Covid cases in the district have risen from 239 on Thursday to 251 on Sunday in four days. However, cases being scattered, as per the Health Department, there is no need to put any area under the containment zone.With 251 positive till today, 209 of them have been discharged in the district.The Health Department can call for sealing of any area, depending on the Covid spread or threat being perceived in the area.Interestingly, much like changed SOPs on patient discharge, the new guidelines for cluster/containment zones have more to do with the Central guidelines on containment than actual recovery among patients.With total active cases in Jalandhar coming down to 16 on May 28, cluster zones were reduced to three localities. Parts of Industrial Area, Lajpat Nagar and Jawahar Nagar are declared as cluster zones.While the past three days have also seen cases from Dalla village (3), Rasta Mohall (2), Focal point (2), New Model House (1) and Bhargo Camp, Aman Nagar, Boparai village and New Defence Colony (1 each); the containment zone list hasn’t been revised to add any other localities or villages as yet.Civil Surgeon Gurinder Kaur Chawla said: “None of the areas in Jalandhar are either sealed or under containment zone right now. Only areas with over 15 cases can be containment zones and those with over two cases cluster zones. However, we are keeping strict surveillance in these areas. Cases at many previous hotspots, including recent ones, have been reduced. Areas can be sealed if the possibility of a threat or spread of infection arises. But at present, there is no such need. The scenario will change from time to time as per reportage of the cases.”Jalandhar Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said: “We aren’t sealing or restricting movement of residents in any area right now. This is strictly as per the department guidelines conveyed to us. However, our officials and personnel are extending all help to the Health Department. Police personnel also accompany health teams during contact tracing or surveillance, if required.”Five new cases, count 251||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-containment-zone-in-jalandhar-district-92625
