01-07-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Team finds dengue larvae in 1,242 houses, 68 fined in Hoshiarpur||A 50-member dengue investigation team, constituted by the district administration to conduct a survey and detect dengue larvae, checked as many as 15,665 houses in the past eight days. Today was the eight day of the drive against checking the spread of dengue. The team detected dengue larvae in 1,242 houses.A total of 92,148 containers were checked so far, of which 1,358 containers were found to contain dengue larvae. The larvae were destroyed on the spot by the team members. Sixtyeight challans were issued by the team of the municipal corporation.DC Apneet Riyait on Tuesday said the 50-member dengue investigation team apprised the people of how to check the spread of dengue going from house to house during the survey. On the other hand, under the Mission Fateh, people were also appealed to take precautions to protect themselves from contracting the Covid-19 disease.The DC said under the campaign, every Friday was being observed as Dry Day in the district. She appealed to the people that on this day cleaning of fridges and coolers should be done in the offices and houses. She said it took seven days for the dengue mosquito to develop from an egg, so coolers, pots, fridge trays and other water utensils should be cleaned once every week on Friday.Apneet said test and treatment of dengue, malaria and chikungunya were available free of cost in government hospitals. He instructed officials of the municipal corporation and municipal councils to continue spraying mosquito repellent in their area. “The dengue mosquito lays eggs in stagnant water, so the water should not be allowed to accumulate around the houses. Apart from this, black oil should be sprinkled in the stagnant water so that mosquito larvae are not produced,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/team-finds-dengue-larvae-in-1-242-houses-68-fined-in-hoshiarpur-106977
01-07-2020||Hoshiarpur||Three more +ve  in Hoshiarpur||With the arrival of three new positive cases in the district, the number of patients affected by Covid-19 has increased to 182. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said a case related to the district has been reported from Ludhiana. She’s a 56-year-old resident of Tanda block. The second case from PHC Paldi is of a 23-year-old youth of Kapurthala, who’s a Punjab Police employee. The third patient is a 26-year-old young man from Ward No. 14 of Hoshiarpur city. He said today 375 new samples of people suspected with flu-like symptoms have been taken. The reports of 138 samples have been received of which three were positive, taking the total number of patients in the district to 182. The total 13,078 samples have been taken in the district so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-more-ve-in-hoshiarpur-106978
01-07-2020||Jalandhar||No +ve case in last 9 days in Shahkot||The residents of Shahkot can heave a sigh of relief amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic as no positive case in the area has been reported for the last nine days, and to lift the spirits even higher, the 102 samples at the CHC have all reported negative as well.The survey work was completed in as many as six areas of the region on Tuesday. There is one micro-containment zone and four hotspots in Shahkot.Cases to remain active for 17 daysThe SMO said new guidelines were issued during video- conferencing of top officials on Monday. Accordingly, the survey days have been reduced and the days of positive casees have also been determined. “The positive cases, without any symptoms of virus, will be considered as active till 17 days after the report. Also, people without symptoms can be quarantined at home. It is now mandatory for persons, who test positive, to download the Cova app in their mobile and keep bluetooth active. Also, a team from the Health Department will contact them daily and monitor their health,” the officer said.Senior Medical Officer Dr Amardeep Singh Duggal, said: “According to the new guidelines issued by the department on Monday, the survey will now be done for 10 days in the hotspot and micro-containment zone. If a new case comes up, the survey will continue for another week.” A survey of more than 10 days has already been carried out in six hotspot areas of the block — Saidpur Jhiri, Azad Nagar, Dhudkot Mohalla, Bhoepur, Thammuwal and Talwandi Sanghera. The micro-containment zone is Bansawala Bazar and four hotspot zones are New Kartar Nagar, Bahamaniya, Bahamaniya Khurd and Sanda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-ve-case-in-last-9-days-in-shahkot-106979
01-07-2020||Jalandhar||Rs 1 lakh cheque — administration’s humble contribution for Seechewal’s work||Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Thursday said the district administration had roped in private players to provide financial assistance to individuals/non-governmental organisations coming forward for the service of society.The DC handed over a cheque for Rs1lakh under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds to renowned environmentalist Sant Baba Balbir Singh Seechewal as a minuscule contribution in the ongoing work of desilting of railway overbridge at Gidderpindi.Assuring support and cooperation to Seechewal in the desilting of railway overbridge at Gidderpindi, which would help in averting the danger of floods in the region, Thori said the administration and people could never repay the service rendered by him for this task.However, he said this money was a humble contribution by administration and private players to contribute in this Herculean task. Lauding the role played by Seechewal in desilting the 12 spans of railway over bridge in Gidderpindi, he said the desilting under the railway bridge was the need of the hour to prevent any damage by the floodwater in the coming times.The DC said Seechewal had performed this exemplary task with the support of people, which hardly have any parallel. He said the district administration would support the services of such individuals/NGOs, who come forward with such tasks.Thori said he had already asked the Sub-Divisional Magistrates of Jalandhar to identify such individuals so that their contribution could be duly acknowledged through such gestures.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-1-lakh-cheque-%E2%80%94-administrations-humble-contribution-for-seechewals-work-106980
01-07-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Don’t let your guard down, SDM tells medical stores post checking||A team comprising Jyoti Bala Mattu, SDM Dasuya; Drug Inspector Hoshiarpur Parminder Singh; Dr SP Singh, SMO Mand Pandher; SMO Dasuya Dr Davinder Puri, SHO Gurdev Singh and EO Madan Singh on Tuesday took medicals stores across different markets of town by surprise.The team set about to check if the owners of the medical stores were following the government guidelines. They confirmed whether the customers were being made to sanitise their hands before entering the shop. They also ensured that customers, shopkeepers and employees keep the mask on. SDM directed the medical store owners to assure that their shops were sanitised frequently and that nothing was overcharged. Jyoti Bala Mattu, SDM Dasuya, said during checking, all medical stores were found to be following the guidelines. “However, we directed them to not let their guard down,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dont-let-your-guard-down-sdm-tells-medical-stores-post-checking-106981
01-07-2020||Avneet KaurJalandhar||‘Salon at home’ becomes a hit amid pandemic||The stay-at-home restrictions might have been lifted but the residents are still reluctant to step out. The Covid-19 pandemic has changed every aspect of normal life - the way we work, the way our homes function, personal hygiene, the way we interact, our leisure activities, and so on.While salon services might not be essential, these are still an important step towards self-care. The need for hair-cut, waxing, threading and pedicure cannot be ruled out; neither could be delayed for a long time. Most of the women will resonate with the fact that the first thing they wanted to do after the lockdown ended was to hit the salon but had to act restraint amid rising Covid scare.The salons have adopted standard operating procedures ranging from using more disposable materials for individual clients to disinfecting high-touch point zones, scissors and other equipment every three hours to replacing the towels with non-woven fabrics. They have also been preferring to use cutting sheets, bed sheets, gowns, aprons, gloves, etc, for just one-time use. Also, from following social distancing to providing each client separate time slots, the salons have been trying their best to win the trust of their customers.However, the visitors despite having experienced a whole new salon environment believe that services at home are the best option during the unprecedented crisis. Most of the large salon chains and even those based in residential localities have too started offering home services with no additional charges. Speaking outThe dynamics of the salon industry has changed. There are new methods of working, new patterns of consumption, and new ways of interacting with people. Safety and hygiene is our top priority. — Diksha Malhotra, make-up artistWe started our home services and all appointments now need to be scheduled in advance. Customers and staff have been asked to wear face masks, and people waiting to see a barber or hairstylist will have to wait outside. — Babita, owner of Lavanya Unisex SalonI am scared to go out. Thus, I prefer home services for a simple grooming session. The beautician will come home at a time suggested by me and provide all services in the comfort of my home. — Monika Pandey, a residentI think we all have now adapted to the new normal. But customers are still wary of contracting the infection. The industry is experimenting with home services, but I don't think is a great solution either. — Pratishtha Kaura, PR professional||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/salon-at-home-becomes-a-hit-amid-pandemic-106982
01-07-2020||The dreams of thousands of youngsters of the region to study abroad will take time to take wings as uncertainty||‘Hard to predict when immigration companies will start functioning’||How has the lockdown impacted your business?The lockdown has greatly affected the IELTS and immigration businesses. Till last year, the growth in the number of visa applicants from Punjab had outpaced throughout the country, but owing to the Covid pandemic, the business of the immigration industry has been reduced to nearly 10 per cent. Even if students aspiring to study abroad want to appear for their IELTS exams to improve their score, the IELTS coaching is not possible as such coaching centres have shut down their shops for some time.Do you expect your business to pick up in the near future?Looking at the situation, it's really hard to predict when our businesses would resume or start gathering pace. Immigration business is primarily dependent on IELTS, so until immigration companies start functioning again, consultancy services would barely give any profit. Besides, we are also dependent on resumption of VFS centres and high commissions for approval. Online documentation wouldn't be possible due to the uncertainty over the promotion of Class XII and graduation students.Have you paid salaries to workers during the lockdown period?Jain Overseas has its head office in Jalandhar and regional offices in Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and other cities. To survive in the market, salaries were paid every month to our staff. Staff of around 120 people work in Jalandhar but there were no lay-offs, however, their salaries were deducted to 10-20 per cent.What are the lessons you have learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?Undoubtedly, the lockdown has taught many things. We have become more tech-savvy. We realised the value of digitalization and how it can be a saviour in any crisis situation. For the expansion of our business, we utilised the lockdown period to upgrade our Enterprise Resource System (ERP). Also, my team and I observed that with the help of digital media we can get more productivity in lesser time. Workforce can be used in multiple tasks for making deals or client engagement. Through online conferencing we reached out to our clients sitting miles away. In future also, travelling could be reduced through virtual session and meetings.What is the share of online trading in your profession?Our share of online trading is limited. We reach out to clients or gain profits through social media and websites. We increase budget for that and get a good response.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?Definitely, the pandemic situation is more of a challenge. Instead of wasting our time in pondering over it, we worked on how to bring out the best from it. We are devising new plans and strategies and drawing out plans on how we can approach our target audience in future.What are your expectations from the government?Considering immigration as the growing industry, the government needs to support it. Amid financial loss, tax benefits should be given to us. As we have to take care of our staff, rents should be waived. We are losing money every day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hard-to-predict-when-immigration-companies-will-start-functioning-106983
01-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Unequal distribution of safai karamcharis irks residents||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 30Unequal distribution of safai karamcharis in 80 wards of the city is a big issue among councillors these days. While some wards have more than 40 safai karamcharis, others have less than 10 and residents have been grappling with the problem of uncleanliness and garbage in wards where there are fewer number of safai karamcharis.Residents of Ward No. 75 have been approaching ward councillor Anita Rani because of lack of cleanliness and garbage dumps. In the ward, some of the areas of Basti Danishmanda, Basti Peer Daad garbage remains dumped for days together and is not lifted on time, residents claimed.Anita Rani, said residents had been approaching her with the problem but even she couldn’t do anything. “We have approached the MC Commissioner, Mayor, Joint Commissioner and other senior officials, but to no avail,” she said.Two days ago, Rohan Sehgal, Councillor of Ward No. 26, in a meeting with the MC Commissioner had said there were only 10 safai karamcharis in his ward, when he needed more than 20. The councillors had been raising the issue of unequal distribution of safai karamcharis in 80 wards of the city for the past two years since the Congress-led MC took charge.“Also, I raised the issue of garbage dump at Jyoti Nagar with the Commissioner, where people throw waste and foul smell emanates from the area because no proper lifting of garbage is taking place. We are planning to shift the dump from here, but for now, I have asked the Commissioner to look at the spot himself,” he said.Jagdish Samrai, councillor, Ward No. 78, and member, ad hoc Sanitation and Health Committee has only five safai karamcharis without any supervisor. He said there were areas in his ward, too, where residents were suffering from the problem of uncleanliness.Samrai, after he was appointed as councillor, had sat on a dharna against the Municipal Corporation and that, too, for a demand of providing safai karamcharis at the ward. He took a broom in his hands and started cleaning roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unequal-distribution-of-safai-karamcharis-irks-residents-106984
01-07-2020||Ajay Joshi||Parents unhappy over court order to deposit tuition fee||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 30The Punjab and Haryana High Court’s order allowing private schools in Punjab to collect tuition fee has not gone well with the parents. Justice Nirmaljit Kaur of the High Court on Tuesday stated that no matter if the schools had offered online classes during the lockdown period or not, they are entitled to collect tuition fee.In addition, the court also permitted the school management to collect admission fee in two installments. However, the schools have been restricted from increasing the fee for the year 2020-21.Most of the parents were of the opinion that charging tuition fee was irrelevant amid financial losses suffered due to lockdown. However, the school managements have welcomed the decision.Vijay Kumar, whose ward studies at Innocent Heart School, said, “When the schools are not operating then it’s disappointing that parents have to deposit tuition fees. Parents are also bearing the cost of online classes, as extra money is being spent on gadgets and internet connections. We also suffered financial setback during lockdown in our businesses so relaxations should have been provided to us.” On May 14, the High Court had allowed private schools in Punjab to charge 70 per cent fee from students for the 2020-21 academic session as an interim measure.Meanwhile, Rachna Monga, Principal, KMV Sanskriti School, said, understanding the gravity of the subject we welcome the decision made by the court as schools also have to pay salaries to the teachers who were conducting online classes since lockdown was imposed. We have around 110 teachers and other non-teaching staff who need to be paid every month. If the decision was not made we were planning salary cut. “Also parents having financial trouble need not to worry as the school management will cooperate with them,” added Monga.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/parents-unhappy-over-court-order-to-deposit-tuition-fee-106985
01-07-2020||Jalandhar||KMV enters higher league of colleges||Kanya Maha Vidyalaya (KMV) has received the top national and state-level ranking in a survey conducted by India Today. Delighted with the achievement, Principal Prof (Dr) Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that being the first and only women college to be bestowed an autonomous status, KMV has now entered the higher league of colleges across the country. The institute has gained top-ranking in courses such as BCA, fashion designing, BBA, BSc, Arts and others.The college has ranked first in Punjab in BBA and BCA programmes and has clinched the second rank in BSc (FD) and also in BSc & BA programmes. Meawhile, the BCom programme has been ranked third in the state.Dwivedi further added that the syllabi of all courses have been upgraded with job-oriented skills. New Age innovative programs with focus on skill development and effective international programmes with an option to study overseas after one or two years at KMV are some of the highlights. Moreover, the college has utilised the digital technology for its teaching and learning endeavours amid the current lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kmv-enters-higher-league-of-colleges-106986
01-07-2020||Jalandhar||Youths feel the heat after ban on TikTok||Addicted to the use of TikTok and other Chinese applications, youngsters of the city on Tuesday said it would take them some time to remove such apps from mobile phones.Youngsters said they had not removed the app but had already begun limiting its use. There are others who don’t want to stir any controversey and said they would no longer be uploading or sharing any video and would do away with it soon.“I know that once deleted, I will not be able to upload TikTok again. However, that’s not a big deal, I will look for other video-based Indian apps such as Chingari or Bolo Indya,” said Savvy, a collegiate and a TikTok buff.Some said their parents advised them to remove the Chinese apps from their cells. Parul, a teenager, said, “I was so into TikTok that I would spend at least half an hour on searching good videos daily, even during my examination. But my parents yesterday told me to delete the app as it was banned now.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youths-feel-the-heat-after-ban-on-tiktok-106987
01-07-2020||Jalandhar||‘Allow autorickshaws to ply at full capacity’||Amid protests by autorickshaw operators in the city who have been demanding removing restrictions on them regarding maintaining a load of only two persons, Manoranjan Kalia, former minister, Punjab, has come to their aid.Questioning the Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for allowing buses to ply at full capacity of 52 passengers, Kalia has asked that if the bus operators could be given that liberty, then why were the restrictions for three-wheeler drivers still in place.Taking sides with autorickshaw operators, the ex-minister said: “Most of the three-wheelers have been taken by their owners on loan. It is impossible for them to pay the installments of loan if they are allowed to take only two passengers on a route”.Kalia demanded from the state government that it should do away with the condition of carrying of two persons in a three-wheeler. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/allow-autorickshaws-to-ply-at-full-capacity-106988
01-07-2020||Our CorrespondentPhagwara||Fuel price hike: Sporadic protests by Congress  workers||Congress MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal on Monday led the party’s ‘Speak Up Against Fuel Hike’ campaign accusing the government of extortion and sought an immediate rollback.Congress and Youth Congress Activists sat on a dharna outside the SDM office and submitted a memorandum to SDM Pawitra Singh in the presence of DSP Paramjit Singh. Sohan Lal Banga, Improvement Trust Phagwara chairman, Mohan Lal Sood, Punjab SC Land Development & Financial Corporation chairman, BCC president Sanjeev Bugga, market committee Phagwara President Naresh Bhardwaj, headlined the dharna.Addressing the Congress activists, Dhaliwal said, “Since the lockdown on March 24, the government has raised petrol and diesel prices 22 times, setting a new example of extortion from people.” He also alleged that the government had increased price of diesel by Rs11 per litre and petrol by Rs9.12 per litre and has garnered crores by hiking excise duty on crude oil in the last three months at a time when globally the prices are falling.Meanwhile, Punjab Agro Industrial Corporation (PAIC) chairman Joginder Singh Maan led another dharna of the Congressmen at Kapurthala and submitted a memorandum to the ADC Kapurthala on Monday. Apart from this, Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary, former Punjab Youth Congress president and Phillaur Assembly in-charge, on Monday, frontlined the protest along with local Congress leaders in front of the All-India Radio (AIR) station here in Goraya. The leaders also submitted a memorandum to the SDM Phillaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fuel-price-hike-sporadic-protests-by-congress-workers-106989
01-07-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Manage knee pain with effective home measures, says expert||“Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, patients suffering from knee pain can manage with effective home measures. They should consult a doctor only in unavoidable circumstances,” said Dr Gagandeep Gupta, orthopaedics and joint replacement surgeon at the Ojas Hospital, as he addressed a webinar comprising different age groups.The webinar revolved around people who experienced physical pain such as that of joints, knee pain, backache etc. amid these hard times, as they were locked in at their respective dwellings.Elaborating on the reasons, he said there could be three. Firstly, the main reason for knee pain was overexertion at home, as people indulged in such activities at home which they were not used to before, he informed. Gardening, household cleansing among other chores due to unavailability of domestic help, he pointed out could be a key factor.The second reason is injuries endured due to falls and twisting injuries of knee and ankle due to performing unaccustomed activities, said Dr Gupta. The third reason largely applies to the senior citizens suffering from osteoarthritis. As their main activities of routine walking, physiotherapy was halted during the lockdown, they began experiencing the pain, he said.Delving into the home treatment, he said pain related to overexertion and injury is intermittent or immediate rest. “A patient shouldn’t keep on performing their activities for prolonged hours. If the pain doesn’t settle with this, they should do some hot fomentation, apply painkiller gel, crepe bandage, which can also provide some relief. Others can settle with common painkiller tablets such as crocin etc.”, he said.In rare cases, patients may consult their family physician, physiotherapist, or an orthopaedic surgeon, asserted Dr Gupta.However, patients suffering from the pain of osteoarthritis need to take some extra precautions along with these general measures, he advised. Those having knee pain should not sit cross-legged, especially on the floor, squatting position, and climbing stairs unnecessarily. Patients must sit on a relatively higher surface for prayers or any other work, and avoid squat toilets if possible, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/manage-knee-pain-with-effective-home-measures-says-expert-106990
01-07-2020||Nakodar||Man held with illicit liquor||PSPCL JE hangs self to deathMahilpur: A JE of the PSPCL committed suicide on Tuesday morning by hanging himself with the fan in the old PSPCL office, Mahilpur. JE Harjinder Singh (53) of Bham village, was holding the charge of JE of Nangal, Baghaura, Makhangarh and Bham feeders. He left from home in Bham village for the old office where electric meters were kept. The incident came to light when another employee reached the office. He saw him hanging and reported the incident to higher officials who informed the police. The body was taken in possession and further proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC were recorded on the statement of Inderjit Kaur, wife of the deceased. The body was sent to Civil Hospital, Garhshankar, for autopsy. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-held-with-illicit-liquor-107008
