01-05-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar includes 16 new coronavirus cases, district’s tally cross 100-mark||Jalandhar reported 16 new coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the district’s tally to 105---the first district to breach the three-figure mark in the state.Six of the new cases were contacts of the city Mayor’s OSD who was diagnosed with the infection last month.Two men, ages 50 and 43, from Jalandhar Cantt, a 59-year-old man from Guru Amardass Nagar, a 50-year-old man from Baldev Nagar, a 46-year-old male from Indira Colony and a 45-year-old woman from Urban Estate, Phase 2, all tested positive.One person---a 58-year-old woman from Rampur village in Noormahal--had recently returned from Gurdwara Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded. A 32-year-old man who is a resident of Rama Mandi took a recent trip to Rajasthan. Two of those--a 47-year-old man from Lamma Pind and a 26-year-old man from Garha’s Army Enclave, Garha---who tested positive were contacts of previously diagnosed patients.Six of the 10 were new cases, meaning that none of their contacts had previously tested positive.The others who were diagnosed with the virus were a 55-year-old woman from Basti Sheikh, a 19-year-old woman from Gujjarpal Nagar, 21 year-old woman who lives near DAV College, a 15-year-old man from Sangal Sohal village, a 25-year-old male resident of Wadala Chowk and a 60 year-old woman from Model Town.Meanwhile, the list of containment zones in the district continues to swell. Twenty-seven urban pockets and four rural areas of the district are already containment zones.This is the first time Model Town, Nurmahal in Rampur, Sangal Sohal village, Dhina village in Indira Colony, Wadala Chowk, Baldev Nagar have reported cases.Friday’s development means that district authorities would expand their containment zones to include these new areas.The central government named Jalandhar among Punjab's three red-zone areas for coronavirus. The other two red-zone areas in the state are Ludhiana and Patiala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-includes-16-new-coronavirus-cases-districts-tally-cross-100-mark-79014
01-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||He devotes free time to old hobbies||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 30Away from his routine golf sessions and daily morning and evening walks, 75-year-old Col Kuldeep Singh Dosanjh (retd) has been devoting free time to his old hobbies. Dosanjh, who likes reading, writing, music and playing golf, has been utilising each moment of the lockdown to do something constructive. To keep himself fit, he daily scales staircases to his terrace two-three times in the morning and evening."Because of the lockdown,I stopped going for the morning walk in the nearby park. However, a little change in the normal routine is enough. I wake up at 5.30 am and thereafter, I walk on the terrace. Looking at the clear sky makes me realise how the halted human activities have impacted the nature beautifully," said Col Dosanjh, who was commissioned into the Indian Army in 1972 and took retirement in 1997. Before joining the Army, he was a teacher in a city-based college.Utilising the self-isolation period effectively, he wrote his seventh book, 'Mirage- A Nomads Travelogue'. Besides, he has written three Punjabi books. To help students crack the Indian Army entrance interview, he penned a book on the Service Selection Board. After retirement, he also served as principals of Army Public School, Kapurthala and Amritsar.He said, "Worrying and doing nothing in this tough phase will not help us in any form. Instead, we should focus on making the best out it. The lockdown phase should be used in cultivating new skills and hobbies."A resident of Model Town area, Col Dosanjh resides with his wife who equally supports him in writing on different subjects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/he-devotes-free-time-to-old-hobbies-78896
01-05-2020||Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal||‘Defeat crisis through positivity, strong willpower’||BEING a former IAS officer, I know the ins and outs of administrative works. The Covid-19 pandemic has changed the lifestyle and habits of people. It has come up as a challenge for the mankind, but can be defeated only through positivity, strong willpower and by helping each other. I believe one should work in a team against this crisis leaving political differences behind, as this is not the right time to play politics. Instead, we need to handle the situation definitely. I am organising community kitchen in front of my Phagwara residence to provide food for around 10,000 poor people every day. My main focus has been on the marginalised. We have 70 per cent blue card families in our constituency and we make sure each one of them gets ration and supplies, so that they do not have to face any problem.I feel migrant labourers in the city are the worst affected. They have lost their livelihood and are stuck here, as they cannot travel back home.I am providing immediate relief material to migrant labourers.I have provided ration kits to around 250 ASHA workers and around 400 safai karamcharis. Apart from this, I provided 50 PPE kits and 200 masks to the Civil Hospital Phagwara staff.I want that small businesses and shops should be allowed to open with guidelines, so that supply begins. Testing should also increase in the city.(AS TOLD TO Ashok Kaura)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/defeat-crisis-through-positivity-strong-willpower-78894
01-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||This septuagenarian is serving injured animals||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 30When most people, especially the elderly who are in the high-risk category, are confined indoors, 70-year-old Chander Bhushan and his team of 10 volunteers are taking care of abandoned and injured animals round the clock.Two days ago when an eagle got stuck in a wire, the septuagenarian with the help of a crane driver rescued it. A day later, he rescued another bird that got entangled in a string.He has been running the 'People for Animals' shelter at the Police Lines here for decades, which houses 212 cattle, 60 dogs (some of which can't walk properly), an eagle, a parrot, nine pigeons and a monkey without an arm among others.He has set up separate shelters where dogs and cattle with leg or spinal injuries sustained in mishaps are kept. At these shelters, he has made makeshift rope-and-sack casts to heal their injuries and straighten their backs. In the evenings, bhajans are played for the animals.Bhushan says amid the lockdown, they are now receiving less contributions. However, the number of injured animals at the facility has also decreased, probably because there are a few vehicles on the road now.A man of principles, he is against taking donations from people who get pictures clicked while giving anything and then post these on the social media to earn publicity.An idealist, he believes due to such acts "pashuon pe bura asar parta hai. Isse behtar do din bhukhe so jayenge (animals are adversely impacted by charity for the sake of publicity. We will sleep without food for a day, but won't take money like this). He has driven away a number of people the moment they said they wanted to click photographs of the help being extended.Bhushan says, "At first it seemed like it will be a tough going. But we have sailed through and some people came and helped when we weren't even expecting. Many do-gooders have stepped in to help. Also due to less vehicles, accidents have also reduced and as many animals don't get hit as were earlier. Help isn't as much as it was before the lockdown, but it is enough to take us through. For two days a man with a crane provided services helping us disentangle an eagle and a pigeon without expecting anything in return. Birds and animals can't speak, but they suffer as much. They also feel pain. It is so necessary to listen to their sounds too.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-septuagenarian-is-serving-injured-animals-78893
01-05-2020||Phagwara||4 test positive in Phagwara||Robbers loot temple mahantPhagwara: Three unidentified masked robbers entered the room of a mahant Rameshwar Dass of a temple near Hanuman Garrhi here and looted Rs20,000 after injuring him on Wednesday night. The mahant sustained injuries on his chest and shoulder. The miscreants managed to escape. The city police have registered a case. OCNo relaxation in curfewHoshiarpur: There will be no relaxation of any kind in Hoshiarpur and curfew will continue as it is, said DC Hoshiarpur Apneet Riyait on Thursday. The order said: “There is no relaxation in the curfew in the district. If any decision regarding relaxation will be taken, it will be conveyed to the district residents.” OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-test-positive-in-phagwara-78892
01-05-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Post lockdown, will gradually scale up output as per demand’||Gurdeep Singh, director and CEO, GNA Gears Ltd, and president, GNA University, talks to Aakanksha N Bhardwaj on the strategy to bring the industry back on track. But, he believes that the lockdown will have a psychological effect on working efficiency.How has the lockdown affected the industry?The industry will not be able to completely get back on track till the retail trade is started. It may take another six months for normalcy in the business. Besides, there will be a problem in performing regular work. Earlier, if there used to be a problem with the product, everything was on tips and would give solution instantly. Now, I have even forgotten where my files are kept. This is also the problem that humans will face now.What will be the challenges after the lockdown?Restarting industrial units, which have been shut for long, will be a major challenge. I think apart from cash challenges, gaining momentum for workers and employees will be another issue. After a long break, people will not be habitual of working at a fast pace. So after the lockdown, it will take some time for them to work with full energy.Is any there issue with migrant labourers?I would like you to tell that my grandfather was always of the view that we would always have local labour. So, not even a single migrant labourer is working for us. But, I will definitely face the problem of the manpower.What will be your strategy to restart the work?My team and I have made a strategy that we will start with 30 per cent of the work and will keep on increasing the same after looking at the demand in the market.What problems will you face in running the university?There will be a problem in taking fees from students because of the ongoing situation. Despite it, we have been organising online classes and the syllabus has been completed. I have personally been taking care of the classes. Every day, I take the progress report on online academic activities. I have been managing everything regularly. Fee doesn't matter as of now. We only want to provide education to students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/post-lockdown-will-gradually-scale-up-output-as-per-demand-78890
01-05-2020||---||190 returnees quarantined at Meritorious School||Jalandhar, April 30As many as 190 returnees have been quarantined at the isolation centre set up at Meritorious School here in the past two days, even as the Covid tally in Jalandhar has mounted to 89 (77 active cases at the Civil Hospital).As per the state government’s policy, it is mandatory for any returnee to remain quarantined for 14 days. They will be allowed entry to the city only after being tested negative. So far, 110 samples of those quarantined at the centre have been taken. Of these, a man hailing from Bakkarpur village at Phillaur has tested positive. He has been placed under isolation at the Civil Hospital.So far, a batch of 128 pilgrims has returned to Jalandhar from Nanded Sahib and all these returnees have been quarantined at the school building.Sources said the pilgrims were also screened by medical teams on their return. Of those quarantined, 128 were from Hazoor Sahib and the remaining from various areas in Rajasthan.Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, Varinder Sharma said, “As many as 128 persons from Nanded Sahib have been brought back so far, and a total of 190 placed at the isolation centre.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/190-returnees-quarantined-at-meritorious-school-78889
01-05-2020||Our Correspondent---||25 acres of wheat crop gutted in Hoshiarpur||Tanda-Urmar, April 30 Nearly 25 acres of wheat crop turned into ashes as a fire broke out in the fields near Bains Avan village this afternoon. The cause of the fire has not been ascertained yet. Close to half past two in the afternoon, farm fire went uncontrollable due to the strong wind. Farmers tried to overcome the fire by ploughing the fields with the help of tractors but could not contain it.  The fire continued to wreak the havoc for more than one and a half hours. Later, the fire brigade team came and doused the flames. Due to the fire, wheat crop in three acres of Gulab Singh, one acre of Rulda Singh, one acre of Charan Singh, three acres of Lakhwinder Singh, six acres of Harbans Singh and four kanals of Ratan Singh, all residents of Miani and two acres of Bains Awan resident Harnek Singh was gutted. Taking stock of the damage, MLA Sangat Singh Giljian, political advisor to the Chief Minister, said the farmers would be compensated fairly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/25-acres-of-wheat-crop-gutted-in-hoshiarpur-78883
01-05-2020||---||Bizmen visit Kapurthala's RCF to kickstart work at units||Kapurthala, April 30A delegation of industrialists from Jalandhar and Kapurthala region led by Rana Gurjit Singh, MLA from Kapurthala and Narinder Singh Saggu, president, Focal Point Extension Association, visited Rail Coach Factory (RCF) here on Thursday. The purpose of the tour was to restart industrial activities in their industrial units as they have closed for more than a month due to the lockdown. The industrialists wanted to study the industrial activities in the RCF and its compliance to the guidelines issued by the state government while observing precautions at work.It should be noted that the RCF has started production of rail coaches with limited manpower from April 23. As many as 3,744 employees and officers of the RCF are working in various shifts. All officers and staff living in the colony have been called to work. Each employee has been given a kit to protect against coronavirus which includes face mask, gloves, sanitiser, soap and safety guidelines.All vehicles of the delegation were sanitised in the sanitisation tunnel at the entry gate of RCF and members of delegation were given kits, including gloves, sanitisers, face masks, as a precaution against coronavirus. The team visited RCF workshop where RK Mangala, principal chief mechanical engineer of the RCF, apprised them of the safety precautions being observed while working by the staff.The delegation attended a meeting in the conference hall in which RCF general manager Ravindra Gupta briefed them about the steps undertaken by the RCF to fight out Covid-19. He said the RCF administration was constantly in touch with the district administration and the Railway Board, New Delhi.A presentation was also made in the meeting which showcased the efforts being made by the RCF in the fight against Covid. Apart from this, a brochure prepared by the RCF was also distributed to all the industrialists which showed the precautions to protect besides, the efforts of RCF to fight against Covid. At the end of the meeting there was also an interactive session in which the industrialists held serious discussions to start work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bizmen-visit-kapurthalas-rcf-to-kickstart-work-at-units-78882
01-05-2020||---||Rly employees condemn move to freeze DA hike||Jalandhar, April 30 Employees of the Northern Railway Workers Union on Thursday held a protest at the city railway station to condemn the government’s decision to freeze dearness allowance (DA) of Central Government employees.  Vikas Jaitley, line branch secretary, Prem Kumar, divisional vice president and Rajesh Kumar, along with other railway employees, participated in the protest. The protesters wore black bands and maintained social distancing.  Vikas Jaitley said the government had freezed the DA of Central government employees from January 2020 to June 2021, which is very disappointing. Owing to which there was a lot of anger among the railway employees. Jaitley said, “Even though there is a lockdown in the country, the railway workers are performing their duties more responsibly than before. They are operating parcel special trains along with luggage trains to supply food and other essential material in the whole country from one end to the other.”    After imposing a cut on DA, every employee will suffer a loss of over Rs 50,000-60000 and even some in lakhs. The agitating employees stated that the railway employees had given their one day’s salary to the PM CARES Fund.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rly-employees-condemn-move-to-freeze-da-hike-78881
01-05-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi---||Quarantined, family complains of filth at Civil Hospital||Hoshiarpur, April 30 Although the district administration on Thursday claimed that appropriate arrangements were being taken for pilgrims who returned from Nanded, the reality seems somewhat different.  Eleven members of a family, who returned from Nanded, were quarantined at the Civil Hospital, but they alleged that the situation was so bad that even if they escaped coronavirus, they were sure to get sick due to insanitary conditions. They said neither rooms nor bathrooms were clean and the situation was such that they were not even getting proper food.  The 11 people are of a family from Fattan Chak, a village in Dasuya subdivision. They had gone to Nanded last month and reached Hoshiarpur on Thursday morning. Gurpreet Kaur, one of the family members, told The Tribune over phone that after they reached the hospital in the morning, they were told to keep the luggage outside and wait. They were reportedly asked to keep waiting for a long time and not even offered water. Later, after taking the samples, they were provided a stinking room. The bathrooms, too, were dirty. The room looks suffocated and the fans do not work properly, they said. Harbhajan Singh, head of the family, said: “We came to the room at 11:30am while the food was provided at 3 o’clock. That, too, was insufficient. There are two fans in the room, which are not working properly.” Balwinder Kaur (60) said nobody asked for their well-being since morning. “We were given some chapattis after 3 pm, which were insufficient. Our 3-year-old child Jobanpreet was crying for milk but no one provided it even after repeated requests. The room smells pathetic and the bathrooms are in a bad shape. It seems we escaped coronavirus but won’t be able to leave this place without getting ill.” Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said: “All arrangements have been made for the convenience of quarantined pilgrims. Care will be taken that they do not face any problem.” He said if there was any discrepancy, it would be looked after. When asked about the difficulties pointed out by the pilgrims at the Civil Hospital, he said he was informed about it and all arrangements would be made.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/quarantined-family-complains-of-filth-at-civil-hospital-78880
01-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||‘A bar of soap, Rs 33 fuel grant not enough for seven ASHA workers’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 30Fuel allowance of Rs33 per day and a bar of soap for seven Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) — district ASHA workers met the Civil Surgeon on Thursday with this and also shared other grouses a day after a 35-year-old ASHA worker fell unconscious while working in a Covid hotspot in Jalandhar.Earlier threatening to strike work, ASHA workers have decided to go back on job on the condition that they would not be forced to work in faraway areas.Members of ASHA Workers and Facilitators’ Union on Thursday declared they won’t work in any other area even if an emergency arises, unless they were first issued written instructions by the area medical officer and also paid an allowance of Rs100 per day for fuel.After an assurance that their demands would be met, they shall be carrying out work as usual from Friday.While there are 1,425 ASHA workers in the district, they have asked the Civil Surgeon to clear their dues and not pressurise them to go to areas that are far. Workers said their demands have been met.Other demands made by workers included curfew passes for all ASHA workers, immediate provision of sanitisers, masks, soap, gloves etc.; release of previous pending incentives and assurance of future incentives on the 10th of every month.None offered even a chair, says worker who faintedMamta Rani (35), who fainted on Wednesday while on Covid duty, is currently at her home. She said: “Such is the scare among people that when I fell unconscious yesterday, no one came to help. We toil all day for people, but even a chair wasn’t provided without request. I was laid in the middle of the road on the PPE kit that I was wearing. None of the residents could even find a sheet. Not only this, none of the doctors came to attend us at the hospital. However, some do-gooders provided some drinks, which my coworkers kept feeding me to help me revive. In that very condition, without treatment, fed on beverages, I was brought back home on a colleague’s Activa.”Rani has a 12-year-old daughter and her husband back at home.She said: “We are working by putting our children’s lives at risk. I am still not well, so I didn’t go out today. But I stand by the union and the demands they have made. Rs33 a day isn’t enough for a trip across the city. I live at Ladhewali, but spend nearly two hours a day to reach Basti Gujan even though my duty is formally at Lamma Pind.”Union general secretary in Jalandhar, Amritpal Kaur said: “The Civil Surgeon heard us out and assured that the demands will be addressed. For deputation of work in any other area, we now require instructions in writing and Rs100 fuel allowance. If deputed at our areas, then we continue work as usual. We have also demanded proper equipment. One bar of soap is being provided to seven of us. The worker who fainted yesterday is still sick. But after she recuperates, we have also demanded that she be deputed at Lamma Pind now.”The ASHA workers have previously met the Deputy Commissioner as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-bar-of-soap-rs-33-fuel-grant-not-enough-for-seven-asha-workers-78879
01-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||Post UGC guidelines, colleges making plans to meet academic challenges||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 30After the UGC issued new instructions for re-opening colleges and universities, along with conducting examinations, city-based educationists stressed on making new strategies accordingly so that studies of students don’t get affected.According to the fresh UGC guidelines, academic sessions for the already enrolled students will begin in August and for newcomers from September. While the syllabus in most of the universities and colleges has been finished through online classes, the admission process has also begun online. Moreover, the final semester exams will be conducted in July. Atima Sharma, principal, Kanya Maha Vidyalaya (KMV) College, said, following the UGC guidelines, the college management had started making new plans.Similarly, Namrata Joshi, HoD, Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, Guru Nanak Dev University Regional Campus, Jalandhar, said, “Looking at the crisis, the university has already declared vacations during the lockdown period. The rest of the yearly holidays will be used as working days. Besides, the results will be prepared within a fortnight after the final semester examinations so that the admission process don’t get delayed.”Manhar Arora, managing director, St. Soldier Group of Institutions, said, “The new academic calendar will present new challenges to teachers for the next sessions.”“After the delay in admissions, teachers and students will have the challenge to finish the syllabus early, which will eventually become a tough task. The management will have to be ready for the psychological capacity building of teachers so that there won’t be any pressure. Besides, there are chances that syllabus for the upcoming semester may be reduced,” said Arora.With the help of technology, we have already finished the syllabus. We are in constant touch with their subject teachers. As an autonomous college, teachers have also been directed to prepare results of the students at the earliest. It will help us start the next session. As advised by the UGC, the college will also adopt innovative modes of conducting examinations by reducing the time from 3 hours to 2 hours. —Atima Sharma, Principal, Kanya Maha Vidyalaya CollegeLooking at the crisis, the university has already declared vacations during the lockdown period. The rest of the yearly holidays will be used as working days. Besides, the results will be prepared within a fortnight after the final semester examinations, so that the admission process don't get delayed. —Namrata Joshi, HoD, Journalism dept, GNDU Regional CampusThe new academic calendar will present new challenges to teachers for the next sessions. After the delay in admissions, teachers and students will have the challenge to finish the syllabus early, which will eventually become a tough task. The management will have to be ready for the psychological capacity building of teachers, so that there is no pressure. Besides, there are chances that syllabus for the upcoming semester may be reduced. —Manhar Arora, managing director, St. Soldier Group of Institutions||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/post-ugc-guidelines-colleges-making-plans-to-meet-academic-challenges-78877
01-05-2020||---||Industry can begin operations now, but only in non-containment zones||Jalandhar, April 30The DC on Thursday permitted the operation of industry and restricted movement of workers in non- containment zones. While no specific approval or permission from any district authority would be required for starting the operations in permissible areas, a self-declaration form regarding the implementation of SOPs would be required to be submitted to the GM, District Industries Centre (DIC), before starting the operations.Also, workers’ movement shall be allowed from 7 am to 9 am in the morning and 5 pm to 7 pm in the evening only for those who have e-passes and self-declaration forms.The order issued by the DC states: “All industries located in rural areas i.e. out of the Municipal Corporation/ committee/nagar panchayats limit, in all focal points, industrial areas, industrial estates and industrial townships and industrial clusters situated within district Jalandhar will be allowed to resume their operation, except for those in containment zones.” The order said industrial activities in containment zones shall be strictly prohibited. Anybody found running any industrial activity in any of the containment zone will be prosecuted as per law. The pro forma for self-declaration was also released with order released on Thursday.It further stated: “If the industry is satisfied that they have made adequate arrangements for the implementation of SOPs, they have to send a self-declaration regarding this at GM-DIC, Jalandhar office, through mail — gmdicjal@yahoo.com — before starting their operation. The bulk passes for movement of factory workers (if done by bus or such vehicles) will be issued by GM-DIC, Jalandhar. The movement of labour will also be permitted on foot or by cycles. For issuance of passes for labourers, the factoryowner will submit a list of workers along with their Aadhaar Card numbers and get it approved and countersigned from GM-DIC, Jalandhar.”These bulk passes will be validated along with a photo ID card of the holder. The factory worker will have to produce any identity card along with the photocopy of bulk passes’ list approved by GM-DIC, Jalandhar, which will act as a curfew pass. The movement e-pass for the management and official staff along with their vehicles will be taken online from epasscovid19.pais.net.in. While applying for the e-pass, the management and staff will have to upload the self-declaration as supporting document. These e-passes shall be approved by GM-DIC, Jalandhar. The movement of factory workers will be restricted to the given timings as from 7am to 9am in the morning and 5pm to 7 pm in the evening.1 member per family allowed to go outsideAs per the fresh guidelines issued for opening shops, DC Varinder Sharma said on Thursday that from May 1 onwards, only small and stand-alone shops would be allowed to open in the city, rural areas and only in non-containment zones. He said only one member of a family would be allowed to go outside – only on foot – while abiding by the social distancing norm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/industry-can-begin-operations-now-but-only-in-non-containment-zones-78876
