01-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Different aspects of disabilities discussed||Jalandhar, October 31Youth Football Club (YFC), Rurka Kalan, in collaboration with Fare Network UK, organised a ‘Football People Week’s’ event. Under this, YFC on Saturday hosted a webinar on the subject ‘Raising Awareness on Disability Issues’.In the webinar the speakers mainly Paul Glover (Head coach of disability), West Bromwich Albion Foundation, UK and Arjuna Awardee, Olympian Rajinder Singh Rahelu (Indian paralympics powerlifter), Charlie Crawford (Team Leader, Coaches Across Continents, USA) Amar Sanghera, special education and mental health expert, Newham Council, London, (UK) and Ajit Singh, secretary, cerebral palsy, sports federation, deliberated on various aspects related to disabilities and provided awareness on different disability issues.Besides, a workshop on the same subject at ‘Prerna special needs centre’, Rurka Kalan, was also held. Special children and their parents participated in the workshop. Parents shared the problems which they were facing with their children or disability issues with the chief guest Param Saini (clinical psychologist).In addition, YFC also organised ‘Social Distance Football-3 Tournament’ at YFC stadium. Eight teams from different communities participated in the tournament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/different-aspects-of-disabilities-discussed-164036
01-11-2020||Jalandhar||BSF observes ‘National Unity Day’||To commemorate the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, a march past was organised here on Saturday, while observing the ‘National Unity Day’ at frontier headquarters of the Border Security Force.During the programme, Mahipal Yadav, IG, BSF Punjab, took the salute of parade as the chief guest. On this occasion, he reiterated his resolve to dedicate himself to maintain the integrity and security of national unity. He reminded the personnel about Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s life and his contribution to Indian Independence. To convey the message of ‘National Unity and Integrity’ and to ensure its role in it, an oath was also administered. During the parade, all officers, subordinate officers and other ranks were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bsf-observes-national-unity-day-164033
01-11-2020||---||Farmer unions to hold meet in Delhi on November 3||Jalandhar, October 31The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) is going to hold a meeting with the Kisan Rashtriya Mahasangh in New Delhi on November 3 to decide the next course of action against the farm laws.Under the leadership of kisan unions, scores of farmers are expected to join ‘Delhi Chalo’ movement on November 26 and 27.Satnam Sahni, spokesperson, BKU Youth are unemployed. We all have seen what problems the agriculture sector is going through. Farming is finished, this is what is happening now with us. Satnam Sahni, spokesperson for Bharatiya Kisan Union, said thousands of the farmers will go to Delhi as the Centre is not paying any heed to farming community.“Youth are unemployed. We all have seen what problems the agriculture sector is going through. Farming is finished, this is what is happening now with us,” he said.“The future is bleak and the youths have gone abroad. Soon no youngster will be left in the state as as there are no jobs,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmer-unions-to-hold-meet-in-delhi-on-november-3-164034
01-11-2020||---||Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner exhorts citizens to file plaints on grievance portal||Jalandhar, October 31Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Saturday exhorted citizens to file complaints on the Punjab Government’s new grievance redressal portal www.connect.Punjab.Gov.in, which has been launched to ensure time-bound solution to citizens’ concerns.Participating in the video-conferencing held by Chief secretary Vinni Mahajan, the Deputy Commissioner accompanied by SSP Jalandhar (Rural) Sandeep Kumar Garg, said this web portal aims to address the issues of citizens at the earliest with all government departments on this one-stop digital platform.Thori said officials have been trained at the district level about addressing complaints received on the portal instantly. He said this would function as the central portal, where all grievances can be recorded by submission on the portal itself. The DC said action would be taken against the erring departments.He said the portal has received 74 complaints so far of which 53 have been settled by departments besides action was underway on 21 remaining complaints.Further, Thori constituted various teams to keep a vigil on the sale/storage of imported firecrackers and ensure prevention of such crackers in their jurisdiction. The Deputy Commissioner said as per the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, there was a blanket ban on the imported fireworks/crackers in the country. He said these teams would conduct inspections at the storage and selling points in the district to check the unauthorised sale of foreign-origin crackers.He reviewed the progress of the crop-residue management programme and stubble burning cases and ordered the departments concerned to continue with their endeavours of sensitising the peasantry about the harmful effects of stubble burning.Assistant Commissioner Randeep Singh, DFSC Narider Singh, DMO Mukesh Kailey, Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Surinder Singh, Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla were among others present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-deputy-commissioner-exhorts-citizens-to-file-plaints-on-grievance-portal-164030
01-11-2020||---||Post-matric scholarship scheme launched virtually for SC students||Jalandhar, October 31On the auspicious occasion of Parkash Purv of Bhagwan Valmiki, Minister for Medical Education and Research OP Soni on Saturday launched Dr BR Ambedkar Post Matric Scholarship Scheme in a virtual event presided over by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.The minister was accompanied by Member Parliament Chaudhary Santokh Singh, MLAs Pargat Singh, Avtar Singh Junior Bawa Henry, Chaudhary Surinder Singh, Rajinder Beri, Mayor Jagdish Raj Raja, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, MC Commissioner Karnesh Sharma in the virtual launch of scheme in Jalandhar.Soni said that total financial implication of the proposal was estimated to be about Rs600 crore. Of this, the tentative liability of the government institutions would be about Rs168 crore and the remaining Rs432 crore would be borne by the private educational institutions and the government, he added. Since the revised scheme envisages reimbursement of 60 per cent to the private institutions by the state, the liability of the government on this account would actually be about Rs260 crore, the minister added.During the event, the minister also handed over enrolment certificates to five girl students including Isha, Twinkle, Sunaina Kaul, Harpreet Kaur and Isha under Dr BR Ambedkar Post Matric Scholarship Scheme.Prominent present on the occasion were Senior Deputy Mayor Surinder Kaur, Additional Deputy Commissioner Jasbir Singh, District Welfare Officer Lakhwinder Singh, District Education Officer Harinder Pal Singh and Congress leader Angad Dutta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/post-matric-scholarship-scheme-launched-virtually-for-sc-students-164032
01-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Tilted pole, dangling wires pose danger in Sheikhupura colony in Kapurthala||Kapurthala, October 31Residents of Sheikhupura colony in Kapurthala have filed several complaints with Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) about a tilted electric pole and dangling wires, but to no avail.Paramjeet Kaur, a local resident, said the tilted pole has been in the same position for the last one year. She said, “It seems like the authorities concerned are waiting for a mishap to take place.”Shingara Singh, a residentWe demand a prompt action from PSPCL. The authorities concerned have not cared to get the pole changed despite repeated complaints. Now, we have written to the Chief Engineer, PSPCL, Patiala, and requested him to intervene in the matter, said the residents.Gurbachan Lal, a resident of the colony, said a large number of commuters risk their lives by passing through this route, besides a labourer had got electrocuted due to low-hanging wires in the area.“We demand a prompt action from the PSPCL. The authorities concerned have not cared to get the pole changed despite repeated complaints,” said another resident, Shingara Singh.Residents said there were numerous poles in the colony, which were supported with wooden planks and high-voltage wires almost pass through roofs, balconies and shutters of shops. “We have been living under a constant threat of being electrocuted,” said Nishant Kumar.Inder Pal Singh, Deputy Chief Engineer, Kapurthala, confirmed that they had received a complaint about the same, but the problem was not entirely related to the tilted pole. He said a resident of the locality had reportedly built a new house and its shed touches levels.He said the concerned person had been served a notice by the SDO, to apply for shifting of levels, however, he has failed to pay any heed.The Deputy Chief Engineer assured that he will send a team on Monday to look into the matter and take appropriate action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tilted-pole-dangling-wires-pose-danger-in-sheikhupura-colony-in-kapurthala-164035
01-11-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Randhir Singh hasn’t forgotten how to grapple with changing times||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 31Going by his lean physique, the legendary hockey player Surjit Singh had once told young Randhir Singh that he should rather go for hockey instead of becoming a wrestler and also handed him a hockey stick. Randhir did play hockey for a while, but, given the fact that wrestling ran in the blood – Kartar Singh, the doyen of wrestling, is his paternal uncle — how he could not have gravitated towards it. Eventually, Randhir got into the sport and made it big. Over the years he’s garnered much fame and apart from being an Arjuna awardee, he is also a recipient of the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Award.These days, he is working in a government department and provides training to budding wrestlers besides working as a referee during various national and international wrestling championships. He was a referee in the National Wrestling Championships held in December 2019. The wrestler is now sharing the experience gained to youngsters, who look upon him as an ideal player, and of his likes, to become.Some of his renowned achievements are: A silver in the Commonwealth Games held at Victoria, Canada, in 1994 and Commonwealth Wrestling championship held in Melbourne, Australia, in 1995. Apart from this he has represented the country in Senior Asia Wrestling Championships several times. His paternal uncle had a huge influence on Randhir’s life. “I used to visit akharas with him and learned so much there. It would always seem cool to me to eat healthy and take nutritious diet and eat a lot,” he quips.However, his career derailed at a crucial time and when life was all sunshine and rainbows. It was the year when Randhir was getting himself trained to take part in the Olympics, he endured a back injury and had to take a rest for four long years; in between he missed the games and other championships, and could never take part in the Olympics again.Still on the go!Having won several titles like Bharat Mall Samrat in 1995, Hind Kesari in 1992, Sher-e-Hind in 1991 and 1999. His wrestling gig is still going on. Presently, he takes part in veteran category and has been winning medals. “Also, I share my experience with minors besides important techniques. I am dedicated to wrestling, and will keep on coaching upcoming crop of players to ensure that they get proper training and make a name for themselves as well,” a thoughtful Randhir tells.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/randhir-singh-hasnt-forgotten-how-to-grapple-with-changing-times-164025
01-11-2020||Ajay Joshi||Jalandhar witnesses spurt in crime post relaxations||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 31A crime wave has gripped the city since the authorities started relaxing the lockdown norms. Snatching incidents were being reported daily from almost every part of the city.Jewellery worth lakhs along with cash was allegedly stolen from a house in Isa Nagar on October 31. The police said they were quizzing family members and looking for leads, but no case has been registered so far.On October 20, miscreants broke open the shutter of an electric goods shop at Phagwara Gate electrical market during the wee hours and stole Rs 30,000. The entire incident was captured on a CCTV. Harsh Sharma, owner of the shop, said the police have neither traced the accused nor registered an FIR to date.Anti-social elements were posing a challenge to the police, which had been dealing with implementation of health guidelines during the lockdown.Surjit Singh, Station House Officer, Police Division Six, said in October, they solved around 10 theft and five snatching cases.“The police personnel remain deployed at every nook and corner of Model Town. Whenever we get information about miscreants, we get hold of them,” said the Station House Officer.In the last couple of weeks, multiple instances of snatching, vehicle theft and cybercrime had been reported.Surjit said in the last three months, miscreants attacked those houses, which were locked.The Station House Officer confirmed the surge in cybercrime. Recently, a fake message claiming that the state government was giving Rs 2,000 to each citizen as the Covid-19 relief package went viral on social media.Kamlesh Rani (50), whose handbag was snatched near Ladowali road around two months ago, said her bag contained important documents, cash and a mobile phone. The police have no clue about its whereabouts, she said.Cops deployed at various check-posts believe that the economic slump and joblessness has compelled a large number of unemployed youth to indulge in criminal activities.Balkar Singh, DCP (Law and Order), said the police have a tab over criminals. He said the spurt in street crime could be due to release of miscreants from jails in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.One dies, 105 new cases in districtJalandhar: The district witnessed 105 Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday taking the total count to 15,137. One person succumbed to the virus on Saturday. As many as 14,070 people have been discharged till date. There are 599 active cases and 372 people are under home isolation in Jalandhar currently. In Kapurthala, 18 people tested positive for Covid and no death was reported. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-witnesses-spurt-in-crime-post-relaxations-164026
01-11-2020||---||Engineering student dies in road accident in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, October 31A 23-year-old engineering student lost his life in a road accident after the bike he was riding collided with a tipper here on Saturday.The accident was reported around 7.30 am on the Jalandhar-Phagwara highway (GT road), near KFC. The deceased has been identified as Attallwah, a native of Srinagar. While he succumbed to his injuries minutes after the accident, his friend, Nair Hussain, who was riding pillion, received grievous injuries.Investigation Officer ASI Nishan Singh, Cantt Police Station, who reached the spot immediately after he was intimated about the accident, said the collision of the vehicles was of high intensity as the motorcycle got completely damaged after the accident. Seemingly, the bike was in high speed and took multiple turns before settling on the road, the ASI said.The commuters said the pillion rider fell off from the bike, when it was colloid head-on with the tipper. With the help of commuters, the police rushed the students to Johal Hospital in Rama Mandi, where doctors declared Attallwah brought dead. Dr Johal said while the deceased couldn’t be saved, his friend was on ventilator. “Both victims received injuries on their heads and neck. Even as the deceased was wearing a helmet, he had multiple injuries on his head. The helmet got stuck in his skull,” Dr Johal said.The family members of both students were expected to reach on Sunday morning. Attallwah’s cousin Zakir Hussain said he was pursuing his B-tech degree in civil engineering from Continental Group of Institutions, Rajpura, and was staying with Nair at a rented accommodation in Baruna.“He left for Jammu yesterday to collect his certificates from his college. He last spoke to his father on Friday night. We didn’t know destiny had planned this for him, otherwise we wouldn’t have allowed him to go. He has left behind his parents, two daughters and a brother,” Zakir added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/engineering-student-dies-in-road-accident-in-jalandhar-164027
01-11-2020||Aparna Banerji||An activist pioneered cropping up of parents’ association in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 31He set up the first Parents’ Association for Persons with Intellectual Disabilities in the state. It was named ‘Chanan’ after Guru Nanak Dev. Today, it has become a movement with 16 associations in Punjab and many more across Jammu and Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and UP.Amarjit Anand Empowering the disabledPeople need to be made aware. They still don’t know much and many spend lives dealing with difficult scenarios just because they fail to meet peers or lack awareness. The pandemic has been useful in spreading awareness as people are at home and have been more receptive and available. In Punjab, where the very word disability has been steeped in stigma, public policies as well as accessibilities still elude the disability sector. To their rescue came a man, who quit his business in the 2000s and began spreading awareness to empower the hapless parents of the differently-abled children.Amarjit Singh Anand (66), father, disability activist, philanthropist and member of countless disability boards has single-handedly paved the way for many parents to vent their concerns. From medical care to disabled patients stuck at home during the pandemic to a host of procedures, treatment and policies hitherto inaccessible for them, he has been working on making it a smoother ride for everyone.The activism is rocking full throttle amid the pandemic. Two teenagers, Javed a son of a rickshaw puller in Delhi, and Lovepreet, son of a domestic help at Ferozepur, were reunited with their families due to his efforts. He has also provided rations to many and held awareness webinars to educate parents about their rights and government schemes.For the love of daughterJasjeet Kaur, his daughter, is the apple of her parents’ eyes and Anand is making the most of the pandemic spending time with her. He says, “It is after a long time amid the pandemic that her communication with me has massively increased. So in a way for us, it has come as a boon.”Jasjeet was born with Down syndrome in 1986. When she was little she communicated a bit more but a post-surgical procedure at Chandigarh ten years ago resulted in an overdose of anesthesia which greatly reduced her verbal abilities. She recently had a surgery for keratoconus at Chennai when an air bubble in her eye made them rush her to Chandigarh again. “Yet another operative procedure deeply impacted her communication skills. From being talkative, she grew quiet. It has taken all these years for her skill to revive,” Anand tells.A post-operative carelessness further led to intensification of his daughter’s condition but it could not cripple his resolve to help others out. He saw the brighter side of things and began striking a balance between work and activism to empower other parents.Coping with the new development, Anand’s resolve only increased with the incident. It was at a seminar, during an address by Dr KN Ojha in 1996, his vision on the issue transformed. “He said it is the parents who shall represent these children because they can’t do it themselves. It was also the Gurpurab day. Following the workshop, we formed the first Parents Association in Punjab. And since it was auspicious time we named it ‘Chanan Association’. Presently, there are 16…but it all started with ours,” Anand shares.Actively pursuing provision of help and assistance to parents with special needs children, Anand started off at a time when very few even wanted to talk about it. Soon, he quit his work of construction business in 2005 to pursue activism full time.He also remained the vice-president, North Zone, Parivaar (the national umbrella under which Chanan was formed), which is the world’s biggest parent platform. He continues as a member of the executive board. He quit the vice-presidentship in 2019 as he was included in the State Advisory Board for disabilities as an expert member.“People need to be made aware. They still don’t know much and many spend lives dealing with difficult scenarios just because they fail to meet peers or lack awareness. The pandemic has been useful in spreading awareness as people are at home and have been more receptive and available,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/an-activist-pioneered-cropping-up-of-parents-association-in-punjab-164029
01-11-2020||Aparna Banerji||Qazi Mandi entry point a path of eternal waste||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 31A road of eternal waste, locals say they never saw the Qazi Mandi entry road in proper condition.The road from Domoria Bridge to Qazi Mandi is riddled with waste, garbage, potholes and encroachments. While further up is the Madrasi Mohalla. Encroachments on both sides of the road, garbage piles, gates of huge godowns and establishments mark the road. Locals say the road has been in the same condition for almost as long as they can remember.Puran, a shopkeeperEver since I set up shop, I haven’t seen any repair work on the road. It is difficult to work as gravel spreads out on the road and dust as well as soil coming loose from the previous makeshift repair bids make it a living hell. Dust gathers in the entire shop.Puran, a shopkeeper, said: “It is difficult to work in the shop as gravel spread out on the road and dust as well as soil coming loose from the previous makeshift repair bids make the road a living hell. Dust gathers in the entire shop. On most days, children speeding on their bikes have a fall or two. Accidents are quite common. Since I am only a shopkeeper, I cannot complain about it either. But residents also face many troubles. Ever since I set up shop, I haven’t seen any repair work on the road.”Dr Bhajan Khepra, owner of a clinic Every time a road project has been discussed, the constructions or encroachments have posed trouble. On the other hand, railway tracks on the other side also add to the anti-social elements in the area. Dr Bhajan Khepra, who owns a clinic on the road, says: “Every time a road project has been discussed, the constructions or encroachments have posed trouble. The road which is the very entrance to the Qazi Mandi area is defaced. On the other hand, railway tracks on the other side also add to the anti-social elements in the area. The overbridge has made lives easier for those commuting in the city, but this area is further relegated underneath. This main road remains unattended to. There is talk of some development projects in the area. We hope we will see a much better stretch compared to this eyesore in the coming years.”While a 120-ft road to connect the Domoria overbridge to the Surya Enclave had been proposed for the area, it has hit repeated roadblocks. A dispute between the Improvement Trust and the Railways inordinately stalled the project. Residents said due to encroachments, there were talks of the road further shrinking than the initial proposal of 120 feet. Notably, the Domoria Overbridge also came up with inordinate delays. For a considerable time, the bridge’s two overhead spans remained unconnected – delaying its use by years.Already notorious, the Qazi Mandi road with factories, godowns and some semi-slum settlements, is further relegated to a wasteland with a bridge going over it. Residents bank upon newer projects to give the area the final lease of development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/qazi-mandi-entry-point-a-path-of-eternal-waste-164037
01-11-2020||Minister for Industries and Commerce Sunder Sham Arora was busy meeting people and solving their problems||‘Precautions must to keep disease at bay’||Sunder Sham Arora, Minister for Industries and CommerceIf you have any symptom, it's better to quarantine yourself than risk your near and dear ones' life. Follow doctors' advice and pray to god. No disease can stop you for long but precaution is a must and one should maintain social distance, wear masks and follow corona-prevention protocols."Most of the time I remained busy meeting people to solve their issues. But one day I felt that the body was not as active as it was a day before and I thought I should go for a Covid test. I went for rapid antigen test in Hoshiarpur, which was negative even though I quarantined myself. After that, I went to Chandigarh and the RT-PCR test was done, in which I tested positive. I immediately went in isolation and informed people about me testing positive and requested all those who had come in contact with me to get themselves tested, through social media."The first three-four days were difficult and I had fever, which made me feel restless. I felt very weak. Later, by following the advice of doctors and taking medicines, my health started improving. Religious scriptures and motivational quotes strengthened my willpower and I started recovering."I am used to meeting a large number of people and working throughout the day. But Covid confined me indoors. The calls of well-wishers boosted my morale and the calls of those who were seeking help for their own work made me gather my strength and I started working from home by calling people, taking meetings online and performing my duties as a minister through video-conferencing. Even then, there was a plenty of time left, which I devoted to prayers and the Almighty responded swiftly. The next week was better both in terms of health and mindset after testing negative."I was once again among people, listening to them and helping them as much as I could. If you have any symptom, it's better to quarantine yourself than risk your near and dear ones' life. Follow doctors' advice and pray to god. No disease can stop you for long but precaution is a must and one should maintain social distance, wear masks and follow corona-prevention protocols."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/precautions-must-to-keep-disease-at-bay-164038
