01-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Age is just a number for this elderly swimmer||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 30Normally, businessmen don’t have much time for other things than their work. But Parveen Kamal Gaind always had enough when it comes to swimming.At 72, the industrialist for sure has aged but his love for swimming hasn’t grown old. He has always kept it close to his heart. Last year, he won two gold medals in 200m and 400m, respectively, during the All India Masters Competition held in Lucknow between October 18 to 20.“I was in class IX in 1964 when I started swimming. I continued it till 1972, and in those eight years I took part in state, national, inter-university championships and won several medals,” Parveen says. But after 1972, as he got enmeshed in the business, the game took a backseat. However, it sprung back to life after his well wishers and friends encouraged him to continue with swimming. Since then, he has been taking part in various events across the country.Parveen, who owns a machine tools unit in the city, said being a businessman himself, he knows that business persons do not give much time to physical exercises and are concerned about their workaday life. “But I would like to say that our health is a prized possession for us. And we must devote time to our body as if we remain fit, we will be able to do other work properly and also save money, which we end up spending on medicines otherwise,” the golden ager quips.He was also set to go to New Zealand to participate in an international event but as fate would have it, he couldn’t go and then pandemic further grounded his plans. Now, the septuagenarian, with resumption of competitions on his mind, is already licking his chops as he waits to get up and running again. However, these days he’s into breathing exercises. “Swimming is an exercise that is naturally good for breathing and since the virus is directly linked to breathing, these exercises help one to fight the disease well,” he shares.A face of inspiration for the younger generation, he also encourages his grandsons and granddaughter to indulge in the sport. “Swimming is an exercise of the lungs and heart too. One must do it,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/age-is-just-a-number-for-this-elderly-swimmer-149300
01-10-2020||Ajay Joshi||Glorious years & momentous past of Burlton Park are long gone||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 30Have you ever wondered why Burlton Park, situated in the heart of the city is known as Burlton? While the park was formally built in 1955, equipped with a cricket stadium on 26-acre land, it is around 200 years old. It was named after a British Executive Officer, named Burlton, who not only was the first owner of the land but also developed it into a recreational park over 100 years ago. The elderly, who live close to the park, say many legal battles were fought with the Municipal Corporation and the state government hell-bent on turning it into a commercial land.A walk through the pastThe Burlton Park gained popularity following various sporting activities — mostly cricket matches were conducted. Spanning nearly 60 acres, the park is also known as Gandhi Stadium or BS Bedi Stadium. Post-independence and Partition, various refugee camps were erected and the migrated populace ended up building their temporary houses around it. Reliving the memories, Raj Kumar (71), a three-time councillor of the area, whose wife is now handling the reins, says, “After being evicted from Pakistan, my family spent first few years in Amritsar. Later on, when were told about the park’s refugee camp, subsequently we arrived here and gradually brought life on tracks. We constructed our house in Kabir Nagar area and witnessed the development. Apart from the players, we also used to play here. Everytime the matches were conducted we used to cheer for our Indian players.”Avtar Singh, who has been officially managing the cricket stadium for past four years, while recalling the international tournament days says that many big names, including Sachin Tendulkar, Saurav Ganguli, Ravi Shastri, Wasim Akram, Kapil Dev, Harbhajan Singh and others have played here. “All kinds of matches including Ranji trophy, national and international have been played in the stadium. It served as the home ground to two Indian domestic cricket teams; Punjab and North Zone.” Earlier, this was the only cricket stadium so around three-four international matches including test match against Pakistan and three ODI’s were played here with many spectators. Avtar was also appointed as the local assistant manager for Sri Lankan team.Similarly, Iqbal Singh Sandhu, general secretary, Surjit Singh Hockey Stadium, shares, “The stadia came into existence in 1990 as there was no dedicated ground for hockey, despite the region churning out many national and international level players. Astroturf was subsequently laid after establishing and afterwards realising the need for day and night matches floodlights were installed in the year 2000.”Not on our watch!Unfortunately, the esteemed ground’s popularity meant nothing to the administration and in 2005 it demolished the stadium, including the pavilion at the cricket stadium. Harish Sharma, general secretary, Burlton Park, tells, “When the government proposed commercialisation of the stadium and hacking of 2000 trees, we filed a PIL with the Punjab and Haryana High Court against it and saved the trees from being cut down.” The society has been maintaining the recreational park housed inside since 2004. Apart from this, Dasehra is celebrated here every year and a firecrackers market is installed in the park around Diwali.Sports hub a distant dreamAs per the veteran players, the politicisation and improper management of the Burlton Park cost it dear. Despite having two world-class grounds for cricket and hockey, no big tournaments are being conducted here. Its stature has incredibly diminished. From hosting international matches in the past, only district-level tournaments are held presently. However, proposals were passed to set up a sports hub in 2008 by the MC and then local bodies minister, but nothing materialised. Surjit Rai Bitta, Joint Secretary of Punjab Cricket Association, says, “We are hoping that best facilities could be provided to the players here and the same glorious days could be lived again.” There aren’t even basic facilities at the park as of now. Other than setting up those two stadiums the rest of the space was to be used for developing various sporting facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/glorious-years-momentous-past-of-burlton-park-are-long-gone-149301
01-10-2020||---||Virus snuffs out 5 lives in Jalandhar, 123 test +ve||Jalandhar, September 30The district on Wednesday recorded 123 new Covid positive cases, while five people lost their battle to the virus. The count of infected people with the virus has reached 12,920 and death toll has reached 390.The infected people were from Basti Bawa Khel, Ladowali road, Model Town, Shastri Nagar, Janta Colony and other areas.District round-upSix succumb to virus, 23 test +ve in HoshiarpurOf the 1,729 reports received in Hoshiarpur district on Wednesday, 23 people tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of positive patients to 4,460. Six patients succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 157.With 1,637 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms, the total number of samples taken so far has reached 1,04,996, as per the reports received from the lab, and 99,399 of these were negative, while 1,559 reports were awaited and 127 were invalid. The number of active cases is 588 and 3,722 have recovered from the disease so far.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said of the 23 new positive cases, 16 cases belonged to Hoshiarpur city, while seven cases were related to other health blocks. Six deaths in the district include that of 64-year-old woman of Baintani village, who died at MH Jalandhar; a 37-year-old resident of Makhsoospur, who died at a private hospital in SBS Nagar, an 84-year-old women of Bhunga, who died while on way to the hospital; a 65-year-old Meghowal resident, who died at his home; a 71-year-old patient of Mahilpur, who died at a private hospital in Hoshiarpur and an 81-year-old resident of Ransota village, who died at his home.20 test +ve in NawanshahrWith 20 new cases reported on Wednesday in Nawanshahr district, the tally of Covid cases has reached 1,612. From Balachaur block, total eight cases were reported, five were from Muzaffarpur, three from Sujjon block, two from Mukandpur and one positive case was reported from Urban Banga and urban Nawanshahr each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virus-snuffs-out-5-lives-in-jalandhar-123-test-ve-149302
01-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||People reluctant to get tested, experts worried||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 30It was in March, when the Covid-19 pandemic had hit the state, and now, seven months have gone by, but officials in the health, police and district administration are facing similar challenges. One of the major challenges for the officials is to convince people to get tested for Covid.ACP Bimal Kant, district nodal Covid care officer for cops, had recently said that being a nodal officer, he had noticed that people did not come forward and thus they suffered and in some cases unfortunate deaths happened.“We lost our ASI to Covid on Saturday, I would like to urge everyone that whenever someone feels that something is not right, they must get themselves tested and should not wait, because I have seen that if diagnosed at an early stage, the patient can be cured, otherwise it becomes very difficult for doctors to deal with the situation,” he said.Senior Medical Officer Dr AS Duggal said that he was shocked to see that even after several months, the thinking of people had not changed towards Covid and to convince a patient, who suffers from the symptoms has become a painstaking task.“Be it anyone, educated or uneducated, everyone has similar response to the fact that they must get themselves tested,” the doctor said adding that for the past few days he had been encouraging a patient suffering from fever to get him tested but he wasn’t agreeing.The Senior Medical Officer shared that patients with symptoms normally did not visit the doctors these days, and if they do, they prefer only medicine and not any advise on Covid test.Dr Duggal said that if not treated on time, Covid can be fatal and he has seen people who have died of the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/people-reluctant-to-get-tested-experts-worried-149303
01-10-2020||Jalandhar||Sandeep Garg is SSP (Rural)||In the transfer orders issued on Wdnesday, Sandeep Kumar Garg (in pic)has been posted as the new Jalandhar (Rural) SSP. Garg was earlier Sangrur SSP. Satinder Singh, who earlier held the charge of Jalandhar, has been transferred as SSP Mohali. He had a very short stint of just two months on the post in Jalandhar. He has earlier served as the SSP of Kapurthala and Nawanshahr.  Two other police officers posted in Doaba have received transfer orders. Charanjit Singh, who was Joint CP in Jalandhar, has now been moved as SSP (Rural) Ludhiana. Likewise Kapurthala SP (Headquarters) Rajinder Singh has moved to Ludhiana as DCP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sandeep-garg-is-ssp-rural-149304
01-10-2020||---||In-situ mgmt of crop residue to benefit potato growers: Expert||Jalandhar, September 30Hi-tech machines provided to farmers on subsidy under the in-situ management of crop residue programme has not just helped potato growers, but even the administration in curtailing incidents of stubble-burning in the district.Further, these machines have reduced cultivation cost of farmers. As a result, more farmers started mixing crop residue into their fields, which has led to increase in soil fertility and higher crop yield.As per the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department, area under potato crop is 22,555 hectares in Jalandhar and 80 per cent of potato seeds in the entire state are being produced by Jalandhar farmers.Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Surinder Singh said potato growers have to sow the crop immediately after harvesting paddy. “Earlier, most farmers were resorting to burning crop residue to prepare fields for sowing potatoes. Now, numerous farmers have become aware of the new technique and mix paddy straw in the soil,” he said.Dr Surinder said the department has been offering Super SMS for harvesting, chopper shredders, mulchers, rotavators and RMB ploughs under the crop residue programme to farmers. He said they were making famers aware of the benefits of the machines by holding camps.The Chief Agriculture Officer said, “After using combine harvesters fitted with the Super SMS, potato farmers use mulcher to mix paddy straw in the fields, reversible plough for preparation of fine seedbed following which seeds are sown.” He said farmers found key improvements in soil health, including increased water- holding capacity, less use of DAP and achieved high yield.He said Amandeep Singh of Lallian Khurd village and Jagjit Singh of Lallian Kalan village who had been managing paddy straw in their fields had witnessed good yield and improvement in their potato crop’s quality. He said due to improvement in water-holding capacity of soil, the impact of high rain in in-situ managed potato crop is very less.Dr Surinder said chopper shredder costs around Rs 2.5 lakh and mulcher Rs 1.75 lakh. He said 50 per cent subsidy was being offered to individual farmers and 80 per cent to farmers’ groups.He exhorted farmers not to burn stubble as this kills several nutrients and produces hazardous gases, which cause serious health issues.The Chief Agriculture Officer said they were running an intensive campaign to make farmers aware of the harmful effects of burning paddy-stubble on environment and humans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-situ-mgmt-of-crop-residue-to-benefit-potato-growers-expert-149305
01-10-2020||---||Enhancing skills of youths need of the hour: DC Thori||Jalandhar, September 30To get feedback from industrialists related to manpower shortage, Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori visited three industrial units in the city on Wednesday.The Deputy Commissioner met owners of Nivia Sports, Prime Leather and Syndicate Sports. He asked the industrialists to provide job opportunities to local youths under the “Ghar Ghar Rozgar” scheme.Skilled manpower He also sought their support to enhance skills of youths and hire educated workforce.He asked the industrialists to provide data regarding number of skill workers required by them so that the administration could work accordingly. He said collective efforts of the authorities and industrialists can open job avenues for youngsters and eliminate unemployment from the state.Thori said this would benefit youths and industrialists as the former would get good jobs and the latter would get skilled labour. He said the administration has chalked out a roadmap to offer skilled development programme.He said this would also enable the administration to make a long-term strategy by redefining its priorities for skill training in the industrial sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/enhancing-skills-of-youths-need-of-the-hour-dc-thori-149306
01-10-2020||Our Correspondent---||Irrational rhetoric of Capt ruining state’s image: AAP||Garhshankar , September 30 Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Garhshankar Jai Krishan Rodi condemned Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for stating that’ farmers’ agitation can spoil the atmosphere in Punjab’. Rodi said Capt Amarinder was trying to hide his failures. He said while the Chief Minister was stating that Punjab was in grave danger from farmers’ agitation, it was his responsibility to share any evidence he has with the Centre and take immediate action so that the atmosphere of Punjab does not deteriorate at any cost.  Rodi said after formation of the Congress government in the state in 2017, every section was feeling cheated. “By implementing anti-farmer laws, the Centre is trying to break the backbone of farmers, agricultural labourers, artisans, small shopkeepers and rural economy,” said Rodi. He added that Peaceful protests being carried out by various farmer organisations against the anti-farmer laws is a commendable step, but irrational rhetoric of Capt Amarinder Singh has tarnished the state’s image and discredited farmers.  He urged the Chief Minister to refrain from making such statements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/irrational-rhetoric-of-capt-ruining-states-image-aap-149307
01-10-2020||Jalandhar||Dalit activists protest non-implementation 
of  SC post-matric scholarship scheme||The Bahujan Samaj Front on Wednesday organised a demonstration in front of the office of Deputy Commissioner over the issue of non-implementation of the SC Post- Matric Scholarship. The demonstration was organised with the participation of Satguru Ravidass Naamleva Sangat and Bhagwan Valmiki Sabha. The members alleged that the children of poor, Dalit parents were not being allowed free admission in colleges under the scheme this year. The members presented a memorandum to the administration for being forwarded to the Governor of Punjab.  The state leader of Bahujan Samaj Front, Sukhwinder Kotli, MP Singh Goraya, Jagdish Rana, Sukhbir Singh Shalimar and others said that thousands of students of SC families and labourers were being forced to leave their studies midway as they had no means to pay the fee to the colleges in the intermediate years. Kotli said that demonstrations would be held outside all those colleges which would deny admission to Dalit students under the scheme. The front leaders said that the new labour laws and farm laws brought out by the Centre had deprived the labourers and the farming community of their constitutional rights and had only aided affluent families of the country. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dalit-activists-protest-non-implementation-of-sc-post-matric-scholarship-scheme-149308
01-10-2020||---||‘Youth Cong not afraid of Delhi Police’||Jalandhar, September 30Two days after a tractor was set afire by the Punjab Youth Congress near the India Gate, the Youth Congress, Jalandhar (U), chief Angad Dutta on Wednesday said he and his party workers are not afraid of any action against them by the Delhi Police.He said: “The protest at the India Gate was symbolic to show the anger of farmers against the Central Government. We only want to raise our voices against the new farm laws. This was the only way to make deaf government hear. We are campaigning in the office of the Youth Congress, New Delhi, from last three days and dare the Central Government and Delhi Police.”Dutta added: “There was no intention of our party workers to harm anyone. So we burnt the tractor at an isolated place. We haven’t done anything wrong and we are not afraid of any one either the Central government or Delhi Police.” He has warned that that this was not their last protest against the farm laws. “We will fight with the Centre till all the three agricultural laws are cancelled.”Agitation in GarhshankarYouth Congress workers protested against the arrest of Punjab Youth Congress chief Birender Dhillon and Punjab Youth Congress in-charge Bunty Sherke in Delhi and burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Saila Khurd.The protesters raised “Anti- Narendra Modi” slogans. While talking to the media on the occasion, Pranav Kipal said by arresting several Youth Congress workers, including Dhillon Sherke, the Central Government had proved its anti-farmer credentials.He said Dhillon and Sherke had made their arrest for sake of farmers.He said if “Nadarshahi government” at the Centre did not immediately release Dhillon and Sherke, they would fill the jails across the country.Chandan Sharma, vice-president, Youth Congress Assembly constituency, Garhshankar, Sachin Nayyar, Sunny Bedi, Rajan Dogarpur, Rajiv Bedi, Rajesh Saila, member block samiti, Manjinder Mohnowal, among others, were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-cong-not-afraid-of-delhi-police-149309
01-10-2020||Hoshiarpur||‘New agri laws to help corporates’||Hundreds of youth led by leader Harsimran Singh Bajwa raised slogans against the Centre, Reliance and Adani Group in front of the Reliance Mart at Suthehri Road to protest against the new agricultural laws. Bajwa said the BJP is hell-bent on making farmers suffer; it is planning to hand over the fertile land of Punjab to groups like Reliance and Adani. Farmers across Punjab were on the streets to protest against the bills passed by the government, but the party did not heed their demands.  The protesters appealed the masses to refrain from buying goods from such stores and corporates. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-agri-laws-to-help-corporates-149310
01-10-2020||Garhshankar||Travel agent dupes man of Rs 8 Lakh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/travel-agent-dupes-man-of-rs-8-lakh-149312
01-10-2020||The Punjab Student Union (PSU) is continuously protesting over fees in the district. Last week||Students, colleges at loggerheads over fees||Mamta Diwas celebratedMamta Diwas was celebrated at Urban Primary Centre in Nawanshahr on Wednesday. Expecting women and mothers with their new born babies were told about the precautions they must take amid the Covid-19 pandemic to ensure safety of young ones from contracting the virus. Under the “Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao” programme, officials asked residents to call on 104 if they come across anyone who is into female foeticide. A special arrangement was made for mothers to get themselves tested for Covid-19.Nodal officers to keep a tab on stubble-burningThe authorities are taking steps to ensure that farmers do not burn crop residue after harvesting paddy. Nawanshahr Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal has appointed nodal officers at village level who will keep a tab on stubble-burning. The nodal officers will work until November 15 along with agriculture, horticulture, District Development and Panchayat Department and Guardians of Governance (GOG) to make sure that nobody resorts to burning crop residue in villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-colleges-at-loggerheads-over-fees-149314
