02-09-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar braveheart Kusum to get Rs 51,000||Thori said the administration would unveil mascot on the name of Kusum under Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao programme in Jalandhar to motivate other girls besides launching ‘Daadi ki Ladli’ an online competition, so that young girls can participate and share their stories regarding how their grandmothers support them.Also read: Man who attacked 15-yr-old girl sent to 3-day police remandThe best three girls will get cash prizes worth Rs10,000, Rs5,000 and Rs2,000, respectively. He said Kusum has made Jalandhar proud and she had become a role model for others. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-braveheart-kusum-to%C2%A0get-rs-51-000-135216
02-09-2020||Hoshiarpur||DAV college releases magazine||#AskEM campaign launchedJalandhar: The Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, Mid-Day Meal Daftari Karamchari Union on Monday launched a programme called #AskEMVijayinderSingla on the lines of #AskCaptain campaign started by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. The members said they would put questions to every leader who come to them seeking votes. "They make big promises and then forget to fulfil these, that is why we would ask them questions which they will send to Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla. Notably, the union members have been seeking the regularisation of their services. They said teachers appointed under the SSA in 2018 were regularised by the government, but the non-teaching workers who were appointed much earlier were still working on a contract basis, which was not right on the part of the government. The protesters said nearly 1,000 employees in the state had been working on contract and were getting meagre salaries. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dav-college-releases-magazine-135159
02-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||A century of providing, this co-op society hasn’t run out of steam||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 1Known for its innovations and novel ideas, Hoshiarpur-based Lambra Kangri Multipurpose Co-operative Service Society, which came into existence in the year 1920, is the apple of the eye of villagers of Lambra.Ask anyone about their deeds and they only have words of praise. One of the major works that the society has done is founding of a biogas plant in the village. With it's help, the dwellers have been able to shun LPG cylinders and are using biogas instead.When the residents of even urban areas are devoid of the facility of home delivery of gas through pipes, residents of a remote village are enjoying it. The project was installed in 2016 here.The society recently completed 100 years. Established by forefathers of Jaswinder Singh, the project manager, in all these years the foundation has always been on the forefront catering to the villagers' needs. Meanwhile, IAS Kahn Singh Pannu has adopted the society.The biogas meters as well as chullahs are provided to the members by the society on its own expense. The meters are installed in the houses that measure the amount of gas used. Even the Government Senior Secondary School, Lambra, is reaping the benefits - it helps in the preparation of the mid-day meal for students.For this, the society was also awarded with Dr Shirin Gadhia Sustainability Award by Eco Center ICNEER (International Centre for Networking Ecology, Education Re-Integration) in association with Muni Sewa Ashram. The award recognises people who have contributed to the cause of sustainability.In another project, the society has been using rice husk ash to purify water. As it's disposal is a big problem, the society found a way to use it as a medium to clean water. Committee members said the project is cheaper and the treated water through this technique is also used in fields and is beneficial for crops. "As compared to the other techniques, this is way too natural and cheaper. Under this technique, waste and unclean water is passed through rice husk ash," said Jaswinder.Recently, when the farmers faced problems because of shortage of labour during lockdown, the society gave opportunities to local youngsters to work for them and operate the machines.From agri to multipurpose societyJaswinder, while sharing an anecdote, said earlier it was an agricultural society and was providing only agri-related services. "One day, one of the villagers, who had come from abroad, told my father that the condition of the village was the same as it was when he had left for overseas. As no transportation facility was available, he had to walk from Bullhowal to Hariana village for some work. "The society then purchased a tempo-taxi, faced some problems from the department officials as they were asked to not work as a transport society," he shared. Afterwards, the then Joint Registrar KS Pannu was consulted. He was moved after seeing the enthusiasm of the society's members and himself decided to adopt the society and raised its status to the multipurpose society in 1999.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-century-of-providing-this-co-op-society-hasnt-run-out-of-steam-135158
02-09-2020||---||JEE (Mains): Covid no deterrent for them||Jalandhar, September 1 Nearly 161 Class XII passouts from the city took the JEE B Arch-2020 online examination at the centre of Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) in Saffron Mall on the NH-1 on Tuesday. Principal of Police DAV Public School Rashmi Vij is the nodal officer for the examination, which was held in two shifts – from 9 am to 12 noon and from 2 pm to 5 pm. Though the centre has two halls with a capacity of 500 work stations each, students were made to sit in gaps leaving a system so as to maintain social distance owing to the pandemic. While 85 students took the exam in the first shift, only 66 students appeared for the second shift. A total of 174 students were expected to take the examination, of which 13 students remained absent. From Wednesday, the JEE Mains would be taken in the same centre for five consecutive days in two shifts. Students attempted 70 questions in three hours and most of them said they could attempt the paper well in time.  Manvir Singh, a passout from MGN Public School, said: “The paper was of average difficulty level. I had plenty of time for revision. While 68 questions were to be attempted online, we had to take two questions of drawing using paper. We took our own colour pencils to make the drawings.” Manvir expressed satisfaction over the fact that the examination got postponed owing to Covid, “I got plenty of time to prepare after my board exams. I had taken no tuitions for this and used YouTube and the internet for making all preparation by myself”. Tarun Bhardwaj, a passout of Police DAV Public School, had a different opinion over the postponement of examination. “The delay in examination broke the entire momentum of preparation. Our tuitions were paused. The routine of taking mock tests, that I had been taking, also took a hit. So, all these factors led to some loss in studies,” he fumed, adding that if at all examination were to be held in the same condition, they should have been held well in time by June or July. Samarth Arora, another candidate, expressed satisfaction over the arrangements at the centre.  “Coming out of home that, too, at a mall after a long time had made me a bit skeptical, as to whether it would be safe to take the examination that too when Covid is spreading at an alarming speed. But thankfully, I was comfortable. We were made to sanitise our hands at every step and take our own transparent water bottles. Arrangements of maintaining social distance were also proper. Even the way of conducting examination was satisfactory and I was able to complete the paper 18 minutes before time. Now, I have my B Tech entrance in the same centre a day after.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jee-mains-covid-no-deterrent-for-them-135135
02-09-2020||Ajay Joshi||Man who attacked 15-yr-old girl sent to 3-day police remand||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 1Cops have intensified the search operation of the second accused, who is still at large, a day after a 15-year-old girl fearlessly fought snatchers who tried snatching her mobile phone.Jalandhar braveheart Kusum to get Rs 51,000Investigation in charge, SI Jatinder Pal Singh, SHO police division number 2, said accused Avinash Kumar (22), alias Ashu, who was arrested yesterday, was summoned at the district court on Tuesday and has been sent on police remand for three days.Read also: Teenager gives snatchers a tough fight in JalandharBefore sending him on police remand, the cops took Avinash for his medical and Covid test, the reports of which will arrive in two days. Notably, Avinash is the main accused, who hit the victim with a sharp-edged weapon (datar) that injured her left wrist badly. He has been charged under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 379 B of the IPC.The other accused, identified as Vinod Kumar, is a resident of railway quarters and is still absconding.On Sunday evening, Kusum Kumari, in a bid to save her phone from being snatched, at Deen Dayal Upadhay Nagar, near Jalandhar-Kapurthala Road, gave a tough fight to snatchers and continued to fight until she got her phone back. Despite being attacked by datar multiple times, she didn’t let one of the snatchers go and finally got him arrested with the help of a few passersby. The entire incident was recorded in a CCTV camera, the footage of which went viral on the internet on Monday.She has been receiving appreciation from every part of the country and Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar also announced to send her name for national and state level bravery awards.Kusum is presently admitted to a private hospital, which is providing her free treatment. Her father Sadhu Ram, who is a daily wage earner, said she would remain in the hospital for three more days and her injuries would recover after a month.In recognition of the exemplary courage and bravery shown by Kusum, DC Ghanshyam Thori has announced a cash award of Rs51,000 for her. Thori said the cash award would be given to Kusum by using Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds. He said women empowerment was all the more important for the development of the country and prosperity of its people, adding that this would help transform the destiny of the country in general and that of women in particular.District Programme Officer Gurminder Singh Randhawa said the mascot on the name of the braveheart Kusum would be unveiled soon, as the team of the department was in talks with her family.A day after the bravery reports of teenage girl Kusum appeared in the papers, Angad Dutta, Youth Congress president Jalandhar, along with other office-bearers met her at Joshi Hospital, where she was taking treatment.He lauded her courageous act to fight against armed snatchers. He said her story would be an inspiration to the youth and all others in society. He also assured the family that he would discuss the matter with CM Punjab Capt Amarinder Singh and with their PYC president Barinder Singh Dhillon for getting some scholarship for the brave girl of Jalandhar.Former BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia also inquired about the health of Kusum. He went to the hospital along with Dr Mukesh Joshi, Rajat Mohindru and Rajiv Walia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-who-attacked-15-yr-old-girl-sent-to-3-day-police-remand-135136
02-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Four deaths, 52 new cases in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, September 1The total number of deaths due to Covid-19 has increased to 49 with four more deaths on the second consecutive day in the district. The number of Covid-19 patients has increased to 1,590 with 52 new infections on Tuesday, of which 406 are active cases and 1,135 patients have cured.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said of the 52 cases, 24 were from Hoshiarpur city, six from Harta Badla, two each from Mukerian, Tanda and Dasuya, four each from Bhunga and Chakkowal, One each from Garhshankar, Mand Mandher, Paldi and Posi and four from Budhawar.Meanwhile, Gurbachan Singh (73), a resident of New Guru Nanak Nagar Hoshiarpur, died of Covid while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Ludhiana. Similarly, 45-year-old Gyan Kaur died at Guru Nanak Medical College, Amritsar, while Talwandi Tanda resident Gurnam Singh (73) and Kamlesh (70) died at Military Hospital, Jalandhar.The total number of samples taken in the district so far are 59,872 with 1,200 new samples taken from people with suspected flu-like symptoms. As per the reports received from the laboratory, 56,991 are negative, 1,325 reports are awaited and 80 samples are invalid.Dr Singh said the facility has been provided in five urban health centres in the city and ESI hospital in Hoshiarpur, where residents of the city can get tested for free.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-deaths-52-new-cases-in-hoshiarpur-135137
02-09-2020||---||NEP 2020 will help curtail dropout rate in schools by 50%, says expert||Jalandhar, September 1A webinar on New Education Policy 2020 was organised by Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar, today. Educationists from renowned institutions of India delivered their views at the webinar. The webinar was inaugurated by Professor L K Awasthi, Director NIT Jalandhar and NIT Hamirpur.In his inaugural address, Professor Awasthi emphasised on the characteristic features of the new policy. He stated that there was going to be an academic bank of credits in which a digital store of the credits earned by the students shall be maintained. These credits can be used by the students at any time and if required, can be transferred to any university throughout the country. He also mentioned the introduction of single regulatory body in place of existing multiple bodies like UGC, AICTE and various other agencies.Professors’ takeProfessor MC Govil said an estimated 50 per cent of the students, who opt to dropout after school, may be benefited through this policy. Professor Chandra Shakher said according to his perception, there has to be problem solving approach in which the students should be encouraged to solve the unsolved problems being faced by society and industry. He also emphasised on technological innovations, which were going to be effective matra for the success of an organisation.In his opinion, the New Education Policy will invite foreign universities to open their campuses in India and there will be possibilities of collaboration of Indian universities with them, resulting in increase of enrolment of students. It is the responsibility of all the educational institutions to accept and implement the policy to get its benefits as expected, he said.Professor MC Govil said an estimated 50 per cent of the students who opt to dropout after school, may be benefited through this policy. Professor Chandra Shakher said according to his perception, there has to be problem solving approach in which the students should be encouraged to solve the unsolved problems being faced by society and industry. He also emphasised on technological innovations, which were going to be effective matra for the success of an organisation.Another participant Deshraj Sharma said NEP 2020 was likely to help in the reduction of dropouts at school level. There has been an altogether change in examination system also. Further, there is a direct linking of the school education to skill development. Internship is going to be introduced from school level, which will result in creation of more skillful manpower to result in Atma Nirbhar Bharat.Atul Kothari said education through distance learning is going to be very important as now this would be at par with other institutions. Universities are expected to be multidimensional. There is also a need for emphasis on women education and vocational education.According to him, 50 per cent of the students should opt for the vocational education resulting in drastic reduction in dropouts from school education. He also pointed out the provision of teaching in regional languages in schools and colleges although he confessed that all of a sudden, the teaching in English cannot be stopped. He requested all administrators to form committees for early implementation of New Education Policy.The programme was organised by Professor RK Garg, Dean Faculty Welfare, Professor Anish Sachdeva, Dean Students Welfare, Dr SK Mishra, Registrar, and Dr L P Singh, Coordinator Continuing Education Centre. A committee of Deans has been constituted for planning of effective implementation of the policy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nep-2020-will-help-curtail-dropout-rate-in-schools-by-50-says-expert-135138
02-09-2020||---||Edu Secy: Form buddy groups to ensure 100 pc participation in tests||Jalandhar, September 1 Punjab Education Secretary Krishan Kumar has exhorted education officials, school heads and teachers to take execution of Punjab Achievement Survey as passion and not just as an obligation to perform a task.  He was interacting with District Education Officers (secondary and elementary), school heads, block primary education officers, PPDCs, DMs, Zila Sikhiya Sudhar teams of Nawanshahr and Hoshiarpur districts via a webinar to take the stock of the progress of the preparatory tests going on under the Punjab Achievement Survey.  He gave a patient hearing to their suggestions and the good practices being adopted by them for the implementation of the programme. He lauded the commendable efforts, innovative good practices and valuable suggestions of the education officials, school heads and teachers. Punjab Achievement Survey, currently underway in all government and government-aided schools across the state, is not only aimed at preparing students for achieving distinction in the learning outcome tests in the ensuing ‘National Achievement Survey’, but to strengthen the understanding level of the basic concepts of different subjects and reasoning ability of students. “It will ultimately hone up their skill of attempting competitive examinations, consequently helping them to achieve better rankings in various entrance examinations for seeking admissions to engineering, medical, commerce and other courses as well as tapping employment avenues in future,” said Krishan Kumar. He also underlined the importance of constituting ‘Buddy Groups’ of students, teachers and schools to ensure smooth execution of the programme. The formation of Buddy Groups, he said, would foster team work consequently evoking better response from students and parents for ensuring 100 per cent participation in this mega exercise.  Besides, Buddy Groups would help in building the capacity and constant group discussions among Buddy Groups would be a nurturing ground for innovative ideas, said Krishan Kumar, advising them to ensure the capacity building of heads, teachers and students of the government-aided schools also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/edu-secy-form-buddy-groups-to-ensure-100-pc-participation-in-tests-135139
02-09-2020||---||City’s 8,600 families apply for Haryaval Punjab initiative||Jalandhar, September 1Industrialists, leaders and residents have applied under the Haryaval Punjab programme and it is picking up pace in the city. Sushil Kumar, BJP councillor, said more than 8,600 families in the city have applied under the programme. He said planting and nurturing the saplings is like ray of hope amid pandemic.‘Planting trees a ray of hope amid pandemic’Sushil Kumar, BJP councillor, said more than 8,600 families in the city have applied under the programme. He said planting and nurturing the saplings is like a ray of hope amid the pandemic.Everyone is in praise of the fact that even some leaders were actively promoting the programme. An industrialist said in present times, it was very necessary to make sure that the environment was clean and green, which gives happiness to the people.HS Chiktara, who is an owner of a rubber manufacturing unit, and President Sanjhiwalta Manch, Punjab, said he was also asking people on the social media to grow trees and ensure clean environment for our future generation.“After I put up on my social media accounts, I got around 20-25 phone calls and they asked me to provide different saplings,” Chitkara, said adding that his organisation also provided saplings to people who are interested and encourage everyone to plant trees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/citys-8-600-families-apply-for-haryaval-punjab-initiative-135140
02-09-2020||Our Correspondent---||Police return snatched articles||Hoshiarpur, September 1 To check the rising incidents of snatching in the city, the district police have divided it into 10 sectors. Four DSPs along with around 100 police personnel have been deployed to check such incidents.   SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said this during a press conference at the Police Lines on Tuesday. During this he handed over the snatched articles to five families, who had become victims of the snatching in the said incidents. He appreciated the role of DSP Jagdish Raj Attri and SHO (City) Gobinder Kumar in the recovery of articles and arrests.   The SSP said the city had reported 10 cases of snatchings in the last one month. The police arrested five persons and recovered three gold chains, one mobile phone, an earring and a bike from them. In response to a question, he said a special campaign had been started against illegal mining and drug smuggling in the district.  He further added the police had deployed speed guns in Garhshankar and Mahilpur to check over-speeding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-return-snatched-articles-135141
02-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Illicit liquor seized from border area||Hoshiarpur, September 1The Punjab Police, in a joint operation with its counterpart Himachal Police, seized a large quantity of illicit liquor from the border area of Himachal Pradesh, near Mukerian.On the instructions of SSP Navjot Singh Mahal, a special checking campaign was carried out in collaboration with the Excise Department under the supervision of SP (Investigation) RPS Sandhu. Police teams led by Ravinder Pal Singh, DSP Mukerian, SHO police station Hajipur, SHO Mukerian and SHO of Indora (Himachal Pradesh), conducted raids in Gangwal, Milwa, Bruta, Teora and Aleria villages on the Punjab- Himachal border.Case registered under Excise actOn the instructions of SSP Navjot Singh Mahal, a special checking campaign was carried out in collaboration with the Excise Department. The police seized 24,000 kg of lahan, 5,000 ml of illicit liquor, 12 plastic cans, 32 plastic sheets and 15 plastic drums. The Indora police have registered a case under the Excise Act.The police seized 24,000 kg of lahan, 5,000 ml of illicit liquor, 12 plastic cans, 32 plastic sheets and 15 plastic drums. The Indora police have registered a case under the Excise Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/illicit-liquor-seized-from-border-area-135142
