02-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar ASI on Covid curfew duty dragged by youth on car's bonnet: Watch video||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 2An Assistant Sub-Inspector on curfew duty in Jalandhar was dragged on a vehicle's bonnet for a considerable distance on Saturday morning after he tried to stop a youth at a naka. The police has booked both the youth and his father for the offence.And most of this was recorded in a video.The policemen stopped a college student, Amol Mehmi (20), driving an Ertiga car, at the Milk Bar Chowk in Jalandhar.Also read:As ASI Mulk Raj stood in front of the car, other policemen enquired why the youth was out during lockdown. However, the youth allegedly drove off his car, carrying the ASI on its bonnet to a considerable distance and stopped only after other cops chased down the vehicle.The accused has been arrested after registration of a case at the police station division 6 under Section 307 of the IPC and relevant Sections of the Disaster Management Act.In Jalandhar, residents are permitted to venture out only from 7 am to 11 am in non-containment zones. No one is permitted to take out vehicles, which are bound to be impounded if driven in violation of the lockdown guidelines.Additional SHO Gurdev Singh said, "ASI Mulk Raj was on duty with other employees at Milk Bar Chowk. Since Mulk Raj's hand was on the bonnet, the youth suddenly drove the car. We indicated the youth to stop but instead he dragged the cop to a considerable distance and was stopped only after we chased him down."Police commissioner, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said that an FIR under various Section of IPC, including 307 and Epidemic Diseases Act and 51 Disaster Management Act, has been registered against not just Amol but his father Parminder Kumar, who owns the car. He said that Jalandhar Commissionerate Police has a ‘zero tolerance policy’ against such acts against government officers deployed on curfew enforcement duties.Bhullar said that stern action would be taken against any individual indulging in such heinous crimes||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-asi-on-covid-curfew-duty-dragged-by-youth-on-cars-bonnet-watch-video-79379
02-05-2020||Our Correspondent||LPU moves court against Vijay Sampla, son||Phagwara, May 1Additional Registrar, Lovely Professional University (LPU), Manish Gupta, has sought a restraining order on the former Union Minister Vijay Sampla, his son, Sahil, and a supporter, Amit Kumar, in a Phagwara court for making statements against the university.After the judicial proceedings, the court mentioned in its order issued on April 28, that not only the image and reputation of the plaintiff university, but the future of staff working with it, and most important, the future of students studying in the university is at stake because of the defendants has passed the restraining order from doing so illegally with any ulterior motive without justification. Next hearing in this regard is on May 13.The university has said on March 13, the Department of Higher Education Punjab, had ordered to suspend classes from March 14 to March 31. The university suspended the classes. The order did not mention to get the hostels vacated.On March 21, the Union Ministry of Human Resources issued a letter to let students stay in hostels. On March 27, the Centre again directed that the university should take care of the students, staff and officers. There were 22,625 students in the hostels, out of which 20,090 (close to 90 per cent) had left. However, due to the closure of air-rail services and other means of transport, the rest of the students could not go.Sampla, his son and supporter, have given wrong statements against the university, even compared the university to the Tablighi Jamaat on social media. The university also said they were also mentally harassing the students and staff by giving false statements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lpu-moves-court-against-vijay-sampla-son-79073
02-05-2020||Our Correspondent||NGO honours labourers||Hoshiarpur, May 1On the occasion of Labour Day on Friday, the organisation working for social awareness, Savera, honoured labourers working in the fields by offering them shawls.While thanking the labourers, convener of the organisation, Civil Surgeon (retd) Dr Ajay Bagga, said due to the Covid-19 epidemic, the economic condition of the labour class was in bad shape.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ngo-honours-labourers-79072
02-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Labour Day: Special financial package for Punjab sought||Phagwara/Phillaur, May 1Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, Punjab Agro Industrial Corporation Chairman Joginder Singh Maan, Improvement Trust Chairman Sohan Lal Banga, along with Congress leaders and Councillors, on Friday unfurled the national flag at various places on Labour Day in Phagwara to honour our frontline warriors and to register their protest against discriminatory attitude of the Union Government with Border state of Punjab.In Phillaur and Goraya, Congress leader Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary unfurled the tricolor to show the solidarity with our health professionals fighting Covid-19 pandemic and to honour the working class population.Vikramjit Chaudhary said the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had repeatedly asked the Union Government to provide special financial package for the state, but the Union Government had not even released pending GST compensation and post-matric scholarship dues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/labour-day-special-financial-package-for-punjab-sought-79071
02-05-2020||Industry & Lockdown||‘Punjab Govt should promote setting up of modernised brick-kilns’||Mukesh Nanda, owner of Tara Chand Nanda brick-kiln firm, which was set up in 1979, advocates the opening of construction units so that daily wagers can start earning in this time of crisis. In an interview with Neeraj Bagga, Nanda shares his views on the post-lockdown scenario. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted your brick-kiln unit?Brick-kiln is a labour intensive and seasonal industry. Bricks are produced between February and June as the hot weather aids the functioning of furnace and diminishes the requirement of fuel. So, five types of labour are involved in brick-making. Labour involved in the baking and nakasi process usually comes from UP, Bihar and Rajasthan. But due to the lockdown, labourers are unable to reach the unit, leading to shortage.Last year, a majority of the brick-kilns in Punjab were converted into the induced draft technology, while the remaining units were planning to adopt it this year. Those converted to induced draft technology planned to recover their investments this year, but Covid-19 hit their business investments. — Mukesh Nanda, owner, Tara Chand Nanda brick-kilnDo you expect resumption of your business in near future?The Ministry of Environment and Forests issued a notification on February 25, 2019, that the conventional brick-kilns situated within 300 km of a thermal power plant should be switched to using fly ash and pond ash as fuel for their furnace. They were contemplating to add another unit to the same line this year. However, the plan has been deferred and will now be executed only after evaluating the situation next year.How are you managing the issue of paying salaries to labourers?We have been providing wages to workers. The expenditure of a brick-kiln per day is at least Rs70,000. Permission has been granted for the sale of bricks in some districts. But, it should be allowed in all districts of the state. Lack of sale will only lead to a liquidity shortage, which will accentuate the existing problem adversely and affect the construction sector as a whole in immediate future. Construction as a whole involves cement, steal, iron, furniture, sanitary and daily wagers.Have any of your major investments got deferred due to the lockdown?Last year, a majority of the brick-kilns in Punjab were converted into the induced draft technology, while the remaining units were planning to adopt it this year. Those converted to induced draft technology planned to recover their investments this year, but Covid-19 hit their business investments.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?The Almighty is great. Without God's grace, movement of even a leaf is not possible. Seeing the current situation, it is felt that the God is servicing our earth.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?It is a great challenge for the brick-kiln industry to overcome the crisis and absorb its impact. Huge daily expenditure is intact, but there is no income. Once the markets are opened, it will take some time for the demand for construction material to pick up. After sometime, the demand will increase.What are your expectations from the government?The government should promote setting up of new modernised kilns and offer subsidies in their modernisation. It is tough time for the trade and the industry. The government should boost MSME as it provides employment to a large number of people. Taking a leaf out of China, the government must step in to boost R&D in the brick-kiln and other industries to improve quality of products. In addition, the government should reduce interest rates on demand loans and enhance loan limits of the MSME. It should create a labour welfare fund from unclaimed EPF.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-govt-should-promote-setting-up-of-modernised-brick-kilns-79080
02-05-2020||Dr HS Chawla||Dental care in times of Covid||Ever since the emergence of Covid-19 in Wuhan, China, it has spread across the world and become a global pandemic.The present situation is a relatively new infliction as not everything is known about Covid. One aspect, which is widely accepted, is that it spares no one and fast spreads through contact with oral (mouth) fluids, nasal (nose) secretions and/or eye secretions. Droplets, apart from spreading through coughing and sneezing, also fall from mouth during normal talking, which we generally ignore. Many of us may have noticed small droplets of saliva/spit dribbling out of one’s own or somebody else’s mouth. There are many such instances where such accidents, like clearing throat with slight cough, happen and are not in one’s control.Large droplets, which are visible, fall just a few feet away from us, whereas small particles, which are not seen with naked eye, float around in the air to longer distance.This is why social/physical distancing and covering mouth is important to avoid getting infected with Covid-19. Besides, spitting on road should be completely discouraged.It is also important to maintain oral hygiene. The real problem is how to keep mouth clean and free from at least bacterial infections? A cleaner and healthy mouth may be less prone to viral infections as it is well known that a healthy body is less prone to get any other infections. The bacteria lives in everyone’s oral cavity, predominantly sticking on the teeth, the top surface of the tongue and below the visible margin of the gum that touches the tooth. So, it is important to thoroughly brush teeth concomitantly using the following three methods: i) short horizontal, ii) small clock-wise & anti-clockwise, and iii) vertical strokes from gum downwards for upper teeth and gum upwards for lower teeth on both sides of the teeth, that is, cheek and tongue sides of all teeth. The tooth has two more surfaces i.e. sides in-between teeth, which remain unattended by many of us. To clean these surfaces, use dental floss and interdental brush.The main aim of tooth brushing is to reduce the number of bacteria in the mouth. First brush without toothpaste i.e dry brushing, which would dislodge bacteria settled on the teeth and gums. The bacteria gets dislodged by frictional action of bristles on the teeth. After brushing, the bacteria will float in the mouth mixed with saliva. It is natural to spit out the dislodged material. It takes about 5-8 minutes to reasonably clean the teeth if done properly. Next, brush with toothpaste for 30 seconds to one minute. This is followed by flossing and interdental brushing to dislodge bacteria from the sides of the teeth. Finally, it is important to brush once again with toothpaste. This sequence is very important to achieve optimal cleaning of teeth.To check if one has effectively cleaned the teeth, one should run finger on last teeth; if it feels greasy/slippery then there is a need to brush once again thoroughly. Since the oral and food passage to stomach is in continuation, bacteria from the oral environment would influence the tonsillar health and teeth inversely. Tonsils are considered as a line of defence, preventing the infection to spread. The remnants of food often stick to the tonsillar area, more so in cases where tonsils, which have small crypts or pits in them (follicular tonsillitis). The tonsillar health also contributes to bad breath. In order to keep tonsils healthy and to ward off any bacterial and viral attack, we should keep the tonsillar area clean by frequent gargling with warm water preferably saline water at least after major meals and at night time after brushing.The third important factor is the hygiene of nasal passages. This also influences oral cleanliness. The nose harbours bacteria, Staphylococcus species being predominant. For the nasal hygiene measure, one should clean the nasal passages at night. This is achieved by taking some warm water or saline warm water from one (right) nostril and blowing it out from the same nostril. Repeat the same with the other (left) nostril. People who are familiar with ‘jal neti’ can also follow the same for cleansing the nasal passage. The posterior nasal discharge is a known phenomenon and is likely to influence the throat.These three methods (cleaning of teeth, gargles for tonsils and nasal health) if followed together and properly, would guarantee long-lasting oral health and could also contribute towards total health and combat the infliction of bacterial and hopefully viral infections. It is expected to lessen the viral load in this period of Covid-19 susceptibility.Maintain oral hygieneFirst brush your teeth without toothpaste. This would dislodge bacteria settled on the teeth and gums. The bacteria gets dislodged by frictional action of bristles on the teeth. After brushing, the bacteria will float in the mouth mixed with saliva. It is natural to spit out the dislodged material. It takes around 5-8 minutes to reasonably clean the teeth if done properly. Next, brush with toothpaste for 30 seconds to one minute. This is followed by flossing and interdental brushing. Finally, it is important to brush once again with toothpaste.The writer is former Head, Oral Health Sciences Centre, PGI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dental-care-in-times-of-covid-79079
02-05-2020||Jalandhar||Show empathy for returnees: Pargat Singh||The outrage over the return of pilgrims from Hazur Sahib has been strongly condemned. A section of people have questioned the bringing back of pilgrims, the natives of Punjab, stuck in other states, speaking out against them on social media. Another section of citizens, politicians and residents have strongly condemned the outrage. In Jalandhar, out of 110 returnees only one was tested positive. MLA Pargat Singh, among others, on Friday condemned the selective outrage against pilgrims and asked people to have some sympathy.Pargat Singh said, “Firstly, without even a three-hour response period, the lockdown was clamped in the country. None of these people got any time to respond. The selective outrage over those returning from Hazoor Sahib is very shameful. Everyone has a right to return to their home. This is not the time to flog those who are stuck at a place where they are seeking out help from their own state. We as a society are obligated to help those in need of help during the pandemic. But instead of that these people are being treated like terrorists and criminals. While it is true that lack of proper management of the situation allowed some to go directly to villages without undergoing quarantine. However, I condemn those who raise questions over their return to the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/show-empathy-for-returnees-pargat-singh-79078
02-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Bias in distribution of relief material: BJP||Hoshiarpur, May 1BJP leaders and workers protested against policies of the state government by holding a day-long fast. BJP national vice-president and former MP Avinash Rai Khanna fasted for one day at his residence in protest against the alleged state government’s bias in distribution of ration and other benefits provided by the Union Government to fight the Coronavirus pandemic.Khanna said along with the state government the Centre had also provided ration and other benefits to the middle and working class population of the country in this hour of crisis. Sadly, the state government was showing partiality in providing the benefits to people. The government should provide the relief material sent by the Centre to every needy without any discrimination.Former Union MoS Vijay Sampla also protested against the policies of the state government. He held a day-long fast to protest against the non-distribution of wheat and pulses sent to the state government for 1.42 crore residents of the state under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojna.Sampla said the state government was showing discrimination towards the public. The Centre was providing all possible help to all states to fight Covid-19, but the Congress was doing politics to mislead people.He said the Captain-led government in the state should distribute the aid material sent by the Centre among the public without delay. Sanjiv Talwar, MC Neeti Talwar, former minister Arunesh Shakir and other leaders were among those others who observed the fast.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bias-in-distribution-of-relief-material-bjp-79070
02-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Union Govt discriminating against Punjab, alleges Congress||Hoshiarpur, May 1Under the leadership of state Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora, people hoisted the national flag on Labour Day in all 50 wards and 60 villages of the Hoshiarpur Assembly segment. They criticised the Union Government’s alleged biased attitute towards the state.The state has the right of special package due to being a border state, but its right has not been given by the Centre are asking for our rights and there is nothing wrong in it. We want to bring to the attention of the Centre that to fight the battle against coronavirus efficiently, resources are needed. — Sunder Sham Arora, Industries and Commerce MinisterArora hoisted the national flag at his residence on Friday and said: “Every Punjabi is asking the union Government that we the people of Punjab are also the Indians then why are we being discriminated.”The Cabinet Minister said in the time of this disaster, the Centre should cooperate with Punjab without discrimination, but Punjab is being discriminated by Centre as always.Arora said: “Our national flag is a symbol of unity and integrity. Whenever there is any difficulty in the country, Punjab has performed its duty more than its capacity. Today Punjab is fighting a war against Covid-19 but the Centre is not supporting Punjab.”He said the state has the right of special package due to being a border state, but its right has not been given by the Union Government, he added. He said, “We are asking for our rights and there is nothing wrong in it. We want to bring to the attention of the Centre that to fight the battle against coronavirus efficiently, resources are needed and if Punjab becomes strong then only the country will become strong.”Punjab State Backward Commission Chairman Sarwan Singh, Improvement Trust Chairman Advocate Rakesh Marwaha, Shaadi Lal, Sunish Jain and Rajat were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/union-govt-discriminating-against-punjab-alleges-congress-79069
02-05-2020||AMID this crisis||To ensure nobody goes hungry a major challenge||Now, I am making efforts to make people aware of how to adopt steps to stop the spread of the virus. Daily, announcements are being made on rickshaws and councillors of my area are too involved in the initiative.I have also got a special sanitisation machine for my constituency so that every street, lane and house gets sanitised in a proper manner. The process of sanitisation is continuing since the lockdown was announced.The major challenge this time is to make sure that no one sleeps hungry as a large section of residents here belongs to economically humbled families. I have distributed ration and medicines among several residents at my own level. Arrangement of passes for vegetable vendors has also been like a challenge in the present scenario. Also, I have taken up the matter of needs of middle-class citizens with the Chief Minister. They don't have blue cards, but since the lockdown has been extended, they are also facing several problems. Hence, the government must extend help to them too(Aakanksha N Bhardwaj)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/to-ensure-nobody-goes-hungry-a-major-challenge-79083
02-05-2020||Avneet Kaur||Teacher turns veggie vendor to sustain living||Kapurthala, May 1A teacher, an auto-rickshaw driver and now a vegetable vendor. Nishant Kumar, who teaches at Government Primary School, Bhagat Pur here, has been forced to take any job that comes his way in order to sustain his family of five and pay the EMIs of his three-wheeler loan.Before the lockdown was announced, my routine used to be like teaching till 2 pm and from 3 pm onwards, I would ferry passengers from the Jalandhar bus stand to the Kapurthala chowk. After the lockdown, I decided to work as a vegetable vendor to earn livelihood and serve people of my town by providing them veggies on their doorstep. — Nishant KumarNishant says that he gets a meagre salary of Rs 6,000 from the state education department, which is not enough to sustain his family. To bear other expenses, he started driving an auto-rickshaw after the school.Now since this business has also been affected in the wake of the curfew, Nishant Kumar has started working as a vegetable vendor. He reaches the local sabzi mandi at 4 am sharp to buy vegetables from the arhtiyas to further sell these door-to-door in different localities.Talking to this correspondent, Nishant said it had been over one year that he had been working as an auto-rickshaw driver in Jalandhar. He said he purchased the vehicle on loan and invested all his savings just to double the income. "Before the lockdown was announced, my routine used to be like teaching till 2 pm and from 3 pm onwards he would ferry passengers from the Jalandhar bus stand to Kapurthala chowk," he said.However, the auto-rickshaw was now lying parked outside his house since March 23 and Rs 6,000 salary from the teaching profession was not enough to run the house. Nishant said just a week after the lockdown, he decided to work as a vegetable vendor in order to earn livelihood as well serve the people of his town by providing them veggies on the doorstep.He said the idea of selling vegetables was given to him by his friend, who was a wholesaler. "As only essential commodities are allowed these days, I did not have enough money to start grocery business, so with the help of my friend and by borrowing some money from him, I started selling veggies,” said Nishant.“After unpacking the veggies and arranging them on my cart, I start from home at 8 am to sell these door-to-door. I return home late in the evening. After taking rest for half an hour, I prepare some assignments for primary class students to keep them busy with their studies,” he said.Nishant said he had put 11 years in the education department with the hope that one day his services would be regularised. "I got married a few years ago but my wife left me due to my meager salary. I have the responsibility of my parents and a brother on me, therefore I can't afford to sit at home", he said adding that earlier he had also worked as a servant in a restaurant and at times washed cars from 6 am to 7 am for a mere Rs 50 per vehicle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teacher-turns-veggie-vendor-to-sustain-living-79082
02-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||This gynaecologist counselling pregnant women  in tough times||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 1While numerous health professional have been working and looking after patients amid the Covid outbreak, gynaecologists have been providing counsellings to pregnant women in these testing times.Dr Mandeep Kaur, a gynaecologist, who has been giving her services at the Community Health Centre, Shahkot, and Sub-District Hospital, Phillaur, said as pregnant women are more vulnerable to Covid and come under the high risk category, they are always worried about the health of their child."At this time, there is so much panic among pregnant women. So, our work is to give them reassurance that everything will be fine and they shouldn't take any stress," she added.Besides, Dr Mandeep said pregnant women are being advised to take a healthy diet, maintain social distancing and avoid an interaction. “The women who are in their labour are checked properly. We see their history and we make sure that she wears a mask when she feeds the baby,” the gynaecologist said.“As the disease spreads from human to human, we have to ask pregnant women continuously that whether they had come in contact with anyone. Apart from this, the symptoms of Covid are so common that people who have normal cough or body ache also get panicked. So in this case, it becomes important to make them understand that every cough is not Covid infection,” she added.On asking about her activities when she goes home, she instantly said, "Don't ask. We have forgotten our normal routine.”“When I go home, I make sure that I don't come in contact of any family member. I have a different set of clothes and the children are not allowed to use my washroom. I take several precautions at home as well,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-gynaecologist-counselling-pregnant-women-in-tough-times-79081
02-05-2020||Nurmahal||PPE kits donated to hospital||May Day celebratedNurmahal: Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) New Democracy on Friday celebrated International Labour Day in many villages of Nurmahal by hoisting red flags. In a press release, party leader Hans Raj Pabwan, condemned the attack on working class under the garb of fight against Corona virus and said the government was favouring monopolies by increasing working day of labourers. OCHelpline number for admissionsJalandhar: To facilitate parents who are concerned about their children’s future studies and admissions, the State Education Department on Friday launched helpline numbers through which parents can avail the facility of enrolling their wards to next classes by sitting at their respective homes. The department announced following numbers of officials concerned – 9815297396 (Gurjot Singh, assistant director), 8146700538 (Karamjit Singh, assistant director), 9888205947 (Karamjit Kaur, assistant director), 9872451333 (Kulwinder Kaur, assistant director) and 9501474200, (Sanjeev Bhushan, lecturer, SCERT), who would help them in online admission process. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ppe-kits-donated-to-hospital-79075
02-05-2020||Nawanshahr||Shops in safe zones to open for four hours||The Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar District Magistrate has allowed shops related to food, grocery and potable water, medicines and other essentials services to remain open from May 2 from 7 am to 11 am in the district.However, these orders would not be effective in containment zones of the Banga and Balachaur subdivisions. District Magistrate Vinay Bublani said in urban areas, all stand-alone shops, neighbourhood shops/market and shops in residential complexes would be allowed to open. However, shops in market complexes and shopping malls would not be opened. In rural areas, all shops, except those in malls, are allowed to open with 50 per cent strength of workers. e-commerce companies will be allowed to sell only essential goods. — TNSHoshiarpur: District Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait has relaxed curfew restrictions within the district under certain conditions on Friday.Under the guidelines issued by the state government, the District Magistrate has issued orders that shops of essential items in rural areas will be opened from 7 am to 11 am from Monday to Friday with 50 per cent staff.Multi-brand and other stores will not be opened in these areas. He said no markets or market complexes would be opened in urban areas, but shops in residential areas will be allowed to open from 7 am to 11 am from Monday to Friday.There will be a complete ban on opening of shopping malls, restaurants, fast food joints, salons and liquor vends. — OCPhagwara: Kapurthala DC Deepti Uppal on Friday issued instructions and restrictions during curfew extended till May 17. The DC said all trades had been divided into three different categories. Karyana stores, provision stores, chemist shops, bakery,dairy, poultry, pesticides, cattle feed, stationery, books, cement, sands, crushers, bricks, mechanics and repairing shops to open from 7am to 11am daily.Similarly, hardware shops, plywood, paints, sanitary, marble, glass stores, pipe fittings, electronic goods, spare parts and automobile dealers can open their establishments thrice a week on Monday, Wednesday and Friday.Cloth and readymade garment shops owners, shoe, spectacles, general merchants, cosmetics, jewellers, sports goods, toys, utensils and crockery shop owners are allowed to open their shops on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shops-in-safe-zones-to-open-for-four-hours-79068
02-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||16 new cases take Jalandhar district count to 105||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 1With 16 new persons testing positive in the district today, the district tally has reached 105. Six of the new cases are contacts of the city Mayor’s OSD, as per the list released by the Health Department. Two are contacts of journalists from the local media house and two of them have returned from Hazur Sahib and Rajasthan. Another patient from Wadala Chowk had visited the local private hospital, where the deceased Shahkot woman was under treatment.Besides these cases, the remaining five are all new cases with no previous contact history. One of those without travel history is a 60-year-woman, who is beggar. While over 7,200 persons had been placed under quarantine in the district till today, the district currently has 93 active cases.While the six persons, being termed Mayor’s OSD’s contacts by the Health Department, also include sanitation workers of the MC who tested positive, they had been sampled after the OSD tested positive. Meanwhile, the OSD has denied having met them. In total, the new cases include 10 males, the youngest of them being 15-year-old, and six females, youngest being 19.Two with travel history include a 58-year-old woman who returned from Hazur Sahib, a resident of village Rampur in Nurmahal, and a 32-year-old man who returned from Rajasthan, a resident of Rama Mandi. Contacts from the media house include a 47-year-old man of Lamma Pind, and a 26-year-old male resident of Army Enclave, Garha, both contacts of previous cases.The other cases with no travel or contact history include a 55-year-old woman (Basti Sheikh), 19-year-old girl (Gujjarpal Nagar), 21 year-old woman of near DAV College, 15-year-old boy of Sangal Sohal village, 25-year-old youth of Wadala Chowk and 60-year-old woman, a beggar and a resident of Model Town.Harpreet Singh Walia, the Mayor’s OSD, said: “I have been meeting officers but not sanitation workers. I haven’t even heard the names of many of those featuring on the list. I think they might have come in contact with other people. I did not meet them.”Never met six persons: OSDHarpreet Singh Walia, the Mayor’s OSD, late this evening also sent a letter to the District Health Officer, Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, claiming the list of the six persons claimed to have been infected by him as “wrong and false”.Walia in his letter, said: “The list prepared and broadcast today was wrong and false with respect to the claim that the six (aforementioned) patients were in close contact with me. Where as a matter of fact, during course of my official duty, I got infected from Covid (at present admitted to the Civil Hospital) and since the past several months I have not met above mentioned persons nor were they in contact with me as wrongly claimed in the list.” The letter further added that: “The false list wrongly associating me with those patients is offensive and has tarnished my image.”He also sent the same list to a media house, seeking withdrawal of his name from the same.Dr TP Singh, Nodal Officer, Covid-19, Jalandhar, said: “The six contacts of the Mayor’s OSD are those who had tested positive after we sampled his contacts. They work at the MC. No necessarily direct contacts, indirect contacts from the workplace could also test positive. We are also tracing the contacts of the remaining persons.”Rise in number of containment zonesWhile 27 urban and four rural areas of the district are already under the containment zone, with a spurt of new cases in several areas at least six more district regions will be under the zone. The number of urban areas has reached to 29 with the new 16 cases today.One more pilgrim tests positive in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: One more pilgrim Avtar Singh, a resident of Narayangarh village in the Dasuya subdivision, was found positive for Covid. He was among the pilgrims who had returned from Nanded. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/16-new-cases-take-jalandhar-district-count-to-105-79067
02-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Growers to deliver veggies on doorstep in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, May 1Farmers were not getting appropriate prices for their produce due to difficulties in marketing of vegetables and other reasons. Vegetable growers of the district have devised a unique way of supplying vegetables with the help of the Horticulture Department to houses of residents. Social media will be used for the marketing of produce, which will ensure right price for the same and delivery of fresh vegetables to the consumers on doorsteps.Deputy Director, Horticulture, Dr Avtar Singh said in Ramu Thiada village, a progressive farmer, Harsanjit Singh, with some farmers of the area, had formed a group, Thiada Farm Fresh, With the help of the Horticulture Department, Hoshiarpur. Under the initiative, marketing of vegetables in Hoshiarpur city will be done through WhatsApp groups and Facebook. Ordered vegetables will be delivered by designated volunteers of the district administration to consumers’ homes directly from farms, following the government’s instructions regarding sanitation and social distancing. The service will be starting on May 2. Dr Singh said it was a great effort by the farmers in these difficult times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/growers-to-deliver-veggies-on-doorstep-in-hoshiarpur-79066
