02-08-2020||---||District administration helps Alipur village transform garbage dump into park||Jalandhar, August 1The district administration has transformed a garbage dumping ground into a beautiful park in Alipur village of the district under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA).It is the second such park in the village which has been constructed under the MGNREGA scheme. Earlier, the park was developed on the stinky pond. The garbage dumping point was a major nuisance in the village and had become breeding ground for mosquitoes and flies, posing a health hazard.The Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development), Vishesh Sarangal, said funds worth Rs 4.54 lakh from the MGNREGA scheme spent on this transformation and work was completed a few days ago. He said the park had every facility present in a city park, including open gym, swings, slides, concrete benches and well-built pathway for the pedestrians, flowering plants and other traditional varieties of trees.He said last year too, a park was established in the village over a stinky pond at a cost of Rs 6.67 lakh by the district administration under the MGNREGA scheme.Sarangal added that the state government was committed to ensuring comprehensive development of villages and the administration has devised a comprehensive plan for giving impetus to the all-round development of villages.Sarangal said under the campaign, several development works had been identified for villages which would be executed using money from the funds given by the Finance Commission, Rural Development Fund and others. He said due focus was also being laid on providing employment opportunities and livelihood support to the poorest people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/district-administration-helps-alipur-village-transform-garbage-dump-into-park-121050
02-08-2020||---||With 4 deaths, district tally reaches 60||Jalandhar, August 1Four Covid-19 deaths were reported in the district on Saturday, taking the toll to 60. With 87 fresh cases, the district tally of positive patients also reached 2,414 on Saturday. For the past about one week, the district is averaging 3 to 4 deaths a day, a majority of which happen at private hospitals.Plasma therapy saves lifeSurinder Pal, a 53-year-old photo journalist. and Sant Daya Singh, a mukh sewadar (chief worker) of a local gurdwara, are among the Covid deceased in the district today. The other two deceased include a 49-year-old Grover Colony resident, who died at a private hospital in Amritsar and another 63-year-old from Jalandhar-based Janta Colony. The 63-year-old person has a history of diabetes and hypertension. Notably, the nephew (also a photojournalist) of the deceased 53-year-old man, a resident of Rainak Bazar, also tested positive for Covid on Friday.The Mukh Sewadar of Gurdwara Tahli Sahib at Baler Khanpur village, Sant Daya Singh, an environment lover and social worker as well as a Ayurvedic physician who had hundreds of followers, died of Covid-19 last night. He died at the DMC Hospital in Ludhiana. Harjinder Singh, sarpanch Dyalpur village, Jalandhar, said: “It’s a great loss to humanity and society. He had released the poster of a sports tournament which was held at our village in March before the lockdown. The news of his demise is shocking and will leave countless people immensely sad.”Alleging negligence in the demise of photojournalist Surinder Pal, president, PEMA, who had himself tested positive for Covid a few days ago, said: “There has been grave negligence in the way the case of the photojournalist has been handled. For seven days after his test was taken, no report was given, due to which he couldn’t take admission to a private hospital. He had co-morbidities, so any private hospital he had to go to, asked him for his Covid reports first, which could not be submitted because they hadn’t come yet. The report arrived on Friday night after he died. Due to the problem, he had to remain under treatment at the Civil Hospital. If this is the status of journalists, who will bother for the common man? Journalists are frontline workers. Seriousness is missing at the administration’s level in addressing the case and no one has even spoken to his family in official capacity so far.”There are 621 active cases in the district. The 87 people who tested positive in the district on Saturday include people from areas such as Urban Estate 2, Bank Colony, GTB Nagar, Palm Royale Apartments, New Jawahar Nagar, Eldeco Green, Rama Mandi, Ghaah Mandi, Sant Nagar and Kartar Enclave among others. Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.Baba Daya Singh had breathing problemBaba Daya Singh, serving as the chief of historical Gurdwara Tahli Sahib at Baler Khanpur village of Kapurthala, succumbed to Covid-19 at Patel Hospital on Friday night. He had breathing trouble and was on ventilator after he was admitted here on July 28. A close associate of environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal, Baba Daya Singh, too, had a huge following. He, too, was known for his work to preserve the ecology, promoting growth of herbal plants and distributing these among the sangat and making ayurvedic concoctions from it to treat ailments. The 70-year-old religious preacher had been serving at the gurdwara for the past nearly five decades. The gurdwara is associated with the sixth Sikh master Guru Hargobind Singh as he had stayed here for some days and kept his horse tied to a Tahli tree at the site, hence, the name of the gurdwara. For the past 13 years, Baba Daya Singh was supervising the work to redesign and reconstruct the gurdwara building, which was now near completion. He used to organise the Parkash Utsav of the sixth guru every year on July 5 here, wherein over 50,000 devotees used to assemble. This time, however, there were no big gurupurb celebrations. Baba Daya Singh was also known for his work to collect and preserve the old manuscripts and granths. He had developed an expertise to preserve their pages and keep these intact.— TNS13 fresh cases in HoshiarpurOf 811 reports received by the district administration on Saturday, 13 returned positive, taking the tally of cases to 564. The number of active cases in the district was 96. Of 13 cases reported on Saturday, six patients were from Garhashankar, three from the city (one each from Hoshiarpur Enclave on Dasuya Road, Dashmesh Nagar and Shivalik Enclave) and one patient each was from the health centre at Bhunga, Hajipur, Mukerian and Paldi. A total of 448 persons have won the battle against the disease while 17 patients have succumbed to the deadly virus. OCGurdwara declared micro-containment zoneKapurthala: As many as 35 persons tested positive in Kapurthala on Saturday. Epidemiologist Dr Rajiv Bhagat said: "Baba Daya Singh was tested positive at a private hospital in Jalandhar about four days ago. After his condition worsened, he was referred to DMC Ludhiana. He was cremated as per the protocol early morning. He had about a 100 close contacts. They have been sampled. Gurdwara Tahli Sahib has also been declared a micro-containment zone keeping the quantum of people in mind who might go there." Those tested positive are residents of Bhadnur, Manav Nagar, Mansa Devi Nagar and Bhagatpura in Phagwara, Rawal Pindi, and areas including Bhagat Singh Street, Shra Wala gate and Domeli among others areas in Kapurthala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-4-deaths-district-tally-reaches-60-121052
02-08-2020||---||Satinder Singh joins as SSP (Rural)||Jalandhar, August 1Satinder Singh took charge as Jalandhar (Rural) SSP on Saturday. The SSP was presented a guard of honour by Punjab Police personnel.Later, Singh held meetings with senior police officials, station house officers and heads of various investigation wings. Singh said his top priority would be to make all-out efforts to eradicate the drug menace and sale of illegal liquor in the district.Singh, who joined the Punjab Police in 1990 as Inspector, has earlier served as SSP of Kapurthala, Khanna and SBS Nagar.He said concerted efforts would be further made to strengthen rural rapid response teams to keep a check on anti-social elements in villages. Besides, ensuring welfare of police personnel who were working round the clock in the unprecedented Covid crisis would also be among his top priorities, the SSP said. He also announced that new initiatives would be undertaken for the well being of the cops and their family members.Singh also appreciated 24 cops of the rural police who recovered from Covid-19 and pledged to donate plasma to save more lives. He said public dealing at police stations would be made easy and timely solution of their issues be ensured.Mahal takes charge as Hoshiarpur SSPHoshiarpur: Navjot Singh Mahal, on Saturday, assumed charge as the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) of Hoshiarpur. He was welcomed by Senior Superintendent (Homeguards) Parminder Singh Heer and other senior police officials. Listing his priorities, Mahal said ensuring prompt redressal of complaints of people would be one of his foremost priorities. Drug and sand mafias would be dealt with an iron hand, he said. Mahal said besides police-public relationship, welfare of police personnel would also be taken care of to boost their morale. The SSP said he would closely monitor the functioning of all police stations in the district. “Technology will be utilised to ensure time-bound redressal of public complaints,” said Mahal, adding that law and order would be maintained effectively and patrolling intensified to keep crime under check. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/satinder-singh-joins-as-ssp-rural-121053
02-08-2020||---||Amid pandemic, 1,700 deliveries conducted at Jalandhar’s Civil Hospital||Jalandhar, August 1While the entire Health Department is working on a war footing to fight the Covid-19 crisis, these are tougher days for the gynaecology wing that has to ensure safe treatment to pregnant women.The 100-bed Mother and Child Centre at the Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Civil Hospital registered more than 1,700 deliveries from April to July, including 650 in the lockdown, and even conducted safe delivery of three Covid positive pregnant women, recently.While private hospitals were reluctant in admitting them, the Mother and Child Care Centre not only ensured safe deliveries, but also took care to save the babies from the contagion. Dr Kulwinder Kaur, head of the gynaecology wing of the department, said as compared to others, pregnant women were at a higher risk of contracting Covid-19.She said pregnant women were vulnerable to infection because of the changes in their body and weaker immune system. Hence, pregnant women have to take extra precautions just as the elderly.Dr Kulwinder said the staff wore PPE kits and took other preventive measures during the deliveries of three Covid positive pregnant women in the last week. She said as three of them were Covid positive, the staff was already extra cautious to ensure that no harm was caused to either mother or child. All measures were followed to ensure the babies do not contract any virus,” she said.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori lauded the services rendered by the Mother and Child Care Centre of the hospital. He said people must wear masks, maintain physical distancing, washing hands frequently and ensuring proper care to elders in their families.4,000 deliveries conducted in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: Corona warriors are not only giving a tough fight to Covid-19, but have also extended healthcare services to people in government hospitals during the lockdown amid the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-pandemic-1-700-deliveries-conducted-at-jalandhars-civil-hospital-121058
02-08-2020||---||Expert urges youth to expand creativity||Jalandhar, August 1A webinar on ‘Leveraging Ideas ‘Developing an Innovation Culture in the Society’ was organised by Pushpa Gujral Science City.Participating in the webinar, Prof Anil K Gupta, founder, National Innovation of the Foundation, said, “Creativity is a function of knowledge, curiosity, imagination, and evaluation that leads to innovation. The greater is your knowledge base and level of curiosity, the more potential innovative ideas you can achieve. But simply having knowledge does not guarantee the formation of new ideas or creativity. One needs to be highly innovative and creative to shape his ideas.”He advised that we must gave room to the young minds to think and shun “Chalta hai” culture in the country to promote innovativeness and creativity, adding that “To enhance innovation and creativity, first one needs to continually expand one’s knowledge base and understand the things happening around and think over to make necessary changes in order to get fruitful outcome for the welfare of society”.He narrated inspiring success stories of young innovators and also interacted with young minds attending the webinar and motivated them to adopt innovation as a way of life.Dr Neelima Jerath, director general, Science City, discussed and shared the projects and ideas developed by the students under the Innovation Hub at the Science City. She said the main objective of the Science City was to promote innovation and creativity in the young minds by providing them an appropriate platform to display their ingenuity and innovativeness in an informal and playful environment. She appealed the young audience to come up with their ideas and use the platform provided by the Innovation Hub to develop these further.The webinar was highly appreciated by the participants and most of them desired Science City management to hold such webinars at regular intervals in future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/expert-urges-youth-to-expand-creativity-121059
02-08-2020||---||Narrow escape for doctor in accident||Jalandhar, August 1A doctor had a narrow escape after his car was hit by a truck on Saturday. The incident occurred around 7.15 pm near the Lamma Pind chowk when the doctor was returning to home in Amritsar.While the area SHO stated that no casualty occurred and nor was anyone hurt seriously, the collision was so tragic that both the truck and the car went off road. The car got damaged completely after hitting the divider. Later, the doctor and the truck driver reached a compromise and did not lodge a complaint with the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/narrow-escape-for-doctor-in-accident-121060
02-08-2020||---||Jalandhar Cantt SHO’s video seeking VIP treatment at GPO goes viral||Jalandhar, August 1Demanding immediate attention from the staff without availing a token at the General Post Office to get his Aadhaar updated two days ago has cost Cantt SHO Rampal dearly.A video shot by a local resident present at the post office that shows the SHO seeking VIP treatment has gone viral. The video was shot by Kirti Sharma and uploaded on Facebook, where she won accolades for exposing the attitude of the cop.In the video, Sharma asks the cop if he had availed a token, to which he responds that he had sought appointment a day before. He says that he had come the day before, too, but had to go back as the service was closed after 2 pm. Sharma asks him repeatedly to show his tokens issued for the day, telling him that everyone wanting to avail the service has to have a token. She tells him that it was wrong on his part to jump the queue, directly approach the dealing person and insist for immediate service as those standing in the queue had been waiting since morning.The SHO asks the woman to stop the recording but she continues to confront him. The SHO says he is on duty and that he has a busy schedule so he wanted to get his Aadhaar updated quickly, to which the woman replies that everyone present there has come after leaving one or another work. As the cop tells the woman that he is an SHO, she retorts saying: “Sir, khuda tan nhi ho (Sir, you are not God).” At this, the cop tells the woman that if she wanted to become popular on the social media by making and sharing his video, she could go on and then goes away.While the Aadhaar card updation service was available at several places earlier, it is now restricted only to a few centres, including the GPO, leading to crowd of people at the place. A limited number of tokens are issued every morning and only token-holders are serviced turn-wise.SHO Rampal said: “I tried to put up my point to the woman shooting my video but she was not ready to listen. I had gone there a day before, too, but had to return empty-handed. Then I sought appointment from a senior GPO official and went there the next day.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-cantt-shos-video-seeking-vip-treatment-at-gpo-goes-viral-121061
02-08-2020||Ajay Joshi||Waste mounds grow, courtesy MC’s negligence||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 1The highways usually are open to much delight. Most paint a picture of near perfect upkeeping and of course, are expected to be trafficless. But, the Maqsudan bypass roadway is completely on the opposite end of spectrum of what one can think of a highway.There are heaps of garbage lying here. Multitudes of waste can be seen dumped at vacant plots adjacent to it. In addition, stray cattle after hovering about it hinder the traffic causing snarls. The road, one of the busiest in the city, leads to the Pathankot Chowk, Industrial area, railway station and other residential areas.A dhaba owner in the area said: “Garbage needs to be lifted soon. In morning and evening, huge traffic could be seen on the road due to stray cattle blocking the way of vehicles. Being one of the busiest roads in the city, it is necessary for the corporation to install a proper bin and ensure timely lifting,” a dhaba owner says. He also suggested that rag picking be curtailed as a lot of waste is spilled in that process.Owing to the Municipal Corporation's (MC) apathy the problem is on the rise as is the the stench becoming unbearable day by day for everyone who happens to pass by the area. Though the officials concerned say the issue shall be resolved soon. “Nothing concrete is visible,” says Satish Kumar, a resident of Transport Nagar. “Rains only make it worse, the stink is killing!” he adds.The slum dwellers have also occupied sporadic spots, and in the absence of a bin are also doing their part to turn the land into a dumping ground. Which sooner or later, if immediate action is not taken, seems very likely to happen.The sanitary inspector of the area, says, “The road is common and leads to many residential areas.” Hence, on request of residents, he had appealed to the MC sanitation department many a times to install a high-capacity bin “but all in vain as they always get away with their responsibility by citing several reasons.”Naresh Kumar, who works at the railway station, is well aware of the situation and on-goings. "In the absence of proper bins and negligence on MC’s part, garbage scattered on the Maqsudan bypass road is presenting a bad image,” he laments. “No provisions are put in place to check the menace,” he goes on before adding, “along with the locals the road is also being used by travellers heading to Beas and Amritsar.”SORRY STATE OF AFFAIRS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/waste-mounds-grow-courtesy-mcs-negligence-121065
02-08-2020||Transferred to Hoshiarpur within a few days of his recovery||‘Be cautious, not scared of corona’||Gardening, yoga and inspiration from his own fellow officials kept him going during the 17-day isolation period. While two of his family members — wife and daughter — also tested positive for Covid, the trio stayed isolated from each other.SSP Navjot Singh Mahal says: “The fever and chills had set in on the night on July 8. In the morning, I got tested and within a few hours, I came to know that I had tested positive. The first thing I did was to isolate myself from my family. I sent my wife and daughter to a separate room when I got fever at night. During the isolation period, I was at my official house, while my wife and daughter were at the private house. So, it was quite a strict isolation protocol and went off smoothly especially because my wife and daughter were totally asymptomatic. I also healed of the symptoms within a day. After two days, I was already doing office work."While the SSP's attending a wedding a day before he tested positive created quite a buzz, he says he most likely got the infection from the office. "Thankfully I didn't stay long at the wedding. I'm almost certain I got Covid from the office because hundreds of people were visiting me daily. Even though sanitisation and distancing was religiously followed.""Two days into getting Covid I was already working and coordinating on major developments at the office. Within a few days of recovering from the fever I began early and started jogging, exercising and yoga. I was also coordinating office work from home too and indulging in little pleasures like gardening," he adds.He says motivation from the state DGP led him to go for plasma donation. "All through my isolation, fellow police personnel, who tested positive were a means of motivation. One of my female police persons always remained upbeat during group calls. They all welcomed the idea of plasma donation. 14 days into my recovery when I received a call from the DGP, it was then that Plasma donation came up. I was keen to donate it, but he asked me to get better first. But he in turn eventually motivated me to donate plasma."“A total of 36 personnel tested positive for Covid, including me and 33 of us have decided to donate plasma. Two had co-morbidities, so they won't be donating. Now that we are healed, it will be wonderful to help others — especially high-risk cases,” he said. Speaking about keeping a positive attitude about Covid he says, "There is only one mantra for Covid - don't be scared, be cautious."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/be-cautious-not-scared-of-corona-121067
02-08-2020||Ajay Joshi||Internet users surged, but poor speed remained a concern||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 1With the lockdown pushing people to stay indoors to prevent themselves from the deadly virus, the pattern of internet usage has changed in an unprecedented manner during this time.Earlier, people going online peaked in the evenings and night hours, but, since the past four months, there is constantly a heavy traffic of internet users. The service providers claim that there was a massive surge in the number of users during the lockdown that eventually led to sluggishness in the data speed. From recreation to education and employment — everything has gone online. Hence, mobile internet was not enough for most of the users so they opted to get wired broadband connections to meet their requirements.While users including teachers holding online classes complained about slow data speed, the service providers said, they tried resolving all data-related issues to provide customers better access to the internet.Sunil Kumar, principle general manager, BSNL, Jalandhar, said: “The internet connectivity in the last four months has extended to such an extent that two servers were installed in Delhi to manage the data traffic in the northern region. At present, around 500 landline connections, 600 broadband connections providing 8-10 mbps speed and around 3,000 fibre connections providing 50 mbps speed are being installed in urban as well as rural areas in the district on a monthly basis. As per the data consumption trend, we observed that apart from online work and studies people were consuming a lot of data for over-the-top (OTT) platforms and online games such as PUBG that requires high internet connectivity. Therefore, to cater to the data speed related complaints, employees on outsourcing basis have been recruited, who have been given the target of resolving 80 per cent complaints every day.”Apart from constant buffering challenges, high data prices kept consumers at the receiving end. People working in MNCs, who had returned after the lockdown was imposed, said they had to purchase better data plans for uninterrupted meetings and conferences.The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) in its recent report on broadband speed chart also mentioned that during the lockdown period, the download speed of telecom operators reduced significantly. While Reliance Jio touched a low of 13.3 megabits per second (mbps), Vodafone fell to 5.6 mbps, Airtel to 5.5 mbps and Idea to 5.1 mbps. However, companies also bounced back by maintaining the pre lockdown speed. Jio topped in 4G speed chart with an average download speed of 16.5, followed by idea (8 mbps), Vodaphone and Bharti Airtel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/internet-users-surged-but-poor-speed-remained-a-concern-121069
