02-10-2020||The Indian freedom struggle was a long-drawn movement that claimed thousands of lives and countless sacrifices. Scores of events||Jang-e-Azadi Memorial: A repository of freedom struggle||The memorial is a tribute to the contribution and sacrifices of Punjabis in India’s Independence movement. The memorial has been built in three phases. The first phase was opened to the public in November 2016; the second phase was built in March 2018, while the third phase, which is dedicated to the martyrs of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre and the unsung heroes who were incarcerated in Andaman Cellular Jail during freedom struggle, was opened on August 14, 2019.The other components include a 45-metre high tower known as ‘Shaheed-e-Minar’, an open-air theatre, movie hall, an auditorium, library besides research and seminar halls.British brutality at Kala Pani Known as Kala Pani or ‘black water’, the Cellular Jail in Andaman and Nicobar Islands was constructed in 1896 and opened by the British in 1906 to exile political prisoners in remote isolation. The place is a living witness to the brutal treatment of freedom fighters behind the bars.The Cellular Jail reminds generations of the solitary confinement that the National Freedom Movement heroes were sentenced to suffer for years during the colonial rule. Food at the Cellular Jail was rice, which was more dust, rainwater, and wild grass and there were no beds. It is said life at the Cellular Jail was filled with torture, hunger and loneliness. The prisoners were treated like slaves and were whipped if they spoke to each other.Jallianwala Bagh massacreIt was supposed to be a joyous festival on April 13, 1919, and pilgrims, along with peaceful protesters, had gathered at the Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar to celebrate Baisakhi — the Sikh festival. Little did they know that their celebrations would soon turn into one of the deadliest moments in the Indian history.There are various illustrations of Jallianwala Bagh massacre, also known as the Amritsar massacre, where one can see pilgrims along with protesters running helter-skelter to save themselves, after the British Indian Army soldiers, on the orders of Brigadier General Reginald Dyer, opened fire at the crowd, and when General Dyer ordered his troops to kneel and fire at the unarmed crowd of men, women and children. Bombing the AssemblyOn April 8, 1929, Bhagat Singh, along with Batukeshwar Dutt, hurled two bombs inside the Central Legislative Assembly in New Delhi to protest against an unfavourable Bill. Interestingly, their intention behind this defiant act was to get arrested and to use the subsequent court appearances to further the cause of their organisation — Hindustan Socialist Republican Association — for India’s Independence.Along with bombs, Singh also threw in copies of a leaflet in the Assembly that quoted a French anarchist as saying: ‘It takes a loud noise to make the deaf hear’, and signs off with the now epochal statement, ‘Inquilab Zindabad’ and ‘Long live the Revolution’. Martyrs’ executionIndian revolutionaries Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev Thapar and Shivaram Rajguru were hanged on March 23, 1931, in the Lahore Jail against the scheduled execution on March 24.They were sentenced to death in the Lahore Conspiracy Case, wherein they were found guilty of murdering senior British police officer John Saunders. This day is marked as Shaheed Diwas (Martyrs’ Day) in India.Quit India Movement: Gandhi’s call for ‘Do or Die’The Quit India Movement was a turning point in India’s freedom struggle. Under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi, people across India came together to uproot the British imperialism. In 1942, in a fiery speech in Mumbai, Gandhi made a ‘do or die’ call to the people in a final push to make the British quit.Following the start of the movement, many Congress leaders, including Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Abul Kalam Azad and others, along with Gandhi, were jailed for sedition.Kirti Kisan MovementPunjab is known for its resistance against Colonial rule. The Kirti Kisan Lehar (movement) came into Punjab in 1928. It was based upon Gadar movement, which revived the party by encouraging militant nationalism in Punjab. The Kirti Kisan Party was a mirror of deliberative condition of peasants, landless and suppressed classes of Punjab. By the beginning of the 20th Century, peasants in Punjab came into the forefront of public reactions against the British administration because they were under debt.Repressive policies of the government towards people in general were also the main reason for their protest. The objective of the party was to free the nation from the British imperialism by using every possible method.Anglo-Sikh WarsThe kingdom established by Ranjit Singh met its doom within 10 years after his death in 1839. The British occupied it after winning two successive wars — the first (1845-46) and second Anglo-Sikh war (1848-49).The primary cause of these wars was the policy of imperialism pursued by the English. They became interested in the conquest of Punjab after the death of Ranjit Singh because that was necessary for extending their empire to its natural frontiers towards the north-west. The immediate causes of the wars were provided by growing internal weakness of the Sikhs themselves.Hanging of KukasIn 1871, when the then DC of Amritsar sanctioned the opening of a slaughterhouse, the Kukas, who are staunch vegetarians, rallied against this decision. In an action that resulted in five Namdharis being sentenced to death, a group of followers raided the slaughterhouse, killed the butchers and set the cows free. For this, four Namdharis were hanged on trees in 1871.Komagata Maru shipOn May 23, 1914, the Komagata Maru, a Japanese ship, sailed from Hong Kong to Canada carrying 376 passengers, mostly immigrants from Punjab. On arrival in Canada, the exclusionist laws of Canada were quoted to bar their entry. Following a two-month stalemate, only 24 passengers were given permission to disembark.On July 22, 1914, the ship was escorted out of the harbour by the Canadian military and forced to sail back to Budge Budge (near Calcutta), where 19 of the passengers were killed by gunfire upon disembarking and many others imprisoned.Kukas being blown apart by cannon fireNot many people know that the Namdhari Sikhs (also known as Kukas) led by their founder Satguru Ram Singh, laid down their lives for the freedom of the country on January 17, 1872 much before the emergence of a national movement. He had also launched the non-cooperation and Swadeshi Movement against the mighty British Raj. Namdharis had made supreme sacrifices for the freedom struggle way back in January 1872. On display is the scene when 66 Kukas who protested against the butchering of an ox, were made to stand before the mouths of seven cannons and blown up in seven rounds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jang-e-azadi-memorial-a-repository-of-freedom-struggle-149569
02-10-2020||Jalandhar||Covid care centre to be closed at meritorious school in Jalandhar||The district administration on Thursday decided to close the level-1 Covid care centre at the Government Meritorious School in Jalandhar.The move comes amid dip in Covid cases in Jalandhar, amid new unlock guidelines and days after much of the ‘temporary volunteer medical staff’ working at the centre was laid off recently. The staff presently working at the Meritorious School shall now be shifted to the Civil Hospital, where level-II and level-III Covid care centres are already operational.District reports 4 deaths, 140 new casesPresiding over a meeting with health and civil officials on Thursday at the District Administrative Complex, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, accompanied by Additional Deputy commissioner (D) Vishesh Sarangal, said the decision was taken in view of the downward trend of Covid cases in Jalandhar besides in consultation with Principal Secretary (Health and Family Welfare).The DC said amid declining trend in Covid cases and fatalities in Jalandhar, the district administration had decided to close the Covid care centre established at Government Meritorious School. The 24 patients at the centre would be shifted to the Civil Hospital.The centre had seen 300 to 450 patients admitted at a time, when Covid cases were at its peak and home isolation hadn’t been introduced yet. Today, there were merely 21 patients at the centre.Until April 14, a 500-bed contingency backup had been created at the meritorious school (total 1,420-bed backup was arranged across the district — PIMS (400 beds), meritorious school (500 beds), National Institute of Technology (500 beds) and an IMA-arranged isolation unit at Billi Chuharami village (20 beds).Notably, the meritorious school centre first began taking in patients in April end; the first time the level-I centre figured on the Health Department’s bulletin was on June 12 with two patients.Home isolation was started on June 17 with four patients being home isolated. The centre played a key role in hosting NRIs coming back to the country and pilgrims, who returned from Nanded Sahib, were quarantined here.With the department maintaining that the city was past the Covid peak (patients peaked in September), the level-I Covid centre was thus being closed.Dr Jagdish SMO, Meritorious School, who had been deputed at the centre since May, said: “The centre hosted 300 to 450 patients at one point of time, but with home isolation facility and dip in cases, it isn’t needed anymore. There were 21 patients at the centre today. Since only asymptomatic patients were being kept here, they shall be shifted to the Civil Hospital and those who are healthy shall be under home isolation.”The DC also took strict notice, when informed that some private hospitals had been showing reluctance in starting treatment of patients arriving in emergency. He said no private hospital must behave irresponsibly and strict action would be initiated against erring people. Meanwhile, he reiterated that the contacts of every positive case must be tested and isolated at the earliest, besides asking them to intensify the contact tracing and early testing drive.The DC and Additional DC asked them to identify, test and isolate the contacts as soon as possible, so that they do not transmit the virus further.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-care-centre-to-be-closed-at-meritorious-school-in-jalandhar-149793
02-10-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Man booked for duping villagers of Rs10 crore in Hoshiarpur||The Talwara police have booked a person for allegedly duping Beh Atta village residents of nearly Rs10 crore in the name of investment in a chit fund company.The accused had been introducing himself as the general secretary of Crime Free India. According to the information, sarpanch Sudarshna Kumari, a resident of Beh Atta village, had made a complaint to the Hoshiarpur Senior Superintendent of Police.She said Sukhdev Singh, a resident of her village, used to introduce himself as the general secretary of Crime Free India.She said he duped people of nearly Rs10 crore on the pretext of investing it in a chit fund company.On the orders of the Senior Superintendent of Police, the Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) , Dasuya, investigated the complaint and on the basis of the investigation report, the police have registered a case under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-booked-for-duping-villagers-of-rs10-crore-in-hoshiarpur-149794
02-10-2020||Jalandhar||Shortage of MC staff affecting pace of work, anyone listening?||More than 100 MC employees have retired in the last six months, leaving the MC office to almost half of its strength. On Wednesday, as many as 26 MC employees, including junior engineers, superintendents, librarian, draftsman, inspectors and DCFA, retired apart from 10 safai karamcharis.Several employees who retired were on extension. Various MC departments are already grappling with acute staff shortage and now, the retirement of more than 100 employees has posed another challenge.A day earlier, the Town Planning Department officials rued that because of heavy shortage of staff, they weren’t able to carry out the process of taking dues back from colonisers. They said they were already burdened with lots of work. So, every work was taking longer than expected.An official of the Town Planning Department said: “Everyone expects us to complete the work before the deadline. But there are only a few inspectors for the entire city. How will we do the work?” Several projects in the city are on hold because of shortage of staff.Mayor Jagdish Raja said he was already pursuing this issue with the Local Bodies Department. “We have got permission from the Local Bodies Department to recruit Junior Engineers and other staff required on contract basis,” he said.At the ad hoc committee meeting held on Thursday between members of the advertisement ad hoc committee and the officials from the advertisement wing, the latter raised the problem of staff shortage. Shortage of staff has become a major excuse for the department officials in the MC whenever they are questioned about non-completion of works.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shortage-of-mc-staff-affecting-pace-of-work-anyone-listening-149795
02-10-2020||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||3 fall prey to virus, 113 more +ve in Hoshiarpur||Three persons lost their battle against Covid-19 in Hoshiarpur district today, taking the death toll to 160. The total number of positive cases has increased to 4,573 with 113 new cases in the district on Thursday.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said the total number of samples taken so far stands at 1,07,016, with 2,020 new samples with suspected flu-like symptoms today. According to the reports received, 1,00,562 are negative, while 2,311 reports are awaited and 127 are invalid. The number of active cases in the district is 605 while 3,808 patients have recovered.857 panchayats, 62 wards resolve for Covid testingThe police have lent a helping hand to the Health Department and the district administration in motivating panchayats to undergo the Covid-19 testing. Till September 29, as many as 857 panchayats and 62 wards in urban areas, passed resolutions in favour of testing. Two weeks ago, Hoshiarpur SSP Navjot Singh Mahal kicked off a drive to convince villagers to come forward for testing. Special teams of senior police personnel were formed who met panchayats and dispelled their apprehensions related to the Covid-19. These meets resulted in building confidence among panchayats, villagers and officials to tackle the pandemic. The drive has yielded good response as panchayats have now resolved to support testing. OCThe Civil Surgeon said out of 113 positive cases found in the district today, Hoshiarpur city has 27 cases while the remaining 86 cases are related to other health blocks. Out of three Covid patients who died in the district today, a 40-year-old female resident of Bassi Ballon village died at a private hospital in Jalandhar, while a 67-year-old Bajwara resident died at a private hospital in Jalandhar. A 47-year-old Dahlewal village resident died in another Jalandhar hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-fall-prey-to-virus-113-more-ve-in-hoshiarpur-149796
02-10-2020||Jalandhar||Restrictions eased, waivers announced, but hoteliers still face Covid blues||Marriage and festive season is around the corner but the hoteliers are not much enthused. State government has begun lifting restrictions citing fall in the caseload and has announced waiver over levy of excise licence fee for the first two quarters of the financial year, but such reports are also not raising hopes of those engaged in the hotel industry.The reason most hoteliers cite is that there is little inquiry for advance banquet and room booking and that, too, happens only a month prior to the function. They say that people are not really confident on how their functions would pan out especially after brewing of rumours that the virus may not come in form of a peak but in waves. Also, since the state has fiddled a lot with regards to the issuing of guidelines, the hoteliers were scared that the restrictions could be tightened once again after everything got unlocked.The hoteliers say that post-unlocking phase five, they were completely in dark with respect to the state-level guidelines for them. “Every time the Centre issues guidelines, Punjab Government releases its own notifications making amendment, adding some restrictions to keep control. So far, we have not got any notification about the capacity of banquets. Centre has allowed 100-200 gathering for social functions. We really do not know if the hotels in Punjab can go on with this capacity, which was till the last order limited to just 30,” shares an owner.Another hotelier adds: “Yes, we have all the reason to cheer over the fact that we have been exempted from paying licence fee to the Excise Department for the first two quarters, but we really do not know if we can start our bars now, today being October 1 and start of the third quarter of the financial year. We enquired about the same from the local excise officials and they said that we can, but we don’t have any government notification in hand to start serving the booze. It is ironic that vends and taverns are open, which have an equal chance of spreading the virus, but not the bars. Also, we now know that the night curfew restrictions have been lifted, starting tonight, by the state, but it is still not clear if we can take the last order after 9 pm, which was earlier not allowed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/restrictions-eased-waivers-announced-but-hoteliers-still-face-covid-blues-149797
02-10-2020||Jalandhar||Protest against rape incidents||Teachers’ unions form Ekta panelJalandhar: The Adhyapak Ekta convention was held at Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall today. On the occasion, five teachers unions—Democratic Teachers’ Front, SSA RMSA Teachers’ Union, 6060 Master Cadre Union, 5178 Master Cadre Union and 3582 Adhyapak Union—came together under the banner of the Adhyapak Ekta Committee and opposed privatisation of education sector. Teachers said repeated attacks by the government forced them to come together. Teachers said they would protest in Mohali on November 9 as they were being victimised, hurdles created in promotions and imposition of unnecessary conditions on the transfer of 3582 cadre, among others. They said they would hold protest in Bathinda, Chandigarh and Qadian for non-implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission, non-regularisation of contract workers and clearance of dearness allowance. Teachers also passed resolution to support agitation of farmers against farm laws, Electricity Act 2020 and sidelining of Punjabi language in Jammu and Kashmir. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/protest-against-rape-incidents-149798
