02-11-2020||Dilip Rath||Dairy farming: Village-based procurement pays dividends||HARINDER KAUR of Yusufpur Darewal village in Jalandhar district has been rearing four milch animals since the past decade or so and she used to sell milk to private vendors. In the past three years, after she became a member of the Jalandhar Milk Union, she has been selling milk to a cooperative, part of the Punjab State Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation Limited (Milkfed), popularly known as Verka. As part of the expansion of dairy cooperative coverage in areas which were not covered during Operation Flood (1970-96), Kaur and many other women farmers were provided training about rearing animals. Village-level infrastructure was set up for the collection of milk under the National Dairy Plan (NDP-I), a World Bank-assisted project implemented by the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) from 2011-12 to 2018-19.Meeting growing demandMission Milk was envisaged for meeting the growing demand for milk, estimated at over 200 million tonnes (MT) by 2021-22. A scientifically planned multi-state initiative as launched to increase productivity of existing herds through a focused programme on animal breeding and nutrition. Another critical element of the programme was to create a village-based milk procurement system (VBMPS) through the setting up and strengthening of dairy co-op societies in areas hitherto not covered under the three-phase implementation of Operation Flood.Kaur says she and her family used to take around 30-35 litres of milk daily to the private vendors located about 15 km away, but now, with the setting up of a dairy cooperative society in her village, she is able to sell the milk in the village itself with price realisation much higher than what she used to get from the private vendors. “For buffalo and cow milk, Verka pays us Rs 50-55 per litre and Rs 34-35 per litre, respectively, depending on the milk solids’ content, while in the case of private vendors, they used to pay Rs 22-25 per litre,” Kaur adds. She says the payment is transferred every fortnight to her bank account, while in the case of private vendors, the payment used to be delayed. In addition, Verka also provides feed and veterinary services.Tetri Devi, a dairy farmer from Nagjuwa village in Lohardaga district of Jharkhand, has seven cows and supplies 30-35 litres of milk daily to the Jharkhand State Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation, also known as Medha. Four years ago, she used to own a desi (indigenous) cow; its milk used to be used entirely for consumption by the family consisting of six members. Once Medha dairy created infrastructure for milk procurement in villages, including Nagjuwa, dairy farmers like Tetri Devi have not looked back as milk is now collected twice a day at village dairy societies, which in turn supply it for processing to the Medha dairy.Thousands of farmers like Harinder Kaur and Tetri Devi have benefited across the country from the creation of dairy infrastructure at the village level, mainly attributed to measures taken under the NDP-I.The NDP-I, known as Mission Milk, was envisaged for meeting the growing demand for milk, estimated at over 200 million tonnes (MT) by 2021-22. A critical element of the programme was to create a village-based milk procurement system (VBMPS) through the setting up and strengthening of dairy cooperative societies in the areas hitherto not covered under the three-phase implementation of Operation Flood (OF).Mission Milk provided rural milk producers greater access to the organised milk processing sector in 52,509 villages across 18 states in which dairy cooperative societies were set up and strengthened and 17 lakh additional members were enrolled, of which 45% were women and 67% were smallholders. Under the VBMPS, 4,171 bulk milk coolers (BMCs) were installed, which created about 12 lakh litres per day of additional milk chilling capacity at the village level.Around 30,000 automated milk collection units (AMCUs) were set up, which ensured a fair and transparent milk collection system. Milk brought by the dairy farmers got tested for its quality, in terms of fat and SNF (solids-not-fat) content, using analysers; the quantity of milk was measured on an electronic weighing scale; and the payment slips were generated and given to the farmers on the spot. The payments linked to the quality of milk, not mere quantity, encouraged the producers to further improve the quality, which brought about efficiency right from procurement to transportation and processing. Market access to villages not covered under OF ensured that surplus milk of producers is collected round the year at remunerative prices. Mission Milk helped the country maintain its self-sufficiency in milk production in the post-OF era.Under Mission Milk, to ensure the accountability of producer-centric organisations, the grant for AMCUs and BMCs was restricted to 50% and the remaining was contributed by the end implementing agencies. This financing pattern helped in ensuring that these equipment are effectively put to use by these agencies.The other key intervention under Mission Milk has been training and capacity building of dairy farmers, members of the Management Committee, testers and secretaries of the village-level dairy cooperative societies and the field-level supervisors on various aspects of clean milk production, procurement, testing, cooling and transportation. More than 25 lakh participants attended the training and capacity building programmes under the VBMPS, which immensely helped in improving the depth and spread of operations and also in ensuring the quality of milk right from the villages.Further, leveraging Information & Communication Technology, several innovative pilot projects were also implemented, such as data loggers to monitor and control the performance of BMCs on a real-time basis and the installation of rooftop solar PV systems to provide clean energy at an affordable cost.An independent evaluation of Socio-Economic Impact of NDP-I by a leading research body, the National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER), has reported that the setting up of milk collection infrastructure at the village level resulted in greater transparency and fairness in milk procurement operations, while the installation of BMCs gave farmers more flexibility in terms of quantity as well as quality of milk. “It has provided rural milk producers access to organised markets, thereby increasing their income,” the NCAER study has said. The proportion of total landless households covered under NDP-I was 25.9% and the proportion of small and marginal farmers was 61.8%.The study also states that the household incomes registered an increase of more than 68% for the landless labourers, 73% for small and marginal farmers and 77% for medium farmers in the project areas. The study reported a noticeable and sustainable enhancement of the living conditions of households and villages in the post-NDP-I phase.The evidence suggest that the second phase of NDP (Mission Milk Phase II) will not only strengthen and modernise our unique smallholder dairying system but also increase our share of the organised milk business, especially in the context of Covid-19, which has created huge awareness among consumers about the benefits of hygienically packaged quality milk and milk products.Along with market access and the creation of milk procurement infrastructure at the village level, NDP-I also extended balanced ration advisory services through local resource persons to 2.14 million milk producers and 2.87 million milch animals in 33,320 villages.Much of India’s success in augmenting milk production for meeting the growing demand has been attributed to the successful implementation of NDP-I. During Covid-19, cooperatives have shown resilience in procurement and marketing of milk, notwithstanding the challenges.The author is Chairman, National Dairy Development Board. Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dairy-farming-village-based-procurement-pays-dividends-164827
02-11-2020||Aparna Banerji||‘Farmers’ stir similar to pre-Independence struggle’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 1Mela Singh, a resident of Dirba, who came with a group of around 40 persons to attend the 29th Mela Gadri Babeyan Da said, “Sade vaste teerath hai. Gadri Babeyan di ahad hai. Ethon roshni lain aaye haan.”The prolific Ghadarite history, which speaks of sacrifices and struggles of countless farmers was led by Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna.Keynote speakers and scholars asserted that the contemporary scenario seemed like a repeat of pre-Independence struggle of peasants.The sprawling pandal was dotted with flags of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan). Hundreds of farmers from Sangrur, Bathinda, Mansa, Moga and Dirba, among other, places came to the mela. Farmers said Mela Gadri Babeyan Da was a pilgrimage, which they take every year.The main stage had portraits of Ghadarite farmers who were arrested following the Amritsar Morcha in the 1930s.The committee condemned the farm laws introduced by the Centre and the 1984 Sikh genocide. Pamphlets on farm laws were displayed at book stalls and the Jamhoori Adhikar Sabha (Mansa) took things a step ahead by displaying political cartoons to assert their voice.Surinder Singh, who came from Dhuri, said, “Mela Gadri Babeyan di sedh lai ke agge ranneeti taiyyar karange. (We have come to consult our Ghadarite ancestors. We will decide future course of action.”He said, “Farm laws are unfair. They are detrimental to farmers. We have come here to take our fight to the logical conclusion.”Pritam Singh (65), who came from Sangrur, said, “Farmers are dying. The occupation has braved many setbacks. The occupation will end if farm laws are implemented. Either farmers will survive or corporate houses. We have come here to fight it out. We left our stir, especially pay a visit. This is a revered place for us.”Ajaib Singh, a resident of Jhukka Kalan village, Bathinda, had come with 35 of his associates from three villages, including Vadde Jhukke and Sardarghar, to take part in the mela.He said, “Bathinda dharne te baithe sige. Kheti baari de sambandh ch aaye haan. Mela zaroori hai kyunki ethe kisan di gall hundi hai.” (We were sitting on a dharna in Bathinda. We came here because they talk of farmers and their rights.)Another farmer, Gurpyaar Singh said, “Ghadarites have been an inspiration and their struggle motivates the present-day farm stir.”Mela Singh from Dirba said, “Etthon di mitti lain vaste aaye haan.” (We have come to collect the soil from here. We will not back off until we get our rights).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-stir-similar-to-pre-independence-struggle-164817
02-11-2020||Aparna Banerji||Inquilabi ande! An omelette stall nudges people’s nostalgia||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 1A sign reading 'Inquilabi ande' (revolutionary eggs) lies by the side of Mohabbat Preet Singh. Inspired from the struggles of the Ghadarites, the 19-year-old came all the way from Bathinda to put up a stall at the 29th Mela Gadri Babeyan Da — just to not let the years of struggle slip from people's minds.The makeshift eatery is stationed right in front of the gate of the Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall dishing out appetising omelettes to a stream of hungry visitors. Thousands across state throng the fair, which stands out in its own self, however, the stall with its weighty signage and table decorated with posters of Bhagat Singh, Lenin and Faiz Ahmed Faiz's fiery controversial poetry couplets - "Hum Dekhenge, lazim hai ke hum bhi dekhenge" cuts a seemly figure for the fair.However, it didn't go well with some locals who raised objections. Eventually, his discretion had him give in to their dissent and so, he placed the sign aside, but, "the eggs are still revolutionary," quips Mohabbat's friend Japnaam Singh (a local resident), who helped Mohabbat in raising the stall and triggering the idea of the posters."We put up the stall so that people should know about those who laid their lives for the country. They were revolutionaries who freed us from the British invaders. I agree with their struggles and believe it is necessary for us to walk in their footsteps. It is my little tribute to them. I work at a shop in my village in Bathinda. I don't go to college," Mohabbat shares. This is his first time to the Mela. "I do not understand much of what is being said here. But what I gleaned is that these men laid their lives for our country," he aspires to join the Indian Army.Japnaam said, "The sign intends to convey that 'kirtis' (workers) and their revolution is an inherent aspect of the work culture of Punjab. We wanted to present this through Inquilab. However, some people asked us to remove that sign. And we don't intend to hurt feelings, so we complied."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/inquilabi-ande-an-omelette-stall-nudges-peoples-nostalgia-164818
02-11-2020||---||2 days on, cops fail to nab double murder accused||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 1Two days after a couple was found murdered, the police have been unable to trace the whereabouts of the accused. The police could not divulge any details when asked about the development.In a shocking incident, 25-year-old Hardeep Singh, a resident of Burj village in Balachaur, allegedly murdered his father and stepmother with a sharp weapon here on Thursday night suspecting that the stepmother was pregnant and there would be a division of property of his father between him and the newborn. The accused is still absconding. The deceased have been identified as Joginder Singh and Paramjit Kaur.SHO Balachaur Avtar Singh said teams have been formed to look for Hardeep Singh. “We are hopeful that he would be nabbed in a day or two. We are looking at all angles,” he said.Notably, Joginder’s brother Jang Bahadur had lodged a complaint with the police. The complainant, who lives right next to the house of Joginder, had said it was late on Thursday night, when he heard the cries of his brother and sister-in-law. When he, along with his son, came outside, Hardeep was seen running with the weapon in his hand towards his car. Jang Bahadur entered the house and found both of them in a pool of blood.A case under Section 302 of the IPC was filed against the accused. During interrogation, it was also discovered that the elder son of the victim, who lived abroad, would often send money to Hardeep Singh and had also bought him a car recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-days-on-cops-fail-to-nab-double-murder-accused-164819
02-11-2020||---||ADM issues prohibitory orders for cyber cafés||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 1Additional District Magistrate (ADM) Jasbir Singh on Sunday issued prohibitory orders for cyber cafés to maintain law and order in the jurisdiction of Jalandhar rural.Exercising the powers vested under Section 144, CrPC, 1973, the ADM said there were a large number of cyber cafés in the district, where a several people visit daily.He said anti-social elements may use these facilities to mislead security and investigating agencies, create panic and endanger security.He ordered cyber café owners to strictly comply with the directions and prohibit the use of cyber cafés by persons whose identities have not been established. He told them to maintain a register for the identity of the user where he will have to mention his own name, address, telephone number in his handwriting.The ADM ordered that the user shall also sign the register kept for this purpose and a copy of the identity card, voter card, ration card, driving licence, passport and photo credit card must be taken.“Moreover, the activity server log should be preserved in the main server with its recording for at least six months and if the activity of the visitor is suspicious, the owner will inform the police and further maintain a record about the specific computer used by the person,” he said.These orders would remain in force till December 31, 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/adm-issues-prohibitory-orders-for-cyber-caf%C3%A9s-164820
02-11-2020||---||Man sets himself afire, dies||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 1A 38-year-man allegedly set himself on fire outside his residence in Tagore Nagar on Saturday. After suffering nearly 90 per cent burns, the man died at the Civil Hospital late at night. The deceased was identified as Rajesh Kumar, alias Raju.While the area SHO, Police Division 5, Ravinder Singh, claimed that the deceased committed suicide, eye witnesses told the police that he was set afire by his brothers and one sister-in-law.“Though the case is yet to be investigated, we have received a few videos, in which the man was seen pouring fuel over him and subsequently burning himself. Area residents who came forward to save him also told us that Rajesh was accusing his brothers and sister-in-law of killing him. He took their names after reaching the hospital. The incident was reported around 12.15 am, however, it took place around 10.30 pm. We could not get any statement from the victim directly,” the SHO said. The siblings had a property dispute for the past several months and it took an ugly turn on Saturday. The police were told that the family used to fight often. Rajesh was also fighting a divorce plea against his wife. He got married seven years ago and had a 4-year-old son, who stayed with his wife. Rajesh used to run a local tuition centre to make his ends meet. The SHO said on the basis of the statement of his mother Rajrani, an FIR under Sections 302, 34 of the IPC was registered at the police station against Rajesh’s brothers Kedarnath, Narinder Singh and his sister-in-law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-sets-himself-afire-dies-164821
02-11-2020||What measures govt should take to curb second surge?||No place for complacency in ongoing war against pandemic||Though the numbers of fresh Covid-19 cases are falling, fatality rate is decreasing and recovery is improving, yet there is no place for complacency in the ongoing war against the pandemic especially in view of onset of festival season. Moreover, the experts are forecasting second wave in near future as the emergence is occurring in almost every country of the world where the virus was under control sometime ago. Most importantly, acting fast and deftly based on experiences learned is going to be pivotal to encounter second phase of the covid-19. Seeking cooperation from the citizens through constant and effective public awareness programmes is another viable measure. The government is required to keep existing health infrastructure wider and fully prepared with additional improvements in Covid specific facilities. Aggressive testing at all levels, following quarantine requirements, strict isolation of the patients and precautionary measures should continue to be taken religiously. The public needs to be sensitised about the value of frequent hand washing, distancing and isolation norms, personal hygiene, general cleanliness and wearing masks as basic requirements. The existing curbs of social, political and religious gatherings need to be regulated strictly.Jagdish ChanderState must learn from past complacencyThe onerous task done initially by the Punjab government to curb the spread of is quite commendable. Even the people stood by the current regime at dispensation and abided by and adhered to the timely instructions. Consequently, Punjab’s share in covid-19 cases was quite low. But since the time Union government initiated the process of unlocking, the state machinery also followed the bandwagon without giving a second thought oblivious of the fact that the cases started rising in Punjab by that time. So the point to be noted down, is throwing caution to the wind and developing complacency have proved to be extremely detrimental for the health and hygiene of all and sundry. The AQI in Punjab and its surrounding area is rising by the day, which again is not a good sign as people commonly suffer from cold and cough in the winters. The contagion being an air-borne disease can spread its tentacles in the cold season. The European countries have already been under the spell of this deadly pandemic and have adopted even stricter and more deterrent steps for the safety of their citizens. Both the central and state governments must take a leaf of wisdom not only from their own past experience, but also from the Westerners to prevent their people from falling prey. The State should issue an advisory and start implanting the stern measure to safeguard its people the way it did in the beginning. There is no need to open all the commercial sectors in one go. The human resource is the biggest repository and it must not be put to risk at any cost. As an adage goes, ‘prevention is better than cure’ and this is the best time to exercise and implement it for our own welfare.Simranjeet Singh SainiTemp will dip, cases will rise if we slackAs the festival season is coming, it is expected that the virus will continue to spread at an alarming rate because of the nipping temperatures and pollution. Normally people are facing breathing problems in winter and the pandemic will further complicate it. In normal circumstances this is the peak season for businesses but on the contrary a huge loss and slump will hamper the spirit of festivals. Packed rush, shoulder to shoulder in temples and family gathering; any laxity could strain health system. The government should be fully prepared to curb and keep a check on the crowd. Proper barricading should be there to avoid large gatherings. A check on travelling is required; a slew of campaigns for promoting distancing could also do some good. Social, religious and cultural functions should be dissuaded for the time being. A hand from the human rights institutions and civil society organisations to help the most vulnerable, underprivileged sections should also be considered. Lastly, maintain a healthy lifestyle with having proper diet and try to exercise in the house to avoid the pollution.Shashi Kiranfollow norms, 2nd wave will pass without harmIn the wake of Covid and the harsh lockdown, the Centre has been permitting opening up of public facilities that allowed commercial, social, religious and other activities in a phased manner with strict adherence to mandatory health and safety protocols. Despite blatant and flagrant violation of these precautionary norms, the country has witnessed a steady slowdown in the cases and our national recovery rate has touched 90 per cent, courtesy strict containment and preventive strategies adopted by the Union and State governments. But epidemiologists and virologists have warned of resurgence in the upcoming influenza season. Worried at the global surge, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has issued new SOPs for the festival months for October to December this year. Traditionally, these religious festivals are celebrated with great fervour, fanfare and extravaganza. The Punjab dispensation has advised some administrative imperatives for the festive events. It has maintained a strict vigil for ensuring compliance with the Covid protocols. To the dismay of innumerable enthusiasts, Durga Puja and Dasehra have almost been low-key affairs because the government has not allowed the holding of mega events and congregation of large crowds. It is time not for complacency but for caution. Decline in overall caseload does not mean that the pandemic has ended; it is very much on the march. Along with aggressive testing, the government is spreading sustained awareness about appropriate covid-19 behaviour. The sensibility and sensitivity of the people are on trial. They should better realise the severity of the disease, wear masks and follow physical distancing and self-sanitation. The event organisers should also facilitate compliance with the necessary public health norms. The authorities should closely monitor the situation up to Diwali. Hopefully, the much-feared second wave will pass slowly.DS KangBe masked...only medicine until vaccineAll of us know that festivals are here. But this year has goofed up all the plans. There were no Dashera celebrations this year. Otherwise, on the eve of Dasehra hundreds of people often came to the grounds to savour the moments. Now, if we talk about the coming festivals like Diwali people are going to the market to shop. People need to understand that whenever they go to the market they should be masked, which generally lot of people don’t do. Mask is the only medicine till we don’t get the vaccination. Notions like virus gets more active in winters prevalent in our society these days. I want to say if people are taking precautions to contain the virus, then winters are not going to harm anyone.Shailja Thakurimpose strict measures before it’s too lateThe pandemic is the scourge of the modern times and appears like a science fiction story but it’s for real. India is called the country of festivals — Lohri and Baisakhi in Punjab, Onam in Kerala, Jalakuti in Tamil Nadu, Chhat Puja in Bihar and so on. This season is special as there are many festivals. Though the Covid has dampened the spirit and enthusiasm of people but celebrations didn’t, but it’s a low-key affair. Despite the instructions and directives from the government, people are not adhering to these. The wearing of the masks and social distancing has gone for a toss. The administration will have to be stricter. Many countries in Europe have imposed night curfew and also the lockdown. During the winters and flu season, there is more risk of spike in the cases. The least the government can do is to again impose night curfew and also on Sundays. If there is any large gathering, the organisers should be duly punished and challaned. Burning of the firecrackers during the Diwali should also be restricted as the pollution would exacerbate the cases and fatalities. People should be advised to stay home and avoid unnecessary shopping. This will reduce the surge in the cases.Dr JS Wadhwa QUESTIONAir pollution has already witnessed a spike in the state due to stubble burning. What steps should be taken to keep pollution levels in check during festival season?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (November 5).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-place-for-complacency-in-ongoing-war-against-pandemic-164822
02-11-2020||---||'Politics led to Partition, citizens bore brunt'||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 1Manjit Rai (82) was 8-year-old when she had to leave Chak 55 (now in Pakistan) along with her family during the Partition.Now, a resident of Sham Chaurasi, Rai advocates bravery to overcome obstacles for those who ever get bogged down. She carried a photograph, which highlighted the harrowing times.Seated under a huge tree at Virsa Vihar in Jalandhar, Rai narrated the ordeal and said she might return to her native home someday to cherish her childhood memories and visit the family’s legacy –jewels buried hastily under a ‘chakki’.“Roobaroo- Desh Di Azadi Te Pinde Handaaye Palan Naal Saanjh” (reflections of journey from Pakistan to India during the Partition and various encounters on the way) Rai narrated her encounters, including arsenic laced wells, abandoned schools, homes and strangers who risked their lives to help them.She informed about how they resisted from drinking arsenic water from wells and overcame threats to reach India.“Move on. Fight. The way our leaders fought valiantly in the face of threat taught me how to be brave,” she said.Asked whether she harboured hatred for what happened to her, Rai said, “Muslims never hurt us, nor did we hurt them. Parents taught us it’s not about you, it’s about politics. Politics did this to us. It’s not about Muslims, Sikhs or Hindus. It was a political issue and citizens bore the brunt. So, I never treated it as a personal issue. I went to Pakistan to attend a function in honour of Maharaja Ranjit Singh some years ago.”She said, “Muslims saved my sister and her in-laws. They gave them burqas and helped them flee safely.”The event was organised by the District Cultural and Literary Society, Virsa Vihar, Jalandhar, and Apeejay College of Fine Arts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/politics-led-to-partition-citizens-bore-brunt-164823
02-11-2020||---||MC House meeting likely this week||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 1The Municipal Corporation is planning to hold a House meeting around November 5. This will be the first meeting of the House since the ongoing financial year. Owing to the coronavirus spread, even the Budget meeting could not be held this year and the proposals were directly passed by the government.The MC officials are planning to hold the meeting in a large hall of a hotel within the city. The MC’s Town Hall does not have enough space to accommodate 80 councillors and staff maintaining proper space as per the guidelines of the government. Mayor Jagdish Raja said: “We had planned a meeting on March 9 ahead of the lockdown, but could not hold it. We will follow the same agenda and make some additions to it. Most likely, the meeting will be held on November 5.”Raja said: “Now that the Vidhan Sabha session has been held and Parliament session, too, was held, we thought we must go on with the MC House by exercising all precautions. I regret that there has been a long gap but we were helpless. To cover it up, from this time onwards, I intend to hold the House meeting after every 15 days against the stipulated norms of holding a meeting every month. Even though I have always been against implementing a plan and then getting it passed through house later, I regret that we have had to do that as well in these times. I will apologise in the House for passing certain resolutions which have already been implemented.”The other issues to be discussed would include implementing a waste to manure project on a 4.5 acre land along Kala Sanghian drain. Organic waste from 25,000 houses will be brought here. Six pits are to be set up at a cost of Rs2.43 crore in Urban Estate Phase 2, Babu Jagjeevan Ram Chowk, Mithapur Colony, Basti Peer Daad and beneath Domoria bridge. Proposals for Smart City projects including setting up sanitary pad dispensers in 65 public toilets, setting up street vending zones and recruitment of 160 sewermen would also be taken up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mc-house-meeting-likely-this-week-164824
02-11-2020||---||Reflective road safety signboards installed||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 1The Rotary Club of Jalandhar has installed around 50 road safety reflector boards on electricity pillars in accident-prone areas on Nakodar Road.“There have been an increasing number of accidents and deaths on this road at night, due to the non-visibility of these pillars and electric poles. That was the reason the Rotary Club planned this project”, informed president Rtn Prabhpal Singh Pannu.A number of senior members were present on the occasion, including PDG MS Sachdeva, PDG Dr Pawan Gupta, PDG Barjesh Singhal, KC Gupta, Surinder Sakhuja, Dr Sukant Verma, Er Surinder Singh, Harinder Singh, Jatinder Jaiswal, Abhishek Chowdry and Salil Gupta. President Pannu thanked Mayor Jagdish Raja, senior engineers PSPCL Som Nath Mahi and Inderpal Singh for their kind permissions for the installation of these boards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/reflective-road-safety-signboards-installed-164825
02-11-2020||---||2-day PTM in govt schools from today||Our CorrespondentJalandhar, November 1To give a fillip to the state government’s ‘Sikhiya Sudhar Muhim’, the Education Department has announced to hold a two-day parent-teacher meeting (PTM) for the students of government school of classes I to XII on November 2 and 3. The PTM will be held both virtually as well as in schools while adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines.Apart from interacting with parents to apprise them of the performance of their wards, the teachers will also take feedback on online education and lectures being streamed on TV/radio, social media platforms such as YouTube and WhatsApp and other applications and the use of Punjab Educare app.As per officials of the Education Department, the purpose of holding this PTM is to make parents aware of various activities going on in the schools. Besides, teachers will also inform parents about various upcoming competitive and scholarship exams like National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) and The National Means -cum- Merit Scholarship Examination (NMMS), respectively.“The teachers will ask the parents to motivate their wards to appear in such examinations and participate in all class activities,” said officials, adding that posters and videos are being shared by media coordinators in WhatsApp groups and on Facebook to encourage parents’ participation tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-day-ptm-in-govt-schools-from-today-164826
02-11-2020||Jalandhar||At Mela Ghadri Babeyan Da, agri issues take centre stage||“Ghadri babeyan de kaaj adhoore, laake jindriyan karange poore”. This slogan reverberated across the 65 morchas of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) (Ekta Ugrahan) on the day of the 29th Mela Ghadri Babeyan Da. Over 1,500 farmers across the state extended their support to the one-day event organised in Jalandhar today.Amid the Covid, a robust celebration of the mela witnessed a steadfast support to the farmers’ stir against the new Central laws.People’s groups, organisations and publications across the state also extended support by distributing posters, books, literature and even cartoons criticising the farm laws. From the stage, a declaration was also made to back the farmers’ agitation against the laws.Shingara Singh Mann, state secretary of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said, “We have to fulfil the 100-year-old dream of the Ghadarites. All our morchas started today with tributes to our Ghadarite ancestors. Over 1,500 workers from all prominent districts were sent in buses to participate in the mela. We are walking in the footsteps of the Ghadarites and want a Punjab they dreamt of.”Sukhwinder Singh, a Dirba-based farmer who came with fellow farmers Mela Singh and Santa Singh, said, “We have come to get enlightened here. It’s our pilgrimage. Our rights are talked about here.”Dr Swaraj Bir, journalist, playwright and Editor of Punjabi Tribune, was the keynote speaker at the mela. He said the farm struggles were imperative for the state in its fight for its identity and dreams. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/at-mela-ghadri-babeyan-da-agri-issues-take-centre-stage-164724
