03-05-2020||After penning two Hindi dramas in over one month||Novelist Dr Sharma making best use of free time||Time had always been an issue for everyone due to their commitments and job constraints. But now, we all have ample time to contemplate. Why don’t we take full advantage of this time and use it in the best way possibleDr Ajay Sharma, Hindi novelistAvneet KaurJalandhar, May 2Renowned city-based Hindi novelist Dr Ajay Sharma, who has written 12 novels and whose work is part of the syllabus of different universities of the country, has been effectively utilising every second of his free time during the lockdown. He has written two dramas — ‘Operation Bluestar' and ‘Dalit Pandit’ — in the past 40 days.He said these days were blessings in disguise for him as it was for the first time he was able to complete his two dramas in such a short span.“Time had always been an issue for everyone due to their commitments and job constraints. But now, we all have ample time to contemplate. Why don’t we take full advantage of this time and use it in the best way possible,” Dr Sharma added.Dr Sharma said after completing these two dramas, he was looking forward to invest his time in reading. “I have already worked on subjects which I am willing to read now. I have got e-books, which I have downloaded from different sites,” he added.Besides, he has been following a fixed routine which includes meditation, walking and spending quality time with his family members, including his son Parul Sharma who is also a budding author. He said on a daily basis, his son and he hold literary discussions and talk about each others.Narrating a quote, ‘Solitary confinement is the only means to solitary refinement’, from his son’s maiden novel, ‘Searching my Land’, Dr Sharma said this aptly fits in the present scenario and during the lockdown, everyone should work on their hidden energies and channelise these in the desired direction.“Themes of both dramas are unique and I have tried my best to impart justice to my characters. Both my works will go for printing once the lockdown is over,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/novelist-dr-sharma-making-best-use-of-free-time-79717
03-05-2020||---||NGO making regular efforts to provide food to needy||Following social distancing, we are connected with people associated with our NGO through the Internet. Our NGO mostly runs on donations. Initially, we used to prepare food at langar halls. However as the Covid cases are on the rise, we have been advised to deliver only dry packets. We have also sought the help of Swiggy and Zomato to deliver food packets to needy persons. In addition, dry ration is also being provided with the help of vendors registered under the COVA app.Amanjot Singh, co-founder, ‘Ardaas- Sarbat Da Bhala’Ajay JoshiTribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 2Availing every possible means to reach out to the helpless amid the Covid-19 crisis, ‘Ardaas- Sarbat Da Bhala’, a district-based NGO has been turning out to be a boon for needy persons. Owned and operated by six youngsters, the NGO has been extending its helping hand to the needy.Since the lockdown, the NGO members have been distributing food packets and protective gear among the underprivileged and needy. In the past around 35 days, the NGO has provided over 30,000 food packets to needy persons. The members have also adopted various families in the city and looking after their needs. Besides, they are providing free medication to patients, who can’t afford these. Apart from this, they also provide financial support to the mishap victims during the lockdown.‘Ardaas- Sarbat Da Bhala’ was founded by Amanjot Singh and Lovejeet Kaur in 2019.Amanjot said, “Following social distancing, we are connected with people associated with our NGO through the Internet. Our NGO mostly runs on donations. Initially, we used to prepare food at langar halls. However as the Covid cases are on the rise every day, we have been advised to deliver only dry packets. We have also sought the help of Swiggy and Zomato to deliver food packets to needy persons. In addition, dry ration is also being provided with the help of vendors registered under the COVA app.”Notably, NGO members have a WhatsApp group, ‘Jalandhar Crisis Fighter', to stay connected with other NGOs. With this, they ensure that needy persons get immediate help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ngo-making-regular-efforts-to-provide-food-to-needy-79716
03-05-2020||Bawa Henry||Catering to demands of residents main challenge||After addressing grievances of residents in the first phase of the lockdown, the major challenge before us is how to cater to increasing demands in days to come.In addition, people having small and large-scale businesses in the area have also started approaching us for seeking relaxations to run their establishments. They reportedly fear about getting debt-ridden. Other demands for essentials from low income groups have also started pouring in.As already many people have tested positive in my constituency, my prime concern is to stop Covid from spreading further. The second phase of sanitisation is on in residential areas. Besides disinfecting affected areas, a special senitisation mechanism had also been adopted in other localities and streets.Since the largest vegetable market (Maqsudan sabzi mandi) is also situated in my constituency, I have also suggested administration officials to set up sub-mandis. Hundreds of vegetable vendors from around the city reach the mandi and gather outside every day, thus creating chaos and violating the social distancing norms. Whereas with the availability of the sub-mandis, the vendors and wholesalers will have different spaces to purchase vegetables. Amid the shortage of supplies, keeping residents indoors is another difficult task for us. At present, I'm only able to supply food to people belonging to economically weaker sections. Councillors of all wards in my area had already been directed to do the same.In addition, supplying hygiene kits for newborns, medication for expecting mothers and sanitary pads for women are another major challenge. Shopkeepers are also urging to let them open their shops.(As told to Ajay Joshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/catering-to-demands-of-residents-main-challenge-79714
03-05-2020||Nakodar||1 arrested with 4-gm heroin||The Shahkot police on Saturday seized 4 gm of heroin from a person and arrested him. The suspect has been identified as Paramjit Singh, alias Pamma, a resident of Mohalla Baghwala, Shahkot, said SHO Surindar Kumar Singh. A case under Sections 21/61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and Section 188 and 51(b) has been registered against the suspect. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-arrested-with-4-gm-heroin-79713
03-05-2020||Phagwara||Phagwara SDM inaugurates langar for needy||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-sdm-inaugurates-langar-for-needy-79712
03-05-2020||Industry and Lockdown||‘Govt must waive interest on loans availed by businessmen’||Activated carbon industry in Hoshiarpur is basically small scale and cottage industry and is based on several smaller units and has 75 per cent share in the Indian carbon market.Brahm Shankar Jimpa, owner of Litesh Group of Carbon and Absorbent Industries started in 1996, wants the government to take care of the small scale industries by waiving off the interest over loans/credit limits and decrease the interest over loans to not more than 6 per cent per annum. Jimpa, who's also the vice-president of Carbon Industries' Association, is of the view that even if the lockdown ends, it will take not less than six months for the things to normalise. So, the payment of GST, EPF, ESI and other dues should be deferred for six months. In an interview with Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi, Jimpa shared his views on the scenario that has emerged out of the lockdown and the post lockdown requirements for the industry. Here are the excerpts:How has the lockdown affected the carbon industry?The activated carbon industry is basically a small scale industry and the produce is based on raw materials from other states, mainly from Gujarat. Due to the lockdown, there is no availability of raw material. Hence, the production has been stalled. Some units have raw material, but labour crisis are there. Our produce takes weeks to process and its major use is by other industries as input in diverse range of industries. We have pre-lockdown orders, but they could not be fulfilled. We received no orders during the lockdown as most of the industries are not functional.Do you expect resumption of industry after lockdown?It is not going to resume in a day or week. It will take time, as most of the carbon industry units are short of raw material such as wood charcoal. It is mainly available from Gujarat and there, too, it can't be produced in a day. Also, when it comes to industry, its processing is a complex process and in some cases, it takes up to two weeks to complete. So, the orders that are pending will take several weeks to be completed, as it will take weeks for the final production to start, that, too, if raw material, labour and other things are readily available.How are you dealing with other expenditures and paying salaries?It's a big challenge, but we are doing our best to deal with it. Not only salaries, but food and other essential things are also being provided to the labour. There's an expenditure of around Rs1 lakh for a unit on food, essentials and wages of labourers. Also, despite the units not running, the minimum payable charges for electricity have to be paid.Is the lockdown crisis a challenge or an opportunity?It is definitely a challenge. A challenge before the industry to survive and a bigger challenge to resurge after the lockdown ends. Earnings are zero, expenditures are piling up and after the lockdown more capital is needed to restart. It's nothing than a fresh start.What do you expect from the government?The government will have to share the burden of bank interests. It should be waived off for six months, and cheaper loans at interest rate not more than six per cent should be provided. The interest over the existing loans should be waived off for six months and rates be halved. GST dues should be sought not on monthly but quarterly basis. ESI, EPF and other dues should be waived off for six months and industrial norms be eased for six months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-must-waive-interest-on-loans-availed-by-businessmen-79711
03-05-2020||Phillaur||500-gm opium seized, 2 held||Three nabbed for violating curfewGoraya: The police on Saturday nabbed three Delhi residents identified as Harmanpreet Singh, Inderjit Singh and Harmit Singh for violating the curfew norms near Goraya. The SSP said these persons were coming from Delhi in a car ( HP 38F 4449) without valid documents and curfew pass. Mahal said the accused tried to flee when they were stopped near Goraya, but their vehicle overturned near Phagwara due to overspeeding. The police have also impounded their car, said the SSP. OC49 youngsters donate bloodPhagwara: A social organisation, Hindustan Welfare Blood Donors Club, Phagwara, organised a blood donation camp on the second consecutive day on Saturday. Former president of the club Anurag Mankhand said 28 youths donated blood at the blood bank in Hargobind Nagar, Phagwara, on Saturday, while 21 youths donated blood on Friday. Club president Vikram Gupta said the club would serve patients during the Covid pandemic. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/500-gm-opium-seized-2-held-79710
03-05-2020||Amritsar||Youth killed over land dispute||A youth was murdered and two others were injured when around 14 persons surrounded and attacked them at Jathol village here on Thursday.The injured, identified as Jaskaran Singh, Ravel Singh and Sukhdev Singh, were rushed to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, from where Jaskaran (26) was shifted to a private hospital due to critical injuries. Later, he succumbed to his injuries. Those booked for murder are Tarsem Singh, Bachitar Singh, Ranjit Singh, Ravinderjit Singh, Karanjit Singh, Baljit Singh, Bikramjit Singh, Baj Singh, Chanpreet Singh, Tejpal Singh, Daljit Singh, Sukhdev Singh, Kanwaljit Singh and Jagroop Singh, all residents of Jathol village. No arrest has been made so far.Balkaran Singh, complainant and brother of the victim, told the police that on Thursday evening, he, along with his brother Jaskaran, father Ravel and paternal uncle Sukhdev Singh, was standing outside the house, when the accused attacked them. Amritsar (rural) DSP Gurpartap Singh Sahota said a land dispute was the reason behind the incident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-killed-over-land-dispute-79707
03-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Woman, paramour held for daughter’s rape||Garhshankar, May 2A14-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a man, who happened to be the paramour of the victim’s mother. Both of them had been arrested. The victim is a resident of Nawanshahr village, falling under the Sadar police station. The man has been identified as Amarjeet Singh, a resident of Mirpur Jattan village.The Class X student narrated the incident to her father, after which a complaint was lodged with the police. The girl in her complaint to the police said that her mother was in love with Mirpur Jattan resident Amarjeet Singh. The victim said on March 25, 2019, she, along with her mother, went to Garhshankar and stayed at a house. The victim claimed that her mother gave sleeping pills by mixing in her food and after that Amarjeet raped her. When the victim informed her mother about the incident she asked her to keep calm.Again on March 18, 2020, her mother went with her daughter to the same house in Garhshankar and Amarjeet Singh also reached there. The mother again tried to make her eat food mixed with sleeping pills but she did not eat food and stayed awake all night. The victim narrated the incident to her father and a complaint was lodged with the police.After investigation, the police registered a case against the victim’s mother and her paramour under Sections 376, 506 of the IPC and Sections 6 and 14 of the POCSO Act.Staion House Officer (SHO) Iqbal Singh said the accused would be produced in court on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-paramour-held-for-daughters-rape-79706
03-05-2020||---||15 new cases, count 120 in district||Jalandhar, May 2In the past two days, the district has reported 31 coronavirus cases. Only one of these is from Hazur Sahib.As many as 15 persons have tested positive for Covid today. They include nine contacts of a Jalandhar-based man at present admitted to the PGI, Chandigarh, four contacts of a deceased woman from Basti Danishmandan, a bus driver (admitted to a hospital in Patiala) and a contact of a positive case from a local media house. A 23-year-old man from Phoolpur village is the media house contact. The nine contacts of the man admitted to the PGI include a 45-year-old man of Kishan Nagar; a 32-year-old woman, a five-year-old girl and another woman (all three residents of Rasta Mohalla); a 40-year-old man, a temple priest from Gurmeet Nagar; and four persons from Qazi Mohalla, including a 63-year-old man, a 41-year-old man, a 43-year-old man and a 48-year-old man.The contacts of the deceased woman from Basti Danishmandan include a 28-year-old man, a 45-year-old man, a 75-year-old woman and a 45-year-old man.Admn makes arrangements for 241 returneesThe district administration has made arrangements for the stay of 241 persons, who had returned from other states and had been quarantined at the School for Meritorious Children on the Kapurthala road here. The 241 persons include 148 pilgrims from Hazur Sahib, seven students from Kota, 28 labourers from Jaisalmer and 58 others.On the directions of Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar, a committee, headed by Additional Deputy Commissioner Jasbir Singh with Assistant Commissioner Hardeep Singh and District Education Officer Harinder Pal Singh as its members, was tasked with ensuring foolproof arrangements for boarding and lodging of these persons quarantined at meritorious school.While 90 persons from other states had reached Jalandhar till a day ago, today the number rose to 241. The samples of 110 of them had previously been taken and the rest are being sampled. Notably, of the 120 persons tested positive in Jalandhar so far, only one is from Hazur Sahib.Every person, coming from other states, is being provided with a welcome kit containing a toothbrush, toothpaste, bathing soap, washing soap, sanitiser, mask, towel, bucket, mug and other things.Langar from Gurdwara Shaheed Baba Nihal Singh Talhan is being served to them on the school campus.Long wait for patientsPatients have to wait for long at the local Civil Hospital for testing. Several relatives of a person who tested positive for Covid on Friday said they had to wait for hours for their turn at the hospital. A relative of a positive patient who went to the hospital on Saturday said: “We were called to the hospital at 7.30 am today but till afternoon our turn didn’t come. Till 12.30, we were standing in a queue without having food and water. Later, we also arranged food and water for us. About 30 persons were waiting for their turn. We were called after much delay.”Over 7,400 under home quarantineWith 3,784 samples taken and over 7,400 persons under home quarantine across 29 containment zones, a huge exercise is being undertaken on a regular basis by the Health and Police departments as well as the district administration to monitor containment zones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/15-new-cases-count-120-in-district-79705
