03-09-2020||---||Covid sampling teams doubled||Jalandhar, September 2With the district witnessing an uptick in Covid cases, the administration has further stepped up its efforts to ensure sampling of people with co-morbidities and those above 30 years by doubling the number of sampling teams from existing 39 to 80 to identify potential cases and initiate their treatment at the earliest.Participating in a video conferencing chaired by Principal Secretary Health and Family Welfare Hussan Lal to review Covid-19 preparedness and minimise the loss of lives in this crisis, Deputy Commissioner Gahnshyam Thori said earlier Jalandhar had 39 sampling teams, which had now been enhanced to 80.He said these teams had been mandated to ensure vigorous testing of 2.41 lakh people with the age group of above 30 years and co-morbid population in the next 15 days, especially in urban areas.He said early testing and timely treatment was being focused to bring down the case fatality rate. He said this step of an increasing number of sampling teams would further help the health teams to identify the suspected and positive cases.He said sampling teams would be accompanied by OPD teams, which would have medical officers, pharmacists, and staff nurses along with the stock of medicines, sanitisers and masks.He said the community volunteers would be involved in motivating people to come forward for the testing as finding out the cases at an early stage means they would be treated early and this would help to save lives.The Deputy Commissioner said the district administration was fully prepared to address the surge and fighting the pandemic at the forefront.He asked the people to support administration wholeheartedly and not to hesitate and report to the doctors immediately if they have any kind of flu-like symptoms to stop the spread of Covid-19.JDA EO, MC Joint Commissioner undergo Covid test Jalandhar: Estate Officer of Jalandhar Development Authority Navneet Kaur Bal and Municipal Corporation Jalandhar (MCJ) Joint Commissioner Innayat underwent Covid-19 test at Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Civil Hospital on Wednesday. They were in contact with some officers, who tested positive for novel coronavirus last week. They said at present they have isolated themselves and have been taking all precautions. Both officers appealed to the citizens to come forward for Covid testing, so that early detection and timely treatment could be ensured. They said early detection was a key to reduce the case fatality rate, for which the administration had already quickened the pace of testing in Jalandhar. JDA EO Navneet Kaur Bal is the Covid patient tracking officer and nodal officer for Mission Fateh and MCJ Joint Commissioner Inaayat is the nodal officer for contact tracing and head of Covid data cell. They said the administration had been making all-out efforts to halt the spread of the virus. They urged people not to hesitate in disclosing any kind of co-morbidities they had. They exhorted people to remain alert and follow physical distancing, respiratory etiquettes, and meticulous hand hygiene and avoid touching the face, eyes and nose. OCThree die, 24 test +ve in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: BJP national vice-president and former MP Avinash Rai Khanna was among the 24 people found positive in Hoshiarpur on Wednesday. With the death of three people, the toll reached 52. Now, the district tally of positive patients is 1,614. With 1,144 new samples of persons with suspected flu-like symptoms taken on Wednesday, the total number of samples taken in the district reached 61,016, of which 58,340 were negative, while 1,096 reports were still awaited and 80 were invalid. The number of active cases is 323, and 1,238 patients have been cured. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-sampling-teams-doubled-135664
03-09-2020||---||Jalandhar Improvement Trust loses 25 appeals in national commission||Jalandhar, September 2The Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT) has faced a major humiliation with as many as 25 appeals filed by it in a case against the residents of Surya Enclave Extension getting dismissed in the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission at one go.The JIT has no option now, but to return an amount of whopping Rs15 crore to the residents. This includes an estimated principal amount of Rs9.41 crore, Rs5.5 crore as interest and Rs5 lakh as litigation charges.Almost all cases pertained to the delay on the part of the JIT in handing over possession of the plots to the residents in the scheme area. Jaswinder S Virdi, who had been allotted a 200 sq yards plot for Rs35.36 lakh in April 2012, said he had paid four of the five instalments, but the JIT had neither delivered possession till 2014 nor refunded his amount.Another complainant Gurdev Mal, who was allotted a residential plot measuring 250 sq yards for Rs44.21 lakh, said he did get the possession of the plot despite paying three installments.Bhim Singh Kundu, who was allotted a residential plot measuring 356 sq yards in December 2011 for Rs62,95,030, said he had paid 25 per cent amount of Rs11,51,030 in January 2012 and three of five installments for the remaining 75 per cent of the amount. He, too, did not get possession of his plot from the JIT.Naveen Kumar was allotted a residential plot of 500 sq yards in 2011 for Rs96.91 lakh. Out of total consideration, the complainant had paid 25 per cent of the amount which was Rs18,62,450 on January 19, 2012, and the remaining 75 per cent was being paid in five instalments, but the complainant sought refund in 2013. But no positive response came from the JIT.Likewise, other plot holders including Jagtar Singh, Navneet Goyal, Alka Jindal, Kusum Kumar, Harpal Singh Arora, Parampal Singh, Jatinder Singh, Darshan Lal, Rajesh Verma, Neelam, Sanjeev Sharma, Tek Chand, Hardev Singh, Karamjit Singh, Rajinder Kumar Godara, Surender Lal Yadav, Raj Kumar Setia, Sudesh Rani, Ravinder Kumar, Gaurav Arora and Dharampal Jindal had been moving their case through their common lawyer Darshan Singh. They all got relief with the national commission finally dismissing the JIT’s appeals in their favour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-improvement-trust-loses-25-appeals-in-national-commission-135666
03-09-2020||Avneet Kaur---||From sales executive to music video director, Bhindder’s life is a song||Jalandhar, September 2 Chasing a dream which seems far-fetched might come off as a futile effort for many. But Bhindder Burj (28), a mechanical engineering graduate from Global College, Amritsar, has taken the path less chosen.  Working as a sales executive with a corporate firm in Dubai, in 2016, he decided to call it quits to pursue his dream – music. To be more precise, he is a lyricist and a music video director. In the initial years of his struggle, he would reside at his relatives’ residence and was often lampooned for the choice made. But his mother’s support had always acted as a firewood to the ever burning desire he had in him. “She would say go ahead and do what you want to,” Burj recalls. The decision seems to have paid off as he has been a lyricist and music video director for number of Punjabi artistes, including Amrinder Gill, Nimrat khaira, Sharry maan, Jordan Sandhu and so on.  He returned to his homeland sometime in winters of 2016 and it was on December 24, 2017, after working on his video directing skills for nearly a year, he released his first song titled ‘loud jatt’. Ever since his first song got released, he has had a successful run in the industry. His hit video songs include badlan de kalje, majhe wal da both from movie ‘chal mera putt’, mere wala sardar, supna laavan da, lehnga, PU diya yaariyan, defend, farmer bandey and selfie etc. He now owns a video company by the name Burj Shah Group. Besides, he has worked as assistant movie director for ‘Afsar’. New releases soon Sharing his journey, Burj says he has a great association with Nimrat khaira, Sharry maan, and Jordan Sandhu as he has worked on many projects with them. He quips: “During the initial years, I had to struggle to get projects, but now big projects find my way on their own. I am enjoying this time and looking forward to exploring more.” He is presently working on three video songs — his upcoming projects — which are all set to release soon. “The two of the upcoming videos have singers Jordan Sandhu, Snappy Gill and Rav Hanjra, while another video is with A kay and th Bigg Boss fame Mahira Sharma,” he shares.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/from-sales-executive-to-music-video-director-bhindders-life-is-a-song-135668
03-09-2020||---||79.3 pc attendance for JEE (Main) on Day 2||Jalandhar, September 2 The JEE (Main) for B Tech aspirants was conducted on Wednesday. It was held in a computerised set up of Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) at Saffron Mall on the NH-1. In the morning shift, from 9 am to 12 noon, 180 of 221 candidates appeared in one hall, while 18 of 26 students appeared in the second hall.  In the evening shift, from 3 pm to 6 pm, 175 of 221 candidates appeared in the first hall, while 18 of 25 listed candidates took the examination in the second hall. The conduct of examination is being supervised by nodal officer and CBSE coordinator Dr Rashmi Vij, Principal, Police DAV Public School. A total of 391 of 493 candidates appeared on the second day with the overall attendance of 79.3 per cent. The examination is being conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA). The lower attendance is attributed to the fear of Covid.  The entrance exam to B Arch course was held on Tuesday. Dimple Sharma, Principal, Cambridge School, Kathar, said: “There may be many reasons why 21 per cent students missed the examination. There is a possibility that some families are actually scared of the pandemic and for them health is a priority. There is also a probability that some candidates were ill and couldn’t even appear for the examination. Also, some students had applied for change of centres at the last minute over which there could have been some gaps in communication.” Jatinder Singh, Principal, MGN Public School, has another opinion: “I guess the main reason for nearly 21 per cent children not taking the examination is that they have already appeared in the first chance of JEE (Main) held in January. Children and their parents could be of the opinion that their first attempt was good enough and they do not need to improve upon it. Fear of virus, of course, could be the second reason.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/79-3-pc-attendance-for-jee-main-on-day-2-135669
03-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||BJYM exhorts PM to appreciate girl who fought snatchers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 2Following the gallant and gritty fight put up by a 15-year-old against mobile snatchers in the district, the state president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to formally appreciate her for her “bravery and courage.” The letter highlights that her intense fight against snatchers was also because she couldn’t buy another phone to attend online classes. It reiterates her concern for education.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJYM state president Bhanu Pratap has written, “I request you that the courageous girl Kusum, daughter of Sadhu Ram, may kindly be appreciated for her bravery and courage.”“If this brave girl, who is face of women empowerment in the society is honoured for her courage and strength same would inspire other girls in society to stand up against the wrong doers and emulate the deeds of this brave girl. Furthermore, a lesson can also be taught to criminal elements in the society, who have doubt upon the strength of the females and the girls will feel more safe and familiar and will get more strength to come forward and build a “New India.”Elaborating on her concern for her education, despite poverty, the letter says, “The girl, who is just 15 years-old belongs to a very poor family. He father is a daily wage labourer and brother is an auto-rickshaw driver. When she was asked about the occurrence, she showed her concern for her mobile, which was got purchased by her brother, after facing financial hardship.As during this pandemic period, the schools in the entire country are working through virtual platform, so this mobile was the only way for her to attend the classes and she was of the view that if this mobile would have been snatched, she would not be able to attend her classes as limited resources of family do not allow her to get a new mobile, which reflects her concern for her education and the same is required to be appreciated.The letter has been marked to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Zubin Irani, Punjab Governor VP Badnore, CM Capt Amarinder Singh, the state Chief Secretary and the DGP.The letter further says, “The entire incident has raised serious question on the law and order situation in the state of Punjab, whereby the crime graph is going upward day by day and the Union Government should take cognizance of this occurrence as the Congress government, led by Capt Amarinder Singh, in the state is facing failure at every front.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjym-exhorts-pm-to-appreciate-girl-who-fought-snatchers-135670
03-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Scolded for violating rules, youths attack police party||Hariana (Hoshiarpur),September 2Prevented from raising a ruckus and drinking liquor outdoors at night, Rajwinder Singh Dhugga, in-charge Bhunga police post, and two home guards Kripal Singh and Surinder Singh were on Tuesday attacked by some youths at Adda Dosadka (Dhoot Kalan).Rajwinder told that he was present with home guards around 10.30 pm at the specified location when roughly 20 youths were drinking liquor under the street lights and blaring loud music in the market located on Garhdiwala side.Seeing this, he reached there along with his colleagues. He told that Maninder Singh Sethi, Charanjit Singh alias Kaka, Kamaljeet Singh alias Kamal, Sukhraj alias Raja, resident Khurdan, Gaurav Sabharwal, Davinder Singh alias Ghoda, resident Gadhiwala, Amandeep Singh alias Aman, resident Khyala Bulanda, Shekhar, a resident of Bahtiwal and Balraj Singh alias Batta, along with about 10 other unidentified youth were present there. The police party apprised them of violation of the government actions and warned to take action. “Listeing this the group attacked us with sharp weapons and sticks,” Rajwinder said. The suspects, after seriously injuring them, took away his mobile phone.The injured policemen were later taken to the health centre Bhunga. On getting the information, the senior police officers reached the spot. Hariana police have registered a case under various sections including that of attempt to murder against the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/scolded-for-violating-rules-youths-attack-police-party-135671
03-09-2020||ACADEMICS IN PANDEMIC||'Lack of practical training can take a toll on students'||Jaspal Singh Randhava, Principal GNDU College, Nakodar, shares the challenges being faced amid the pandemic and how the online teaching can never replace classroom teaching. In conversation with Aakanksha N Bhardwaj, he also talks about the software that the college had developed after the outbreak. Excerpts:Are admissions going on well?Admissions are not up to the mark. Due to the virus, it is going on at a slow pace. Apart from this, final semester students approach us as they are worried for their future. They have to join higher courses and some have to do jobs, but they are stuck and do not know what to do. The final semester exams might happen now in September but in a way this academic session has been mightily affected.What do you think of online education?Online teaching can never match the level of classroom teaching. This will affect the academics. Most importantly, how practical training can be given online. Teachers give instructions and then they check everything if the student is doing right or wrong. Practical and computer training, all these cannot be taught online. Everything is uncertain for now.What steps have you taken to fill those cracks?We have developed our own software called ‘classine’. It was developed by the computer department after the pandemic hit because no alternative was seen at that time.What will be the new normal now, any preparation plans on cards for campus?We will have to be very particular about the seating arrangements so that proper distancing could be maintained and students will be thoroughly checked before entering too. Apart from ensuring proper masks and sanitisers, we will also start awareness drive for the students.Can you expound on digitised system in the college?GNDU has already made almost every system digitised. We are moving towards paperless working. If we have to send any file to the university, we upload it online and then it gets transferred there through digital medium only.The government recently announced Rs 1.5 crore grant annually to the constituent colleges opened in 2016. How will it help the college?I welcome the decision which has been taken in the cabinet meeting. With this grant, we will be able to complete infrastructural works that were pending since years. Also, we will recruit regular staff for our college.JEE exams started yesterday amid opposition from the students. What’s your take on this?If other exams are not being held because of the pandemic, how will JEE and NEET happen in a safe environment? The fear won’t let the students take the exams with free minds. It will be difficult for them to study and then enter the examination hall with relaxed minds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lack-of-practical-training-can-take-a-toll-on-students-135672
03-09-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Higher studies dropped, but GK raised him to the skies||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 4Having completed his BCom from DAV College in 2011, Kumar Sambhav (30) had chosen a career in law. The same year he opted for LLB at St Soldier College of Law.Owing to some financial problems at home, he had to drop his studies midway. “I had two sisters who too were studying at that time. My dad was then a law officer with a national daily and my mother too worked in the same organisation. I was in the first year when my parents told me that they will not be able to bear further expenses of my studies. So, I decided to drop my studies,” he recalls.Following the grave decision, he had thought of earning enough through tutoring and afterwards he would rejoin the course. Then, as if, a miracle happened. “It had been nearly a month that I had not gone to the college. In those days, my college had been preparing a team for inter-college quiz competition. My principal Dr Subhash Sharma was well aware of my skills such contests as I had won in the north-zone youth festival as a DAV College student a year before,” he says.The St Soldier team was selected in the presence of Dr Sharma and his college chairman Anil Chopra. “Upon seeing my performance they were impressed and asked me about my studies,” he adds. He then narrated his ordeal and the principal met him personally after that and told him not to worry as he will be recommending his case for a complete fee waiver with the college management. “But only If I continue to perform in the same manner in the future contests. Ever since then there has been no looking back,” says the youngster hailing from New Vijay Nagar here.Using his own hard-earned tuition fee money and help from Dr Sharma, Sambhav went ahead to complete his LLM from Guru Nanak Dev University. Seven years on, he is a lawyer, a professional quiz master and even takes General Knowledge classes for candidates trying for various competitive exams. He has not forgotten his past in this bright future. “I have earned enough money to sustain my family in the past seven years. Both my parents are retired. One of my sisters is married,” he shares.Even today, when he sees a bright child in his institute in need of help, he never backs off. “Recently, a gifted child of a street vendor sought free coaching from me. I knew the caliber of the child and immediately agreed,” he tells.How does he have such tight grip on GK and current affairs? Well, he has a childhoodOriginally from Bihar, when his parents were transferred to Jalandhar in 2000, he was admitted in class IV at Parvati Jain School. That’s where the first glimpse of his brilliance surfaced. “In the initial days, I faced a lot discrimination from Punjabi students here. In the same class, I participated in the inter-school quiz and won,” Sambhav says. His name appeared in a newspaper the next day. “And everyone in the class were all praise for me all of a sudden,” he quips.It was then it dawned upon him this was indeed his most prized asset and needs to work on it to have an edge. “Since that day, I have been regular with reading newspapers and magazines and remained on a spree till my postgraduation,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/higher-studies-dropped-but-gk-raised-him-to-the-skies-135673
03-09-2020||Jalandhar||Sewa Kendra staff to work in shifts||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sewa-kendra-staff-to-work-in-shifts-135674
03-09-2020||Ajay Joshi||Still a darling, no charm & love lost for Adarsh Nagar’s dwellers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 2It’s a well established fact that the city is known for it’s sporting landscape. And some areas here only add to it’s glory. In 1956, one of the most happening places Adarsh Nagar was established. Chaupati, decades old hub of fast food and spicy cuisines, however, is still popular among people from every nook and corner of the city.Considering the gathering of people, everyday Chaupati witnesses the climax of many evening walks, office gossips, and cricket match discussions. The construction work of the locality was initiated between 1956 and 1958. Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT) had allotted over 450 plots to the people who wanted to settle here due to its location -- it connects almost every part of the town at shortest distance.Owing to its vicinity to the Football Chowk, known as the heart of sports industry and market, Adarsh Nagar, despite being counted among the posh areas of the city, however, is a labour intensive area. It also connects the major locally inter-connected colonies, including Basti Gujan, Basti Danishmanda, Mithu Basti and Basti Sheikh among others. Locals, who have been residing in the area for the past 30-40 years, said there was a time when a large number of people used to migrate here in search of job and used to return empty handed.Recalling his early days, Kavinder Kumar Ghai (74), who's family arrived here in 1957, says: “Adarsh Nagar has always been a developed locality. Initially, there were only fewer mud houses and with time, people developed concrete ones.” The colony was mostly occupied by sportsmen. A large number of players from Sialkot settled here and still the deep connections remain. “I remember, cricket bats for England and Pakistani teams were manufacturerd here. So, there was never a dearth of jobs and people remained inclined towards sports,” he said.His father, who was deputy superintendent of jails in Pakistan in the pre-independence era, migrated here after completing his services in Hisar, Ambala and Ferozpur jails. “When we shifted here, JIT was distributing plots to allottees. We had purchased our share of 14.84 marla plot for Rs1,900 and our house got constructed for Rs11,000 at the time. Along with JIT officials, my elder brother, a civil engineer, developed the entire society. The plots used to be sold at Rs110 per marla,” he recollects.A lot of time has rolled by since then, a lot of demographic changes have taken place. It has became one of the top choices for settlement. Being the sports hub, people always want to visit this place. Moreover, even as Adarsh Nagar has transformed a lot, it still retains its speciality of being the most eco-friendly colony.Ghai has spent his whole life here. After completion of his studies at DAV college, Jalandhar, he also served there as a political science teacher. He retired as head of the political science department. He has published over 200 books on the subject. Also, he is the president of Adarsh Nagar Dusshhera committee.Similarly, Harjinder Singh Ladda (52), whose wife is presently serving as the councillor of the area, says, "In the smartphone-free world the Adarsh Nagar library was popular among intellectuals and people used to visit it for reading newspapers and magazines. It's importance is still maintained and we have renovated the library with good sitting capacity and air-conditioned rooms. But the the cricket sessions in the Adarsh Nagar Dasehra ground are dearly missed. Many national and international-level players would come here for playing cricket. Ranji players, including Vikram Rathore, Ahit Singh, Sandeep Dholia, Rashpal and Harbhajan Singh, used to conduct cricket matches here," he says.Adarsh Nagar is now included in the Smart City project for its further development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/still-a-darling-no-charm-love-lost-for-adarsh-nagars-dwellers-135676
03-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Dad toiled hard for phone, couldn’t lose it: Jalandhar teen who took on snatchers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 2Smartphone is Kusum’s most prized possession and she ensures it remains within her reach, checking it every few seconds for new messages — “probably teachers sending online work or classmates enquiring about classes”.It’s the same phone for which the 15-year-old put up a spirited fight against two bike-borne assailants who tried to snatch it on a Jalandhar street two days ago.It’s PricelessThe smartphone didn’t come easy. My father toiled hard to purchase it after schools were shut and classes went online due to the Covid pandemic. It’s priceless. — KusumShowing exemplary courage, Kusum caught hold of one of them despite being attacked with a sharp-edged weapon on the arm. As she struggled with the biker for a few minutes, passersby joined in and thrashed the snatcher.“The smartphone didn’t come easy. My father toiled hard to purchase it after schools were shut and classes went online due to the pandemic. It’s priceless,” says Kusum, daughter of a daily-wager, when asked why she risked her life for the phone.“Had my phone gone, how would have I studied? All my notes and chapters sent by teachers are stored in it. Couldn’t have imagined studies without it. Can’t afford another phone either,” she says sitting on her hospital bed. An aspiring police officer, Kusum has learnt Taekwondo for a few months — and the lessons came in handy.Giving a word of advice to girls stuck in a similar situation, she says: “Never let fear conquer your mind and don’t let your enemy know about it. Just fight off everything and you will eventually win.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dad-toiled-hard-for-phone-couldnt-lose-it-jalandhar-teen-who-took-on-snatchers-135514
