03-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||As Covid-19 cases spiral, private hospitals feel the heat||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 2About a fortnight ago, doctors of private hospitals had warned of a system collapse if private hospitals were brought into the loop of healthcare institutions admitting Covid patients. However, with the rising tally, there is no other option but to include them in fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.Jalandhar district among many other cities across the country has miserably failed to flatten the Covid curve as the number of patients is rising in private hospitals, adding to the administration’s worry.From 733 on the first day of July to 2,517 today, July has been the key month during which community spread in the district was distinctly established. Lax contact tracing coupled with opening up of the lockdown have led to a situation in which the district has been witnessing a spike of 80 to 100 patients daily for the last week.Besides, with a marginal increase in the death rate as well — at times three to four deaths per day — this entire scenario has put more burden on healthcare. While the district administration brought private hospitals into the loop to facilitate better emergency healthcare in the fight against Covid, there is a flip side to it too. The private hospitals – which were the back-up plan for the fight against Covid – now serve as frontline units in the fight against the pandemic. Conversely, there are also reports that some of the private hospitals are actively taking in patients to rake in big dividends.While four private hospitals – NHS Hospital, Patel Hospital, Johal Hospital and Capitol Hospital – are daily adding to the break-up of Covid patients being reported in Jalandhar. Around a fortnight ago, none of the private institutions were included in the health bulletin except the IMA facility. Occasionally, PIMS also reports a couple of patients. A total of 13 private healthcare institutions were to begin admitting Covid patients from August 1. A majority of them have already started that. More hospitals will be joining in a day or two.Of the total positive patients in Jalandhar, 88 are currently in the Civil Hospital, 16 at the IMA centre at Shahkot, 187 at the level 1 centre at the Meritorious School, 109 under home isolation, 13 at the Military Hospital, 44 at the BSF facility, 10 at Patel Hospital, 18 at NHS Hospital, 11 at Capitol Hospital and six at Johal Hospital.Growing concerns over bed capacityThe growing concerns are that with the peak yet to start where the new patients will go when the numbers increase further. Many of the hospitals are already filled to the capacity. As per the health bulletin today, there are 10 patients at Patel Hospital, 18 at NHS, 11 at Capitol, 6 at Johal and 16 at the IMA facility.“If Covid-19 persists for a year, we fear a total collapse of health care because all power, resources, medical care have to be strained 24x7 in times of the pandemic,” said Dr BS Johal, owner of Johal Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/as-covid-19-cases-spiral-private-hospitals-feel-the-heat-121516
03-08-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Lockdown, delay in funds hinder construction of government college||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 2It was after 27 years that the demand to construct a government college at Boota Mandi in the city was finally listened when CM Capt Amarinder Singh laid the foundation stone of the college last year.The announcement was made in 1992 for the first time, afterwards same was repeated by former CM Parkash Singh Badal, who promised to get it done in 1999. It doesn’t stop here. Thereafter, Sukhbir Singh Badal’s stance was no different in 2008. The CM while laying the foundation stone had said that the college would be completed in one and a half years at a cost of Rs 13 crore.Astonishingly, the construction of Baba Sahib Bhim Rao Ambedkar Govt College (Girls) at Boota Mandi, started in October last year with an aim to complete the project till September 2020. But the work has got delayed, yet again, due to delay in release of funds initially and then came the Covid spread accompanied by the ensuing lockdown to add to bureaucratic delays. It seems like a never-ending wait. As per information, at present, the foundation work of the college ie 25 per cent is completed. Also, a week ago, budget amounting to Rs 175 lakh was allocated by Secretary Higher Education, Punjab, to rev up the works.Backtracking to 2017, in months of June, July and August the girls of Buta Mandi, Khurla Kingra and adjoining areas had got together and demanded the opening of a degree college in the Boota Mandi area — initially promised in 1992 by then CM Beant Singh. Such was the protest that it continued for a total of 107 days and also the girls went on a hunger strike.Recently, Sushil Rinku, MLA Jalandhar West Constituency, also visited the site and asked the PWD officials and the contractor to accentuate the work so that classes for next session could be started. He also informed that as decided earlier, the college will not only be for girls, but instead would be a Co-ed one.Meanwhile, the students will have to scoop out more patience from inside before they step into the college. “Until the time the construction gets completed, the classes will be held in Sports College. But from next session, the classes will positively be held in the college itself, the MLA said. The college will offer BA, B.Com, BBA, and BCA courses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lockdown-delay-in-funds-hinder-construction-of-government-college-121517
03-08-2020||---||Area under maize in district up 50%||Jalandhar, August 2The area under maize cultivation has increased from 8,000 hectares last year to 12,000 hectares this year, witnessing a rise of around 50 per cent, claimed officials of the state Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare.Facing a shortage of labourers for paddy sowing because of the pandemic, farmers shifted to maize cultivation on a part of their land, thus leading to the increase in area under the crop. A special mobile van started by the department went from village to village in the district during the lockdown and encouraged the farmers to grow maize, giving them seeds at a subsidised amount of Rs 135 per kg. The van covered villages in Jalandhar East, Jalandhar West and Shahkot blocks. An agriculture official said because of the lockdown, farmers could not go visit markets to buy seeds, so the department decided to provide them the seeds at their villages.Sukhwinder Singh, a farmer from Shahkot, said he had sown maize on two acres and was planning to increase the area under the crop next year.To promote crop diversification and save the depleting groundwater, the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department had decided to increase the area under maize by encouraging farmers to shun the cultivation of the water-guzzling paddy crop. The department had set a target to increase the area from 8,800 hectares to 16,500 hectares. But, according to sources, as the subsidised seeds were given only in three blocks, the target could not be achieved.Chief Agriculture Officer Surinder Singh said the department was offering maize seeds of several hybrid varieties which were certified by Punjab Agricultural University.“Since the groundwater is plummeting in the district, it will be beneficial if the farmers shift to maize cultivation,” he said, adding that the area under Basmati cultivation in district has also increased this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/area-under-maize-in-district-up-50-121518
03-08-2020||Jalandhar||Two die of virus in Jalandhar distrct||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-die-of-virus-in-jalandhar-distrct-121519
03-08-2020||Our Correspondent---||4 cops among 7 test positive in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, August 2 The reports of 313 samples were received from the lab here on Sunday. Of them, the reports of seven persons came out positive, raising the total number of positive cases to 571 in the district.  The samples of 55 persons with flu-like symptoms were taken on Sunday, taking the tally of samples to 28,847 so far in the district. According to the report received from the laboratory, the reports of 27,892 samples were found negative and 377 reports were awaited. Around 55 samples were found to be invalid. The number of active cases stands at 65 in the district while 489 persons have recovered so far. The death toll remains at 17. Civil Surgeon Jasbir Singh said of the seven positive cases, one policeman was from Phuglana village under the Harta Badla Health Centre. In Hoshiarpur city, two persons were found positive in Guru Gobind Singh Nagar and one bank employee in Tagore Nagar. One policeman each from Bajwara, Hajipur and Garhshankar villages were found positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-cops-among-7-test-positive-in-hoshiarpur-121520
03-08-2020||Our Correspondent---||Going green: NCC battalion carries out tree plantation||Hoshiarpur, August 2 The plantation of saplings was carried out as part of a tree plantation drive being carried out by the 12 Punjab Battalion, NCC, Hoshiarpur, under the leadership of Command Officer Colonel Sandeep Kumar. The cadets following the standard operating procedures in their homes, areas around and public places planted saplings.  In his message, Colonel Sandeep Kumar said to save this world suffering from pollution and to conserve human life, it is necessary to have maximum greenery on the earth. Only by protecting the environment we can make our life and future generations happy.  Battalion’s administrative officer Lt. Colonel Rajeev Dhand said the plants would be taken care of by the cadets who planted them.  He said around 500 plants were planted  by the battalion cadets at various places and with the help of their neighbours and friends. The permanent instructors staff of the battalion also planted saplings.   Two van mitras for each village to protect saplings Jalandhar, August 2 To ensure upkeep of 4.89 lakh saplings planted at 890 villages of the district to commemorate the 550th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev last year, the district administration has appointed a total of 1,780 ‘Van mitras’, two for each village, who would protect and water the saplings. The saplings were planted as part of a special drive to enhance the green cover and 550 saplings were planted at each village. The 1,780 ‘Van mitras’ have been engaged by the district administration under the Mahatma Gandhi-National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said: “The administration has appointed two van mitras for each village to ensure that the plants survive and green cover in the district increases. It will be a befitting tribute to the great Guru, who had shown the path of love, compassion and harmony to the entire humanity.” He said through his teachings, Guru Nanak Dev has emphasised the importance of protecting air, water, biodiversity and forests, which was the need of the hour. The DC said the drive was embarked in consonance with the commitment of Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to encourage people to plant more trees and ensure their upkeep to make the state clean, green and pollution-free.  He said all BDPOs in the district would also monitor the performance of ‘Van mitras’. Thori also exhorted people to plant saplings and protect these. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/going-green-ncc-battalion-carries-out-tree-plantation-121521
03-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Sampla demands CM’s resignation||Hoshiarpur, August 2During the 2017 Vidhan Sabha election rallies, Capt Amarinder Singh had promised the public that after coming to power, he would wipe out the drug menace from the state in four weeks. Now, the state government has spent around three and half years in the office, but the drug menace is far from over, rather it has become more easy to obtain drugs.This was stated by former union minister of state Vijay Sampla while expressing his condolences to family members of the victims who lost their loved ones in the illegal liquor tragedy. Sampla said, “The state government is responsible for the deaths of about 86 people due to the poisonous liquor consumption in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts. The Amarinder government has no control over its officials and ministers”.He alleged poisonous liquor and ‘chitta’ were being sold everywhere in the state. “Officials of the Excise Department and the police have failed to arrest the persons involved in this dirty game. The younger generation of Punjab is suffering the brunt of addiction, which is a matter of grave concern,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sampla-demands-cms-resignation-121522
03-08-2020||Ajay Joshi||Cyclists fume as traffic police tell them to stay off highways||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 2As the district traffic police wing stopped city-based riders from cycling on highways and roads with heavy traffic, after the death of a cyclist in Patiala, cyclists here have expressed their resentment against the police and considered the move ‘meaningless’.A day after the cyclists in the city were stopped at various roads, the cycling activities remained suspended on Sunday, even though the residents felt that morning hours on Sundays were the best for cycling. While the traffic police claimed that they just advised the cyclists from avoiding highway lanes, cyclists are of the opinion that in the absence of any cycling track in the city, they have to rely on highways for smooth cycling.Rohit Sharma, President, Hawk Riders Association, Jalandhar, said, “The city lacks the infrastructure for cycling. We have nothing but just these dilapidated roads in the name of infrastructure. Cycling on these roads is a bumpy experience. There are no designated lanes to promote cycling. Traffic officials have told us to move to grounds, but in most of the grounds, entry for visitors has been banned owing to Covid-19 outbreak. I have been cycling for the past several years and my every day target is to cover a distance of 60-70 km which is not possible on city roads. Hence, we appeal to the officials to not only remove the 8 am-8 pm restriction, but also ask cops not to stop us from cycling on highways.”Similarly, Dinesh Handa (54), a resident of Mahiran Gate, who is not only a cyclists but also runs his own professional cycling centre, rued his fellow cyclists were harassed at Jalandhar cantt and the PAP on Friday. “Firstly, we were denied entry in cantt as the force manning the entry gates said they had been ordered not to allow cyclists from entering the cantt to prevent the Covid spread. Next, when we tried to cross the PAP Chowk, the police on the checkposts stated the same. When we asked to show them the written orders, they remained mum and asked us to return.”Meanwhile, ACP Traffic, Harwinder Singh said, “We haven’t issued any written order to stop cyclists but the cops on duty have been asked to only advise the cyclists not to use highways to avoid mishaps. Moreover, children below 18 years of age also cycle carelessly, which could lead to unfortunate incidents. Hence, we appealed them to take all the precautions before cycling on highways.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cyclists-fume-as-traffic-police-tell-them-to-stay-off-highways-121524
03-08-2020||Hoshiarpur||BJP appoints district office-bearers||Shop owners distribute masksJalandhar: Acceding to the appeal by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, sweet shops owners across the district on Sunday distributed free masks to customers who came to purchase sweets and gifts on the eve of Raksha Bandhan. Besides giving a special permission to owners of sweet shops to operate on Sunday in view of Raksha Bandhan, the CM had urged them to provide a pair of masks to each customer to sensitise people of the need of wearing masks. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori and Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM-1) Jai Inder Singh also held meetings with members of the Sweet Shops’ Owners’ Association and urged them to sensitise people about wearing masks and also underline strict actions taken against the people who violated Covid norms. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-appoints-district-office-bearers-121526
03-08-2020||For Jagpreet Singh and his family||‘It was a month-long horrifying experience’||Recalling his horror, Jagpreet says, “For the first 24 hours after admission, no one from the medical staff came to our rooms. Next morning as my son developed a mild fever, I asked a nurse to check his body temperature to which she replied that they do not have a thermometer.”He was baffled. “How could they not have a thermometer?,” he questions. “The truth is they (medical staff) were afraid and not ready to come near us. They did not even have the PPE kits at that moment. Our reports were still awaited but we had already started feeling helpless,” he tells.Come April 2, Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa would succumb early in the morning. He was the first casualty of the district. His audio recordings revealed lack of treatment facilities, viraling within hours and resulting in government's criticism as panic broke out among the public.“During our stay at hospital, a Class-IV worker would come once a day and hand us Vitamin C tablets. The food was of very poor quality. The condition of cleanliness was even worse. The bed sheets were dirty. Never in my entire life had I felt so helpless,” he shares.The family test reports which were available by April 4. “Eight of us from the family were tested and four turned out to be positive. But the ordeal did not end here. The panic among the medical staff, the mismanagement, and the indifference led us to believe that something bad would happen,” he adds.Nevertheless, Jagpreet managed to get his family shifted to a private hospital on April 5 with intervention of the Chief Minister's office. His son, mother and brother were discharged from the private hospital on April 24. His father was discharged a few days later. “All from my family members (who tested positive) remained asymptomatic throughout the treatment. But it was a horrifying experience,” he says.Talking about the social stigma, he explains, “People were panicked. What were they to do? They were worried for their families.” He adds: There was a lot of support. The things have returned to normal and we thank God for it.” However, he still feels that pastures could have much greener, “if Taya ji (Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa) were still alive,” he laments.As told to Manmeet Singh Gill||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/it-was-a-month-long-horrifying-experience-121527
03-08-2020||What Steps can be taken by Municipal Corporation to promote cycling in city?||Dedicated lanes, rent-a-cycle project can make city cycle-friendly||Emulate cycling model of PuneOver the past few years, there has been a steady rise in bicycle’s popularity across the state. Fed up with sedentary lifestyle, more and more people are taking up cycling for transport, recreation and sport. This humble aerobatic exercise improves our physical and mental fitness levels and solves society’s serious problems such as traffic congestion, environmental pollution and climate change. The lockdown has given an extra fillip to this new trend. The bicycle industry has witnessed an unprecedented boom in sales as cooped-up residents tried to beat cabin fever through recreational cycling in open spaces with fresh air, and used this cost-effective alternative for commuting in the absence of public transport. But like other old cities, roads in Jalandhar are not cycle-friendly. Cycling has always been a risky venture due to perennially rough, pot-holed, patchy and crowded roads, poor lights, rash and drunken driving, and blatant violations of traffic rules. Expressing genuine concern over inadequate road infrastructure in the city, residents/enthusiastic cyclists have repeatedly been requesting the MC authorities to develop well-designed, integrated, safe and more relaxing cycle tracks or special cycling zones, but to no avail. The Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry has also advised states to promote cycling and other non-motorised vehicles to prevent the transmission of the deadly virus. Under the Smart City Project, the civic body should emulate the Bangaluru and Pune models, remove encroachments from roads and pavements, and create mandatory cycle lanes, wherever possible. Meanwhile, efficient speed management, limited plying of cars and using parks and school or college playgrounds will help sustain the surging renewed interest in cycling.D S KangNeed of exclusive cycling zonesIt is heartening to see people increasingly resorting to cycling as a trusted tool of physical fitness regimen. It is a pollution free, reliable and safe alternative for public transport, the Covid-19 Pandemic in India. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, had already advised for developing pedestrianisation of at least three markets and more bicycles lanes in every city. The MC must rise to the occasion and take all necessary steps to encourage cycling by providing basic infrastructure and support. Ensuring exclusive lanes for cyclists is thus a difficult proposition even if lanes for cyclists are newly-constructed or separately earmarked. The idea of declaring exclusive zones for cyclists and pedestrians where no vehicular movement is allowed is practically possible and must be done without delay. Further, the sites for free cycling parking at prominent places be identified and suitably developed. There is big scope of cycling renting from point to point and the authorities may explore the possibilities in consultation with private players under regulated norms.Jagdish ChanderMC cash-strapped, who will build tracks?With most of us working from home, traffic on road is less and has given us an opportunity to reclaim the space for cycling. The state government says it does not have even funds. The state economy is in doldrums. In such a situation, it is almost impossible to fulfill the demand of residents. Residents need to be satisfied with the present infrastructure for cycling. It would be frivolous to seek any such infrastructure during this time.Shailja ThakurMake city more cycle friendlyCycling proved to be a good alternate to health clubs and gyms which were lying inoperative since long. Earlier, there used to be cycling tracks in the metros, which lost way due to increasing number of motorised vehicles, but now the need for their revival is being felt. It would be great if the civic authorities took the initiative to revamp cycle tracks in city.JL NAAGARSeparate Cycle tracks need of the hourCycling zones or lanes are essentially required as the Covid-19 induced lockdowns and its aftermaths have compelled people for everyday cycling. This new trend among the people has resulted in the sale of bicycles manifold. The Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC) must sort out this pending issue at the earliest and do its bit for the public. Hopefully, if this consistent demand of the residents’ echoes with the exponent of the Smart City project, I think the day is not far when the separate zones for non-motorised vehicles will see the light of day. All representatives of the government should come on board with one another to help the cycle aficionados. Carving out tracks for the cyclists can be a great encouragement and will obviously bring a big boom in the health and the fitness sector. With schools, colleges and universities being shut, the students of all age groups are looking forward to adopt the traditional way to keep themselves active and agile. The administration needs to take a plunge to ensure their safety and security by laying out separate cycling zones.Simranjeet Singh SainiCycling good for health, environmentThere has been a sharp increase in the demand for cycles during the Covid-19 pandemic as it is good form of exercise as well eco-friendly transportation option. The city is not in a position to provide the required infrastructure in case the people prepared to adopt cycling as a preferable mode of conveyance. The vehicular traffic may come down and need of the hour is to reserve a separate lane for cyclists on the same road. Building new track is not feasible as the cycling craze is temporary because of the closures of gyms in the city. However, since the city has been chosen to be developed as smart city, providing separate lanes for cyclists may be a part of the master plan. People must come forward to adopt cycling as a part of modern living, where environment and health consciousness are primary concern.Shash KiranSet up Cycling grounds and parks in cityThe residents are totally right and have foresight for asking the authorities to create lanes for non-motorised vehicles,especially cycling zones.There are three-pronged advantages for the same. Firstly, cutiing down on the use of fuels like petrol and diesel, secondly reducing the pollution and thirdly health benefits. In most European countries and the US, cycling is very popular among the people.They cycle whenever they find it convenient. In those countries there are special cycling lanes and zones. Here also, more so in Punjab, cycling is emerging as the new fad. More and more people are buying cycles and demand is increasing. The Municipalities should cater to the need so that people are encouraged to use cycles for commuting and exercising. But the question is whether our roads are worthy of having cycling lanes? They are already in pitiable condition and there is chaos of all sorts. The only solution would be to create cycling grounds and parks where cycling enthusiasts can enjoy cycling.JS WadhwaMC cannot provide cycling zonesIn a country like India, if residents are demanding for cycling zones then I would say it is a weird demand from the Municipal Corporation (MC). The residents need to understand this that they are not in the US, Canada or some European country. Since the gyms are closed due to the Covid, everyone wants to be fit. So, few people of city are becoming cyclists, and now are demanding for cycling zones, which is really amusing. The MC is not capable of maintaining roads for normal commuters. How the MC can build special cycling zones? The demand for personalised form of transport has gone up as a response to the outbreak and as a result several countries around the world are now embracing quick cycling interventions. Paris is in the process of creating 650 km of pop-up cycle ways. Britain has decided to invest £ 2 billion in cycling and walking. This is the difference between the developed nations and India.Saahil HansQUESTIONThe Centre has finally come out with the New Education Policy after 34 years. Do you think it will help in transforming the education system of the country?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (August 6).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dedicated-lanes-rent-a-cycle-project-can-make-city-cycle-friendly-121528
03-08-2020||---||Naujawan Bharat Sabha  seeks withdrawal of FIRs||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 2Registration of FIRs against members of the Naujawan Bharat Sabha for holding a gathering while observing the martyrdom of Shaheed Udham Singh, leaders of the sabha on Sunday demanded immediate cancellation of the FIRs.Reportedly, the state committee members of the sabha held a conference and march on July 31 in Khatkar Kalan, Nawanshahar, on the occasion of Shaheed Udham Singh’s martyrdom day. However, the march was interrupted when the police asked them to avoid the gathering.Jaskaran Azad, finance secretary of the sabha, said, “We recently observed zonal-level martyrdom at Sangrur and Firozpur, however, adhering to the Covid guidelines, we maintained social distancing. But still, FIRs were registered against over 100 members of the sabha under Sections 188, 269, 270 B of the Indian Penal Code, Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 3 of the Epidemic Disaster Act”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/naujawan-bharat-sabha-seeks-withdrawal-of-firs-121530
