03-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Learning paddy cultivation techniques straight from their fields||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 2First online class for farmers was broadcast from the farm of Balraj Singh Sran, a farmer at Pandori Araiyan village of Hoshiarpur.More than 25 farmers who attended the class were either in their fields indulged in farming or at homes doing other works, but still, they didn’t miss it.Ashok Kumar, Punjab coordinator of Dr Surender Jeet Saksharta Mission, an NGO, said the class went well except some voice related issues faced by a few farmers.In the online class, farmers were told how to cultivate paddy without spraying pesticides with the knowledge of insects and integrated pest management (IPM) techniques.“Farmers were asked to buy book ‘IPM package of practices’ published by the PAU in Punjabi with complete details. None of the farmers who attended the class were aware of the book,” Kumar said.Apart from farmers, Dr Baljit Bhyan, former horticultural officer, Hisar, Haryana and Dr Jaspreet Singh Khera, project director, ATMA project, under the Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Ludhiana, participated in the class.Dr Khera asked farmers to follow standard package of practices written by PAU and taught by officers. He said in case any information was required, they could consult local officers of the department. He also advised farmers to take special care of guidelines for safety from coronavirus while working in farms and market as well as at home. As per the information, the second online class on paddy will be held in the first week of August.Ashok Kumar said regular online classes on cotton from field will commence from next week. Notably, ‘Dr Surinder Dalal Keet Saksharta Mission’, an NGO, which has been working dedicatedly for farmers for the past five years, does not teach farmers through any classes or in any closed room, but in fields to practically tell them why they do not need pesticide in farms.Dr Dalal had told farmers about the integrated pest management (IPM). As per him, they should not spray pesticides in fields. He said it was important to know about the insect before killing it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/learning-paddy-cultivation-techniques-straight-from-their-fields-107888
03-07-2020||Ajay Joshi||Not paid insurance amount, firm told to shell out Rs5 lakh||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 2The District Permanent Lok Adalat (PLA) in its recent judgment has directed an insurance company to pay Rs5,09,200 as compensation to a resident for non-compliance in releasing the insurance amount for over two years.The insurance company has been also been asked to pay extra litigation expenses of Rs15,000 to the resident.Applicant, Harjit Singh, through Jatinder Singh, director, Golden Temple Logistics Pvt. Ltd, in his complaint filed on January 30, 2019, had mentioned that his truck (PB-08-DS-2874) insured with the National Insurance Company, Panesar complex, Jalandhar, met with an accident in October 2017. However, the company denied giving the insured amount to him despite the accident taking place within its insurance validity. Not only this, they harassed him on several occasions. The insurance policy was valid from September 2017 to September 2019.In his complaint, the applicant mentioned that he spent a sum of Rs3,15,346 on the repair of the vehicle after the accident and immediately informed the company to make payment spent on the repair along with Rs50,000 as compensation, but to no avail. Also, providing all details, he told the company that he was holding a valid driving licence, when the accident occurred, however the company manager repudiated his claim and sent him a letter stating that he was holding a valid driving licence to drive MCV and LMV vehicles only and the LMV licence holder was not authorised to drive pickup light goods vehicle. Hence, his claim was not maintainable.Following this, the applicant submitted a copy of the notification of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, Government of India, dated April 16, 2018, according to which the holder of LMV driving licence was competent to drive the vehicle in question but again, the company failed to make any payment. Instead, in its written statement, the company said as per the survey conducted by his surveyor, the truck driver only incurred a loss of Rs2,51,500 and denied making any payment.The learned counsel of PLA after verifying the objections of both parties sent a notice of conciliation and formulating terms of possible settlement. However, the company denied agreeing to the settlement terms. Subsequently, the court decided to proceed further with the case in terms of provisions of Section 22(C)8 of the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987, and called upon parties to lead their evidence.After hearing all arguments of both parties, the PLA, including its chairman SS Sahni and members Sushma Handoo and SK Jhulka, considered the claims of the company false. By giving references of previous case and the rules, the counsel came to the conclusion that the applicant was holding a valid licence and he was also authorised to drive light goods vehicle, the gross vehicle weight of which should not exceed 7,500 kg and the gross vehicle weight of vehicle in question was only 2,620kg. In addition, the surveyor of the company did not add the cost of labour included in the repair i.e.Rs1,03,781.Hence, the company was entitled to pay Rs5,09,200 to the applicant with 7 per cent interest rate per annum and Rs15,000 as litigation cost.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/not-paid-insurance-amount-firm-told-to-shell-out-rs5-lakh-107889
03-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||Staff nurse takes Covid-19 in her stride||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 2For the past one week, Kanwaljit (47) has been isolated at her home along with her 85-year-old mother-in-law, 47-year-old husband and 13-year-old daughter.Taking care of Covid-19 positive patients for the past three months at the Civil Hospital, Kanwaljit, who tested positive along with her family, is now taking care of her octogenarian mother-in-law during home isolation.Kanwaljit, a staff nurse who conducted duties at Covid and isolation wards at the Civil Hospital, said her profession has taught her to take care of the ailing patients.As per protocol, anyone above 60, who is Covid positive cannot be discharged from hospital until they test negative, but an exception has been made in her mother-in law’s case, since she is bed-ridden and has various co-morbidities. Her family thought she would be vulnerable to many more infections at the hospital.A resident of the Raja Garden area, Kaur cooks food, takes care of her mother-in-law and carries out household chores – all during home isolation.Having tested positive for Covid, Kanwaljit and her family members stayed in isolation at the meritorious school for a day, after which they were shifted to their home. Her mother-in-law, who is on a wheelchair, says the family pitches in to help.“I am a health worker and can take care of her at home. She has diabetes, is paralytic and has other co-morbidities as well. At the hospital, Icouldn’t have been able to take care of her this way. She feels healthy at home,” she says.Speaking on how she got Covid, she said, “It all started with fever and cough. I discharged duties at the de-addiction, trauma, emergency, male and female wards. We came in contact with several positive cases and for three months, I had been working with them. So, sooner or later, this had to happen. But I had never imagined myself to test positive.”Now, under home isolation for 15 days, Kanwaljit cooks food for her own family wearing gloves. The other family members abide by isolation protocol in four separate rooms. With herself suffering from various heart ailments and thyroid problems, the 47-year-old nurse says she never got scared of discharging her duties in critical wards.Taking the illness in her stride, she said initially everyone was apprehensive about the situation, but now with symptoms subsiding, her Covid fears have been allayed.“We are all in our respective rooms. Housework, food, recreation all happens from these rooms. Thankfully, we are asymptomatic, so there is nothing to worry about. We are comfortably managing things on our own and everyone is using this time to relax.”19 contract virus in dist, tally hits 750Jalandhar: Nineteen more people tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Thursday, taking the Covid-19 count to 750 in the district. The new cases include four people from outside the state and two from Ludhiana. The cases also include three Army men with travel history. They were shifted to the military hospital. A prisoner in Adampur is also among the positive cases. Barring this, four of those who tested positive are residents of Swaraj Ganj and contacts of previously positive patients. Other areas from where cases poured in, include Makhdoom Pura, Ram Nagar, Bhogpur, Kot Pakshian, Lesriwal, Nakodar and Lakshmi Pura among other areas. Kapurthala records 6 infections Six new people tested positive in Kapurthala on Thursday. They include five patients from Tarloki Nath Mohalla and one person who had returned from Dubai. The five persons from Tarloki Nath Mohalla include a 50-year-old man, a 16-year-old boy, 43 year-old-woman, 12-year-old boy and a 42-year-old man. The tally in the district has risen to 102, of which 27 are active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/staff-nurse-takes-covid-19-in-her-stride-107890
03-07-2020||Jalandhar||Rotary members at Unique Home||SBI gives food at Pingla GharJalandhar: On the 65th Foundation Day of State Bank of India, the officers of DAV university branch of the SBI spent time at Pingla Ghar located on Gulab Devi Road. They also provided food items for mentally challenged children. Regional Manager Pradeep Kumar said SBI works with every section of society and stands with them. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rotary-members-at-unique-home-107892
03-07-2020||---||E-farewell for NIT students||Jalandhar, July 2 In these unprecedented times as students globally lost on academic work and celebrations, the students of NIT Jalandhar organised an e-farewell to celebrate the outgoing of final year students. This saw a very special appearance of Indian team hockey captain and Red Bull athlete Manpreet Singh who gave a very special message to these students. His message talked of hardships and effort. Motivating students to fight all battles and work towards their goals, the students of NIT were inspired to get a special message from the hockey legend. Wishing them the best for future, Manpreet Singh made their farewell amazing. The e-farewell also saw performances by college students and clubs along with various interesting games.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/e-farewell-for-nit-students-107893
03-07-2020||---||Rs1.57 cr plan to check depleting water table||Jalandhar, July 2District Watershed Development Unit led by Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori today gave a nod to an action plan worth Rs 1.57 crore for conserving depleting ground water table in 40 villages of the district. Chairing a meeting of a high-powered committee, the Deputy Commissioner said under Integrated Watershed Management Program (IWMP), the action plan aimed at restoring ecological balance by harnessing natural resources such as soil, vegetative cover and water. He said the Integrated Watershed Management Programme (IWMP) was implemented by the Department of Land Resources of Ministry of Rural Development.Thori said the scheme tried to bring about an ecological balance. The Deputy Commissioner said as per the action plan, lift irrigation projects for efficient utilisation of pond water for irrigation using underground pipe lines, using rain water harvesting structures in government buildings to recharge the depleting ground water table, construction of soil erosion prevention structures to safeguard the farmer’s field, pipe outlets to divert the flow of water from one field to another and others would be done to check depleting groundwater table.Thori said under this scheme, 40 villages of the district, including 35 of Shahkot, Nakodar and Lohian block besides five villages of Phillaur block have been chosen. He asked the officers to expedite the work on this ambitious project so that people could be benefitted from this scheme adding that the action plan would be helpful in checking the environmental degradation in terms of depleting water table by tackling it effectively through the holistic development of the watershed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs1-57-cr-plan-to-check-depleting-water-table-107894
03-07-2020|| ---||Women protest opening of liquor vend||Jalandhar, July 2  Women of Bath Kalan village, under the banner of Istri Jagriti Manch, protested against the opening of liquor vend on the panchayat land.  After holding protest at Mehatpur, women handed over a demand letter on the issue to Tesildar Rajinder Singh and SHO Lakhvir Singh for higher officials. The protesters demanded closure of the liquor vend as it was very close to residential area. Women alleged that taking advantage of the end of the tenure of the panchayat of the village Bath Kalan, local mafia and administration were keen on turning the village into a haven of intoxicant substances. The protesters said while people were already facing unemployment due to the Covid lockdown, the district administration was giving an open hand to liquor mafia to misuse village lands. Bath Kalan women said they would go home to home to spread the word on the issue.  Istri Jagriti Manch state leader Anita Sandhu, panch Harmesh Kaur, Krishna Devi were among others present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/women-protest-opening-of-liquor-vend-107895
03-07-2020||Jalandhar||Dengue larvae detected at seven places in Jalandhar||The Health Department on Thursday carried out a drive against vector-borne diseases in various areas of Jalandhar under the ‘Mission Fateh’ programme of the state government aimed at sensitising people to clean water storage tanks, coolers and waste containers every day.The teams of the anti-larva cell of the Health Department led by Epidemiologist Dr Satish Kumar detected dengue larvae at seven places.The team members including Jaswinder Singh, Harwinder Singh, Tarlochan Ram, Sumit, Raj Kumar, David Masih, Sher Singh and Ram Parkash conducted the drive at NIT, Kabir Nagar, Master Mehanga Singh Colony, Rama Mandi, Golden Avenue and other areas.Six larvae cases were found in Kabir Nagar and the remaining one was found at Mehnga Singh Colony. During checking, the teams visited 159 houses and checked 65 coolers and 166 waste containers. Dr Satish Kumar said the teams apprised people of how these places could act as a breeding ground for mosquitoes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dengue-larvae-detected-at-seven-places-in-jalandhar-107896
03-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||Potholed road spells trouble for residents||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 2The potholed, slushy, dug-out and over-used Guru Nanakpura Road, which leads from the Ladowali road to the other side of the PAP Flyover, has become an eyesore for the city residents. While the road has been in a bad state since many years – the problem got worse for the past many years, the situation got worse after it was dug up for draining of rainwater. While some felt that the drainage of water will end half of the woes, the others rue that the delay in the work will spark several problems for the residents.While area MLA Rajinder Beri held protests questioning the faulty PAP Flyover – residents have also questioned what he has done to fix the road which is already overburdened with traffic due to the faulty flyover.Gurpreet Singh, an area resident, says, “We were in trouble before the flyover was made and we are in trouble even now. Our woes have multiplied during the Covid phase. It seems as if it is taking an eternity for the authorities to reconstruct the road. Two-three months earlier, the road was dug up to route the stagnant water on the stretch to the main sewerage. Since then things have gotten worse. Not only for the Gurunankpura residents, but also for the city dwellers going to Garha or Amritsar. Since going via the PAP flyover would need a nearly 2 km detour and a long U-turn, people prefer using this road. This has overburdened the stretch and currently all one can see is mud and huge potholes. We dread the monsoons since it will be virtually impossible to traverse the stretch then.”Goldy, another resident said, “Work is currently on to fix the sewerage connection. After this is completed, the road will also be built. The stagnant water will make things even more difficult. Currently residents are facing a lot of difficulty but after the work is completed – the issue shall be addressed.”Deepak Sharma, another resident of the area, said, “Ever since we have been seeing the road, it has been in a bad shape. The question is whether authorities know that the road is in a bad shape. They could not fix it even in the six months. What was the need of taking up this work right before the rains? This could have been done earlier.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/potholed-road-spells-trouble-for-residents-107902
03-07-2020||Ajay Joshi||City-based artistes shifting to digital space to keep audience entertained||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 2Even as theatre and many stage activities have come to a standstill, artistes in the city have shifted to digital space to keep their audience entertained.The lockdown has certainly rendered theatre artistes jobless. However, they have no option left but to figure out new ways to stay connected with their audience by posting new works online. Digital space is throwing contemporary suggestions and opportunities for them by all means.Summer season used to be considered as the most fruitful time of the year for artistes not only in terms of performances, but also in making earnings. But at present, it is being utilised in learning modern skills besides acting. From play-readings and live-streaming performances on social media to access play scripts, the online space is giving theatre lovers in the city the much-needed remedy against lockdown blues. A growing number of directors, actors, writers whose livelihood was completely dependent on live shows are also finding new ways to work from home and are forced to conduct workshops and regular classes virtually. Making themselves technologically sound is the new normal. From learning to operate apps to editing videos with perfect audio and visual are the everyday tasks the artistes are engaged nowadays. Recently, many sketches and plays with themes, including, lockdown life, plight of migrants, Mother's Day, Father's Day and Doctor’s Day were posted online by city-based artistes. Famous theatre group Yuva theatre presented 'Chidyaghar' digitally.Artistes who have been associated with the theatre industry for the past many years, say, though artistes are managing hard to sustain in these times digitally and are combating every day to make the most out this crisis-like situation, many have no source of earning. The time is such that they have to look for odd jobs for survival. They said the government and the local administration had failed to take any initiative for them who are taking up all possible means to protect the cultural integrity of the country. Notably, due to youth festivals, summer camps, performances in schools and colleges, theatre artistes used to earn majorly between May and September. However, as people are holed up in their houses, no source of earning is left.QuotesSince lockdown, I have been exploring digital space in creative and commercial aspects. Turning this tough time into an opportunity, I have been regular taking online classes from my mentors and with the help of my family shooting the videos at home, which I eventually upload on Facebook and on Zee talent page.Arjun Singh (15), an artiste, who also appeared in Zee TV's India's Best Dramebaz showThere is a definite audience for theatre, so we are using digital platforms to reach out to them. Our plays and fresh creations are also uploaded on 'Book My Show' app and other OTT avenues to remain connected with the audience. Plays based on isolation and other issues are rehearsed online and uploaded on our YouTube channel. Ankur Sharma, Founder, Yuva TheaterThis new normal has opened new horizons for us by giving more of a virtual space for showcasing talent. I have been conducting online classes (Dramebaz Kids) and workshops for budding artistes through Zoom app sessions and making short movies and solo plays.Sanjeev Lucky, award winning national and international theater artisteSadly, we have lost touch with our live audiences. Even though we have to resort to virtual performances, the quality of art has, to some extent, degraded. Earlier, we used to live stream occasionally, but now, it has become a regular scene. As artistes, we miss our interaction with live audience.Manpreet Singh, Khathak Dancer||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/city-based-artistes-shifting-to-digital-space-to-keep-audience-entertained-107903
