03-10-2020||Avneet Kaur||He treads path of compassion to aware masses||Jalandhar, October 2When one is confronted with an issue there are two ways to go about it. One is taking a mindless approach; the other is having an insightful outlook to tackle the situation. Sushil Tiwari, a 22-year-old social activist from city, chooses the latter every time. His is a way of compassion.The manner in which he deals with the grade crossing cannot be overlooked. Originally hailing from Gonda in Uttar Pradesh, he makes a benevolent gesture of offering rose sticks, as a token of comprehension, to make ‘gate-dashing’ (crossing the level crossing while the barrier is being closed) violators aware of ramifications of their actions. Perhaps those roses gifted signify the delicateness of their lives. Well, more or less.Talking to The Tribune, Sushil said he had been doing the novel work since 2014 to sensitise commuters to the necessity of obeying railway crossing norms so that mishaps are avoided. He said the violation had become a serious problem across the country over the years. “In the absence of a proper vigil, people continue to risk their lives by crossing closed level crossings in the city,” he told.Though several people have lost their lives in the past while indulging in such reckless acts, the practice is still very much on. “I have done a survey of different level crossings in the city. It was found that commuters travelling on two-wheelers creep through the closed railway crossings on their own will. At some places, it was observed that people pass even though trains are approaching. At some crossings where poles are installed at a low height, people still carry out this daredevilry of theirs,” he added.Sushil, a son of daily-wage labourer, Satish Tiwari, said, a lot of efforts are being taken by the police, NGOs among others for road safety, but nobody is paying attention towards the rail crossing violations. According to him, there is an equal need to aware people about the Motor Vehicles (MV) Act and the Railway Act under which the offenders are liable to be booked and could be slapped with a fine, even arrested.When asked what motivated him to start this drive, he said, “I migrated to Jalandhar in 2007 with my family in search of work. On many occasions while crossing the Sodal level crossing, I observed that people don’t have any fear of the approaching train. Therefore, I decided to do something in order to make people aware about the risk involved.”In 2014, he finally came up with this idea of offering roses to violators to teach them a lesson, but with love and respect. Soon, he had many admirers who would later join hands. “I started this on my own but over the years many people supported and helped me in this noble cause,” he shared. Besides, he has started his own NGO named Yuva Rashtra Nirman Vahini. “And now many youngsters of my age among others, they all are my pillars of strength.”Also, he has been vocal about several civic issues too. “I am motivating people to come forward and stand up for their rights. I have alone sat on dharna on many locations and launched campaigns for clean and green Jalandhar,” Sushil added.Films always do the trick!Apart from offering roses, with the help of his friends Sushil has also made a short fil on the same issue. “I played the role of a ghost in the film and we tried to give away the message that how our small carelessness can turn into a tragedy and we may end up losing our lives,” he said, adding that the crossings are generally closed for around 15 to 20 minutes prior to the arrival of trains, so people must wait instead of resorting to impetuous decisions.Big names in awe of himHis cause has now gained national popularity and many celebrities, including Sonu Sood, Milkha Singh, Upasana Singh, Rajpal Yadav, Great Khali, Harbhajan Singh among others have tweeted his videos and photos on their social media handles and even invited him to their places. He has also received video messages of celebrities praising his efforts and dedication for the cause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/he-treads-path-of-compassion-to-aware-masses-150113
03-10-2020||---||18-yr-old girl succumbs, 40 new cases in Kapurthala||Jalandhar, October 2An 18-year-old girl died due to the Covid-19 pandemic in Kapurthala and 40 news positive cases were reported in the district today.The victim is from Uccha Bet village who breathed her last at the Amritsar Government Medical College. In Kapurthala, the total cases reached 3,418 of whom 600 are active and 2,673 recovered.Meanwhile, 111 more positive cases were reported in Jalandhar district today and the tally reached 13,171. With two deaths in Jalandhar, the toll reached 396.As many as 11,278 people have been discharged, 1,497 are active cases and 1,184 patients are under home isolation in Jalandhar. Notably, the only level 1 Covid care centre at meritorious school in Jalandhar had been closed on Thursday after patients shifted to the Civil Hospital or home isolation.Four die in HoshiarpurWith 36 new cases in the district on Friday, the number of positive patients has risen to 4,609, while four deaths were reported today.With 1,269 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms, the total number of samples taken till date became 1,08,285. As per the reports received from the lab, 1,02,272 are negative, 1,838 reports are awaited and 127 are invalid. The number of deaths so far is 164, active cases are 511 and 3,934 have recovered.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said of the 36 new positive cases reported on Friday, Hoshiarpur city has six cases, while 30 cases are related to other health blocks.Four deaths include a 75-year-old woman of Terkiana village, who died at MH Jalandhar, a 67-year-old resident of Tanda died at a private hospital in Jalandhar, a 91-year-old woman of Bahadurpur died at a private hospital and a 40-year-old woman of Garhshankar died at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.Jalandhar round-up Samples collected 1,84,230Negative 1,61,123Positive 13,171Active 1,497Discharged 11,278Deceased 396Inappropriate samples 2,031Results awaited 2,662Home isolated 1,184||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/18-yr-old-girl-succumbs-40-new-cases-in-kapurthala-150114
03-10-2020||Our Correspondent||A day of protests, candle marches||Hoshiarpur, October 2Many protests and candle marches were held across the district demanding justice for the Dalit girl, who was killed after being ‘raped’ in UP’s Hathras.Congress workers, led by advocate Pankaj Kirpal and Youth Congress leader Pranav Kirpal, staged a march at Saila Khurd. Speaking on the occasion, Pankaj said the heinous incident has shaken the entire country and such incidents continue to rise in UP . “The saddest thing is that Narendra Modi and Yogi Aditya Nath themselves have not uttered a word for the Dalit girl brutally murdered after the rape, but on the other hand Rahul Gandhi was arrested while striving for justice for the victim. The government has killed democracy,” said Kirpal. A similar protest was held at Dasuya by Valmiki organisations. Same happened at Garhshankar led by YC leader Anmol.At Talwara, Valmiki Dharm Samaj led a protest march that started from Sector 4 and upon reaching Khokha market chowk, effigies of PM Modi and UP CM Yogi were burnt. A candle march was also held by Narayan Nagar residents in Hoshiarpur. Shiv Sena leader Javed Khan, Bharatiya Valmiki Dharm Samaj leader Sumit Nahar and Harry Bhotto too condemned the Hathras incident. They said those trying to threaten people demanding justice should understand that in democracy, everyone has the right to express their views.Cong burns effigy over Hathras incidentJalandhar: Holding a protest against the BJP over its failure to handle the alleged gang rape case at Hathras, the Congress leaders on Friday held a protest at the Company Bagh chowk. The party workers led by Jasleen Sethi, District Congress Women chief, burnt the effigy of UP CM Yogi Adityanath. They said that the BJP government in the state had shamefully chosen not to hand over the victim’s body to the family and instead cremated her in the wee hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-day-of-protests-candle-marches-150115
03-10-2020||---||HMV College goes best-out-of-waste way||Jalandhar, October 2Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya has been doing its bit to reduce trash and convert waste into useful products. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen said some of the ventures undertaken to invoke eco-friendly orientation among students include installing waste paper recycling unit, conversion of garbage dumps into green belts around the campus, solid waste management plants, segregation of solid waste, rainwater harvesting, grey water reuse, preparation of vermicompost and establishing incinerators in washrooms to reduce sanitary waste among others.Projects like preparation of vermicompost, bio-pesticides, bio-insecticides, bio-fuel preparation, green reducing agents and organic colour preparation are undertaken.The solid waste management plant at the premises of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya has been efficiently decomposing solid waste generated by the college will into organic fertilisers.The vermicompost is also prepared in the college from college mess waste and is used in kitchen gardens and for ornamental plants. The waste water from air conditioners etc. is also used for mopping, cleaning purposes.The waste generated in the college boutique is used to make purses, upcycled dresses and fashionable accessories. The plastic waste is upcycled to make creative decorative pieces.Recycled paper produced in the waste paper recycling unit is transformed into files, folders and envelopes.The college of Jalandhar was included in top Swachh colleges of India. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen said recycling was one of the best methods to reduce the waste and contribute to the Swachh Bharat Mission. She said HMV was wholeheartedly participating in My Waste My Responsibility campaign of Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hmv-college-goes-best-out-of-waste-way-150116
03-10-2020||---||Students vow to imbibe life lessons of Mahatma Gandhi||Jalandhar, October 2Educational institutes in Jalandhar and its periphery celebrated Gandhi Jayanti in their own way.Veteran social activist Padma Bhushan Kisan Baburao Hazare, popularly known as Anna Hazare (83), interacted online with thousands of Lovely Professional University students. Informing that his inspiration sources are Mahatma Gandhi and Swami Vivekanand, Anna Hazare invoked students to make their life meaningful and worth living. Sharing that in his youth he was aimless, he said he used to consider human life futile and so wanted to commit suicide. However, life stories of these great men of the country taught him to seek bliss in the service of the village, common people and the country. He also learnt that destruction comes with the exploitation of nature and humanity. This inspired him to make his life meaningful through service without expecting any reward. He asked students to set targets and proceed onwards unflinchingly.Remembering his military life and participation in the Indo-Pak War of 1965, Hazare shared that he came across many fatalities of fellows around; however, he had no harm. Then, he decided this new life is for the nation only and since then he is agile in social works and expected the same from young students.Police DAV Public SchoolFollowing the tradition of last years, the Swachhata Committee of Police DAV Public School, Jalandhar, on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti organised online cleanliness drive. The member students enthusiastically cleaned their houses and surroundings. Many created posters and wrote poems also convincing people to keep their surroundings clean. Poems were written by faculty members Manoj Dutta, Shalini Bhatia, and Rajendra Rehal. The NSS volunteers of the school also participated actively. They distributed dustbins and cloth bags to be used instead of poly bags. Dr Rashmi Vij lauded the efforts of both the club and the NCC volunteers.Sanskriti KMV SchoolSanskriti KMV School marked the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi with a call to the society for very positive and safe atmosphere for the children. With an ongoing peace enraging situation, psychological pressure on children, needs to be handled with much awareness. In an online address to the parents, Rachna Monga focused on monitoring and freedom in a balanced way. "Undoubtedly education pattern has taken a turn to a new destination, hence, we as mentors, parents, guardians and friends have an important role to play in order to create cultured and a sophisticated generation", she stressed.KMV CollegeKanya Maha Vidyalaya paid tribute to the father of the nation, Mahatma Gandhi, on his birth anniversary. The ceremony began with the lighting of the lamp by Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi followed by Bapu's favourite bhajan Vaishnav Jan Ko Tene Kahiye. Principal called upon the youth to follow the path shown by him in these testing times. Speaking on the relevance of Gandhi, she further maintained that the principles of Swadeshi, Swachta and Sarvodya have become all the more relevant in the present world. She lauded the efforts of Gandhian Studies Centre of KMV which was first of its kind to be setup in any college in North India in 2007. She appreciated the efforts of this centre in spreading the awareness about the Gandhian philosophy among different sections of the society. The yearlong celebrations of 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi included a run for Swachh Sashakt Bharat, a three-day photo exhibition in the heart of the city, painting and debate competitions and online quiz competition. Principal also lauded Dr Monica Sharma, director, Gandhian Studies Centre, for passionately working for the cause.Innocent Hearts SchoolTo commemorate the 151st birth anniversary of Gandhi, Innocent Hearts School organised a wide range of activities. The activities were conducted online. The tiny tots of Innokids shared their pictures dressed as Gandhiji and depicted his values through gestures. The teachers shared their lectures on the 'Gandhian Principles and Philosophy'. The teachers motivated the students to follow Gandhiji's values in their life. Through online mode, teachers are putting efforts to connect the students with the nation and to aware them about the freedom fighters who sacrificed their lives. Activities related to Gandhiji's principle of 'Swachhta' have also been scheduled which will make the students 'Aatamnirbhar'. Girls and boys helped their parents in cleaning of their homes and shared their pictures. The children showed their enthusiasm while doing the activities.LVY World SchoolA special virtual tour of Gandhi Ashram Delhi was put up for the kids of kindergarten of Ivy World School to celebrate his birth anniversary as a mark of love and respect for the favorite leader of India. The students presented virtual enactments of skit, followed by his teachings of non-violence, creativity work and then there was a video presentation on Bapuji's life.The powerful quotes of Gandhiji were also shared which showed his passion to get freedom for India through the righteous path. Principal S Chauhan gave an inspiring virtual message to the young learners of Ivy that they should read more about Gandhiji through his books and practice his thoughts on non-violence, honesty, peace and humanity.Delhi Public SchoolStudents of Delhi Public School, Jalandhar, paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on the occasion of 151st Gandhi Jayanti. A special virtual assembly was organised by Carnations House to commemorate the day. In the assembly, students of all classes from pre-primary to XII remembered the invaluable contribution of Gandhiji in shaping India as well as inspiring peacemakers all over the world. Tiny tots of the pre-primary wing shared thoughts on Gandhiji's cleanliness ideology. Various craft activities were also organised for them to pay tribute to the 'Father of the Nation'. The students of pre-nursery and nursery made 'Charkha'( the spinning wheel) with wheat dough. The little ones of preparatory class crafted 'Three wise monkeys' with clay dough to symbolise one of Bapu's famous lessons "see no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil". A brief presentation on Gandhiji's beliefs and contribution to the Freedom Movement of India was shown to the children. Principal Ritu Kaul motivated students about the significance of adopting Gandhian principles in our daily life to spread his message of endurance, peace and harmony. She also urged everyone to follow the cleanliness drive to keep their surroundings clean.Eklavya SchoolEklavya School celebrated Mahatma Gandhi's 151th birth anniversary during which an online video was shown by Anuradha, educator, to senior school students on the life of 'Father of The Nation,' Mahatma Gandhi. Primary school students did colouring activity. A speech was given by Sienna, a Class X student, and Ramanpreet of Class IX, on the most prominent leader of the Indian Independence struggle. Several activities, including prayer meetings, poster making competition and essay writing competition observed in the middle school. Administrator Dimple Malhotra told the students that they should always respect nation's rules and regulations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-vow-to-imbibe-life-lessons-of-mahatma-gandhi-150117
03-10-2020||---||Science City recalls teachings of Bapu||Jalandhar, October 2Pushpa Gujral Science City (PGSC) celebrated 151st birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi by organising a talk on ‘Gandhi, Science and Sustainable Development’. The talk was live streamed on Pushpa Gujral Science City Facebook channel and was focused on correlating science and sustainable development goals with Gandhiji’s teachings given more than 100 years back.His quotes like “What we do today, is our future” and “We should not look upon the natural resources – water, air, land – as inheritance from our forefathers” are so contemporary even for the 21st century when the world is grappling to uphold sustainability.Gandhi believed charkha was a divine weapon for change. On this occasion, Vishal Sharma, chief mentor of Pushpa Gujral Science City innovation hub, made charkha for the viewers. About 150 people participated in the programme through the PGSC Facebook page.Meanwhile, Former BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia on Friday paid floral tributes to father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi and former PM Lal Bahadur Shastri by garlanding their statues.Former BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia along with BJP state general secretary Subash Sharma, district president Sushil Sharma and other party leaders garlanded the statue of Lal Bahadur Shastri and Mahatma Gandhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/science-city-recalls-teachings-of-bapu-150118
03-10-2020||Hoshiarpur||Arora slams SAD over farm laws||Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora today lashed out at Akalis for their failure to safeguard interests of farmers.Arora said, “If the Centre claims to be real sympathiser of farmers, why they did not assure continuation of minimum support price in the farm laws. Shiromani Akali Dal should have stood by farmers as Punjab is the food basket, but Akalis remained mum and failed to safeguard farmers’ interest.” He assured farmers that the Punjab Government was committed to purchase every single grain. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/arora-slams-sad-over-farm-laws-150119
03-10-2020||---||Rs 71 Lakh sanctioned for repair of Kapurthala roads||Kapurthala, October 2Kapurthala Congress MLA Rana Gurjit Singh said the Punjab Government has sanctioned Rs 71. 95 lakh for repairing of internal roads in the city.He said due to the Covid-19 outbreak, numerous development works could not be completed.He said all the internal roads in the city will be repaired till December.He said sewerage project worth Rs.3.5 crore was on full swing, besides four new tubewells have been installed in the city to provide potable water supply to residents.Manoj Bhasin, chairman, Improvement Trust, and Executive Officer Ararsh Kumar Sharma, were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-71-lakh-sanctioned-for-repair-of-kapurthala-roads-150123
03-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Education Department to introduce  ‘Welcome Life’ subject||Jalandhar, October 2To instil moral values among students, the state Education Department has decided to introduce a new subject ‘Welcome Life’ for all classes in schools affiliated with the Punjab School Education Board. Virtual classes for the subject will start airing on DD Punjabi on Saturday.Subject experts in the State Council of Educational Research and Training have prepared syllabus for the subjects and textbooks have been published and distributed among students.As per information from officials of the department, introduction of the subject is aimed at teaching moral values and preparing students for better disposition and making them able to handle adverse situations in life.“Topics such as eating habits, time management, healthy family relations, good touch bad touch, each one plant one, beware of superstitions, cooperation and relationship, dignity of national symbols, self discipline, empathy, rational thinking, personal relationship, sympathy and support, constructive thinking, psychological development, decision making, problem solving, impressive communication and stress management would be part of the subject,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/education-department-to-introduce-welcome-life-subject-150124
03-10-2020||DALJIT KAUR (40) is a teacher at Government Senior Secondary Smart School||‘Virus hit me hard as I was a lupus patient’||I was always quite watchful of taking all necessary precautions. Everyone in my family, including my two sons and husband Lupinder, who works in the Soils Department, became wary of this disease. It was on September 2 that I caught fever. The same evening, I got cough and cold as well. I could sense that it could be Covid and isolated myself at my place in the Urban Estate, Phagwara. My husband told me that the first thing they would do is to get me tested the next morning. A rapid Covid test was conducted and I came out to be positive.This phase of my life reminded me of the tough times that I faced in 2012, when I was diagnosed with this problem. My platelet count had fallen to 4,000 and the doctors were unable to diagnose the disease. —Daljit Kaur, TeacherSince I had been taking treatment for my auto-immune disorder from the SPS Apollo Hospital, Ludhiana, he talked to my doctor and got me admitted there. I suffered all Covid-related symptoms, including breathlessness but I was taken care of very well. I had to be given steroids and blood thinners. The CT scan reports showed that I had also acquired mild pneumonia.I remained admitted for seven days. During this phase, he took care of my two sons aged 10 and 14, both of whom too caught Covid and were in home isolation. I am really proud of my sons who kept taking their online classes and even took examination during their ailment on their own. This phase of my life reminded me of the tough times that I faced in 2012 when I was diagnosed with this problem. My platelet count had fallen to 4,000 and the doctors were unable to diagnose the disease. I suffered nose bleeding, partial hearing loss and blurred vision. I had recovered fully. Even now my platelet count is all being managed with the medicines that I have been taking. I have to take 10 pills to keep going.But every problem has a silver lining, a great help was extended to us during Covid by our neighbours and friends who provided us all meals, fruits, drinks and all requirements at our doorsteps for 17 days. A friend gave my husband and in-laws a separate accommodation in their vacant house so that they remained safe and isolated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virus-hit-me-hard-as-i-was-a-lupus-patient-150126
03-10-2020||Kishore Kumar||Surprise visit to ashram for mentally challenged girls||Dr Surinder Kumar joins as new Civil SurgeonDr Surinder Kumar joined as the new Civil Surgeon at Kapurthala on Thursday. He has joined in place of Dr Jasmeet Bawa Civil Surgeon, Kapurthala. He was welcomed with a bouquet of flowers from the officials. Dr Surinder Kumar has previously been posted as the Health and Family Welfare Officer at Jalandhar. He has also served at district Kapurthala from 12 July, 2017 to 17 October 2018 as the Family Welfare Officer. DC reviews progress of Delhi-Katra expresswayKapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal asked SDMs and officials of the National Highway Authority to complete procedural works regarding the Delhi - Katra National Highway and expressway so that these projects are completed in the given time frame. In a meeting with SDM Kapurthala, Varinderpal Singh Bajwa, SDM Sultanpur Lodhi Dr Charumita, SDM Bholath T Benith and XEN NHA Prashant Mahajan, the Deputy Commissioner said these projects would prove to be a boon for the overall development of these areas.Road upgradation project initiatedMLA Rana Gurjit Singh initiated road upgradation projects worth Rs 71. 95 lakh in the inner roads of the Kapurthala city. Starting the road upgradation work at Mohalla Jatpura in the city, the MLA said the inner roads in the city would be upgraded till December this year. He said the sewerage facility would be provided to the 100 per cent of the population of the city as the project worth Rs 3.5 crore is on full swing. He said four new deep tube wells had also been installed in the city to ensure water supply to the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surprise-visit-to-ashram-for-mentally-challenged-girls-150127
