03-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||Next convoy ready to leave for Delhi||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 2From collecting money and ration from every household to making arrangements for tractor-trailers, the Lohian and Shahkot-based farmers are doing everything to join protesting farmers on the Delhi-Haryana border.Equipping themselves with all essential supplies these days, the next convoy of Shahkot and Lohian farmers will leave for Delhi on December 11.To lend more support to farmers in Delhi, farmers here are leaving no stone unturned. Apart from conducting daily meetings, local farm unions are making announcements in villages to gather all essentials such as dry ration, quilts, temporary tents, mattresses and tarpaulin among other things. “This is happening for the first time. The entire farming community, including women and children are angry as well as excited to join the protest. It’s hard to remember when such support was given to farmers from all over the country,” said Lakhwinder Singh, an elderly farmer from Lohian block.Gurmail Singh, Shahkot zone president of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said: “With the government keeping firm on its decision, the enthusiasm among farmers and their families is rising equally. After chalking out a plan on December 5, we will also send nearly 150 tractor-trailers to Delhi with over 500 farmers. Locals are coming forward with their share of dry wheat grains to be used for protest. Daily visits are being made to commercial flour mills for grinding wheat grains. To make arrangements for tractors and fuel, funds deposited in the village committees would be utilised,” Gurmail said.Villages wear a deserted lookAs a large number of farmers, including youth, have gone to the protest site, villages here are wearing a deserted look. In the absence of sufficient number of hands, seasonal crops could also not be sown this year. Srawan Singh (57) said, to ensure availability of all resources, NRIs from our villages were also making donations and praying for our win. “This will be a lesson to any government so that they don’t play with the sentiments of farmers who produces food,” Srawan said.Terming it as ‘historic’, people in our village are donating meals and beds with open heart, said Harpeet, who is managing fields these days as his father has left for the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/next-convoy-ready-to-leave-for-delhi-179313
03-12-2020||---||Khalsa Aid founder expounds on works of organisation||Jalandhar, December 2 The Rotary Club of Jalandhar organised an online meeting with Ravinder (Ravi) Singh, Founder, Khalsa Aid International, UK.  It was indeed an inspiring session as Ravi shared how the organisation was founded in 1999 after he saw the pathetic plight of the refugees of Kosovo. “The year marked the 300th birth anniversary of the Khalsa and I believe there was no better way to celebrate it than forming an organisation that would work for the welfare of the entire human race”, expressed Ravi Singh as he spoke to the members. “The meeting was well attended by a series of members and guests from Jalandhar as well as across the country who had joined online to listen to the great personality,” informed Prabhpal Singh Pannu, president, Rotary Club Jalandhar.  The governor, Davinder Singh, from Amritsar, formally welcomed Ravi Singh. The proceedings of the meeting were efficiently conducted by the secretary, Mandeep Singh, who coordinated the entire event. While talking to the audience, Ravi Singh shared details of different projects started like ‘Plant a Memorial’ in refugee camps in Iraq and renovating a dilapidated school in Punjab. He also shared how recently Khalsa Aid helped solve innumerable medical cases in Punjab and is now providing refreshments to the farmers in Haryana and Delhi borders.  “We would be keen to initiate a series of well-women clinics in Punjab for new mothers and other women in collaboration with the Rotary Clubs”, he added. Surendra Seth, one of the senior most members, presented a formal vote of thanks and expressed his gratitude to Ravi Singh for sharing his valuable experiences.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/khalsa-aid-founder-expounds-on-works-of-organisation-179314
03-12-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj---||‘Disabled being deprived of their rights’||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, December 2 Though several announcements had been made by the respective governments to make the city disabled-friendly, nothing concrete has happened on the ground to date. A special campaign “#AskCM” will be launched on the occasion of the International Day of Disabled Persons on twitter, where people with different disabilities can interact with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh regarding solutions to the problems being faced by them. Amarjit Singh Anand, an expert member of the state advisery board for disabled persons, said, “According to the Right for People with Disability Act (2016), the state government had to ensure that disabled persons had accessibility to everything until March 2020, but nothing happened.” “They don’t reply to e-mails. We are going to expose on twitter how disabled persons are being deprived of their rights.”  “There are no sports, cultural or transport policies for us. There is no social security and Rs750 pension given to us per month is nothing,” Anand said. He said, “Disabled persons cannot access railway stations and going from one platform to another is not possible.” Vivek Joshi, who suffers from cerebral palsy and runs an NGO “Madhav Sewa Society” said basic facilities were lacking in the city.  Joshi said, “Vo hamare nazariye se nahi dekhte. Hamare lie toh ek seedhi bhi dikat deti hai.”  He said ramps had been constructed at certain points, but were not properly maintained. There’s a ramp at the administrative complex, but it’s without railings, he said. He said the Madhav Sewa Society had got a survey done to check what facilities were there for disabled persons. Joshi said the footpath in Jalandhar cannot be accessed by those who use a wheelchair and Jalandhar railway station doesn’t has an elevator. At the Municipal Corporation building, ramps were not in the condition to be used and most of the banks were out of bounds of disabled persons, he said. Manish Aggarwal, secretary, Chaanan Association, said, said his son has been suffering from intellectual disability. “There is no clinical psychologist at the government hospital in the city. After his recommendation, intellectual disability certificate is issued. As a result, one has to visit either Amritsar or Chandigarh. The process is so hectic that several parents leave it mid way and they don’t even get the certificates,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/disabled-being-deprived-of-their-rights-179315
03-12-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi---||A crusader stands out, says ‘much needs to be done’||Hoshiarpur, December 2 Inderjit Kaur Nandan is unable to stand — she is a victim of muscular dystrophy, has been since her childhood. But when it comes to working for her likes, the differently-abled, there might be only a few out there who could match her.  Dedicating many years of her life to the cause, she has been associated with various institutions for their betterment since 1997. And in 2018, she was conferred with the ‘National Award for The Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities’ (Self-Employed with Disabilities category). A role model for her kinds, she also has about half a dozen books to her credit. Inderjit still hasn’t run out of steam. She feels that mere observing a day won’t just solve problems but there are things that need to be done and adopted practically, however, no one heeds the challenges people with special needs face day in and day out. Inderjit voices the concern, “Every year on this day, the government, administration, NGOs and all sort of people could be seen pledging to empower us but practically there’s not much done and even the sensitivity is missing. There’s no place where any wheelchair-using person can go on its own, no roads or streets where there are no ‘barriers’. Accessibilty is nowhere visible in the shopping complexes, public places and even at the government institutions. People like me are also divorced from the choice of choosing clothes because most of the times the stores and shops have staircases and no ramps are there to facilitate wheelchairs.” Inderjit, who had formed Divya Kala Sahitya Sabhyachar Manch Punjab and working with the NGOs; she had also been behind the district administration’s programme ‘Har Veervar Divyang Da Satkar’, feels that another major problem is lack of social acceptance. “People’s reaction towards the helplessness and pity causes mental agony. People need to change their outlook towards differently-abled.” She had presided over the national-level seventh edition of Akhil Bharati Divyaang Sahitya Sammelan in Nasik. Being the district coordinator for differently-abled during 2019 general election and having conducted the accessibility audit at 443 booths of the district, she has been has been chosen again as the ‘icon’. Her NGO helped providing ration and other necessary items to the handicapped, with the help of other non-profits. She feels that despite the provisions of law much needs to be done. “Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPWD) Act, 2016, is there to protect the rights and it aims to achieve equality between PWDs and others. It’s liability of the government to protect our rights and to ensure equal opportunities. This needs to be implemented in letter and spirit to promote equality and dignity in various aspects of life – be it educational, social, legal, economic, cultural or political,” she says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-crusader-stands-out-says-much-needs-to-be-done-179316
03-12-2020||Our Correspondent||12 booked for violating night curfew||Hoshiarpur, December 2Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal on Wednesday directed all police officers, including SHOs, to solve the untraced cases at the earliest besides implementing night curfew in letter and spirit across the district amid Covid-19 restrictions.Holding a meeting here at the Police Lines, Mahal also appealed to people to ensure strict adherence to Covid-related advisories and instructed police officers to act against those found violating night curfew. He said on December 1 night, as many as 12 cases under Section 188 of the IPC have been registered against curfew violators. He directed the SHOs to maintain law and order besides launching crackdown against drugs.Mahal said the Garhshankar police under the supervision of ASP Tushar Gupta arrested two person with 1,350 intoxicating injection from a secret compartment made in the car. SHO Garhshankar Iqbal Singh and Inspector Special Cell Surjit Singh, while patrolling at Chak Routan last night, tried to stop a car, but the driver instead fled by speeding up the car. The police party gave a chase and nabbed them from near a dry drain, where their car got struck. During search, the police recovered 1,350 intoxicating injections from a secret compartment.A case under Section 22 (c)/61/55 of the NDPS Act was registered at Garhshankar police station. Similar cases were registered against them in Nawanshahr Sadar police station as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/12-booked-for-violating-night-curfew-179317
03-12-2020||Ajay Joshi ---||Dancing his way past incapacity!||Tribune News Service  Jalandhar December 2 Generally children detected with ‘Down syndrome’ lose the ability to express themselves as it causes a distinct facial appearance, intellectual disability and developmental delays, however, Bhavnish Agarwal has rediscovered himself. Despite being diagnosed with it at a tender age, nothing has stopped him from chasing his dreams of becoming a dancer. The journey from developing potential for walking to shaking his legs to Bollywood numbers wasn’t a cakewalk for the 17-year-old. Right after his birth, his parents Manish Agarwal and Bindu Agarwal were told that their son wasn’t a normal child and needed special care. Since then, concerted efforts were made by his parents and medical treatment followed. But after struggling for nearly six years, they realised that there was no cure for this disability, instead the treatment consists of therapy and self-care post detection. “Only parents can help their child by giving special education and basic mannerisms. It promotes early and easy development,” said the father. Bhavnish has been pursuing his passion for past six years and his biggest support system is his family, who ensures that a meaningful trail is left to look back upon later in life. His trophy cabinet is nearing the brim; the Class XII student is a proud owner of over two dozen medals and trophies. Apart from this, he has showcased his talent in various platforms, including India International Down Syndrome Conferences, Rotary Club competitions, Special Olympics and various other dance festivals.  He aims to open his own dance academic for children like him. Through his funny sketches, he also nurtures his acting skills and spreads happiness. However, Manish feels people should substitute the hustle of finding the best treatment by introducing their children to art and other such activities. “It is important to understand the behavioural pattern of an intellectually disabled child to make them more socially inclusive. Acceptance and early detection is must for the development for such children,” he suggests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dancing-his-way-past-incapacity-179318
03-12-2020||---||Jalandhar district reports 3 Covid deaths||Jalandhar, December 2The district reported three more Covid-19 fatalities on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 568, while 45 new cases pushed the infection count in the district to 18,079. The active cases in the district are 1,233. As many as 16,278 patients have been discharged, while 782 people are also under home isolation in the district. In Kapurthala district, six persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.Covid tally crosses 7k mark in HoshiarpurWith the arrival of 20 new positive patients, the number of positive patients has crossed the 7,000 mark in Hoshiarpur district taking the total to 7021.However, no patient succumbed to the virus on Wednesday, keeping the toll to 258 in the district. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said the total number of samples taken in the district has increased to 1,98,004 with 1,612 new samples taken of the people with suspected flu-like symptoms on Wednesday. According to reports received from the laboratory, 1,89,962 are negative, while 2,365 reports are awaited and 149 samples are invalid. The number of active cases in the district is 171, while the number of patients who have recovered is 6,592. Of the reports of 834 samples received today, 20 new cases of positive patients were reported, of which seven cases are related to Hoshiarpur city, while 13 patients are from various health blocks in the district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-3-covid-deaths-179319
03-12-2020||---||2 illegal colonies razed by JDA||Jalandhar, December 2 The Jalandhar Development Authority (JDA) on Wednesday razed two illegal colonies in Jandu Singhan and Chuharwali localities. While one colony was coming up on 2 acre land, the other was being developed on  1 acre.  Chief Administrator Babita Kler said the SDO of the regulatory wing of JDA Abhishek Dhall took the team at the site and razed plotting and boundary walls being raised around both the colonies. She said three illegal colonies had been razed in the past 10 days.  While issuing warning to violators, she said FIRs would be lodged against the wrong doers. She said 40 FIRs against unauthorised colonisers had been already lodged in the past one month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-illegal-colonies-razed-by-jda-179320
03-12-2020||---||PIMS gets ART centre||Jalandhar, December 2The Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) has inaugurated anti-retroviral therapy (ART) centre at its premises. The inauguration ceremony was performed by PIMS Director-cum-Principal Dr Kulbir Kaur and ART centre nodal head Dr Amarjit Singh Vij. Dr Kulbir Kaur said, “Under National AIDS Control Programme (NACP), PIMS is allowed to open ART centre in its premises. Earlier, the only ART centre available nearby was in the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, but now this facility is also available in PIMS. The institution has also sent a request to Punjab State AIDS Control Society (PSACS) to provide integrated counselling and testing centre (ICTC) to PIMS.Amit Singh (Resident Director PIMS) said that under this programme, anti-retroviral drugs, medicines for management of HIV and opportunistic infections will be provided free of cost and their identity would be kept confidential.Dr Amarjit Singh Vij said, “Anti-retroviral therapy is a combination of at least three drugs from different groups. It works to control HIV replication in the body and helps to maintain the immunity (natural defence of the body). Hence it delays disease progression, prevents opportunistic infections and reduces hospitalisation. It is a lifelong therapy, similar to treatment taken for high BP and diabetes. There are certain side effects, but these are mostly manageable. ART is given after counselling and proper evaluation of patients for eligibility. ART has changed the outlook of HIV/AIDS from a ‘virtual death sentence’ to a ‘chronic manageable disease’. It increases survival and quality of life. Many HIV positive people are now involved in NACO/PSACS supported programmes. The key objective of NACP is to provide care, support and treatment to all the HIV patients.”PIMS’s Vice Principal Dr Rajiv Arora, Medical Superintendent Dr GS Joneja, nursing superintendent Brig. Sudan along with other doctors and nursing staff were present at inauguration ceremony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pims-gets-art-centre-179321
03-12-2020||Dr Shena Aggarwal||Open your eyes: Covid-19 death rate stands at 3.4 %||New administrative block inauguratedThe newly built administrative block of Kirpal Sagar Academy was inaugurated on the occasion of Gurpurab by chairman Dr Karamjit Singh, vice-chairperson Parminder Kaur, and principal Gurjeet Singh and other management authorities. While addressing the media, Gurjeet told that the Guru Granth Sahib was brought from Kirpal Sagar sarovar to the newly constructed administrative block in line with all the rituals. Gurbani path of Sri Sukhmani Sahib was recited by Bhai Kuldeep Singh followed by Shabad Kirtan performed by academy's students. While, Dr Karamjit Singh emphasised on Guru Nanak Dev's preaching and told students about purpose of the Udasis performed by the first Sikh master, Gurjeet highlighted and related the concept of 'kirat karo, naam japo, vand shako' with needs of the present generation. Langar was also served to all present on the occasion.Let the colours do the talking!Under 'Swachh Bharat Mission', a painting competition was held at WL Arya Senior Secondary School. As many as 15 students took part in the competition. The posters were made on topics such as precautions to be taken amid the pandemic, how to save water and segregation of wet and dry waste.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-your-eyes-covid-19-death-rate-stands-at-3-4-179322
03-12-2020||Jalandhar||Lt Gen C Bansi Ponnappa is new GOC Vajra Corps||Lt Gen C Bansi Ponnappa on Wednesday took charge as the General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the Vajra Corps (Defenders of Punjab).He was the Chief of Staff at Headquarters Northern Command prior to assuming command of the Vajra Corps. He was commissioned in the 2nd Battalion of the Mahar Regiment in June 1985, after training in NDA and IMA where he had excelled. He is also an alumnus of Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, College of Defence Management, Secunderabad, and National Defence College, Delhi.Lt Ponnappa has served in various operational environments, including counter-insurgency, along the Line of Control and counter-terrorism operations and two UN Peace Keeping Missions. He commanded his battalion in both desert/ amphibious and counter-terrorism environment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lt-gen-c-bansi-ponnappa-is-new-goc-vajra-corps-179325
03-12-2020||Jalandhar||Webinar on World Disability Day||Virtual role play contestTo bring out the creative expression of the students and gauge their awareness quotient, Mayor World School organised a virtual Inter House Role Play Competition f Classes IX to XII students. Five participants from four Houses participated in the event. The Keats House enacted upon ‘News Room’, Wordsworth House expressed their creativity on ‘Panels of Principals’, Dickens House performed on ‘Discussion among common men’ and Shakespeare House presented their role play on ‘Discussion among students’. The teams were judged on the basis of acting, logic, props, speech and confidence. The first position was bagged by Keats House, comprising Sahib Julka (XII), Aradhya Khullar (XII), Rachit Khurana (XI), Suvan Gupta (X-B) and Sakhi Gupta (IX). The second and third positions were bagged by Shakespeare House and Dickens House, respectively. Aradhya Khullar and Sahib Julka were bestowed with best actor certificate as well. The winning team was conferred with e-certificates.Fit India MovementThe campaign of ‘Fit India Movement’, an initiative of Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, GOI, has been started at Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology. The first event of the campaign ‘jogging’ was inaugurated by Prof LK Awasthi. Director Prof Awasthi urged everyone to make fitness a part of their lifestyle. He further added that the physical, mental and emotional fitness is essential for delivering our best at different stages of life. Deans, chief warden, wardens, faculty and staff members actively participated in the event. The participants followed proper social distancing norms. Dean, student welfare, Prof Anish Sachdeva and coordinator of the campaign Dr Kiran Singh informed that a number of other fitness activities/events like cricket, badminton, table tennis, volleyball tournament etc. will be organised on the premises under the campaign. They emphasised that we should take care of our fitness even in this pandemic situation by practicing proper social distancing guidelines. They also suggested the students to join ‘Fit India Movement’ while residing at their respective places.Merit positionsThe students of Mehr Chand Polytechnic College have bagged 68 merit positions in the November 2019 exam results declared by the Punjab State Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training, Chandigarh. Principal Dr Jagroop Singh said out of this, the students achieved seven first positions, three second positions and five third positions. The remaining students bagged merit positions, out of the first 20 positions in various disciplines. Principal Dr Jagroop Singh said Mohit, Jashan and Mansimran, students of Automobile Engg (Sem V, III & Ist), Gurpreet Singh of Civil Engg. (Sem V), Rohit and Shivam of Mech Engg. (both Sem V) and Sarvan Kumar(Sem III) bagged the first positions in Punjab. The principal honoured all students and also congratulated their parents and the Heads of Departments DS Rana, Dr Sanjay Bansal, Rajeev Bhatia, JS Ghera, Manju Manchanda, Richa Arora, Kashmir Kumar, Prince Madaan and Hira Mahajan.NCC week celebratedPCM SD College for Women celebrated NCC week in accordance with the guidance of Lieut Priya Mahajan, Incharge of the SD College NCC wing. Every year the fourth week of November is celebrated as the NCC week all over India with great zeal and enthusiasm. In this week, NCC cadets participate in tree plantation, blood donation and other social activities. Like every year, the NCC cadets of the college planted saplings on the campus and the areas nearby campus during this week. Some cadets also planted saplings near their homes and in public parks by following the rules of social distancing due to Covid-19 pandemic. Principal of the college Dr Kiran Arora praised the efforts of the students and guided them to plant more and more trees in order to safeguard the environment. The principal also appreciated the efforts of the Lieut Priya Mahajan in organising such events.Webinar on New Education PolicyA webinar was held at Nobel School to discuss the issues related to the New Education Policy (NEP-2020). Dr Satish Kumar from LPU was the resource person. Chairman Prof CL Kochhar and managing director Kumar Shiv Kochher and principal Dr Jyoti Verma said the NEP would be very effective and fruitful for the upcoming generations. The educators took pledge to implement the innovative rules in their teaching process for the betterment of the students. The participants discussed about the education pattern of 5+3+3+4, promotion of mother language and vocational education and child’s assessment at 360 degree.Pollution Prevention Day observedA webinar on National Pollution Control Day was organised by Pushpa Gujral Science City jointly with NABARD. More than 250 students, teachers, farmers participated in this webinar. Dr Rajiv Siwach, Chief Manager, NABARD Punjab, was the guest of honour at the occasion. Addressing the participants, he said that owing to Covid-19 outbreak, innovative ways were being used to generate awareness among the farmers. NABARD launched an extensive crop residue management (CRM) awareness campaign entitled ‘Parali na Jalao- Parali Tau Kamao’. He informed that under this campaign, three mobile vans fitted with audio-visual information and messages toured across the state and covered more than 4,500 km. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-world-disability-day-179326
