04-09-2020||---||Seven lose battle against Covid in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, September 3With seven deaths and 243 positive cases in Jalandhar, the district tally crossed the 7,000 mark on Thursday. The cases now stand at 7,176. With seven deaths reported in Jalandhar and 10 in Kapurthala; the constantly rising toll remains a major concern for the Health Department.Of the 243 patients who tested positive in Jalandhar today, 12 are from other districts. Meanwhile, the deceased reported in Jalandhar include a 68-year-old woman from Gandhi Chowk with diabetes and hypertension, who died at the Civil Hospital; a 77-year-old man from Green Model Town with diabetes and hypertension, who died at the Civil Hospital; a 60-year-old woman from Basti Peerdaad with chronic brochial asthma, who died at the Gulaab Devi Hospital Covid centre; a 75-year-old man from Karar Khan Mohalla with hypertension who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; and a 69-year-old man from JP Nagar with diabetes and hypertension, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.4,209 cases, 105 deaths reported in AugustFrom August 1 till now, the district has piled on 4,762 cases, making August the most crucial month for Jalandhar. The district had 2,414 Covid cases and 60 deaths on August 1, which rose to 6,623 cases and 165 deaths on August 31. Hence, in the month of August alone, 4,209 Covid cases and 105 deaths were reported in the district. An average of 140 people have been tested positive and an average of five people have been dying in the district everyday in the month of August.Meanwhile, 406 Covid positive cases have been reported in the very first three days of September. From 6,770 cases on September 1, the cases have reached 7,176 today.There have been 15 deaths in the past three days (169 on September 1) which have now risen to 184 today. Seven of these deaths have been reported today.50 test positive in KapurthalaAs many as 50 persons tested positive for Covid-19 and a whopping 10 persons died of Covid in Kapurthala today – this being the largest number Covid deaths reported in the district so far. The total number of positive cases in the district till date has reached 1,490.The deceased at Kapurthala reported today include - a 50-year-old man from Hadiabad, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar, two women aged 58 and 59 from Ucha Dhora died at the Military Hospital in Jalandhar. A 60-year-old resident of Kala Sanghian, died at a private hospital in Jalandhar, a 60-year-old man from Phagwara died at GMC Amritsar, a 50-year-old man from Jattpura died at a private hospital in Jalandhar, a 47-year-old man, a resident of Onkar Nagar, a 64-year-old resident of Ibrahimwal (Begowal) who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar and a 50-year-old Lamme village resident, a woman who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.One death, 58 infections reported in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: With the arrival of 58 new Covid cases in the district, the total number of patients has risen to 1,807 while one patient died at the Jalandhar Hospital. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said among today’s 58 cases, 15 are from Hoshiarpur city, two from Bhunga, three from Harta Badla, 12 from Dasuya, five from Garhshankar, three from Mand Bhander, one from Tanda, two from Hajipur, four from Budhawar, three cases from Chakkowal and eight from Posi have been found positive. Apart from this, a Covid-19 patient Jasbir Kaur (55), a resident of Prempur, Tanda, was undergoing treatment at the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, where she died. Today, 1,220 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms were also collected in the district, taking the total number of samples in the district to 62,236. So far, the total number of positive patients is 1,807 and 59,126 samples are negative, while 1,486 reports are awaited, 80 samples are invalid and the number of deaths so far is 53. The number of active cases in the district is 446, and 1,308 patients have cured. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/seven-lose-battle-against-covid-in-jalandhar-136208
04-09-2020||Our Correspondent---||Adopt online public grievance redressal system, residents told||Hoshiarpur, September 3 Hoshiarpur Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Thursday appealed to the people to register their complaints online at http://connect.punjab.gov.in for the speedy and time-bound redressal. Riyait said this system would ensure that the grievances of residents are addressed within stipulated time.   She said the complainant would receive a computerised call or message once his/her complaint was redressed, adding that in case the complainant was satisfied the complaint would be filed otherwise the same would be forwarded to a committee constituted under the public grievance redressal system for its resolution.  The Deputy Commissioner appealed to people to take advantage of this online portal especially amid Covid-19 restrictions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/adopt-online-public-grievance-redressal-system-residents-told-136210
04-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Meet the man who came to Kusum’s rescue first||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 3While Kusum's act of valour has reached far and wide, meet Mangat Ram Sharma (58), a businessman who was the first person who came to rescue her.Sharma was completely unknown to Kusum until the incident happened. Now, he shares a beautiful emotional bond with her. Sharma asks about her wellbeing everyday over phone. He said: “Itni chotti ladki ne jo himmat dikhaayi, kabhi nahee dekha" (Have never seen such act of bravery as shown by this little girl)."It was he, who uploaded the CCTV footage of the attack on the girl on social media and the incident caught everyone's attention. In the footage, a man wearing white kurta can be seen running to help Kusum, he is Mangat Ram Sharma.While narrating the incident, he shared that he was sitting with his family in the verandah, when he heard the girl scream. "I ran to the gate and saw Kusum holding a man and he wasn't letting her go. I immediately ran and caught hold of him and then everybody came outside. Amid this ruckus, one thing that left me amazed was the girl's calmness. The girl was profusely bleeding. But she called her friend, who was accompanying her, and asked her to call her father. She was so patient even in that condition," he said.Sharma said when he got to know the financial condition of the girl's father, he felt bad. "His father was so scared that he didn't even want to file the case. But I am with them and in touch with the family," he said.On being asked how he thought of helping the girl when in today's world, hardly anyone cares, he promptly replied: “It was an instant reaction. When I saw a girl, who is so small, fighting that criminal, I couldn't stop myself and went to her rescue. We then tied the accused, so that he couldn't escape," he said.Now, Sharma just wants the girl to get every help that has been announced by the bigwigs and the administration too!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/meet-the-man-who-came-to-kusums-rescue-first-136215
04-09-2020||Kapurthala||Rs 10 crore for flood-hit farmers||Quiz on Guru’s birth anniversaryJalandhar: Kanya Maha Vidyalaya held a national-level online quiz to commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur. The quiz was organised by KMV’s department of history. Over 400 students from India and abroad participated. They were provided with e-certificates and the top-50 students were awarded with e-certificate of excellence for scoring 90 per cent and above marks. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the participants and lauded the efforts of Dr Gurjot, head, department of history, and the faculty members for organising this quiz. She said the younger generation should follow the ideals of Guru Tegh Bahadur to lead a pious and worthy life. tnsProtest against ‘hefty’ billsJalandhar: Labourers and residents of Mehatpur on Thursday staged a protest in front of the SDO office for receiving ‘unreasonably high’ power bills amid the pandemic. The protesters burnt electricity bills and took out a demonstration. In a letter sent to the Mehatpur SDO, residents demanded withdrawal of power bills worth thousands sent to poor labourers. They sought probe into the alleged fraud in provisioning of subsidy on the power bills and free domestic power to labourers. Vijay Bath, Sikandar, Daniel and Istri Jagriti Manch leader Anita Sandhu said despite availability of MNREGA funds, jobs weren’t being provided to labourers. They said due to politicisation of the public distribution system, ration meant for labourers wasn’t making its way to them as a large number of ration cards had been cancelled. They said they would hold a rally on September 11 to get their grievances addressed. TNSAdmissions to BSc (fashion designing)Jalandhar: The Northern India Institute of Fashion Technology (NIIFT) has begun admissions to BSc (fashion designing). A spokesperson said the institute would provide trained professionals to apparel, textile and fashion sector. He said the course would be of three-year duration, has 30 seats and Class XII pass students are eligible. He said due to Covid-19 restrictions, classes would be held virtually. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-10-crore-for-flood-hit-farmers-136216
04-09-2020||---||Job fest begins today, about 2K jobs on offer||Jalandhar, September 3The district administration would hold five job fairs from Friday to September 11 at the office of the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE), said Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ghanshyam Thori here on Thursday.He said around 1,950 youths from the district would be offered jobs at the employment programmes. The Deputy Commissioner said on the first day, two companies, 9to5 Technologies and Paytm, would offer 300 jobs. The minimum qualification to apply for the jobs is Class VIII.The second job fair would be organised on September 8 by Zomato and Swiggy which would offer 250 jobs, the DC said. The minimum qualification would be Class 10. The third job fair would be organised by Embross, Quiqr and Rockman Industry and Atam Vales on September 9 and would provide 400 jobs. Interested candidates must have passed ITI or diploma (mechanical and electrical), the DC said.DC Thori said on September 10, Future Generali, Eureka Forbes and Airtel would organise a job fair and offer 500 jobs. Applicants must have passed Class XII or graduation to apply. Geet Gyan and the LIC would offer 500 jobs on September 11 to students having passed graduation. The DC said selection of candidates would be made on merit and done through a fair and transparent system. He called upon youths to register themselves on www.pgrkam.com for more jobs. They could also contact on 0181-2225791 for further information, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/job-fest-begins-today-about-2k-jobs-on-offer-136217
04-09-2020||The Partition Museum comprehensively charts the division of India and creation of Pakistan with a narrative arc that moves from the time before Partition||Relive the pangs of Partition||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/relive-the-pangs-of-partition-136158
04-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Braveheart’s hospital room a cynosure of all eyes||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 3Room number 115 at a private city hospital has become a cynosure of all eyes. Reason: Braveheart Kusum is receiving treatment here.Editorial: Fighting for her phone: Jalandhar girl shows grit, determinationJust enter the hospital and you don’t even have to name Kusum, just say the girl who…, and the hospital staff directs you towards the room where Kusum (fondly called Neha by her parents) is getting treatment for the past four days, after she was attacked by two bike-borne youths by a datar, following which she gave them a tough fight. Such is her admiration, that she has become famous because of her bravery.Meet the man who came to Kusum’s rescue first‘Feeling special’Kusum has become everyone’s favourite. Everybody in the hospital knows about her and with bigwigs coming to meet her and interviewers around, Kusum shares: “It’s a special feeling.”“Mujhe itne bouquet aur flowers mil gaye hain ki yaad bhi nahee kis kis ne die,” she shares. “I have been getting several calls on a daily basis from my friends. Even my classmates have dedicated songs and poems for me,” she said.‘Scared of injection’On being asked if she was worried about her arm that was attacked with a sharp weapon, the fearless girl replied: “I wasn’t worried about anything else, but the pain of injection gave me the chills! I did not lose my calm when I was attacked, but I have to admit, when I saw the injection, I was scared.”She doesn’t want to remember what happened with her that day. “Jo ho gaya vo ho gaya, main uske bare mein sochna nahee chahti, achhi baton pe dhyan de rahi hu. (What happened has happened, I don’t even want to think about it. I am focusing on only good and positive things), the small wonder expressed.Accused still on the runJatinder Kumar, SHO division number 2, said Avinash Kumar (22), the accused who was arrested, has again been sent to one-day police remand. He is the main accused, who hit the victim with a sharp weapon and her arm was injured badly. He has been charged under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 379 B of the IPC.The other accused, identified as Vinod Kumar, is a resident of railway quarters. The SHO said his parents were no more and he doesn’t stay at one place and keeps on changing location, which is why it was getting difficult for the police to nab him. “We have already raided his relative’s home, but he wasn’t found anywhere,” the SHO said, adding that both accused had met in the jail and that is how they started doing snatchings together.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bravehearts-hospital-room-a-cynosure-of-all-eyes-136168
04-09-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Family of ailing 20-year-old Adampur footballer pins hope on AIFF||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 3Busy rearing his herd of cattle at Chumo village of Adampur here, Razaak Ali does not show any sign of worry about the fate of his son and football star Anwar Ali. It was found last year that the 20-year-old football sensation has a congenital heart disease. The All-India Football Federation is to decide his fate in competitive football in the next 10 days.“Allah will take care of Anwar. When the whole country is praying for him, why should I worry?” says Razaak.“The biggest solace for me is that a Kolkata-based hospital, where Anwar has undergone some medical tests, has given him clearance. So, on the basis of this report, the AIFF may also give him the go-ahead,” says his father.Decision in 10 days Razaak says, “We never knew Anwar had a heart disease. He has never shown any signs of fatigue. He started playing when he was barely eight and has played quite a few international events. Anwar has undergone so many medical tests but this problem never surfaced. We were shocked when he was diagnosed with this disease by a Mumbai hospital. We were told that he has the disease since childhood. When he stayed with us during the lockdown, we did not notice any slackness in him even after rigorous exercise. As soon as Minerva Academy, Chandigarh, opened two months ago, he left for his training.”He says last month, his son came home for a few days, but soon left for Kolkata to take part in a training camp ahead of a tournament starting there on September 20.Asked if he felt that the decision could impact the financial prospects of the family, Razaak says, “Surely... but we are very optimistic. Though Anwar has been in the game for the past few years, he has been doing especially well on the financial front for the past two years.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/family-of-ailing-20-year-old-adampur-footballer-pins-hope-on-aiff-135870
