04-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Keeping grit, determination amid tough times||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 3As a Gorakhpur-bound Shramik Special train from Hoshiarpur stopped at the city railway station on Tuesday morning, there was an unusual sight. Unmindful of all activity around her, a young girl seated near the window of the train could be seen deeply engrossed in solving mathematics sums in her notebook.On being asked to introduce herself, she tells that she is Sapna, a Class VIII student of Government School in Shergarh, Hoshiarpur, and that she aspires to join the police forces.“I am going back to my paternal grandparents’ place in Gorakhpur. During all this while, I do not want to miss my studies. Hence, I have got all my books along. I have to finish up learning three-four chapters of all subjects in two months of the stay. I do not want to waste this time even in the journey,” she quickly engages in a chat.She says: “I am travelling along with my dad, mom and elder brother. My dad sells plastic goods on a cart in streets of Hoshiarpur. During these days, he has not been able to earn well and wanted to go home. I told him that I would go only if he will ensure that we will be back by July or before the resumption of classes. So, as there was an announcement that the classes won’t commence before July, I told my dad that I was ready to leave but would take my school bag along.”The girl showed her grit and determination and she spoke with a lot of conviction.“I am Sapna (meaning dream) of my father. He gave me this name as he says that he wants to live his dreams through me. It is he who is inspiring me to join the police forces so that we all live a comfortable life thereafter. And I have to fulfill his dream,” she says as the train is set to chug off from the station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/keeping-grit-determination-amid-tough-times-94142
04-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||Travelling in auto is a costly affair now in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 3Praveen Rai, a 31-year-old migrant, who purchased a new CNG-operated auto-rickshaw three months ago with the hope to double his income, is now finding it difficult to make ends meet.After over two months without any earning, the ease in the lockdown restrictions has done little to help him get out of the financial distress. Other then feeding his family, he has to pay the monthly installment of Rs 7,000 for the auto-rickshaw he bought.At around 5 pm, while on his way to refill gas in his vehicle at a gas station, located in Kartarpur, he said he managed to get only five passengers after working for seven hours.With only a few rides, we aren’t making any profit these days. Aap dekh sakte ho koi sawari nahi hai, subah se yehi haal hai (You can see that I’m going without any passenger, it’s happening since morning). I am making a profit of only Rs 100-250 these days. The major part of earning is spent on refilling gas.Praveen Rai, Auto-Rickshaw Driver“With only a few rides, we aren’t making any profit these days. Aap dekh sakte ho koi sawari nahi hai, subah se yehi haal hai (You can see that I’m going without any passenger, it’s happening since morning). I am making a profit of only Rs 100-250 these days. The major part of earning is spent on refilling gas only, which is Rs 68 per kg,” said Rai.The two passengers and the driver rule for auto-rickshaws has apparently put their drivers at the receiving end. The compulsion to follow the social distancing norm and sanitise their vehicles to combat the virus had added to their financial woes, rued drivers.Subsequently, unable to bear the cost of the fuel, the auto-rickshaw drivers have increased fares per kilometre, which is eventually making a big hole in pockets of residents. Now, the passengers are shelling out Rs 20 (earlier it was Rs 15) for a distance of 5 km and double or triple the amount for a distance of over 10 km.However, some auto-rickshaw drivers also ferry over two passengers to earn more money.Praveen said once he was ferrying four passengers but after being caught by the police, he was let-off afrer a warning. Ranjit Singh, president, Bhagat Singh Auto-rickshaw Union, said for violating two passengers and the driver rule, auto-rickshaw operators were issued fines of Rs 500 to Rs 5,000. After the relaxations in the lockdown. over 80 auto-rickshaw drivers had been challaned.Gurvinder Singh, reader, traffic police, said on Monday and Tuesday seven erring auto-rickshaw drivers were issued fines. Notably, before the lockdown, the auto-rickshaw drivers used to earn Rs 1,000-1,500 a day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/travelling-in-auto-is-a-costly-affair-now-in-jalandhar-94143
04-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Management of Swami Sant Dass Schools sets good precedent||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 3Setting a good precedent for other schools in the region, the management of Swami Sant Dass Schools at Jalandhar and Phagwara has decided not to levy annual charges and tuition fee of April and May from parents.The management has issued a circular to all parents conveying the message. Principal TP Kaur of the Jalandhar campus said the decision of not levying annual charges was taken earlier. Thereafter, the management also decided to waive the tuition fee of two months. “So now, we will charge only the tuition fee of 10 months for this session that is also on a monthly basis for the convenience of the parents,” she said.The principal said the school management has also decided not to levy any transport charges from students till the time the buses start plying.“The management has, however, been paying salaries to all drivers and conductors from its own funds. There is a driver and two conductors — a man and a woman — for all buses. So, we are paying salaries to three employees for each bus,” she added.The principal said teachers have been taking online classes for two months. “Our teachers are working more hard than their usual routine. We have staff strength of 100 teachers in either school. Each teacher is getting Rs30,000 to Rs80,000 salary. The salary expenses of both schools per month are Rs1 crore. This is a huge amount to pay without levying charges and fee from parents. But the management has been kind enough and it has sent a good message in these trying times,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/management-of-swami-sant-dass-schools-sets-good-precedent-94144
04-06-2020||Nawanshahr||2 English teachers get appreciation for e-lectures||Kavita Sabharwal and Dimpy Khurana Bassi, working as English teachers at Government Senior Secondary School, Rahon (Boys) and Government High School, Alachaur respectively, have brought laurels to Nawanshahr district as their e-lectures have been recommended by the NCERT for broadcasting on DTH TV channel.The duo has received appreciation from the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) and the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) for their commendable contribution made towards content development as well as holding virtual classes on TV, radio channels and on social media sites like WhatsApp and YouTube during the lockdown period.The District Education Officer (Secondary), Sushil Kumar Tuli, acknowledging their efforts issued appreciation letters to both of them. He said the teachers had made sure that studies of students did not suffer during this lockdown. They thoroughly prepared all e-content and had made sure to deliver it in a way that’s easily understood by the students.“It is due to the sincere efforts of teachers that the education department has been successfully running online classes”, he added.Dr Bindu Gulati, Assistant Director-cum-State Project Coordinator (English), SCERT, Punjab, while acknowledging their voluminous contribution in providing quality education, lauded their dedication, zeal and enthusiasm. She said both the teachers were involved in content development of English workbooks for the students of classes VI, VII and IX of Punjab School Education Board for the academic session 2020-21. They have also prepared teachers manuals.Besides, both of them have been preparing audio and video lessons for NCERT, DD Punjabi, All India Radio, Radio Chan Pardesi, Doaba Radio, Swayam Prabha since the past more than two months to ease the burden of students and provide them good content, she added.She said: “Their lessons are being broadcasted as per the schedule given by the State Education Department under the ‘Ghar Baithe Sikhiya’ programme.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-english-teachers-get-appreciation-for-e-lectures-94145
04-06-2020||Jalandhar||Webinar on digital evidence organised||KCL Institute of Laws conducted a webinar on ‘Dispelling the labyrinth of Electronic Evidence’ under the Evidence Act with special reference to ‘Transferring of data by way of chatting and media sharing’.Advocate Mandeep Singh Sachdev was the key speaker of the event. He justified the topic and enlightened the participants about its relevance in present scenario. The webinar was attended by students, assistant professors of various institutes and practicing lawyers. Assistant professors Pushpinder Kaur Kajla and Suresh Kumari were the moderator the co-moderator of the event, respectively. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-digital-evidence-organised-94146
04-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Algae-based respirator to help mask wearers breathe easy||Phagwara, June 3LPU FILES PATENT FOR INNOVATIVE RESPIRTORIt filters out 99.3 per cent of the harmful gases and small particles in the air, while increasing the amount of oxygen passing through it.Respirator ‘Oxigeno’ can also filter out particles ranging from 10 to 0.44 micrometers with the help of four layers of filters. These comprise of a HEPA filter, which keeps away dust particles, and activated carbon filter to remove VOCs and odours.Scientists at Lovely Professional University (LPU) have developed a multipurpose algae-based ‘respirator’ to help people wearing masks breathe easily.The algae in the respirator conduct photosynthesis and remove carbon dioxide and other air pollutants while producing beneficial oxygen. It makes the air pass through masks more breathable. This four-layered respirator-‘Oxigeno’ will provide instant relief, especially to frontline workers who have to go through a lot of discomfort while wearing masks for long hours. LPU has filed a patent for the innovative respirator, which costs around Rs 3,600; however, the price can come down by 30-40 per cent with large scale manufacturing.Considering many people find it difficult to breathe comfortably while wearing masks to protect themselves against Covid-19, LPU scientists have developed this respirator. It filters out 99.3 per cent of the harmful gases and small particles in the air, while increasing the amount of oxygen passing through it.LPU scientists noted that the existing N95 or surgical masks filter out pollutants and microbes but are incapable of removing pollutant gases such as carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, nitrogen & sulphur oxides, and volatile organic compounds (VOCs).Respirator ‘Oxigeno’ can also filter out particles ranging from 10 to 0.44 micrometers with the help of four layers of filters. These comprise of a HEPA filter, which keeps away dust particles, and activated carbon filter to remove VOCs and odours. The other two layers are made of a nitrogen & sulphur oxide filter that stops harmful air pollutants, and PTFE filter for removing particles as small as 0.44 micrometer. The sequence of their arrangement and the design is meant for its efficiency.The respirator can also be reused by changing the algae cartridge and the filters. The algae cartridge has a life of around 40 hours of continuous use, or seven days. The filters should be replaced after 48 hours of use, or every month, whichever time limit comes first. In fact, the respirator consists of an inbuilt sensor that will alert the user once the cartridge is nearing its life. The material used in Oxigeno is an antimicrobial and biodegradable plastic called PLA-Active, which prevents the growth of bacteria and other contaminants on its surface.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/algae-based-respirator-to-help-mask-wearers-breathe-easy-94147
04-06-2020||Our Correspondent||15 get annual Principal Bagga Sewa Awards||Hoshiarpur, June 3Tributes were paid to former MLA principal Om Prakash Bagga, a socialist thinker, who was shot dead by terrorists. His son, Civil Surgeon (retd) Dr Ajay Bagga, gave away annual principal Bagga Sewa Awards to 15 officers and personnel of the Health Department at the local Shiv Puri (crematorium), for their support in the last rites of persons died of Covid, during the award ceremony held at the city’s cremation ground on the Hariana road.Each award recipient was given a memento and a kit to protect against Covid and a cash prize of Rs 2,000 each. Every year, these awards are given during national-level seminars that were organised in the memory of principal Bagga. But from this year onwards, a new beginning was made by Dr Ajay agga by organising the event at the cremation ground.Dr Bagga said during the global epidemic of Covid-19, in some areas of the country, in the cremation of corona-infected deceased, their family members did not cooperate but the government personnel showed humanism by playing a leading role in performing the last rites of the deceased. In the Health Department, the SMO of Mahilpur, Dr Sunil Ahir, was awarded, He lit the pyre of a corona deceased after his family refused to perform it and even did not turn up at cremation ground.Along with him Dr Harkesh, Phumman, Mukesh, Davinder Pal of Posi Block, Harjeet Singh Dhami, Aakash and Vishu of Hoshiarpur were honoured with the Award. Shivpuri Hoshiarpur’s Master Vijay Kumar, Pandit Darshan Lal Kaka, Sukhwinder Singh, Vijay Kumar, Sukhdev Kumar, Davinder Atwal and Harbans Lal were also conferred with the award.Dr Bagga said, “In the Corona-19 epidemic, even family members not cooperating for funeral of their loved ones which depicts that the relations are losing their value but in this tough time, by assisting in the rites of the deceased, these workers have introduced real humanity and set an example”.On June 2, 1984, 53-year-old former MLA principal Om Prakash Bagga was killed by terrorists when he was returning from school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/15-get-annual-principal-bagga-sewa-awards-94148
04-06-2020||---||Army Commander visits formations of Vajra Corps||Jalandhar, June 3Lieutenant General RP Singh, Army Commander, Western Command, visited formations of the Vajra Corps located in the city and Ludhiana Military Station today. He was briefed by Lieutenant General Sanjeev Sharma, GOC, Vajra Corps, during the visit.The Army Commander reviewed the preparations for the present Covid situation and quarantine facilities. He also inaugurated the newly constructed hockey ground at the Jalandhar Cantonment.Youth commits suicide, Three bookedHoshiarpur: A 21-year-old youth, who was upset over the alleged harassment by his beloved, her mother and their neighbour, committed suicide by consuming poison. The police have registered a case against the three alleged suspects on the complaint of the deceased's brother for abetment to suicide.Varinder Kumar, son of Raj Kumar, a resident of Piplanwala village, in his complaint to the Model Town police said his brother Ajay Kumar (21) had told him that he had an affair with a girl of the village. Devi Kamal, mother of the girl, called the victim to her residence and threatened to end relationship with her daughter. He said the victim was beaten up but somehow escaped from there. Later, Ajay consumed poison. He was rushed to the hospital where he died. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/army-commander-visits-formations-of-vajra-corps-94149
04-06-2020||Phagwara||Phagwara woman commits suicide||A 37-year-old woman, identified as Varinder Kaur wife of Bahrain-based NRI Sulkhan Singh, a resident of Johal village near Goraya, reportedly committed suicide by jumping into a village pond on Tuesday.Her husband told the police that he returned back from Bahrain seven months ago. He said in his absence (when he was in Bahrain) his wife came in contact with a village youth, Jagdeep, who started blackmailing her after he came back, the husband said.The woman’s lover allegedly abused and slapped her after threatening her to viral her videos with him on social media. Feeling humiliated, she committed suicide by jumping into a pond. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-woman-commits-suicide-94150
04-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||180 players reach Hansraj badminton stadium on Day 1||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 3With the opening of Raizada Hansraj Badminton Stadium, a large number of badminton players arrived at the stadium on Wednesday to resume their regular sessions.However, they were greeted with a set of guidelines before stepping into the courts. Apart from getting thermal screened at the entrance, players wearing masks were allowed to enter only if they had downloaded COVA App in their mobile phones.Children are exempted from this mandatory guideline. Covid precautionary posters are hanging inside and outside the badminton courts, washrooms and at the changing rooms.In addition, only players above 11 years and below 60 years were allowed to play at the stadium. They were given 60-minute time to play in different slots.Ritin Khanna, a member of the interim committee of the District Badminton Association, said around 180 players, including 30 amateur players, oarrived at the stadium n Wednesday.“To ensure that the players are abiding by the precautionary guidelines, they will remain under CCTV surveillance. Only a limited number of chairs with stickers to maintain a two-hand distance have been kept for sitting. Besides keeping sanitisers inside the stadium, the shoes of the players were also sanitised on Wednesday before entering the courts. No handshakes, hugs or high fives were allowed among players and as per the rules, shuttlecocks were exchanged through rackquets and were picked by the servers from the floor,” said Ritin.Now onwards, the court will be open at 5.30 am and closed by 8.30 pm. There are four slots in the morning from 5.30 am to 9.30 am in which senior players are allowed to play for one hour. Thereafter, they are allowed to play from 5 pm to 8.30 pm. Only 30 players are allowed to play in each slot.For the younger lot, there will be two sessions of two hours each from 10.30 am to 12.30 pm and 2.30 pm to 4.30 pm. The 30 national and state-level players are divided in two groups of 15 each.Ritin said whosoever breaks the Covid-19 rules will be banned after the first warming.COVA app necessary for playersApart from getting thermal screened at the entrance, players wearing masks were allowed to enter only if they had downloaded COVA App in their mobile phones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/180-players-reach-hansraj-badminton-stadium-on-day-1-94151
04-06-2020||---||Another death in Jalandhar, toll reaches 9; cases 266||Jalandhar, June 3After discharge of a large number of patients, the district is now witnessing a surge in Covid patients. On Wednesday, the death toll reached nine, with the death of a Tagore Nagar resident.The number of cases rose from 255 on Monday to 266 cases on Wednesday. The number of active cases which was 30 five days ago, is now 45.The district reported 10 new cases on Tuesday and one on Wednesday (the deceased). The deceased was initially admitted to a private hospital in the city but was later referred to Dayanand Medical College & Hospital in Ludhiana. His samples were taken on June 1. Jalandhar Nodal Officer TP Singh, said: “The man had co-morbidities. He was also diabetic also.”The 10 persons who tested positive on Tuesday included seven members of a family from New Defence Colony (all relatives of the Lajpat Nagar family which previously tested positive) and their one employee, who is a resident of Bhargo Camp. Two more people tested positive were an NRI who returned from Kuwait and a pregnant woman.Hoshiarpur tally 134Hoshiarpur: The district on Wednesday reported three new cases of Covid-19. The persons were from the containment zone in Nangli Jalalpur village. Giving this information, Civil Surgeon Jasbir Singh said the health authorities had taken samples of 3,022 persons, of which 2,438 were found negative. The tally of infected persons had risen to 134, he said. Reports of 423 samples are awaited. So far, five Covid patients have died in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/another-death-in-jalandhar-toll-reaches-9-cases-266-94152
04-06-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Residents make beeline for Neel's burger, milkshakes||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 3City residents managed to control over their cravings during the lockdown, but after the relaxations they have surrendered in front of their taste buds and have started relishing burgers and milkshakes again.Within four years, ‘Neel's Delicious and Aromatic’ food joint has become one of the favourites among Jalandharites. Before the lockdown, it used to remain abuzz with fast food lovers because of great quality, taste and attractive ambience. After the lockdown too, people are preferring having burgers and pastas from 'Neel's' keeping in view the hygiene level here.The restaurant has two branches — at Urban Estate and Sodal Chowk.Neelgagan Arora, owner of the food joint, shared that like every other business, their work was also affected. However, when asked how is the response now, he was quick to say “excellent”.“I had not expected this response. We have not started dining facility as per the orders of the government, but we are offering takeaway and deliveries,” he said,“But I have noticed that people are preferring takeaway rather than depending on delivery services,” he said, adding that sometime people also eat in their cars.About precautionary measures, he said even when there was no corona and the lockdown, he had been sanitising both branches of the restaurant on a regular basis.“No matter what, cleanliness and hygiene has always been our priority,” he said, adding that customers' health and well-being was treated as the most important than anything else.He said earlier also, chefs at the restaurants had been making food by wearing cap and gloves.“Keeping in view the current situation, we have changed our menu and reduced the number of items, so that there is no wastage. At present, we are preparing burger, fries, pasta, and milkshakes and will soon start offering other food items,” the owner said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/residents-make-beeline-for-neels-burger-milkshakes-94154
04-06-2020||Jalandhar||Five illegal structures demolished in Jalandhar||After the gap of two months, the Town Planning Department of the Municipal Corporation today initiated action against unauthorised establishments in various areas of the city. As many as four shops in Charanjitpura and a building at Partap Bagh were demolished and action was also taken against as many as 10 commercial shops in Ladhewali.The department also targeted a colony in Ladhewali. Action was initiated against it this morning. Officials from the Municipal Corporation said a chaos was witnessed during the demolition of shops at Charanjitpura. As per information, local Congress councillor complained against the owner of the shops.It is also reported that the owner of the shops also threatened that he would commit suicide if the action against his shops would be continued. Sources said the owner said his relatives were suffering from Covid and he was already disturbed due to the same.Notices were being sent to these unaunauthorised buildings and shops since long but today, action was initiated. Since the past two months, action had not been taken due to the lockdown. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-illegal-structures-demolished-in-jalandhar-94155
04-06-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Government must come up with plan to boost consumer demand’||Sachin Khanna, director of Amritsar Swadeshi Textile Corporation Private Limited, which manufactures recycled heavy woollen products such as yarn, fabrics and blankets, talks about the impact of the Covid-19 lockdown on the business. The factory, which was set up in 1929, was originally inspired by the Swadeshi Movement. His family has been looking after it since 1957. Khanna has done a postgraduate diploma in marketing from St Joseph’s College, Bengaluru. In an interview with Neeraj Bagga, he spells out his strategy for the post Covid-19 scenario. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted your business?Covid-19 has hit hard as the industrial demand has vanished. With migrant labourers returning to their native places, manufacturing hubs are unable to operate at their full capacity. Its impact is likely to remain in 2020.The so-called reduction of interest rates by the RBI is going towards large banks fixing their balance sheets and since the RBI has left it discretionary to the board of banks. None of the benefits are actually being passed on to the MSME sector. Our government really needs to do much more and come up with innovative solutions to boost consumer demand.Sachin Khanna , director of Amritsar Swadeshi Textile Corporation Pvt LtdWhen do you expect resumption of businesses at full capacity?We have just restarted the recycling business and are finding it quite hard due to poor demand and listless response from the trading sector. Consumption patterns will change and people will conserve cash to meet priorities.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to employees?We paid salaries to all our employees for March, April and May. We have started manufacturing with 30 per cent capacity.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown?No matter how many reserves you have, in a manufacturing unit, you will always feel the pinch when an event of this magnitude takes place.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?Challenges are opportunities. In the past when we were the only unit paying excise duty on shoddy products, we were pushed into export of our products and had to leave the lucrative local market to those units who sub divided and became micro or small units. Today, over 70 per cent of the small or micro units manufacturing shoddy in Amritsar and Panipat have warped up their businesses. We will have to innovate further and explore new avenues and options to produce and sell our products. This is a challenge that might turn to a new opportunity. But as of now, it is a tough time.What are your expectations from the government?Governments all over the world are helping organisations get back to work by providing assistance on wage payments or other sops. In India, we have to face a high financial cost as compared to the west. The government should have reduced the rate of interest to 4 per cent for three to six months as compared to 9 per cent to 12 per cent being charged by banks. The so-called reduction of interest rates by the RBI is going towards large banks fixing their balance sheets and since the RBI has left it discretionary to the board of banks. None of the benefits are actually being passed on to the MSME sector. Our government really needs to do much more and come up with innovative solutions to boost consumer demand. India Inc has begun production but demand is quite low.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/government-must-come-up-with-plan-to-boost-consumer-demand-94157
04-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Now, there will be split classroom model for all courses, says DAVIET principal||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 3Even as the academic sessions are expected to start from August or September and students are likely to start attending classes from then onwards, DAVIET principal Manoj Kumar said he will have a ‘split classroom’ model for all courses.He said, “In such a model, all students need not be physically present in the classroom. We won't mind if the students attend classes from their home, hostel room, canteen and library. Only a limited number of students who do not have access to gadgets such as laptops and desktops will have to come to the class. These students will have fixed seating while ensuring proper social distancing.”In the split classroom model, all students need not be physically present in the classroom. We won't mind if they attend classes from their home, hostel room, canteen and library. Only a limited number of students who do not have access to gadgets such as laptops and desktops will have to come to the class. These students will have fixed seating while ensuring proper social distancing.Manoj Kumar, Principal, DAVIETElaborating further, the principal said, “The moot point is that they will all have to be connected online as the class goes on through video-conferencing. In this mode, pre-information about the chapter by e-books and YouTube links will already be shared. In the classroom, the same information will be recalled in a different manner - a concept called as flip learning. To know as to how well the students have understood the concept, there will be a quiz at the end of every lecture. Only the students who will be able to answer 50 per cent of the questions will be marked present for that day's attendance. This new concept of education is also termed as 'outcome-based education' wherein we will use assessment tools such as excel sheets and rubrics. This will help us gauge the learning level of every student.”The principal added that after the colleges reopen, the concept of High Order Thinking Skills (HOTS) will be promoted in students.He said, “In the traditional education system, the focus was on how many marks the students got. The students were evaluated on the basis of their recalling skills which included some definitions, explanation and diagrams. But now they will have to demonstrate and illustrate things. They will be given assignments on the Microsoft Teams platform. Earlier, the students who submitted assignments were given marks ranging from 4 to 10 depending on the resources they used. But now, our focus on ensuring that all those students who have scored 4 are made to do revisions in their project two to three times so as to be able to achieve full 10 marks. Education will soon be comparable to a production line in an industry where all parts will be like students who have to be brought to the top level to make the final product appear to be the best.”He said he was also starting small production units in colleges for students to get a hands-on training experience in manufacturing and sales in the local community. The Centre-promoted concepts of ‘Local is vocal’ and ‘Make in India’ will also get a fillip through this step.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-there-will-be-split-classroom-model-for-all-courses-says-daviet-principal-94158
04-06-2020||Phagwara||Foreign student commits suicide||Migrant run over by trainPhagwara: A migrant labourer from Bihar, identified as Ram Dularey, was run over by a goods train near the Phagwara railway station on Tuesday. Government Railway Police (GRP) in-charge Gurbheij Singh said it could not be ascertained yet whether it was a case of suicide or accidental death. However, the GRP has registered a case and sent the body to the local Civil Hospital for autopsy. OCBike stolen from dental clinicPhagwara: A Splendor motorcycle (PB-32U-2001) belonging to carpenter Amarjit Singh, a resident of Mazari village, was found missing near Deepak Cold Drinks, Guru Hargobind Nagar, on Wednesday evening. The carpenter was working in a dental clinic, but found his bike missing when he returned after completing his job. City SHO Onkar Singh Brar rushed to the spot. The police have registered a case. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/foreign-student-commits-suicide-94159
