04-07-2020||‘Bleak demand amid pandemic hit sports industry’||Industry and lockdown||Ravinder Dhir, manufacturer and trader of sports items, feels that the industry has seen tough days during the lockdown but there are tougher days ahead. In conversation with Aakanksha N Bhardwaj, the convener of Khel Udyog Sangh Sangharsh Committee discusses the effects of the lockdown on the business. Except:How has the lockdown affected the business?Like most other businesses, the sports industry, too, has got badly affected by the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus. Sports items are a luxury, so no one wants to purchase these amid the uncertain situation. We have seen tough times in the past three months and the situation is nowhere near becoming normal in the coming days.As industrial units have resumed functioning, what challenges are being faced at present?It has been seen in the past 15 to 20 years that sales in the sports industry pick up pace only for five to five months in a year, that is from February to May. This year, these months got wasted in the lockdown. When we resumed operations at industrial units on May 18, there was some demand for indoor sports items, but the industry cannot survive only by selling these. Also, there is neither raw material nor labourers available. With gyms closed, the demand for plates, rods and weighing items has also vanished, affecting our business badly.Do you import any raw material from other states?There are several categories of raw material imported from other states and this is the reason we are facing problems. The wood for making cricket bats comes from Kashmir and solid cane from Singapore. For indoor games such as carrom board, wood comes from nearby states. But owing to the restrictions, the supply has got hit badly. Labourers involved in manufacturing of items have also left, leading to further deterioration of the condition.Labourers have started returning for work. Do you think it would help?Only from 15 per cent to 20 per cent labourers have returned, so there is still a shortage of workers. The situation will further worsen in the coming days as the labourers have no means to return. Industrials units would face difficulties for a long time because of the shortage of labourers.How do you plan to improve business in the future?There are stressful days ahead and there is no support forthcoming from the state government or the Centre. Also, there are going to be no state, national or international sports events in the near future. Even students who would play cricket with their friends outside their homes would avoid it. So there is no point in making any plan or strategy when we don’t see any sale or demand in the future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/industry-and-lockdown-108268
04-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Increasing scarcity of labour set to compound problems of farmers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 3Providing extra ration to workers, asking them repeatedly about for their well-being and stocking up medicines for them - this is how farmers took care of farm labourers when the lockdown was announced. They were visiting chemist shops with labourers to help them get medicines and other essentials items so as to hold them back. They did all this just to ensure that the workers don't go back to their native places.But, scores of labourers did leave, some boarded 'Shramik' trains, while others chose to go either by bicycles or on foot. The labourers who are here are now charging twice than they used to. The farmers say that this is new normal and even in the coming seasons, the farmers would require labourers."Labourers know that the farmers won't be able to do anything without them, therefore we are left with no option but to agree to their demands," said a farmer adding that now they would have to work and act according to their whims and fancies. Jaswant Singh, president of the Bharti Kisan Union, said the labourers would always demand high wages now.Kirpal Singh from Shahkot area said the farmers were now mulling over not sowing the crops requiring much labour.Another farmer Manjit Rai from Hoshiarpur said since paddy crop was highly dependent on the labour, the farmers would now opt for direct sowing of paddy.Apart from this, the Agriculture Department has also been advising the farmers to take adequate precautions during harvesting of crops.The farmers have been asked to sanitise combines that would be used for harvesting. They have been advised that since the workers will move from village to village during harvesting, they must be allowed to rest in an outer area. Major Singh, a farmer from Nawanshahr, said adopting proper precautions such as social distancing and sanitisation of the machines would become an essential part now.SPEAKING OUTDirect sowing of paddy technique was adopted by several farmers this year. Since the farmers are suffering badly because of high wages demanded by the labourers, farmers will automatically resort to direct sowing of paddy. —Manjit Rai, FarmerIt is important that farmers wake up now and switch to the crops that don’t require much labour. We know the condition now and one must always act as per the situation. I have decided to shift from sowing crops largely dependent on the labour. —Kirpal Singh, FarmerThis problem is going to remain with us for a long time and thus, the issue related to the farm labourers would also continue. We really want government to support us. It is not easy to switch to other techniques so soon. —Sukhwant Singh, FarmerWe would have to adopt social distancing for some more time to prevent the spread of Covid. Sanitisation of the machines would be the new normal and labour problem would also continue to haunt us for a long time. —Jaswant Singh, Farmer||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/increasing-scarcity-of-labour-set-to-compound-problems-of-farmers-108223
04-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||This septuagenarian pedals 100 km everyday to stay healthy||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 3Aged 74, Adarsh Nagar resident and businessman Baljit Mahajan pedals around 100 km daily to stay fit. He has traversed 1.29 lakh km in the past four and a half years.According to data on Strava app, Mahajan rode his bicycle for 2,463.7 km in June alone, pedalling for 137 hours and 27 minutes (this was much less than his routine average). As per the data, he completed 151.5 km ride in eight hours and 15 minutes on June 29 and 145.1 km ride in seven hours and 48 minutes on June 28.Owning a sports goods manufacturing business, he says, “It all started when I went to Holland in 1998 as an invitee for a project on manufacturing cricket bats by hand. Landing at airport there, I saw that every car which was in the parking area and also on road carried a cycle. About 3 km away from my hotel, my driver told me that now I would have to walk or take a rental cycle from there to go ahead as the cars were not allowed ahead. Staying there for 32 days, I realised that the air was pollution-free. I came much inspired but my cycle was 24 kg and I did not enjoy it much till I bought a new cycle meant for professionals 12 years later in 2010.”He recalls, “At that time, Firefox company offered us to start their showroom in the city. That's how I got a new cycle. I began promoting cycle by forming a club, encouraging youngsters and children to become members and involving all communities by holding cycle rallies and the numbers began to swell. The trek cycle that I now ride weighs just 6 kg.”Mahajan says his aim is to make the city residents fit through his campaigns. “I get all my tests done every six months and till date, I have had no complication. Being vegetarian, I consume 2 kg of milk everyday in the form of milk, milk shakes, curd, lassi and paneer. I am totally against junk food. I have never tasted tea. My diet also includes nuts and murabbas. My wife Kamlesh Mahajan takes care of it all,” he shares.He added, “While earlier, I used to calculate the length of my ride on speedometer, I got Strava app in 2016. I have mostly remained among the top five, making it to the first in the country several times. But I am not in a competition with anyone at the moment. I ride with my own consistency and my own speed and would like to continue like this.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-septuagenarian-pedals-100-km-everyday-to-stay-healthy-108224
04-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar DC plans to ramp up bed capacity||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 35 CHILDREN AMONG 22 TEST POSITIVE IN DISTRICTWith Covid-19 cases in the district rising rapidly, the district administration is all set to create a buffer of additional beds across the level 1 and level 3 centres in the district. DC Ghanshyam Thori has floated online tenders to call for an upgrade of Covid-19 services and beds in the district.While the meritorious school currently has 500 beds – there are plans to increase the number of beds to prepare for any eventuality in terms of rising cases in the district in future.Presently, the most active Covid facilities in the district are the Covid level 2 and 3 centres at the Civil Hospital (which has at least 340 beds), the meritorious school which has 500 beds, the IMA facility which has 32 beds and the Covid facility at NIT Jalandhar.As of July 3, there are 219 active cases in the district. Of these, a majority of the cases are housed at the level 1 centre at the meritorious school. At the busiest Covid centre – the civil hospital – currently there are 20 cases. At Shahkot, there is one. Twelve patients are from other districts (nine from Ludhiana and three from Amritsar). Currently, 184 positive patients are housed in the district alone.While a Level 1 centre houses asymptomatic patients, Level 2 centres house patients with co-morbidities and those with previous health conditions and level 3 centres house symptomatic patients and those with other kinds of complications.While a majority of those under isolation are placed at the meritorious school, civil hospital and IMA facility, the district administration is also creating additional backups to ensure that the district is able to cope with the increase in cases.DC Ghanshyam Thori said, “Currently, the situation is under control as there are barely 100 active patients in the level 1 centre (meritorious school). But we are looking to create buffer zones where additional beds are already procured and a set up is arranged so that we can tackle all kinds of eventualities in future. We shall be looking to upgrade the level 1 centre so that it has a total of 1,000 beds. The beds at the Civil Hospital are currently enough but we have also created backups at two urban CHCs and a PHC if need be. Tenders have been floated to seek beds for these facilities. Centres to tackle Covid can also be set up at DAV College, DAVIET and DAV University for which infrastructure suitable for Covid protocol has already been shortlisted. Another centre is already operational at NIT. Following even further need for beds, we also have PIMS ready for such an eventuality. In all, we have made arrangements to organise 5,000 beds at the level 1 centre and an odd 1000 more at level 2 or 3 centres – just to be well-equipped.”The DC said, “We have ensured that the level 2 centres at CHCs and PHCs havebeds with the oxygen supply. While the Civil Hospital has 10 ventilators, additional ventilators are also being procured to tackle the crisis.”The DC also stated the district administration had invited online bids for Supplying/ Providing Items and Services under Covid-19 Management in Jalandhar. The DC said the sale of bid documents has started at 10 in the morning on June 29 and the last date and time for submission of bids was up to July 9.The Deputy Commissioner also said date and time of opening of technical bid was July 9 at 3 pm. He said for other details, interested people could log in into: websitehttps://eproc.punjab.gov.in. Thori said the basic aim was to ensure that these centres were further equipped with state-of-the art diagnostic facilities to ensure that patients got the best medical facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-dc-plans-to-ramp-up-bed-capacity-108212
04-07-2020||---||4-yr-old abducted girl found in four hours, one arrested||Kapurthala, July 3A four-year-old girl who was sleeping in the open outside her house with her parents was on Friday kidnapped by a migrant in the wee hours.A resident of the Machhijoa area at Sultanpur Lodhi, Pinder kaur, girl’s mother, said it was at 3 am when her daughter went missing. She added that a mobile phone was also gone from the house. Soon, the family alerted the police and the girl was found after four hours of search by the SHOs and their teams of four adjoining police stations.Sarwan S Bal, DSP, Sultanpur Lodhi, said that he immediately sounded the police teams at Kabirpur, Talwandi Chaudharian and Fattu Dhinga police stations after informing Sultanpur Lodhi SHO Sarabjit Singh. “An immediate barricading was done on all sides. Around 7 am, our teams found a small girl with a migrant on a bicycle along the banks of Beas,” said the DSP.The police recognised her as the missing girl and nabbed the suspect identified as Suresh Kumar of Jharkhand. Upon investigating, three mobile phones, a tablet and Rs 10,000 cash was also recovered from him, who had come here about 10 days back and had been indulging in crime.The DSP said that the girl’s father is a mason and the suspect perhaps had planned to seek a ransom from him. “We are still interrogating him to clear the air. We will produce him in the court tomorrow and seek police remand for two-three days,” he added. A case under Sections 365 and 380 of the IPC has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-yr-old-abducted-girl-found-in-four-hours-one-arrested-108213
04-07-2020||Our Correspondent||100-foot revetment raised on Beas riverbank in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, July 3Under the district administration’s efforts to provide relief to people from floods and to save the crops of the farmers, revetment work of Beas riverbank along the Terkiana village in Dasuya subdivision has been completed.Disclosing this here on Friday, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said this 100-foot-long revetment on the banks of the Beas at Terkiana village was constructed at a cost of Rs18,70,402. The project completed under the supervision of Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Harbir Singh has greatly benefitted the people of the area. She said this had not only saved the crops of farmers but also prevented the erosion of the land due to floods.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Harbir Singh said last year as well some revetments were constructed in the district at various places which had benefited the people a lot. Farmers of Terkiana village thanked the district administration and said by implementing this project, the administration had saved their agricultural produce which used to get swamped away in the river amid floods. They said the revetment had come as a boon for them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/100-foot-revetment-raised-on-beas-riverbank-in-hoshiarpur-108214
04-07-2020||---||BJP leader defends ordinances on agri reforms||Jalandhar, July 3The BJP state unit on Friday alleged that the Congress and AAP were misleading farmers on the Centre’s ordinances.Responding to the criticism from various quarters on the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance-2020 and the farmers (Empowerment and Protection) agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, Avinash Rai Khanna said the three rules made by the Modi Government were framed keeping in view the Swaminathan Committee report.Khanna also said the marketing committees would also function as before. He said, “We promise the farmers of Punjab to safeguard them.” The Congress was in power for 10 years and Manmohan Singh did not bother about implementing the Swaminathan Report on agriculture. It was only BJP which has taken the considerations and suggestions of the long forgotten report.”The ordinances which have been criticised for rendering the MSP (minimum support price) irrelevant — ease restrictions on traders’ participation in all stages of agriculture. While they have been criticised for giving a free hand to private players and opening up the agricultural sector for exploitation from private players — Khanna, however, said the new rules were pro-farmer and shall protect farmers’ interests.Dubbing the recent statements of the Congress state president Sunil Jhakhar and AAP’s Bhagwant Mann as totally ‘fabricated and malicious’, BJP leader Avinash Rai Khanna said the Centre under Prime Minister Narendra Modi was committed towards uplifting the economic status of the agricultural sector.He stated that the state BJP would be launching an awareness drive and would go to each village in the state to make farmers aware of the ordinances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-leader-defends-ordinances-on-agri-reforms-108215
04-07-2020||---||Students fume as NEET, JEE postponed again||Jalandhar, July 3Repeated postponement of entrance tests for admission to undergraduate courses in colleges has begun taking a heavy toll on students.A major shocker came as the MHRD announced to postpone the JEE Mains paper (which was to be held from July 18-23) to September 1-6 and NEET UG (which was to be held on July 26) to September 13. The JEE Advances is now scheduled for September 27, clearly indicating that the admission to colleges will not be possible anytime before October.The students appeared for law entrance paper CLAT also got notified three days back that online entrance at designated centres in various cities will be held on August 22. This was the fourth time that all entrances got put off and this time by two months leaving again a plenty of time for the youth to prepare.But the students have said that they have lost complete momentum of studies and are not able to concentrate at all. Many students said that since they had stopped taking mock tests and were not doing any sessions from any coaching centres, they had begun losing hold on the topics and had somehow started forgetting all what they had learnt.“It would have been better had I not thought of appearing for any entrance. At least my life would have been at peace. My parents keep telling me to maintain the habit of four-five hours of study but I hardly feel like picking up my books now. At least for the next 15 days, I will only be watching movies and web series for complete relaxation. I need a break now”, said an upset Nimisha, a NEET aspirant from Model House locality.Sarabjot Singh, who is appearing for JEE, said, “The longer time I am getting for any preparation, more boring and drab has it all become. The uncertainty regarding entrance and admissions is getting really sickening. Thank god there is social media for our generation to express all anguish. All my classmates have been venting out their ire in chat rooms and so am I. There has been some fun too as there are too many memes going around.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-fume-as-neet-jee-postponed-again-108216
04-07-2020||Our Correspondent||‘Cong lying to cover up debt waiver failure’||Hoshiarpur, July 3Bharatiya Janata Party’s National Secretary Tarun Chugh, in a press conference in Hoshiarpur on Friday, said the three ordinances related to agriculture were in the interest of farmers.He said this would give the farmers a fair price for their produce and would also boost their income. Chugh said the state government led by Captain Amarinder Singh was issuing misleading statements to divert the attention of the public from his failed election promise of debt waiver of Rs 90 thousand crore.“I challenge Captain Amarinder Singh to find even a single word in these Bills written against farmers,” said Chugh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cong-lying-to-cover-up-debt-waiver-failure-108217
04-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Youth, beloved commit suicide; 11 kin booked||Hoshiarpur, July 3A youth (23) and his beloved (23) committed suicide at Pensra village in Garhshankar subdivision here on Thursday. The Mahilpur police have booked three members of the girl’s family and eight members of the youth’s family for abetting suicide.The youth, identified as Sarabjit Singh Sabi, was found hanging in his house at around 11.30 am. His father, Harmesh Kumar, lodged a complaint with the police that his son Sabi was in love with a girl (a neighbor), identified as Manpreet Kaur Matto, to which her family objected.Being threatened by her father Charanjit Singh, uncle Sodhi Ram and cousin Jatinder Singh, Sabi committed suicide by hanging himself. The Mahilpur police booked Charanjit Singh, Sodhi Ram and Jatinder Singh under Section 306 of the IPC.Later in the evening, Manpreet Kaur Matto was also found dead. Her mother Kulwinder Kaur lodged a complaint with the police that after Sabi’s suicide his father Harmesh Kumar, mother Jagsis Kaur, brother Ladi, Manjinder Kumar and his wife Majit Kaur, Avtar Singh, Surjit Pal and his wife Davinder Kaur came to their home and abused them. After they departed, her daughter Matto committed suicide. The police have booked all eight members under Section 306 of the IPC.Mahilpur SHO Sukhwinder Singh said the bodies were handed over to their respective kin after a postmortem, which were cremated later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-beloved-commit-suicide-11-kin-booked-108218
04-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||A waiting game: 12 years on, 60-acre sports hub at Burlton Park up in air||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 3It has been almost 12 years since it was planned to set up a multi-purpose sports hub on nearly 60-acre land at the Burlton Park here, but the project which was expected to change the scape of the city, is yet to see the light of day.The sportspersons from the city had pinned high hopes as they were to receive best facilities in the heart of the city, but nothing has come up since 2008. Other than setting up a world-class cricket stadium in 26-acre land and a hockey stadium in a nine-acre area, the rest of the space was to be used for developing other sporting facilities including football, an all-weather swimming pool, badminton, basketball, volleyball, squash, handball, netball, a shooting range, skating rink, jogging and a cycling track, billiards, snooker, judo, gymnasium, besides a five-star hotel, spa, health club, restaurant, bar, lounges, meeting halls, 70 shops and commercial centres.A fresh proposal for the project was made by ex-CEO Smart City project Jitendra Jorwal in April 2019. Tenders have been floated many times — last being in January 2020 — but there has so far been no headway.The delay has also been causing an escalation in the amount of the project. When it was first proposed during the tenure of SAD-BJP government, there had been plans to spend Rs 100 crore. But tenders for the same had been floated for an amount of Rs 250 crore six months back. Mayor, Jalandhar MC, Jagdish Raja, says, “There could be no progress after recalling of tender as all major works had halted since the lockdown started.”In December 2008, it was during the tenure of then local bodies minister Manoranjan Kalia that two British architects had visited the site, on advice of the BCCI, for giving suggestions to develop a cricket stadium. However, the scenario went sour as residents opposed the felling of trees and destruction of the green belt in the area and filed a PIL in the court in 2009.In May 2010, CR Narayana Rao Architects from Chennai were selected to work on the project out of 27 companies of international repute which participated in the expression of interest and bidding process. For funds, the Punjab Government had tied up with HUDCO.Come 2012, the project was handed over to Hyderabad-based Nagarjuna Constructions company at a cost of Rs 130 crore and HUDCO sanctioned a loan of the same amount. Later, the loan got written off sending the project up in the air, yet again.Ever since then, the project has been listed in the items to be discussed in the MC House meetings a number of times but to no avail. Ex-minister Kalia says, “It is a sad affair that the project has not progressed an inch. Had it got materialised in time, the economy of the entire city would have taken a giant leap.” TIMELINESeptember 26, 2008 Proposal to set up sports hub at the Burlton Park passed by MC. Then local bodies minister Manoranjan Kalia makes announcement.December, 2008: BCCI advised British architects to visit the site for giving suggestions.2009: A welfare society approached HC, files a PIL seeking stopping of project as it involved axing of trees.In May, 2010: CR Narayana Rao Architects from Chennai selected as architects for the project.June, 2012: HUDCO sanctioned Rs130-crore loan to MC Jalandhar. July, 2012: Revised PIL filed by welfare society again.October, 2013: High Court dismisses petition.April, 2013: MC allots the project to Hyderabad-based firm, Nagarjuna Construction Company, for Rs135 crore, but HUDCO loan written-off. April, 2019: Ex-CEO of Smart City Jitendra Jorwal announces to take project under the aegis of Smart City.January, 2020: Tenders floated again under Jalandhar Smart City Mission. Project will be undertaken on PPP mode at an estimated value of Rs250 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-waiting-game-12-years-on-60-acre-sports-hub-at-burlton-park-up-in-air-108221
04-07-2020||Hoshiarpur||DAV figures in top 100 colleges||Novel protest by AdvocatesGarhshankar: Under the leadership of member of the state executive of the Punjab Sub Divisional Bar Association Pankaj Kirpal and president of the Bar Association, Garhshankar, the lawyers on Friday expressed their anger by selling vegetables at the Garhshankar Court Complex. Advocate Pankaj Kripal said the legal community had been inactive for the past three months and there was no possibility of lawyers working for the next three months. He said lawyers had no social and economic security. He said it was difficult for the legal community to feed their families and the staff which works under them. He said the pandemic had forced the lawyers to take up other businesses. He said neither the Central Government nor the Punjab Government provided any financial assistance to the lawyers facing losses due to Covid. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dav-figures-in-top-100-colleges-108222
