04-12-2020||---||Kabaddi players come out in support of farmers||Jalandhar, December 3 Kabaddi players from Doaba have come out in support of the agitating farmers. Young as well senior players have moved to Delhi to join farmers’ stir.  From raising slogans to braving water cannons and tear gas, players stand shoulder to shoulder with farmers. While some manage security and safety of peasants, some cook meals for them.  Toni Sandhu, general secretary, Major League Kabaddi Federation, said being a part of the farming community, it was our responsibility to make the voice of farmers heard. “Farmers are support system of the entire country. I am a farmer. My family members survived on farming only. We will always stand with farmers and for their rights. The three agri laws were passed without the consent of farmers and now the government has turned a blind eye towards them. Trade will be impossible after its implementation. We should never forget that farmers of Punjab paid a huge cost for the Green Revolution. Now, we would not let the farming community suffer anymore,” said Toni Sandhu. Mangat Singh, alias Mangi Bagga, one of the most experienced kabaddi player, said, “We play on the soil of farmers and get food from their fields. Thus, it’s our responsibility to support the farming community. We assist in moving tractor-trailers and ferrying farmers. While they protest, we ensure that food and water is provided to them on time.” The young players share their videos and live updates on their social media accounts. Nanni Gopalpur, another Kabaddi player, said, “The Centre should have discussed the matter before drafting the Bills. The lathicharge and tear gas on farmers is highly condemnable. It is depressing that instead of working in fields, farmers are forced to hit the roads.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kabaddi-players-come-out-in-support-of-farmers-179726
04-12-2020||---||Kapurthala lawyers term Delhi protest legitimate||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, December 3The Kapurthala District Bar Association (DBA) gathered in front of advocate chambers under the leadership of its chief Advocate Malkit Singh Thind and extended support to farmers’ agitation on Thursday.Advocate Pawan Kalia, media in-charge, District Bar Association, said, “We will give legal help to farmers. Nearly, 500 kisan unions across the country have been agitating against the agri laws introduced by the Centre.”The DBA demanded withdrawal of the three farm laws and said they were against the interest of farmers and general public.Thind said, “The agri laws are against the farming community. We stand in support of agitating farmers and are committed to extend legal support to them.” Advocate Rakesh Sharma said it was highly reprehensible and undemocratic to try to stop the farmers’ agitation and torture them while they were fighting for their legitimate rights.The DBA said the Centre’s attitude towards farmers was bound to give rise to suspicion as to why the government had been adamant to implement controversial laws.Hundreds of members, including advocates JJS Arora, Rakesh Sharma, Gian Singh Noorpuri, Jugraj Singh Kahlon, Rajbir Bawa, Suresh Chopra, SPS Ratti, Harpreet Singh, Darshan Singh, Pardeep Pandit, Hitesh Gupta, Robin Gautam, Hamish Kumar, Gurpreet Singh Bhatti, Mandeep Singh Teji, Vikas Uppal and Suresh Chopra were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-lawyers-term-delhi-protest-legitimate-179752
04-12-2020||---||Social media abuzz with support, jibes||Jalandhar, December 3Celebrities, politicians and citizens have taken to social media to drum up support for farmers protesting against the three agri laws introduced by the Centre.Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Jalandhar- based UK MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, among others, had shown concern over the current issue. Various campaigns on the farmers’ protest has spread like wildfire on social media.Pollywood singers and actors, including Diljit Dosanjh, Gippy Grewal, were using their handles and using # Istandwithfarmer.Wearing T-shirts “No food, No farmer” logo, Grewal and his team has come out in support of farmers. Likewise, apart from posting pictures on his social media page, ‘The Great Khali’ also joined the farmers’ stir over agriculture reforms at Tikri border on December 2.Showing solidarity with farmers, he urged his followers among others to support the farming community. Captioning his video on Instagram, he added, “It will be tough for the Centre to deal with farmers from Haryana and Punjab.”Dhesi, an MP from Slough (UK), shared pictures of the protest and tweeted, “It takes a special kind of people to feed those ordered to beat and suppress them. I stand with farmers of Punjab and other parts of India, including our family and friends, who are peacefully protesting against encroaching privatisation. #FarmersBill2020.”While social media users had been urged not to stand divided on the issue, local college students created several social media pages to spread authentic information on farmers’ protest.Besides launching protest in Canada, the NRI children from Doaba, backed farmers. As per a majority of the social media posts by the NRIs, it’s “Modi vs Farmers” battle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/social-media-abuzz-with-support-jibes-179754
04-12-2020||---||Residents suffer as no service lanes at road construction site||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 3Residents of Adampur are perturbed over the lackadaisical attitude of PWD officials in handling the construction work of the flyover for the ongoing Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur four-laning project.They rue that their lives have been badly affected ever since work on the flyover started here. They say work has been moving at a snail’s pace for the past four years. Even as there are clear-cut guidelines on providing service lanes along the construction site for the smooth movement of traffic, residents say that no such lanes have been provided here.“All we have been provided with in the name of service lanes are muddy roads where our vehicles stuck. Phone lines of BSNL have been lying disconnected for the past few days because of the construction work. Around 55 per cent of the residents are not able to use their mobile phones. Further, trenches have been dug up for laying sewer pipes along the roads which is further causing inconvenience and making driving a risky affair,” said Harinder Singh, Adampur resident.Preeti, another resident, rues, “We are not able to do shopping in the main bazaar along the road for a long time as there is no provision of parking space available now. The roads are slippery and filled with pits all over.”Monty Sehgal, who owns a petrol pump along the highway, alleged, “The construction of the highway is being done in complete violation of the NHAI norms. It is mandatory for the civic authorities to provide a proper alternate passage to commuters for their smooth transit even when construction work is on. But they have not provided any service lanes as a result of which a chaos prevails here daily.”Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said he had pulled up officials of the PWD for their negligence and had asked them to expedite the construction work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/residents-suffer-as-no-service-lanes-at-road-construction-site-179756
04-12-2020||---||MC staffer Covid+, Mayor to undergo test||Jalandhar, December 3After a superintending engineer (SE) of the Jalandhar MC tested positive, the entire staff of the civic body has got worried. Senior officials of the MC, including Jalandhar Mayor Jagdish Raja had attended a meet at the Red Cross Bhawan on December 1 where the said SE was also present.Raja said all officials present in the meeting would be tested tomorrow. The SE and his three family members tested positive.The Mayor, MC Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, three superintendents, two superintending engineers, councillors and journalists attended the meet.The Mayor said, “So far only the Superintending Engineer and his family tested positive. Doctors say there is no reason to worry. However, as a precautionary measure, some of us will get tested. Especially, those present in the meeting.”Meanwhile, with 103 new cases reported in Jalandhar on Thursday, the total number of positive cases in the district reached 18,182. With one more death, the toll reached 569.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mc-staffer-covid-mayor-to-undergo-test-179757
04-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||When hopes & dreams are shredded to pieces||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 3The relaxations in the lockdown brought cheers on the faces of jobless individuals, especially migrants, amid bad tidings due to the pandemic. Many have returned to the city in packed buses, with a glint of hope in their eyes. A sizeable number of such workers are presently out of job. And it has forced them to take up menial work.Ankit Kumar (25), who used to work in a factory at Focal Point, says, his owner fired him from the work citing that he doesn’t have enough money to pay to more workers. “Our owner was happy when we came back from our native places after four months. My cousins and friends also came with me, hoping they would also get a job here.” However, within a month their dreams shattered and are now looking for hand to mouth work. Apparently, things went rough after the farmers in the state declared protests. “My supervisor told me that they were unable to bear expenses of the company and there was a shortage of raw materials. Subsequently nearly a dozen workers were laid off in two days. Therefore after losing my job I shifted to Maqsudan Sabzi Mandi and tried to make a fresh start. But still I’m trying to get some amount saved after a tiring day,” he adds.Ankit lives here at a rented accommodation with two friends and tries to earn enough to arrange two-square meals. Having four years of experience in factories, he feels like a square peg in a round table at the vegetables market. Scratching his head while dealing with a customer, he says, “I am bad with numbers and forget the prices of the vegetables sometimes.” But nearby vendors are nice enough to come to his rescue. “I don’t know when the situation shall normalise and we will be able to send some money back home. There is no source of earning at our village and I am having the same feeling here,” he is a school dropout.With no jobs in the offing, migrants are now homeless too. Having built temporary tents, on footpaths or any empty grounds, they spend days in an unhygienic space.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/when-hopes-dreams-are-shredded-to-pieces-179758
04-12-2020||Jalandhar||Army recruitment rally from Jan 4||100 join LPU’s virtual workshopPhagwara: Lovely Professional University conducted a three-day virtual conference ‘Experience incredible India’ for students and staff of its foreign partner universities. Over 100 students and staff members of different foreign partner universities from 20 countries, including the UK, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Indonesia and Sri Lanka, participated. A series of virtual workshops on yoga, Ayurveda, managerial skills, Bollywood dances, songs, and important lectures witnessed enthusiastic participation. The idea was to showcase how incredible India techniques like yoga and Ayurveda can help people stay fit while being in-door. Famous songs and dances of Bollywood film-industry were also enjoyed, learnt and enacted by the participants. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/army-recruitment-rally-from-jan-4-179760
04-12-2020||Breaking away from the chaos of a busy road teeming with traffic||Empowering women||A statue of mother Saraswati, the Hindu goddess of knowledge, music, art, speech, wisdom, and learning stands right at the entrance of KMV College.With its campus known to have aided and sheltered many a freedom fighter, and its forefathers defying the British to assert their voice in favour of Indian Independence, KMV has a rich legacy of supporting the Indian freedom struggle. Bearer of several firsts, it was also declared a heritage and an autonomous institution in 2015 (among 19 Indian institutions to be accorded heritage status in the year).The institution also has a state-of-the-art home science, fashion, animation, cosmetology and other labs, a Gandhian Studies Centre, archives (conserving old publications, journals and literature), a botanical garden and an in-house shop which has products made by students; these are up for grabs on Amazon all round the year.Today, it has 4,000 students, runs 19 skill development programmes, 29 postgraduate and 21 undergraduate programmes in an array of streams and has 54 industrial collaborations. Principal of KMV, Dr Atima Sharma, reveals more, “The hall of fame at Krishna Hall was set up to document KMV’s rich legacy. I was astounded by the history. The main building is all historic and painstakingly restored to retain authenticity. Our institution is an amalgam of the ethos of the freedom movement and contemporary progressive and modern education. In 21st century we are still a noted girls’ education hub in South Asia.” Badridas Hostel: Most of the photographs from 1900s with girls lodging in saris with charkhas, self-defence implements, in fancy dresses etc were pictured at its entrance. The decades-old banyan tree stands majestically here; some say it even predates the building. Also, a bust of Bhagat Singh inside its lawns pays tributes to KMV’s illustrious past. This was once used as a hideout by freedom fighters like him. The renovation works done prolongs the authenticity of the hostel.The seerLala Devraj had a vision to provide free education to girls which resulted in its foundations being laid. Started with only 11 girls, the first and exclusive girls school in Jalandhar, it was christened the ‘Arya Kanya Pathshala’. The present name — Kanya Maha Vidyalaya — would replace 10 years later, in 1896.With Re 1 monthly shelled out by Lala Devraj’s mother for girls’ education, he first started tutoring them — visiting home to home. Amongst the earliest means to fund the purpose by him included money earned from selling scraps and wheat donated by families. He was stoned, ridiculed and rebuked for his initiative.However, in the years to come, a list of eventual successors like Rai Bahadur Badri Das, Savitri Devi, Shanno Devi and the legendary Acharya Lajjawati brought legendary status to the institution. From Bhagat Singh to Sarojini Naidu to Mahatma Gandhi, several speeches and even personal exchanges of noted leaders bear testimony to KMV’s status as a premier girls’ institution.Dwars to past: The institute is marked with four gates — Astha, Swadheenta, Vande Matram and Pragati Dwars — which bear testimony to its freedom movement ethos. Mor BaghKMV has a ‘Mor Bagh’, a whitewashed historic building housing fine arts, psychology, commerce and biology departments. One can see peacocks doing their thing every now and then. The picturesque pink-walled ‘Badridas hostel’ is said to have provided a safe harbour to a wounded Bhagat Singh and houses the old banyan tree with a poem dedicated to it.Garden, lotus pond: The sprawling botanical garden at KMV houses innumerable trees and plants, including many indigenous herbs and medicinal plants. It also has a lotus pond and an old tower, which previously served as a water tank. Dignified: Many national leaders – before and after the Independence – have visited the college’s premises. From first President of India Dr Rajendra Prasad (R) to Pt Jawaharlal Nehru (L) & Indira Gandhi, all have had a glimpse of the institution’s lush history.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/empowering-women-179761
04-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar pinnis to power protesters at Delhi border||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 3Since 3 am this morning, the local gurdwara at Nauli village in Jalandhar has been reverberating with chants of women singing shabads and praying while they cook sumptuous desi ghee pinnis for their brethren lodged at the Delhi border to protest the farm Acts. Men, women and children have gathered at the dera to prepare pinnis so that these can give strength to the farmers staying put in the chilly evenings on the border.A group of 20 men shall set out from the village at dawn tomorrow to offer the langar and pinnis prepared for the farmers. “Saade veeran vich taakat aave, thand ghat lagge, asi ehi chahunde aan… (We want our brothers to stay safe from cold),” said Paramjit Singh, a resident of the village.Nauli village has been a steadfast supporter of the agitation, ever since farmers began moving to Delhi to oppose the Acts. Announcements were made from the village gurdwara, asking residents to come forward for the marathon cooking at the community kitchen in solidarity with the protests.This morning, women started with an ardass and chanted shabads all day long as they stirred, rolled, cooked and prepared the material for pinnis. While jatthas from the village have been going to offer support to the farmers previously too in the form of langar, this time the village decided to cook a quick snack which can act as an instant boost of energy.Kamaljit Kaur (50), a resident of the village, who has been cooking since morning, said: “Sada ki fayda je kisan veer bhukkhe reh jaan. Sade vaste hi datte hai thand vich. Asi chaunhnde a oh bhukkhe na rehn. (What good are we if our farmer brothers remain empty stomach there. They are standing strong in the cold for us). We are sending them pinnis and langar. It shall give us a lot of satisfaction.”Paramjit Singh, a resident of the dera, said: “We believe wrong Acts have been passed. Farmers have gone in protest against them. We want them to feel strengthened. That’s why we are sending pinnis. We have been sitting here since 3 am. At dawn, 20 men from the village shall leave with over 5 quintal pinnis which we shall give at the bhandara there.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-pinnis-to-power-protesters-at-delhi-border-179563
