04-11-2020||Avneet Kaur||Pandemic fails to subdue Karwa Chauth revelry||Jalandhar, November 3Even though the pandemic threat looms large overhead, it is festival time in India and one cannot be confined to their homes!Though a number of commercial activities were reduced in the markets owing to Covid-19 and residents were avoiding stepping out and buying anything except essential items, the situation now is no longer the same. Married women and girls were seen hitting the markets to purchase items to observe Karwa Chauth on Wednesday.Henna artists were seen sitting at every nook and corner of the city and even salons and boutiques witnessed a huge rush.Besides, heavy crowd was seen at sweetmeat shops as people purchased feniyan, matthi and other fast-related delicacies. Realising the importance of the day, traffic cops were seen urging women drivers to drive sensibly and park vehicles at designated parking lots.Most of the shopkeepers had put up makeshift tents and kept chairs outside their shops to ensure that women were able to apply henna on their hands. Outside popular salons and make-up studios, large LED screens were placed displaying the excitement of women for the fast and their preparations.Husbands were dedicatedly accompanying their wives to mehndi stalls asking designers to apply intricate designs on the hands of their better halves.Ramesh, a henna artist in Model Town area, said: “The patterns usually remain the same. It’s just that we add a little innovation to it every year. With the world getting advance each day, samples of more and more henna designs are asked for by women. I had a collection of over 3,000 designs in my mobile phone. Though the most sought after are Rajasthani, Arabian and floral patterns, some girls even like simple and sophisticated patterns.” He said owing to Covid-19, some clients preferred calling henna artists to their homes. “I received calls from many salons that I work for asking me to visit clients at home to apply henna. However, I preferred having my own stall here and it seems I made the right decision,” he said.Even parlours were offering packages starting around Rs900 to Rs3,000. Messages were also being circulated on social media, in which salon owners were seen promoting Covid-19 precautions as their main highlight.“Karwa Chauth, apart from fasting for your husband’s long life, is about looking good and leaving no stone unturned for a wow look. Be it hair, accessories, trinkets, bindis, sindoor, jewellery, designer clothes or mehndi, everything has to look perfect. Every woman wants to get ready for her husband in the best possible way,” said Manveen Kaur, a resident of Urban Estate here, adding: “Though I was scared initially thinking how the situation would be close to Karwa Chauth, it seems we are now heading back to normal.”Special events to mark the dayAs Karwa Chauth festival is no longer confined to bearing hunger pangs and performing age-old rituals, women would be seen taking part in various events. Shaina Kocchar, proprietor of Raunak Events, said this time she has planned an event named ‘Raunak-ae-Karwa’. “Planning an event was a bit difficult this time, as it had to be done while adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines, but the demand from women and the need to catch up with one another after a long time, made it all possible,” she said, adding: “From different exciting activities, including games and dances, there will be a comic show and an awareness programme for maintaining a good diet during the pandemic.”What’s the buzz like||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pandemic-fails-to-subdue-karwa-chauth-revelry-165871
04-11-2020||---||New ROB, ramps at PAP junction soon||Jalandhar, November 3Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said a mega project worth Rs32 crore was initiated at the PAP junction here on Tuesday. The project, which is aimed at easing traffic flow at this busy point, will be completed by the end of June next year.The DC, who was visiting the project site, said it would facilitate hundreds of commuters to turn towards Amritsar from the BSF Chowk side. “At present, they have to go up to Rama Mandi Chowk for taking a U-turn for Amritsar. The project will fulfil a long-pending demand of city residents,” he said.Thori said a project worth Rs32 crore had already been initiated to build a new railway overbridge (ROB) at the PAP railway crossing. Besides, a new ramp would be constructed to put commuters on the road leading to Amritsar. Another ramp would be constructed on the other side of the bridge on the Amritsar-Ludhiana highway, which would provide an easy access to those people who wanted to enter the city.Yashpal Sharma, project director, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), informed the DC that the modalities for the projects were at an advanced stage of completion and tenders were set to be floated by December. The work would be completed within six months of the issuance of work order, he added. The project director further added that by the end of June 2021, the project would be completed.The DC further said another project to beautify traffic junction at the PAP Chowk was underway which would cost around Rs 7 crore. Thori said to ensure the smooth flow of inbound and outbound traffic at PAP Chowk and minimise road accidents, a huge roundabout was coming up there.Besides, other beautification works were also being undertaken. He said various types of fully grown trees and plants were being planted at the roundabout which would give it an attractive look. The DC said a modular rainwater harvesting system was developed beneath the roundabout which was first of its kind in the state. It would improve underground water level in its surrounding areas. Others present were SDM Rahul Sindhu, SDM Jai Inder Singh and Assistant Commissioner Hardeep Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-rob-ramps-at-pap-junction-soon-165872
04-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Now, licence must to burst crackers at marriage palaces||Hoshiarpur, November 3Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Tuesday ordered that there would be no bursting of firecrackers at any wedding without getting prior licence from the authority concerned.Issuing detailed directions under Explosives Rules, 2008, the DC said each and every marriage palace should follow rules without any fail in the larger public interest.Riyait said every marriage palace should obtain a licence for fireworks and the owner of marriage palace will be responsible for the licence. She said there should be fixed open place for fireworks in palaces, which should at least be 30 metres away from the tent, main road and parking place. There should be no crossing of power lines above the place prescribed for bursting or firecrackers, the DC said, adding that water should be available at the site besides having requisite fire extinguishers near the spot.The permission should be granted by the District Magistrate only after obtaining a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the Police and Fire Departments for the place where the firecrackers are to be set off by the owners of the marriage palace.Riyait said no laxity, in ensuring the compliance of explosives rules, would be tolerated at any cost.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-licence-must-to-burst-crackers-at-marriage-palaces-165873
04-11-2020||A jay Kumar||Only shades of grey rule his peak days||“This time, the number of customers has greatly reduced than last year,” he says. Ajay felt that it stems from the dwindling income of common people who are trying to save on unnecessary expenses. Hailing from Agra, he had chosen Amritsar to display his skills after a suggestion from his relatives. An artist will stay only at that place where his art is valued and handsomely paid. “So, we decided to come here about seven years ago. We specially procure mehndi from Rajasthan for its intrinsic qualities,” he shares.His brother Vinod accompanies him in the work ran from a rented shop. They had reopened only in September to a spiritless start. Before this, both had been living on savings for over five months during the lockdown period. “Though the profession of applying mehndi has become an year-round job, its peak season commences with the marriage season. So, four months duration, starting from October, can rightly be termed as the high time.In addition, this time around they have to work under changed circumstances owing to the prevailing pandemic. “As you can see I am wearing gloves and a face mask, besides keeping a sanitiser. Even then I specifically ask customers to keep some distance,” Ajay seems well wary of the lurking threat of virus. — Neeraj Bagga||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/only-shades-of-grey-rule-his-peak-days-165874
04-11-2020||---||Bioremediation to help manage garbage waste at Wariana dump||Jalandhar, November 3After years of meetings and discussions for the past nearly a decade, it has now been decided that the growing mounds of 8-lakh metric tons of garbage at the Wariana village, along the Kapurthala road, would be done away with through the bioremediation method. The project would be undertaken at a cost of Rs 41 crore and would be accomplished in three years.A special monitoring committee constituted by the National Green Tribunal and renowned environmentalist Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal visited the site today along with Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori. The visit was the outcome of the recent meeting held under the chairmanship of Justice Jasbir Singh (retd), where different environment issues related to Jalandhar were deliberated upon. The DC, accompanied by Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal, took stock of the progress of works at Wariana, Basti Peer Daad and Pholariwal plants.After visiting dump site, the team reached the Basti Peer Daad sewerage treatment plant followed by the plant at Pholariwal. The DC also pointed that the capacity of the Basti Peer Daad unit, which is based on the New SBR Technology, would be increased by 15 MLD, which would take the plant capacity to 30 MLD. He said a delusion tank was also being installed for common effluent treatment plant (CETP) of the leather complex to comply with the orders of High Court and a Civil Miscellaneous Petition is also being filed in the court to ensure resumption of plant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bioremediation-to-help-manage-garbage-waste-at-wariana-dump-165876
04-11-2020||Our Correspondent---||2-day virtual PTM ends at government schools||Jalandhar, November 3 The two-day parent-teacher meeting (PTM) for the students of government schools of Classes I to XII, concluded on Tuesday with Education Secretary Krishan Kumar joining the meet virtually to take stock of various activities being conducted in the schools. He also interacted with parents and took their feedback regarding online education. In the virtual meet held by the Education Secretary, as many as 12 schools of Jalandhar and Nawanshahr including Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Nehru Garden, Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Hazara, GSSS PAP, GSSS Dhani Pind, GSSS Lambra, GSS Shankar, GGSSS Bir Bansia, GSSS Nawanshahr, GSSS Mukandpur, GSSS Saroya, GSSS Rattewal and GSSS Thopia, participated. The principals of the school apprised the Education Secretary of various achievements their respective schools have achieved and how well their students have performed in the recently organised activities. The Education Secretary also took stock of activities being conducted under the Punjab Achievement Survey (PAS), and the preparation going on for the upcoming competitive and scholarship exams like National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) and The National Means-cum- Merit Scholarship Examination (NMMS), respectively. He also interacted with the parents via meeting and took their feedback about online education and lectures being streamed on TV/radio, social media platforms such as YouTube and WhatsApp and other applications and the use of Punjab Educare app. He also sought suggestions from parents to further improve the standard of education in the state and the issues they have been facing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-day-virtual-ptm-ends-at-government-schools-165877
04-11-2020||---||Appointment of Prof  Buta Singh as VC of tech varsity hailed||Kapurthala, November 3 The officers, faculty and staff of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University are elated over the appointment of Prof Buta Singh Sidhu, who was appointed as the Vice-Chancellor of Maharaja Ranjit Singh State Technical University (MRSSTU) of Bathinda.  Prof Buta Singh Sidhu had served as Dean Academic for a long time at IK Gujral Punjab Technical University.  Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma, VC, IK Gujral Punjab Technical University, also expressed happiness over Prof Buta Singh’s appointment as Bathinda University’s VC. Sending a congratulatory message on behalf of the university, he said it was a matter of pride for IKGPTU that Dr Buta Singh had become the VC of Bathinda University.  Dr Sharma congratulated the entire IKGPTU family. He also felt proud that he as well as Dr Buta Singh Sidhu have been the alumni of the same institution — Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, Ludhiana.  On behalf of the University Academic Department, Dean Academic Prof Vikas Chawla said Dr Buta Singh Sidhu was Dean Academic at IKGPTU from March 2010 to October 2016. He said both technical universities of the state would benefit from his appointment and in future both universities would work together in the interest of academic competence of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/appointment-of-prof-buta-singh-as-vc-of-tech-varsity-hailed-165878
04-11-2020||Jalandhar||Kapurthala's Rail Coach Factory sets a new record||The Rail Coach Factory (RCF), Kapurthala, has been constantly setting new records in coach production. After delivering highest Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) coaches in July and September, this production unit has achieved another milestone of record per day (LHB out-turn of 5.88 coaches) in October 2020.Rajinder Singh, Senior Publicity Inspector, Rail Coach Factory, said, “Due to Covid-19, the world is facing a sharp decline in industrial growth, but the RCF has substantially enhanced coach production. We have converted this setback to an opportunity.”He said, “Regardless of suppressed resources of manpower and supply chain in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the RCF managed to enhance its production growth constantly in the last few months. This constant outturn growth is more vital as it has proven a counter reply to industrial retardation arisen due to contagion.”Notably, in the financial year 2020-21, the RCF had been producing LHB variants requiring more production time compared to conventional ones. But still the RCF has kept on achieving comparatively improved outturn. In the first seven months, the RCF produced 751 coaches. The staff believes that production escalation has also brought continuous growth of ancillary industries and generation of local employment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthalas-rail-coach-factory-sets-a-new-record-165879
04-11-2020||Ajay Joshi---||Parking lots wear a deserted look due to farmers’ agitation||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, November 3 While the railway passengers have been inconvenienced due to the ‘Rail Roko Abhiyan’ while displaying their dissent towards the controversial farm laws, parking lot operators outside the city railway station have also started feeling the pinch due to the outrage by the farmer outfits. It has taken a toll on the income of parking lot owners.  When the railway services were resumed on June 1, after three months of strict lockdown, the parking lot owners and workers were also hoping for their life to get back on track.  It’s been over 40 days that the parking lots have been wearing a deserted look. While the parking area of the four-wheelers is completely closed, only three workers are presently managing the vacant two-wheeler parking lot. The workers said they were paid only to take care of the parking lots. Out of 13 workers, 10 were also laid off between April and May due to zero business.  Sunil Kumar (24), one of the supervisors, who has been working at the parking lot for the past eight years, said, this was for the first time that the parking space was lying vacant. “Only old and damaged vehicles have been parked here currently. The only parking lot is also likely to be closed in the coming days as the protest has been been extended and train services have been halted. With people remaining inside during the curfew, we didn’t get any visitors and the owners subsequently suffered losses in lakhs,” added Sunil.  A native of Nepal, Sunil lives in the parking lot only and fearing its closure, he is worried about finding a new job besides an accommodation, which he says wouldn’t be affordable as he also has to send a major part of his earning to his family back home.  Bhola Kumar (21), who works during the night shift is also on the same page and wants immediate resumption of trains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/parking-lots-wear-a-deserted-look-due-to-farmers-agitation-165880
04-11-2020||Jalandhar||O&M ad hoc panel member resigns over being ‘ignored’||Within less than a month, a member of another ad hoc committee resigned as they felt ignored by MC officials here on Tuesday. Recently, the lack of adequate number of safai karamcharis in the wards had led to the resignation of Satinderjeet Kaur, a member of the Health and Sanitation Ad Hoc Committee.On Tuesday, Chanderjit Kaur, a member of the Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Ad hoc Committee, resigned from the committee citing that there was no point of remaining a part of a committee when nobody was going to listen to their members. She submitted her resignation to committee chairman Pawan Kumar.She said, “On several occasions, I had been sharing the problems of residents with the officials of the O&M branch. The residents are in trouble because of poor sewer system in the city and I do not know where the files have lost because there is no solution to this issue for years. Only work orders are passed and then everything stops. There are several examples where I have raised such issues, but who listens? I cannot work in such an environment and I resigned,” said Chanderjit Kaur, who is also councillor of Ward No.73.On October 10, Satinderjeet Kaur resigned. In the resignation letter, she had written that if she could not work for her own ward as a councillor, how she would look after the entire city as a member of the committee. Satinderjeet Kaur said hers was the biggest ward in the city and still she had only 10 safai karamcharis. Ward No.78 councillor Jagdish Samrai had also told the health and sanitation committee chairman Balraj Thakur that if they did not get enough number of safai karamcharis for their own wards, he would resign. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/om-ad-hoc-panel-member-resigns-over-being-ignored-165881
04-11-2020||Jalandhar||Kin of mishap victims get Rs4L compensation||The district committee of Punjab Victim Compensation Scheme – 2017, formed for the purpose of considering applications of victims in criminal matters, for grant of compensation, held its meeting on Tuesday and passed final awards for grant of compensation to the dependants of persons who died in road accidents. Three such cases were finalised by the committee and awards of Rs1 lakh each were passed in two matters while award of Rs 2 lakh compensation was passed in another matter. The meeting was led by District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Rupinderjit Chahal. The chairman and secretary District Legal Services also discussed two more matters for grant of compensation to minor victims of sexual offences and passed final order for grant of compensation of Rs 2.5 lakh each to the two minor victims.  The secretary DLSA and well known social worker Parminder Beri are also members of the Victim Compensation Committee.  Chahal informed on the occasion that the government had formulated schemes for providing compensation to persons suffering serious injuries and losses in some matters of serious criminal offences. She also stated that a separate compensation scheme for women victims/survivors of sexual and other serious crimes, was implemented by the government as per the directions of Supreme Court of India. Toll free number (1968) of Punjab State Legal Services Authority could be contacted. Secretary District Legal Services Authority, Jaapinder Singh, further stated on the occasion that Rs one crore two lakh has so far been paid as compensation to victims of criminal offences from January 2020 to till date, Rs17 lakah has been paid to dependants of persons who died in road accidents, Rs 73,25,000 was paid to minor victims of sexual offences , Rs 3,75,000 paid to the victim of rape and Rs 8,00,000 paid to a victim of acid attack. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kin-of-mishap-victims-get-rs4l-compensation-165882
04-11-2020||---||Students bring laurels||Jalandhar, November 3 Students of the PG Bioinformatics Department of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya got placed in various posts and have brought laurels to the college.  Isha Monga, who did her graduation and post graduation in bioinformatics from HMV, completed her PhD in bioinformatics and is currently working as a computational biologist in the Department of Dermatology, Columbia University, USA.  Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated both the alumni and the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-bring-laurels-165883
04-11-2020||---||Karwa Chauth celebrated virtually||Jalandhar, November 3To apprise the students of the significance of Indian festivals, the Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions celebrated Karwa Chauth today. Three activities — thali making, nail-art and mehendi competition— were held on the occasion. The students participated in the activities enthusiastically and showcased their talent in all three disciplines.Dr Shailesh Tripathi (Group Director, IHGI) congratulated the winners of all events and motivated the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/karwa-chauth-celebrated-virtually-165884
04-11-2020||Jalandhar||6 arrested for making fake IDs||Traders seek settlementJalandhar: Days after traders raised their voice during a meeting with Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora, they hit at the government again on Monday saying that despite repeated assurances, no announcement was made, which was not acceptable. Notably, the Industries Minister had said that the Punjab Government was set to unveil a one-time settlement policy (OTS) within a few days for resolving the long-pending issue of C-forms and other issues raised by industrialists in the state. But to no avail. They said there was a lot of pressure and mental harassment at the hands of the Excise and Taxation Department as the latter was pressurising them for VAT assessment. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-arrested-for-making-fake-ids-165885
04-11-2020||---||C&D waste mgmt project key agenda||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 3After a gap of eight months, the General House meeting of the Municipal Corporation will be held at Regent Park here on November 6. Earlier, the meeting was to be held on March 3 but because of the pandemic, the same could not be held. It is for the first time that the meeting is going to be held outside the MCJ complex. There are several projects which could not see the light of day as no House meeting was held. Some important agendas will be discussed in the meeting this time.One of the key agendas to be proposed in the meeting is the construction and demolition (C&D) waste management project under the Smart City Mission. The total project cost approved by the Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC) is Rs 6.37 crore.Under the project, the MC will provide for the establishment of processing plants and for receiving, storing and segregation of C&D waste. The total area for C&D waste storage, processing and recycling is 3 acres. The electricity, water and sewerage connections will be provided by the MC, apart from carrying out the C&D waste collection and transportation to the processing site.Another agenda to be taken up will be a solid waste management plan for the ABD area under the Smart City Mission. Under the project, the collection, storage and transportation of waste has been planned to be done separately. The biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste would be collected and transported on a daily basis and the biodegradable would be transported to designated bio-composting sites for processing into manure which will be utilised.Apart from this, another important agenda to be discussed will be no-objection certificate (NOC) for installation, operation and maintenance of automatic sanitary napkin vending machines and electric incinerators for five years at various locations in Jalandhar under the Smart City project.The locations will be government secondary and senior secondary school for girls for which an NOC has not been given by the District Education Officer yet. Other locations where as many as 65 sanitary napkin machines will be installed are public toilets, including three rain baseras at the railway station, Damoria railway under-bridge and Babrik Chowk. Besides, 40 under-construction toilets have also been included which are likely to be completed in the next two to three months.Two sanitary napkin machines will be installed at public/civic toilets and one machine each will be installed at Hansraj Badminton Stadium and Sports School, Jalandhar. Besides, two machines will be installed at Gandhi Vanita Ashram, Kapurthala Road. Notably, the NOCs for these locations have been given by the authorities concerned.Other issues to be raised||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cd-waste-mgmt-project-key-agenda-165888
