05-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Help pours in for Jalandhar’s Kusum after her brave attempt to fight snatchers for her phone||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 5A day after The Tribune published the report “Dad toiled hard for phone, couldn’t lose it”, enormous help has started pouring in for the 15-year-old Kusum, who had fought two bike-borne youths who tried to snatch her phone.After the report, the correspondent received several calls to help the little Braveheart. People have offered her mobile phones, laptop and tabs.Kusum has already received a new smart phone and she will get a laptop this week.The report was widely circulated on social media as well and shared on Twitter by celebrities namely Varun Grover and Richa Chadha, and cartoonist Satish among others, and that is how everyone got to know about the actual reason why Kusum couldn’t let the snatchers take away her phone.Elated Kusum, while speaking with The Tribune, said she was thankful to everyone who was offering her help.“Now, I just want to concentrate on my studies and the NCC. I will be able to study properly now on the big screen,” she said, adding that everyone who was calling, is praising her exemplary courage.She will be discharged by the hospital today evening.Sadhu Ram, Kusum’s father, said he had received nearly Rs 55,000 from good Samaritans. “I am still getting many calls and some took my address so that they could send a laptop for my daughter,” Sadhu Ram said.Kusum said: “The smartphone didn’t come easy. My father toiled hard to purchase it after schools were shut and classes went online due to the pandemic. It’s priceless.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/help-pours-in-for-jalandhars-kusum-after-her-brave-attempt-to-fight-snatchers-for-her-phone-136759
05-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Unsung heroes step out of their comfort zone to help their pupils||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 4From visiting students personally to check on them to making announcements from gurdwaras to guide the ones without smartphones, teachers have been doing their bit to ensure students do not lose out on studies. The teachers in the rural areas have been going all out to help their pupilsTeaching was no cakewalk earlier too, but the pandemic made it all the more demanding. As the conventional methods of teaching took a beating, the ones who had to toil the most were those teaching in rural areas. Trying to keep in touch with students who don’t own smartphones, they are ensuring nobody is left out. This Teacher’s Day, let us meet two teachers serving in remote areas despite hiccups.Sarabjeet Singh, the only teacher at Government Primary School, Dhakka Basti,faced various struggles to reach out to students. Last year, Dhakka Basti was the worst hit village in the region and Singh was commuting in a boat to teach students. Due to the poor condition of the school building, he was taking classes at a student’s house located nearby.And this year, he is facing another kind of challenge. He said as many as 28 students study in the school and 17 don’t have smart phones and they face problems because of it. “The parents share how they cannot afford the phones. I have never experienced this before, but, still, being a teacher, I feel that it is my duty to ensure that the students are studying, no matter what,” Singh said.He said whenever he goes to school, he also visits the homes of the students and checks their notebooks.Meet another teacher Deepak Kumar, who teaches at Government Primary School, Mandala Channa. Kumar has found an interesting way to reach out to the students. He said since most of the students don’t have access to online teaching, he makes announcements on the gurdwara to ask the students to note the homework from other fellow students who have easy access to the smartphones.“As teachers, we are feeling helpless, we don’t have any alternative or option, but to continue like this amid the pandemic. But at the same time, I don’t want any of my students to suffer. I am paying visits to their homes and give them notes,” he said. Sarabjeet Singh, the only teacher at Government Primary School, Dhakka Basti,faced various struggles to reach out to students. Last year, Dhakka Basti was the worst hit village in the region and Singh was commuting in a boat to teach students. Due to the poor condition of the school building, he was taking classes at a student’s house located nearby.Deepak Kumar teaches at Government Primary School, Mandala Channa. Kumar has found an interesting way to reach out to the students. He said since most of the students don’t have access to online teaching, he makes announcements from the gurdwara, asking students to note the homework from other students with smartphones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unsung-heroes-step-out-of-their-comfort-zone-to-help-their-pupils-136559
05-09-2020||Stories that inspire||Punjab Educare app: Meet the brains behind storehouse of all study material||Deepkamal KaurTribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 4In the ongoing era of online education, a bunch of four teachers from government schools in the district have done a commendable job. Having no previous knowledge or qualification in technology, they have developed a mobile application and a portal which are proving to be a big help for not only government school students in the state but also pupils of private schools and those from other states.Punjab Educare app, which has recorded six lakh downloads in just 1.5 months, has transformed online education for students of the state. Sharing the concept behind developing the app, Jaswinder Singh (54), who teaches at Government Middle School, Rampur, said: “When we used to send question papers and other study materials to students on WhatsApp, many of them would ask them to resend the files as they had deleted these erroneously. Many students also told us that since they were receiving a lot of files daily, it was difficult to locate relevant uploads when they needed them again. So, we realised that there is a need to make a database of study material, index it and upload it chapter-wise. Being a mathematics mentor, I organised all data for my students.” Jaswinder said he shared his idea with mentors for other subjects and they, too, started organising study material for all classes subject-wise.Chander Shekhar, who is mentor for English and SST and teaches at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Ladowali Road, too, was among pioneers. Harjit Bawa, who is a mentor for science and is based at Government School for Boys at Goraya, also did the same for his subject. Deepak, a teacher from Government School, Noorpur, also joined in.“The first thing that we did was to combine all our works and launch a PPPP Jalandhar portal and a mobile application. The app that was launched in April got 60,000 hits and all teachers from Jalandhar began sharing their work, videos, resources and assignments with us. When the Education Secretary, Krishan Kumar, saw our work, he asked us to take the concept further and plan a common platform for the entire state. We were really happy with the recognition that our work got and worked hard spending hours on YouTube, getting ourselves acquainted with more nuances of designing portal and apps and making it even better,” said the foursome.The teachers said they were excited when the Education Secretary launched their app in mid-July. “He got it organised well and ensured that all teachers from Punjab send their resources to a dedicated centralised team, which finalised the resources to be uploaded. Then there is a team that monitors the uploaded content and ensures that every answer or sum contained in it is correct and has been properly put up, leaving no room for any mistake,” said Jaswinder.The teachers said: “From the kind of hits the app is getting, it is clear that even private school students and government school students who have migrated to Jharkhand, Bihar, UP and Himachal Pradesh are also using it for study. The entire work has been properly arranged for Classes I to XII. There is a special team monitoring the work flow for Board classes to ensure that the children get the best stuff from best teachers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-educare-app-meet-the-brains-behind-storehouse-of-all-study-material-136560
05-09-2020||Our Correspondent---||4 masked men loot Rs 5.7 lakh from P&S Bank at gunpoint||Hoshiarpur, September 4  Four masked robbers looted Rs 5.7 lakh at gunpoint from Punjab and Sind Bank branch in Bhagowal village on Friday. At the time of incident the security guard of the bank was not available there. He had gone to fill diesel in the generator installed on the roof of an adjoining shop. On hearing sound of siren he returned to the bank. The police reached the spot after getting information and scrutinised footage of CCTV to look for clues.   Bank manager Preetam Kumar informed the police that four robbers on two motorcycles reached the  bank at 2.35 pm.  Three robbers entered the bank while one remained outside on his bike. The robbers took out their revolvers and asked the cashier to hand over the cash. After collecting cash they fled on their motorcycles. After the incident the police  were informed about the robbery. A police team, led by DSP Jagdish Attri, reached the spot. Later SSP and SP (Investigation) also visited the spot. DSP Attri said police were making efforts to identify the robbers. The Sadar police have registered a case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-masked-men-loot-rs-5-7-lakh-from-ps-bank-at-gunpoint-136561
05-09-2020||---||Kusum set to be brand envoy of women panel of Punjab||Jalandhar, September 4In yet another accolade coming Kusum Kumari’s way, Punjab State Women Commission Chairperson Manisha Gulati has announced to appoint her as the brand ambassador of the commission. Kusum’s bravery gathered appreciations after when she fought snatchers few days back.Gulati praised the girl for her valour and said she had talked to her over the phone and congratulated her parents for the bravery she had shown to combat the miscreants. “We will issue a letter from the commission. Once she recovers and the Covid-19 pandemic abates, we will also invite her to several events to let her share her experience with the girls from her age group,” she said.“I am also in the process of writing to the Punjab Police to arrange for a special training course for the girl. She has proved that she is bold. We need to embolden her further. Her act should inspire every girl of Punjab,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kusum-set-to-be-brand-envoy-of-women-panel-of-punjab-136562
05-09-2020||Hoshiarpur||Essential shops to open on weekend in Hoshiarpur||Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Friday reiterated that all the essential activities and services would remain open during weekend curfew on Saturdays and Sundays. These include grocery shops, medicine, vegetables and fruits shops or vendors will also be allowed to operate till 6.30 pm during weekend curfew.The DC directed all enforcement officials of civil and police administration to maintain the same. The DC further pointed out that the movement of persons and students in connection with all kind of examinations, entrance tests conducted by universities, boards, public service commissions and other institutions shall be permitted.The shops and malls will remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays but shops and malls dealing with essential commodities will remain open till 6.30 pm throughout the week. — OC4 deaths; 206 fresh cases in JalandharJalandhar: The district reported 206 fresh cases, taking the tally to 7,376 on Friday. Besides, with four more deaths due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the toll has risen to 188.Total samples collected: 68,996Negative: 61,664Positive: 7,376Active: 2,463Discharged: 4,725Deceased: 188Results awaited: 717||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/essential-shops-to-open-on-weekend-in-hoshiarpur-136563
05-09-2020||Jalandhar||Punjab Education Department to dedicate Teacher’s Day to online education||Though the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic has forced the closure of schools in March this year, but it has failed to dampen the spirit of teachers in Department of School Education Punjab, which conceptualised ‘Ghar Baithe Sikhiya’ programme to cater to educational needs as well as hopes and aspirations of the students and their parents.  The Education Department, coupled with enthusiasm of the school teachers has virtually transformed the unprecedented challenge into opportunity to prove its mettle. The Punjab Education Department has decided to dedicate the ‘’Virtual Celebration of Teachers Day’ to commemorate the birth anniversary of former president of India, Dr Radhakrishnan, to the relentless dedicated efforts being put in by the school teachers during the present era of unprecedented pandemic.  To salute the zeal and enthusiasm of the teachers to reach out the students via different modes of digital applications, the students have also been gearing up to express their gratitude towards their teachers by sending their messages through audio video, selfies via different digital modes, including Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp, YouTube and Instagram. The department has exhorted the students to use hashtags - “#TeachersFromPunjabAqy”, “ #ThankYouPunjabTeachers” while sending their messages on social media .  Under Ghar Baithe Sikhiya programme, the Punjab Education Department roped in National Swayam Prabha TV channel, DD Punjabi TV channel, AIR channel along with some other radio channels as well as resorting to the latest applications of information technology, including to reach out to students.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-education-department-to-dedicate-teachers-day-to-online-education-136566
05-09-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar-based portal designer features in India Book of Records||Adding another feather to his cap of achievements, city-based entrepreneur Sandeep Kumar Gupta has managed to get his name registered in the India Book of Records. Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla also appreciated Sandeep for his achievement at his Chandigarh office on Thursday.   The industrialist launched web portals on August 8 in which all Punjab 13 MPs, 117 MLAs and councillors were included. Information related to MPs, MLAs and councillors is available on the portals for the convenience of the public.  The portals were launched under the Bridge Gap Society NGO in which the aim of this society is to bridge the GAP (Governance access to public) between MP/ MLAs and public digitally.  “It was on the basis of my record that I have received this new recognition from India Book of Records just three days back”, said the industrialist.  Founder and director of Sakaar Micro Solutions Private Limited. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-based-portal-designer-features-in-india-book-of-records-136567
05-09-2020|| ---||Farmer unions to block traffic against agricultural ordinances||Jalandhar, September 4 As many as nine farmer organisations on Friday held a meeting under the banner of  ‘Coordination committee’ against the three ordinances passed by the Central Cabinet.  The farmers say these ordinances will ruin them as the Central Government wants to “end minimum support prices” in a phased manner. The committee has announced that they will block roads and highways in Punjab a day before the Parliament Session when the decision on the ordinance will be taken.  Satnam Sahni, spokesperson of the Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee, said, “Those MPs, who will support the ordinance, will be boycotted in Punjab”.  Members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union Ekta Sidhupur, BKU Rajewal, BKU (Lakhowal), BKU (Doaba), Indian Farmer Association, Punjab Kisan Manch and BKU Mansa participated in the meeting.   Recently in Phagwara, farmers in around 500 tractors by putting black flags and anti-ordinance banners on their vehicles moved from the grain market to the residence of Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Som Parkash.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmer-unions-to-block-traffic-against-agricultural-ordinances-136568
05-09-2020||---||Scholarship scam: SAD leaders barge into MP’s house, booked||Jalandhar, September 4While protesting against the multi-crore scholarship ‘scam’ outside the residence of MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary amid heavy rain on Friday afternoon, some Shiromani Akali Dal activists barged into Chaudhary’s house. They were later booked by the police.Former Senior Deputy Mayor Kamaljeet Bhatia even had a minor scuffle with security guards deployed at the MP’s residence when they resisted his entry. Bhatia reportedly went inside to check if the MP or his son or Congress leader Vikramjit Chaudhary was inside. He said he wanted to quiz him over his stoic silence over the issue as a Dalit leader from Jalandhar. Though SAD spokesperson Pawan Tinu was also participated in the demonstration, he stayed outside the house.The protesters raised slogans of “Sadhu Singh chor hai” and asked the Jalandhar MP to explain his silence over the issue. They said the MP should have condemned the “siphoning off” of SC scholarship funds to the tune of RsRs 63 crore, besides demanding release of Rs309 crore lying with the state government for the past ten months.Pawan Tinu said Santokh Singh had been elected from a reserved seat but had betrayed the Dalit community by remaining a mute spectator to the discrimination meted out to them. He said besides the loot of their scholarship amount, Dalit students who were awaiting award of degrees as institutes had refused to give them certificates till the scholarship funds were released.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/scholarship-scam-sad-leaders-barge-into-mps-house-booked-136569
05-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||Wildlife expert hasn’t been lying back in a chair amid pandemic||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 4Beware! it can get really wild out there. And wildlife expert Nikhil Senger has been at the heart of it. In his 14 years of experience, he has been bitten by a snake, attacked by a civet cat, wild boars and Sambars. Dedicating his life to the occupation, he has rescued 7,000 to 8,000 animals so far.While the lockdown has shut shops for many, his hasn't taken a back seat. On the contrary, the work has only shot up. Driving his pick up vehicle across the jungles and villages of Punjab, he has been spending quality Covid time rescuing wild snakes, leopards among others and taking them to the safety of the jungle. He even documents wild cats and boasts of creating a comprehensive map on animals — created via meticulous GPS mapping of wild animals he has been rescuing in the past many years."The frequency of calls for rescue have increased. In a day I get five to seven calls, but honestly going about more than four rescues per day is hard. We are also conducting GPS mapping of all our snakes which gives an idea as to which areas are more susceptible to having larger snake populations. This is helped us understand snake behaviour more too," says Nikhil, who is a wildlife conservationist, researcher, rescuer, honorary wildlife warden and a painter.During the time of restrictions imposed, he has also employed his town team of men with help from villagers to clean out garbage and litter from the picturesque forests of the Shivaliks and Nawanshahr and Hoshiarpur. Recently, he rescued several ducks from a farm here and a cobra snuggled up in a household too. Apart from this, he has discovered two rare species in the region as well - leopard gecko and black-headed royal snake. Nikhil says, "So far only Karnataka snakes' venom has been used to treat a snake bite. But after the findings of a research, venoms from Punjab's snakes could be employed in local snake bite cases."Caught unawaresUnaware of his calling before a foray into the jungles made him pursue the path after graduating, Nikhil never had an inkling that one day he would become a wildlife expert. However, his parents' moved abroad, while he was still in his 20s, gave him time to find his calling and independence. Tempted by the wild an increasing forays into the Nawanshahr and Shivalik forests led him to an unusual experience.Spent Covid time rescuing animalsWhile the lockdown has shut shops for many, he hasn’t rested all this while. On the contrary, the work has only shot up. Driving his pick up vehicle across the jungles and villages of Punjab, he has been spending quality Covid time rescuing wild snakes, leopards among others and taking them to the safety of the jungle. He even documents wild cats and boasts of creating a comprehensive map on animals — created via meticulous GPS mapping of wild animals he has been rescuing in the past many years. He has been bitten by a snake, attacked by a civet cat, wild boars and Sambars. During the time of restrictions imposed, he has also employed his town team of men with help from villagers to clean out garbage and litter from the picturesque forests of the Shivaliks and Nawanshahr and Hoshiarpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wildlife-expert-hasnt-been-lying-back-in-a-chair-amid-pandemic-136571
05-09-2020||Dr Jasleen Sethi (53) is the District Women Congress president of Jalandhar. She is also the councillor of Ward No. 20 of the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation. Prior to starting her political career in 2004||‘Cured of virus, I will donate my plasma’||I got tested on August 5 and my reports came on August 7. By then, I had got my X-ray done, the reports of which showed I was normal. I was then consulting Dr SP Dogra, who unfortunately passed away owing to Covid-19 last week. Just as my positive reports came, Dr Dogra advised me to go for a CT scan.I got to know that my infection was not a mild one as I had thought it to be. Covid had infected 50 per cent lower lobe of lungs on the right side and 25 per cent in lower lobe on the left side. It was this report that made me worried and I began with my advised dose of antibiotics and multi-vitamins. Though I had isolated myself up to a large extent even before the test report came, I went into complete isolation, shifting all my stuff in a room on the first floor. I took good care of myself taking herbal extracts, lots of fruits, including musambi (sweet lime), apples and papayas, Ayush extracts and some ayurvedic tablets too.After testing positive, I was really worried about my 77-year-old mother. But thankfully, everyone else in my family, including my domestic help tested negative. So, there was no problem managing the house during this time. He used to cook food and leave it on a table outside my door. I used to feel a little breathlessness in between. It was then that I realised that I should not exert myself. Again one day, while walking up a ramp, I felt uneasiness in breathing. But thankfully, I only got alert but did not panic and it never came again. I, however, kept on measuring oxygen levels on my oxymeter, which was always at an optimal level.While most Covid-19 patients talk of having lost their sensation, I retained it completely. Now, that I have fully recovered, I still feel some fatigue and numbness in my body at times. So, I am continuing with my multi-vitamins. Now that I have been cured, I have resolved to donate my plasma.(As told to Deepkamal Kaur)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cured-of-virus-i-will-donate-my-plasma-136572
05-09-2020||On Wednesday||Son ends life after mother tests +ve||SVEEP, virus awareness go hand in handThe Systematic Voters Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) have begun in the district under which the residents are encouraged to cast votes. Interestingly, the campaign is also being used as an opportunity to make everyone aware of the pandemic. Nodal officer of SVEEP has constituted teams that go to the rural areas and make people aware of the distancing and other mandates as released by the government.Posters teach how to wear masksMany can be seen not wearing the mask properly. They only cover their mouths and not nose, which is not the right way to don it. As a result, the district administration has released a poster showing how a person should do it the right way. The posters are to be used as hoardings as well so that every passer-by could see the same.Students get safety tipsIn Nawanshahr, when teachers take classes online with the students, they also discuss topics other than that of studies. Subjects like how to be safe amid the pandemic are also taught. On the instructions of Shena Aggarwal, Deputy Commssioner (DC) Nawanshahr, various awareness drives are going on in the district||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/son-ends-life-after-mother-tests-ve-136574
05-09-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Online admission norms being flouted, complain schools||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 4Online education has come with problems of its own. In a new revelation, it has been found that many government school students have been attempting to jump to a higher class, breaking the class continuity and attending online classes with their seniors. Such cases have especially come at government schools which have seen higher fresh enrollment recently.The authorities of several government schools in Jalandhar said they had found a few cases of this nature. The school principals said as many parents were approaching them for admission, they were giving provisional admission to children till the time they furnished their previous records.Later, during regular admission, as they sought details of previous schools and verified the same through the Aadhaar-linked accounts, they found instances where parents attempted to promote their children to a class one year higher than the standard they should have ideally gone to.Maninder Thukral, Principal of Government Junior Model School, Jalandhar, said, “I have come across three such instances where parents attempted to promote their child to a class a level higher than he should have ideally gone to. A parent, whose ward should have ideally gone to Class IX, got him enrolled in Class X and all this while, he had been taking classes with Class X students. When we were to send his registration for the board examination, we sought his result card for Class IX.He admitted that he never went to Class IX and was directly jumping to Class X from Class VIII.” She pointed out that there were similar two cases in lower classes.Digital programme for parentsTo provide e-content to Anganwadi children, Punjab Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister Aruna Chaudhary will launch ‘Digital Parent Margdarshak Programme’ on September 5 on Teachers’ Day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-admission-norms-being-flouted-complain-schools-136403
