05-07-2020||Jalandhar||3 held with illicit liquor||Two held with 14-gm heroinNakodar: The sadar police arrested two youths with 14-gram heroin. SHO Vinod Kumar said ASI Ashwani Kumar, who was on patrol duty with two more cops, nabbed the accused near Chakalla village. After seeing the police, the suspects, who were on bike, panicked and started throwing the drug packets. The accused have been identified as Rajpreet Singh, alias Raja, of Shankar village and Narendra Kumar, alias Narinder, of the sane village. While 6-gram heroin was recovered from Raja, 8-gm heroin was recovered from Narendra. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-held-with-illicit-liquor-108877
05-07-2020||Jalandhar||MP writes to Capt, seeks complex for holding trade expos||Taking cognizance of the demand by the industrialists of the region, Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary on Saturday wrote to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh requesting him to construct a common community complex so that trade exhibitions and business activities could be conducted.Various industrialists and associations, including Jalandhar Industrial Focal Point (Extn) Association, had approached the senior Congress leader expressing the need for a complex, where exhibitions and trade related activities could be organised.In the letter, the MP wrote: “Jalandhar was an internationally known industrial hub providing employment to lakhs of people. But due to the lack of a dedicated space, the industry associations have been forced to organise industrial exhibitions at Jalandhar Grain Market, where more than 200 industries participate with a footfall of 30,000 including students, every year.”The MP argued that a grain market was not a suitable place for organising trade exhibitions and the city needed a big complex with auditoriums, where business activities could be organised smoothly. He said such a space would also help in boosting business in Jalandhar and Doaba area of Punjab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-writes-to-capt-seeks-complex-for-holding-trade-expos-108876
05-07-2020||---||1-kg heroin, car seized; two held||Phagwara, July 4The CIA police staff Phagwara on Saturday arrested two persons and seized 1 kg of heroin, a Swift Dzire car and gold worth Rs9.1 lakh from their possession.The suspects, Sarabjit Singh Loga of Mohalla Mehtabgarh, Kapurthala, and Varun Kumar of Sarpanch Colony, Kartarpur, were booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) case and had been on run. The police received a tip-off that they had absconded to Rajasthan. A case had been registered against them on May 16 under Sections 21, 22, 27A, 29, 61, 85 of the NDPS Act and Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC and the Epidemic Diseases Act at the Kotwali police station in Kapurthala.Inspector Harmeek Singh, CIA staff incharge, said that his team had nabbed the suspects from Jaipur yesterday. He said that 214 gm of gold purchased through drug money of Loga had been recovered from Sanjana Sharma of Mohalla Arfwala, Kapurthala, earlier in this connection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-kg-heroin-car-seized-two-held-108875
05-07-2020||---||ECE students can now choose for CS as minor, says DAVIET principal||Jalandhar, July 4Students of Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE) can opt for computer science as minor during engineering studies, said Dr Manoj Kumar, Principal, DAV Institute of Engineering and Technology (DAVIET), and chairman, Board of Studies, IK Gujral Punjab Technical University.He said ECE is divided into five groups of six subjects each namely Information Communication Technology (ICT), Software Development, Signal Processing, Communication System and Electronic Hardware. Students have to choose one group from above mentioned domains at the start of third year (fifth semester) and will have to continue the study for the rest of the two years of engineering in the particular domain.Being the chairman of BOS (ECE) IKGPTU, he said the reason behind the splitting of domains into the groups was the current changing trend of hiring by multi-national companies. The demand of companies has been changed now and they want students with knowledge of core and information technology (IT) both and this splitting will also give freedom to student to drift between hardware and software fields.Dr Manoj said: “The future belongs to automation and its sensor-based technology will cover artificial intelligence, virtual reality, image processing, internet of things (IOT), and robotics, which comes under ECE branch. Also, as per the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), due to Covid-19 crisis and current ongoing situation with China, the manufacturing of electronics semiconductor devices, gadgets and components will increase in India now.”He said automation was now in use at offices, homes, cars, hotels, hospitals and even in machineries as well which will increase the demand of ECE in public and private sectors both. Also, the government had already announced the Smart City projects across India, which would lead to huge demand of ECE students in government sector in the coming times.He said electronic devices have become a major part of our lives. With the evolution of technology, ECE has become an essential discipline that is required by every other industry. Furthermore this was also the reason that a lot of industries choose to prefer ECE engineers over other engineers as during the four years of ECE, students gain the knowledge of both hardware and software aspects. While they learn about electronic circuits, devices, and communication systems, they also learn about embedded systems, programming languages, and assembly languages. An ECE, who has knowledge about the hardware field and also has a grip over some computer language, will be more successful during his career than another student, who is proficient only in the software field. Hence, ECE can switch from hardware to software field, but it is not the other way around.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ece-students-can-now-choose-for-cs-as-minor-says-daviet-principal-108874
05-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Work at MSME council affected due to Covid||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 4The work of the MSME council has been badly hit due to the pandemic. Nearly 500 cases are active with the council. In the month of May and June, 100 fresh cases were reported.Earlier, the headquarters of the council used to be in Chandigarh. But after the formation of the council at the district-level, the cases pertaining to Jalandhar have been transferred here. The council was started in the district in December in 2018. The council comprises five members, which includes the Deputy Commissioner as its chairman; General Manager (GM), District Industry Centre (DIC), as member secretary; an advocate, a Lead District Manager (LDM); and an industrialist.The council has been established to solve the matters of small-scale industrialists and to help them get payments from other parties in case the latter do not return their due amount (payments).Shant Kumar, while explaining the difference between the civil courts and the MSME council, said: “There is no court fee for recovery of the payments needed in the council.”Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori also exhorted the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) to take maximum mileage of Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) started for helping them in crisis.Divulging the details, the Deputy Commissioner said the Government of India had announced a new scheme namely Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) for helping the MSME by providing additional working capital on term loans up to 20 per cent of outstanding credit without any collateral.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/work-at-msme-council-affected-due-to-covid-108873
05-07-2020||---||IPR workshop participants motivated to file patents||Jalandhar, July 4The Innovation Club of Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology organised a workshop on ‘Innovation and Intellectual Property Rights Filing’.Nearly 1,000 participants from various reputed institutes had registered for the event. Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi, director, NIT inaugurated the workshop and said: “The foremost purpose of the workshop is to encourage the creation of a large variety of intellectual goods. We need to change the challenges of pandemic to opportunities. This can only be harnessed if you look for innovations, IPR filings and startups.”Log in here to fileOne can file a patent through PIC/TISC, patent attorney and on his own through e-filing) at www.ipindia.nic.in. Digital signatures, drafting skills and net banking/debit card/credit card are the requirements of filing a patent.Prof Awasthi motivated participants to file patents and said their ideas must become intellectual property rights.Divya Kaushik, scientist, Punjab State Council for Science and Technology, and Dipan Sahu, Assistant Innovation Director, national coordinator, IIC, AICTE, MHRD, Delhi, were the experts. Divya Kaushik discussed different forms of Intellectual Property Rights. She shared databases for searching patent, design and trademark such as USPTO, ESPACE (EPO), InPASS (IPO), Google patents. Kaushik also discussed the process of IPR filing. She said one can file a patent through PIC/TISC, patent attorney and on his own through e-filing) at www.ipindia.nic.in. Digital signatures, drafting skills and net banking/debit card/credit card are the requirements of filing a patent. She lucidly explained patent grant procedure.Dipan Sahu focused on National Innovation and Startup Policy (NISP) for HEIs. Sahu said only 46,600 applications were filed in 2017 and patent grants came to just 12,000 in a country of 1.37 billion people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ipr-workshop-participants-motivated-to-file-patents-108872
05-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||DLF mall closed without notice, office occupants in for a shock||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 4The occupants of office spaces in DLF Galleria, Nakodar Road, are in for a shock as the mall owners have allegedly shut down the entire premises without giving any notice. Having slowly restarted their businesses post-lockdown and beginning to recover losses they incurred of late, the office owners have said that all their equipment and articles have got locked up inside and their businesses have come to a standstill all of a sudden.Though nearly 60 per cent of the offices had been sold in the mall, only five, including a few on rental had been in operation here. Varun Sharma, who runs an IT office in a rental space inside the mall, said that he came to the office on July 2 and found it locked. He said he called up the company staff hired by the DLF for maintenance but he was informed that there had been orders from the higher officials to lockdown the mall and keep the premises shut.“It had been just a month since I had restarted the business after lockdown. My staff had also slowly started coming. Since the past three days, we have again not been able to do any business. My computers and entire paraphernalia got locked inside. I have been trying to contact the owners but to no avail. I really do not know whom to approach but I am in the process of sending a mail expressing my grouse”, said Sharma adding that there had been no power backup by the company since we opened offices last month.“Since my office was on the third floor, we got caught in a lift once and had to be rescued. Then on, we have been using staircases for reaching the office, which has been quite tough though”, he added.TS Anand, who runs hearing aid-cum-audiology clinic, said, “I got to know about the locking of the mall through other occupants on phone. I was in Chandigarh and will reach Jalandhar on Monday to see what can be done. This really was shocking for me. I had bought the space for clinic in 2012. I can’t be barred from entering an office which I had purchased. They have shut down electricity and locked up the premises without any notice. The act of the company has been completely uncalled for.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dlf-mall-closed-without-notice-office-occupants-in-for-a-shock-108871
05-07-2020||TEJAL Saini||‘We got time to set new goals and analyse our strengths, weaknesses’||How is your business doing amid the lockdown?We are leading manufacturers and suppliers of products, which are electrical switchgears, electric motors starter, change over switches, switches and fuse units, isolators, contactors, overload relays, etc. Though we are able to manage production and there are no issues related to raw material or labourers as of now, the demand for these has come down to just 50 per cent amid the lockdown.What are the major issues troubling you at present? How are you dealing with them?The main problem being faced by us is that we are not getting export orders. We are major suppliers of switchgears to Nepal and Bhutan, but business with both the countries is currently off the track. Also, our supplies to other states, especially some cities in the South, are being disrupted due to the lockdown and closing of several state borders. And to tackle these issues, we have shifted our focus to Punjab. We are now supplying a majority of our products in the state itself.Are you facing any problems related to shortage of labourers?Well, nearly 300 labourers are working with Mex Switchgear and without them, the industry cannot run. But luckily, the majority of labourers working with us are based in Jalandhar or nearby towns, so none of our operations were hit due to mass exodus of labourers. Also, our staff (labourers) are skilled who have knowledge of electronic components, so I cannot afford to lose them.Do you expect your business to pick up in the near future?Looking at the situation, it's really hard to predict when the business would get back on track. Until an effective Covid-19 vaccine is available, it seems things will not improve. We have been following all guidelines to prevent the spread of the virus. We have given masks, gloves, face shields and other protective gears to the staff for their safety. And, at least for this year, we are not worried about profits. All we want is maintenance of our brand.What lessons have you learnt from the crisis?The spread of the coronavirus and the whole lockdown period came as a wake-up call for all. The whole situation has made me realise that we must take care of our mother nature. Also, during the lockdown period, we got the time to set out new goals, analyse our strengths and weaknesses, and chalk out plans to bring changes in production line or re-strategise business plans for post Covid-19 period.What are your expectations from the government?The government should take all possible efforts for the revival of the industry. Labour-related issues must be solved on priority. Also, labourers in the state are struggling to make ends meet. Besides the salary, there must be some financial support for them from the government for at least next six months, so that they can sustain their livelihoods.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/we-got-time-to-set-new-goals-and-analyse-our-strengths-weaknesses-108870
05-07-2020||Jalandhar||Preparations to restore crippled drainage yet to see light of day||Though the monsoon is round the corner, the preparations to restore the crippled drainage, sewage pipes and nullahs are yet to see the light of day in most of the villages in the district. The unavailability of proper drainage system has always been one of the core issues of villagers in the panchayat, zila parishad and state Assembly elections, but the development works take a back seat immediately after any candidate wins the elections.Overflowing drainage pipes and sewers dug-out right in front of the houses in the villages not only raise a stink but have also become the breeding ground for mosquitoes, causing malaria and chikungunya.The locals said even after building pucca houses, the only thing that irks them was the unavailability of proper drainage system.Ravi Kumar, who had shifted to Lidhran village a few years back said they themselves had to drain out filthy water from their houses. “My neighbours use buckets to drain out dirty water. We then dispose it of in an empty field (chappar),” added Ravi.Reportedly, every year, a grant of over Rs 60 crore is provided under various schemes for the development of drainage systems in the villages, but to no avail. Last year it was Rs 63.03 crore and this year the grant issued is over Rs 90 crore, stated District Development Programme Officer (DDPO) Iqbaljit Singh. However, the funds which were meant to improve residents’ lives could not serve its purpose. It seems that the multi-core project of desilting the sewer lines may not be completed before the monsoons, this year too, rued residents.The DDPO further mentioned that the department was aware of the adequate drainage systems in the villages and received several complaints from sarpanches every now and then. “The funds have now been merged into the Rural Development Fund (RDF) and we have around Rs 99 crore grant which would be utilised shortly after the proposal would be passed through the administration,” added DDPO.Moreover, as per the sources, the department has a sum of around Rs 136 crore, collected through panchayat funds and many other avenues.The fund for development work is generated on the basis of population of a village, ie, Rs 665 per person.The funds are further distributed among the Block Development Program Officers (BDPOs) of the district, who further disseminate the funds among the sarpanches of their blocks.However, few of the sarpanches claimed that they had not received the funds yet and the residents have been suffering.Yashpal, sarpanch of Nahal village, located in the Jalandhar West constituency, said, neither he was contacted by the area BDPO nor he received any grant for the construction of sewerage and drainages. In the absence of funds, Mangal Singh, Sarpanch, Village Sangal Sohal said, he repaired the drainage pipes in his villages after utilising NRI funds of his village.Jasvir Kaur, Sarpanch, said Hirapur village said even though they don’t face much sewage issues throughout the year but when it rains the sewage water dumped in the chappars or nullahs enters into the streets and even the houses of the villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/preparations-to-restore-crippled-drainage-yet-to-see-light-of-day-108869
05-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||Teachers rise to Covid challenge||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 4‘Es tarah lagda kandhan nu parha rahe haan’ (it feels as if we are teaching walls) says a teacher about the response of the students to the online classes ever since the Covid pandemic affected the conventional method of teaching.A school topper of a government school does not have access to education for a week, some students have no access to smart phones in the entire neighbourhood. Several children make do with just a single phone while attending the online session.With schools closed and mobile and TVs turning into new ways of learning, some teachers are stepping out of their comfort zone to ensure the students do not suffer due to lockdown. The effectiveness of online teaching during pandemic is directly proportional to the economic status of students. While majority of children continue to think of Covid like an extended vacation, lack of resources on the other hand pose difficulties for those students who are good in studies. There are teachers who have risen to the occasion by conducting classes online and holding YouTube sessions and roping in private students.Two teachers of the Government Smart Senior Secondary School, Virk, have been going door-to-door during the pandemic spreading the word on admissions. Twenty seven additional students have been admitted to the school during the pandemic. There are other schools as well which have witnessed a rise in admissions.Speaking OutSome students are really poor. Some failed to respond, so we visited them to see if they needed anything. Many are too poor to afford phones and TV. We helped them by getting their recharge done. Others don't have electricity and a TV. Education during Covid is an uphill task. Daljit Kaur, teacher, GSSSS, VirkOnline teaching cannot be a substitute for conventional teaching. More than 50% students are not interested in attending online sessions. We have almost lost mediocre students. We are providing them regular lecturers but we have to constantly coax them to attend the sessions. Some say that their parents carry their phones to work. These problems are here to stay and we are doing all that we can to educate students amid the pandemic. Jaswinder Kaur, GSSSS (Girls), Bara PindOnline teaching is a new concept. Many kids are yet to comprehend its purpose. For them, it is like an extended vacation. Many can’t comprehend online lessons. I have uploaded hundreds of videos on YouTube. 100% of the syllabus till August is already covered. We are running online contests , music sessions to keep them engaged. Paramjot Singh, teacher, GSSS, Chak Des RajWe have been trying to complete the syllabus of the students along with holding several extra-curricular activities. Preparations are also on to celebrate the 400th Parkash Purab of Guru Arjan Dev Ji. We also hold other events also from time to time. But the unavailability of mobile phones with students is the biggest hurdle. Many students are poor and don't have them. We are making effort to ensure children don't miss out on lessons. Amarjit Kaur, teacher, Government Middle School, Shahkot||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teachers-rise-to-covid-challenge-108868
05-07-2020||---||Adampur-Jaipur flight fails to take off on second day||Jalandhar, July 4After over a month of suspension, the SpiceJet flight, which was scheduled to resume from July 3 onwards, couldn’t take off on the second day as well.While the Delhi-bound flight is suspended till the next orders, owing to the increasing number of Covid positive cases in the capital, the air service from Adampur to Jaipur was to start from Friday onwards.Though the officials said the flight couldn’t resume due to technical glitches, sources at the airport claimed there were no passengers for Jaipur.The SpiceJet flight on its first stage was planned to take off on four days a week (on Monday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday) from Adampur to Jaipur. It was scheduled to leave Jaipur airport at 7.20 am and reach Adampur at 8.50 am. Thereafter, it would halt here for half-an-hour and take off at 9.10 am and land at Jaipur at 10.40 am.This is the first time that any flight would operate between Adampur and Jaipur.In June, the flight service was discontinued owing to the unavailability of required number of passengers. Even after announcing the relaxations, the only Delhi-bound flight from Adampur resumed its operation on May 26 instead of May 23, as per its schedule.To operate four days a week||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/adampur-jaipur-flight-fails-to-take-off-on-second-day-108867
05-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Fake currency notes seized, 1 held||Hoshiarpur, July 4The bank staff recovered 22 fake currency notes of Rs200 denominations from a person who had come to deposit money in the bank. After getting the information, the Model Town police arrested the accused and registered a case against him.According to information, Balwinder Singh, SHO in-charge of PS Model Town, said Joshiel Kumar of Dashmesh Nagar had gone to deposit Rs3lakh cash at Canara Bank located near Kamalpur Chowk. When the bank cashier counted and checked the cash, 22 fake currency notes of Rs200 denominations were found in the cash given by him. The cashier informed the bank manager. The SHO said on receiving the information from the bank manager, cops reached and arrested suspect. An FIR was lodged against him. The SHO said he would be produced in court tomorrow and remand will be sought for further investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fake-currency-notes-seized-1-held-108865
05-07-2020||---||58 fresh infections surface in Jalandhar, count 829||Jalandhar, July 4As many as 58 persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total count of positive cases to 829 in the district.Of the fresh cases, 39 are contacts of previous positive cases while 15 are without any previous contact history. The remaining four are those who tested positive in the Covid lab of the Civil Hospital. The majority of those tested positive are contacts of a 60-year-old woman from Tanda Road who had been tested by a private lab. Two pregnant women and an anganwadi worker, who are among six symptomatic persons (one of them a SARI case), are among the patients who tested positive for the virus.Fifteen of the new cases were reported from Fatehpur alone. Other areas from where cases were reported are Hazara village, Ekta Colony (3), Dada Colony, Rose Park, Sodal Nagar, Maqsudan, Abadpura, Sidh Mohalla, Golden Avenue, Ashok Nagar, Uccha Village, Chajjal Waddi village, Aman Nagar, Raj Nagar, etc.Three more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Kapurthala on Saturday. Two of them are contacts of a previous positive case. One of them is a resident of Gosal village and the remaining two are from Sheikhpur and Phagwara, respectively. In all, 576 results were received on Saturday, of which the reports of three persons came out positive and those of 555 negative.Jalandhar round-upHoshiarpur woman loses battle in JalandharHoshiarpur: A 62-year-old Covid-infected woman belonging to the district died at Military Hospital in Jalandhar. Giving information, Civil Surgeon Jasbir Singh said the victim was a resident of Chakkoal block. She was suffering from diarrhoea and admitted to the Military Hospital, Jalandhar, in a critical condition where she died on Friday night. After death, her sample taken for a Covid test and the report came positive. Jasbir Singh said on Saturday 262 new samples of persons with suspected flu-like symptoms of Covid-19 were taken. The number of positive cases in the district is 189. The total number of samples taken so far in the district is 14,292, of which 13,528 are negative while reports of 561 samples are awaited. As many as 28 samples have been found to be invalid and the death toll of the virus-infected in the district has risen to seven with the woman who died in Jalandhar on Friday night. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/58-fresh-infections-surface-in-jalandhar-count-829-108864
