05-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Jalandhar-based calligraphy artist Manpreet Khanna is using lines from Gurbani||It is never too late to pursue one’s passion. Believing this, Jalandhar-based Manpreet Khanna (41) forayed into calligraphy two years back to soon become a professional in this field.From holding workshops to designing wall hangings, nameplates, display scrolls, personalised book marks, gift tags, greeting cards and birthday invitation cards, she has much to offer to her customers.Since Manpreet specialises in calligraphy in English, Gurmukhi and Devnagri, she has, of late, got most orders for wall hangings with motivational quotes or religious hymns inscribed on them.“As there are growing incidents of Covid-19, people are really scared and they want something in their rooms to give them positive vibes. People contact me for doing calligraphy work for them using lines from Gurbani, Bhagavad Gita and even Kabir’s bani,” she says. Discussing her work, Khanna says, “During my childhood, my teachers and friends always praised my handwriting. Whenever any letter was to be written to a relative or a greeting card was to be sent to someone, I would be called to write the words. I have had a good hand but never knew how to pursue it further. About two years back, I started using Instagram to learn calligraphy. In 2018, there were two workshops in Jalandhar which I attended. It was then that I decided to take up calligraphy as a profession and set up my business—The Alphabet Baker.”Social media has helped her promote her work. “As I began putting photos and videos of my work on Facebook and Instagram, my friends started approaching me with orders. Later, as I started putting up stalls at exhibitions and began holding workshops, my clientele started growing. I too started expanding by learning how to etch words on designer candles. Recently, one of my clients, who got her wedding card designed, liked it so much that she got it framed to cherish it forever.”The compliments and appreciation for her work coming from various quarters keep her going. “I also make designer name slips for my sons for their school books and copies. So, their teachers and friends also know that their mother is a calligrapher and they too approach me for school projects,” Khanna says.The artist adds, “I had planned a workshop on March 24 and 25 but it was cancelled because of the lockdown. Soon, I will hold online workshops. In the lockdown period, I shared all my positivity quotes on Instagram. I even attended some webinars to upgrade my skills. That’s why I strongly believe, there is no age bar on learning and improving oneself.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-based-calligraphy-artist-manpreet-khanna-is-using-lines-from-gurbani-94872
05-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Jalandhar suffers from waste disposal woes||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 4Even after completing half of its tenure, the Congress-led Municipal Corporation has not been able to ensure proper disposal 500 tonnes waste generated in the city daily.Mounds of waste at the main dumping site are becoming bigger and taller, with the MC officials failing to find a new contractor to handle the proposed bio-mining project at the site. “We floated tenders but haven’t yet received any bid,” said Mayor Jagdish Raja.About a decade ago, the MC had conceived a plan to set up solid waste-to-energy plant at Jamsher village that falls in the Jalandhar Cantonment constituency. But the villagers began opposing it after getting support from MLA Pargat Singh. After change of government, the project was shelved off. It has taken nearly 3.5 years for the incumbent government to plan the project afresh, but execution still remains a far-fetched dream.According to the plan, waste collection and processing is to be decentralised for which 1,200 pits are to be set up by the MC across the city. The bio-decomposable waste would be used for production of manure for farmers and residents.As of now, only three pits have been readied. These include one at Nangal Shama, the functioning of which has been stayed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The work of digging and creating shed at 40 marla site in Birring is also near completion and as of now, waste is being collected at a site around the pit. “The work on third pit falling at Dakoha is 80% complete. All three pits are on MC land and fall in the Jalandhar Central constituency. The manure of Nangal Shama pit had been tested and declared fit for use in agriculture by a laboratory of Punjab Agricultural University. We have also got an NOC from the Punjab Pollution Control Board. But as the matter is pending in the court, nothing can be done about it at present,” said MLA Rajinder Beri.MC Commissioner Diprava Lakra said: “The pit at Birring will be operational in about eight days. The one in Dakoha may take 15 days. We had planned 29 pits in the first phase for which work orders were given to one contractor for 20 pits. Since labourers engaged by him have moved back home, there may be a delay in the project.”Health Officer Shri Krishna Sharma said: “In Rama Mandi, we have earmarked three-four sites for waste management. But in places such as Urban Estates, where there are so many parks, we do not have even 2-kanal land in to dig up waste pits. In any case, we will have to work on decentralised models only as these are the best for waste management. These are also cheap as tippers do not have to be plied to far-away sites.”On the Wariana site, the officials said B&R teams would have to get into action for compaction work and make inroads for garbage vehicles to enter and dump the waste. However, as a matter of little relief, the volume of garbage produced per day has fallen to 400 tons from 500 tons. Dr Sharma said: “Schools, colleges, hotels and marriage palaces, which are major producers of waste are currently shut.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-suffers-from-waste-disposal-woes-94857
05-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||3.33 per cent death rate in Jalandhar district, more than state||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 4The Covid death rate in the district is more than the state’s fatality rate. With nine of the 270 patients in the district succumbing to the disease, death rate stands at 3.33 per cent.With 2,415 positive cases and 47 deaths, the state death rate is less than 2 per cent.In the given scenario, the district currently has 20 ventilators. Of the nine deceased in the district, at least six were on ventilator. They include Ayurvedic chemist Parveen Sharma, a Maharashtra labourer from Basti Gujan who was admitted to a private hospital, a 64-year-old Tagore Nagar man, who died a day ago, another person admitted to a Ludhiana hospital with comorbidity, a 91-year-old city man and a man from Gurdaspur.Of those persons put on ventilators, only a Nijatam Nagar woman has survived, while the rest died. Barring these, many other suspected cases were also put on ventilator but they were discharged later.Of the 270 positive cases, there are currently 36 active cases. With steady increase in the cases on Tuesday, patients at the Shahkot facility had peaked with only a few empty beds left to spare at the facility. However, today many of them were discharged. The Shahkot facility and the local Civil Hospital have 10 ventilators each.Since ventilators are available at the ICU of the Civil Hospital only, patients with other diseases also can’t share the ICU in case they need it, since it is dedicated to COVID-19 cases. Of the 270 cases, 228 are discharged.Dr TP Singh, Nodal officer, COVID-19, said: “A few of the Civil Hospital patients had to put on ventilator. Currently, the 10 ventilators will suffice for the Covid cases as only a few need to be put on ventilator. As many as 10 ventilators are also available at the IMA facility. Currently, the need for more ventilators, in terms of invasive ventilation, hasn’t been felt.”Civil Surgeon Gurinder Kaur Chawla said: “We have well-equipped staff and ventilators. Private hospitals can also be notified if there is a need for ventilators.”Dr Navjot Dahiya, president, IMA state chapter, who is among doctors running the IMA facility in Jalandhar, said: “The IMA facility has been set up for frontline workers and those in dire need. Recently, we had about 21 patients but now they have been discharged and only around 12 are left. None of the patients have been put in the 10-bed ICU yet, except a person with minor trouble. Ten ventilators are sufficient. We also have a back up of 150 ventilators of which 50 can be available within two days. Additionally, 50 places have also been identified in the district for setting up facilities as per need. We had also requested the government for a formal MoU with the IMA regarding Covid facilities and staff for the Shahkot facility, but didn’t get any response.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-33-per-cent-death-rate-in-jalandhar-district-more-than-state-94859
05-06-2020||---||‘Mission Fateh’ to ensure revival of state industries, says minister||Jalandhar, June 4State Industry Minister Sunder Sham Arora today assured industrialists that under ‘Mission Fateh’, the state government, led by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, would ensure the revival of state’s industry in the post-lockdown period.Chairing a meeting with the industrialists here today at the District Administrative Complex, the minister, accompanied by MLAs Sushil Kumar Rinku, Rajinder Beri, Chaudhary Surinder Singh and Avtar Singh Bawa Henry, said the Covid-19 pandemic had given a severe blow to industry and economic growth across the globe.He said the state government was committed to put the economic and industrial growth of the state on the high-growth trajectory. Arora assured the industry that its interests would be safeguarded at every cost by the state government even in the post-lockdown period.The minister also announced that to give boost to industrial development in the state, the government would soon set up four Industrial parks in SAS Nagar, Ludhiana, Fatehgarh Sahib and Bathinda.He said these parks would play a pivotal role in the Industrial growth of the state. The government would focus on the development of the micro and MSME industry in these parks along with others.Describing the industry as the backbone of the economy, the minister said to give reprieve to the industry, the state government was constantly flagging up the issue of waiving off six months’ loans of entrepreneurs.Arora said he had been personally taking up the matter with the Union Government to give much-needed succor to the industries in the state and expressed hope that the state government would leave no stone unturned in giving respite to the industrialists.On the issue of migration of labourers, he said most of them were now willing to return to the state for becoming partners in growth of the state. Hence, the government had urged the Centre to run special trains to bring back those labourers who were willing to return.Arora said every effort would be made to put the industry back on track.The minister said besides giving boost to industrial growth, the state government was also focusing on opening new vistas of employment for youth. Special courses for skill education had been introduced in government ITIs for creating a pool of skilled labour for catering to the need of the local industry.Arora said it would further help in giving impetus to the industrial growth.The minister announced the starting of sewage work in the Focal Point area. Works worth over Rs 6 crore had also been started in the Sports and Surgical Complex.DCP Arun Saini, ADC Jasbir Singh, SDM Jai Inder Singh, Punjab Khadi Industry Board Director Major Singh and DIC GM Sukhpal Singh were among those others present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mission-fateh-to-ensure-revival-of-state-industries-says-minister-94860
05-06-2020||---||Faulty traffic lights a threat to commuters||Jalandhar, June 4 After the lockdown curbs have been eased, the traffic chaos is back on roads, especially during morning and evening hours. However, with the rush of vehicles, traffic-related issues have also returned.  The defunct traffic signals at several intersections during the last two months of curfew of the city have also aggravated the issue.  Dysfunctional traffic lights at the Nakodar Chowk, Company Bagh Chowk, Ravidass Chowk, Mahiran Gate and Link Road crossing, which are among busiest traffic intersections in the city, are also causing huge inconvenience to commuters, hence leading to mishaps and hindering the traffic flow for the past two weeks. The traffic cops deployed on roads have also been facing a huge difficulty in trying to control the traffic.  The locals in the area complained that the traffic lights had been maintained last year only, but they have again gone dysfunctional. This has increased the chances of accidents. Karamjit Singh, a shopkeeper near Nakodar Chowk, said, “The traffic lights have been lying non-functional right for the past over a month. The blinking of the signals goes off suddenly. The Nakodar Road Welfare Association has already complained about it, but no action has been taken.” “Owing to defunct traffic lights, some accidents have also been reported. Usually, the over speeding vehicles bump into each other,” added Karamjit. Meanwhile, the traffic police deployed at the Nakodar Chowk said we try to give directions to the commuters, but the traffic lights need to functional in the absence of traffic police.  DCP Naresh Dogra said, “We have complained about the faulty traffic signals to the Municipal Corporation authorities and the lights are likely to be repaired in the next two days. Lights at Pathankot  Bypass Chowk have already been replaced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/faulty-traffic-lights-a-threat-to-commuters-94861
05-06-2020||Our Correspondent---||‘Rs 1,118 crore released for  infra, welfare schemes’||Hoshiarpur, June 4 Industries and Commerce Minister, Punjab Sunder Sham Arora said Rs 1,118 crore has been released by the Finance Department for the promotion of infrastructure in rural and urban areas, social security pensions and electricity subsidy. He said 1.30 lakh development projects worth Rs 650 crore would be done in villages of the state under MGNREGA to further promote the rural development in the state.  Under this, employment opportunities would be created for poor and needy. He was addressing panchayat of Bassi Ghulam Hussain village while handing over a check for Rs 8 lakh for drainage of dirty water and construction of lanes in village.  Arora said under the leadership of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the mission ‘Fateh’ is spreading across the state and was making people aware of the state by taking the form of mass movement with public support. The caution and awareness adopted to avoid the virus would make this campaign more successful.  He said all should follow the instructions issued by the government and district administration and maintain social distancing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-1-118-crore-released-for-infra-welfare-schemes-94862
05-06-2020||---||MP exhorts youth to avail of employment opportunities||Jalandhar, June 4MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh today visited the District Bureau of Employment and Entrepreneurship (DBEE) along with Additional Deputy Commissioner (D) Vishesh Sarangal, here at the District Administrative Complex.Job HelplineDuring his visit to the District Bureau of Employment and Entrepreneurship (DBEE), the MP lauded the efforts being made by the officers to provide employment to youths of the district despite the lockdown through a mobile helpline (90569-20100)He said youths could contact on the helpline from 9 am to 5 pm and share their details with the DBEE. The officials would facilitate them in getting jobs according to their qualifications.During his visit to the DBEE, he lauded the efforts being made by the officers to ensure employment to the youths of the district despite the lockdown imposed to contain Covid-19 pandemic through a mobile helpline (90569-20100) for them in the Jalandhar. He said the helpline had been started under the Punjab Government’s Ghar-Ghar Rozgar scheme and the interested youth could contact on the helpline from 9 am to 5 pm during working days and share their details with the DBEE, following which the officials would facilitate them in getting suitable jobs according to their qualifications. Chaudhary Santokh Singh asked the youths to avail of this opportunity.Meanwhile, the MP also said the Mission Fateh was primarily aimed at spreading mass awareness about the Covid-19 pandemic. He said during the drive, emphasis would be laid on recognising the threat of the virus, which continues to pose serious dangers to the people. Chaudhary Santokh Singh said all the state government departments would come together and work in unison to create a positive atmosphere in the state, enabling the people to make Mission Fateh successful, with the active support of the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-exhorts-youth-to-avail-of-employment-opportunities-94863
05-06-2020||Our Correspondent---||‘Medical education will become monopoly of rich’||Talwara, June 4 Doctors and paramedical staff of CHC Hospital, Bhol Kalota, protested by tying black ribbons on their shoulders on the call given by the PCMS Association. They were protesting against the decision of the state government to increase the fee of MBBS aspirants in government colleges by 80 per cent. Dr Lashkar Singh, Shamsher Singh and Shaminder Singh, said in the year 2012, the fee for MBBS course was Rs 13,000 to which the state government had increased it about Rs 2 lakh.  He said it seemed that medical education would now be the monopoly of rich people. They said the fees of the MBBS course in Punjab was much higher than the neighbouring states. Nursing sister Tarun Devi, staff nurse Meena Rani, Narinder Kaur, Priyanka, Neeha Malia, LT Dwarka Das, Prabhat Rashim, Meena, Pawan Kumar, Vakeel Singh, Amit Kumar, Aman Deep and Santosh Kumari also participated in protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/medical-education-will-become-monopoly-of-rich-94864
05-06-2020||F&CC meeting||Proposal to buy tractor-trailers on rent on F&CC  meeting agenda||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 4For the lifting of garbage from wards in all four Assembly constituencies, the Municipal Corporation (MC) is planning to buy tractor-trailers on rent for a year. A proposal in this regard will be tabled at the F&CC meeting of the MC on June 8. It will be the second F&CC meeting in the past 10 days.Notably, as per the agenda for the Jalandhar West constituency and North constituency, as many as six tractor-trailers, a driver and two labourers on contract will be required. An estimate of Rs57.73 lakh has also been prepared for the same. For the Central constituency, seven tractor-trolleys, a driver and two labourers will be required and an amount of Rs67.35 lakh will be spent. As many as five tractor-trailers will be required for the Jalandhar Cantt. constituency and an estimate of Rs48.11 lakh has been prepared.Besides, maintenance of sewerage and purchasing of sewer jetting hose pipe will be discussed.At the last meeting held on May 29, proposals for lifting of garbage at Wariana and purchasing of two earth movers at a cost of over Rs70 lakh were discussed.Meetings have started taking place after a gap of three months because of the lockdown. The General House meeting, which was to be held in March, was also cancelled when the state started reporting Covid cases.Meeting of adhoc sanitation committee held Members of the sanitation ad hoc committee discussed the issue of a staff shortage at ayurvedic dispensaries, which come under the Municipal Corporation, during a meeting on Thursday.At the meeting, the members discussed that there are 10 ayurvedic dispensaries in the city, but only five ayurvedic medical officers are working and there is no pharmacist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/proposal-to-buy-tractor-trailers-on-rent-on-fcc-meeting-agenda-94865
05-06-2020||AFTER the Centre announced credit relief||‘Waiting for govt’s credit-giving norms before resuming our biz’||How have your offices been functioning since the lockdown? Have you assessed your losses?For the first two months, our business was almost shut. We started working in mid-May after MHA guidelines. Some of our branches in Rajasthan, which are in the red zone, are still shut. At our head office in Jalandhar, only 33 per cent staff are attending the office daily on a rotation basis and the rest of them are working from home. Our employees who have been using public transport to reach offices from their villages or peripheral towns are discouraged from coming to the office as of now. Covid-19 impacted us when there was just a week or so for the previous financial year to close. The actual assessment will be assessed when we make financial statements for the first and the second quarters of FY 2020-21.Has the lending business resumed? Who are your clients?No, we have not started our credit business as of now. We are awaiting the Centre’s credit-giving guidelines. We are in touch with government agencies, including NABARD and SIDBI, and will start offering credit to our customers as and when the process starts. In such a scenario, people obviously need liquidity to restart their businesses. We have a customer base of 4 lakh people. Fortunately, 60 per cent of our customers are from the businesses that fall under essential services such as milk vendors and grocery shop owners. Thankfully, they have cash flows with them even in these tough times. There are other sections of customers, including small boutiques in villages, micro enterprises and some joint liability groups.Are you getting loan repayments? Who are your depositors?We extended moratorium to our customers but still a few of them started paying in advance. Moratorium has an interest portion which the government has not waived. Since the customers feel that they will have to pay the interest, they are not going for moratorium. Besides, our loan size is very small, say around Rs30,000-Rs35,000. We are a non-deposit accepting entity. We borrow money from public sector banks, NABARD, SIDBI and some private banks.Are your employees intact? Are you paying wages to them?We have 197 branches in seven states — Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, UP, Jharkhand, Bihar and Himachal Pradesh — where 1,700 employees are working. They are all with us. We have paid salaries to all our employees, including those who have not worked for over two months.Being a private limited company, how are you maintaining the trust of your shareholders?We have a diversified share holding. We have 250 share holders. We are one of the 100 micro-finance companies pan India which are registered with the RBI. We keep holding board meetings and we have one in this week as well. They all know that we work totally under the regulations of the RBI. For customers, we have a helpline and our staff keeps on interacting with them.How have you helped the community in these days?We paid Rs2 lakh to the Deputy Commissioner's welfare funds. We distributed masks and PPE kits not just to our staff but also our customers who were frontline warriors.What lessons have you learnt during the pandemic?Not just us, every company has learnt a lesson that it is the need of hour to be prepared for an unprecedented crisis. We need to have policies to keep ourselves prepared for any natural calamity, which can happen any time. I spent a lot of time with my family. My both children were in the UK and they returned in the second week of March.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/waiting-for-govts-credit-giving-norms-before-resuming-our-biz-94866
05-06-2020||Hoshiarpur||135 is covid count in Hoshiarpur district||Burglars decamp with valuablesPhagwara: The house of Jagdish Lal was reportedly found burgled in the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar locality on Wednesday night. The complainant told the police that the family was away to Amritsar for the treatment of his wife, but found their house burgled on their return after three days. The burglars decamped with 6 tolas of gold set, three gold rings, currency garlands worth Rs 60,000 and Rs 70,000, besides several valuables. The police have registered a case. OCCong flays hike in paddy MSPPhagwara: Congress leaders, including MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary and MLAs Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, Joginder Singh Maan (former minister) and Raminder Awla, have rejected the hike in paddy MSP announced by the Union Government and termed it totally inadequate. In separate press statements, these leaders have said the Centre had failed to address distress faced by the farmers. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/135-is-covid-count-in-hoshiarpur-district-94867
05-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||This wedding choreographer is teaching moves via Zoom||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 4Weddings in Punjab will no longer be big fat ones, at least till restrictions on the number of guests are in place. And this has threatened the business of wedding choreographers, who would earn a handsome amount from one function.Gaggun Bedi, a leading wedding choreographer and chief technical director of the All-India Dance Sport Federation, is, however, hopeful of a boom in the business when things are back to normal.He says they were expecting 2020 to be a bonanza year for both weddings and dance forums, but the Covid-induced lockdown played a spoilsport. Gaggun was supposed to represent India at the Dance Sports event to be held in Miami this year and also had big plans for the World Wedding Forum, Dubai, but both events have now been postponed.However, adapting to the social distancing way of life, Gaggun has been keeping himself busy giving lessons to a couple via Zoom for their wedding in Mumbai and also giving regular online classes to his troupe. In the profession for over a decade, the 38-year-old wedding choreographer is a well-known personality in his circle and is known for his unique themed-based wedding performances.Gaggun Bedi says, “The initial 15 days of the lockdown were happier ones. Then the seriousness of it began to sink in. Shows and events were cancelled. I was depressed for some time, but then I took to Buddhist meditation techniques and honestly I feel positive as ever.”Gaggun adds, “Despite the many naysayers, I believe once it ends, we'll see a boom. I have events and weddings scheduled for November. Choreographers will be in demand once the lockdown ends. So why not learn. Be calm and hone up your skills. I’m learning Russian ballet and Buddhist meditation and training my dancers for the events, which have been postponed to the next year.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-wedding-choreographer-is-teaching-moves-via-zoom-94869
05-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||‘Lockdown has given students enough time to prepare for competitive exams’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 4Considering the self-isolation period as the most precious time for students to revise their syllabus for competitive exams, Parmeshwar Jha, regional director, Aakash Educational Services, who is also popular among students as a chemistry mentor, said the lockdown has given students enough time to prepare for exams. At present, he spends 3-4 hours daily in conducting virtual classes of students.He is of the view that with the help of online classes, individual attention is given to students and teachers are also careful about delivering better lectures.As the National Testing Agency has announced to conduct all engineering and medical entrance examinations next month, students need to adopt more proactive approach, he added.“Extracting positivity from every unusual situation should be the prime concern of students as well as academicians. Going online during the lockdown has helped us wider avenues of the education process, which we had never explored before. Earlier, students had the option of getting their doubts cleared only through their teachers. However, with the help of digital classes, the students are provided with the alternative of communicating to subject experts of their choices no matter where they are sitting. At Aakash, we have further given students the option of asking their queries through e-mails and mobile applications,” said Jha.With advancement in technology, Jha and other faculty members of Aakash institute are of the view that virtual classes are going to sustain for long. With the help of online assessment and evaluations, students also feel more confident in interacting with teachers.Mentioning key tips for cracking the JEE (Advance) and medical examinations, Jha said aspirants now need to focus on smart preparations and they cannot afford to make errors this time as there are more chances of rejection then selection.Students should try to utilise the lockdown period more and more for self-study and they should practise mock tests, he added.“Accuracy in various topics, revision of syllabus, resolving doubts through online mock tests and discussion are the other key factors for the success in exams,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lockdown-has-given-students-enough-time-to-prepare-for-competitive-exams-94870
