05-11-2020||Ajay Joshi||Smooth ride on cards…but for how long?||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 4The civic authorities have finally swung into action after The Tribune’s repeated coverage of the poor condition of roads in these columns.The Tribune has been running a campaign for over a fortnight to highlight the poor condition of roads in the district, after which repairs on most of the roads have started.Repeated complaints about the miserable condition of roads to the Municipal Corporation (MC) authorities were made by residents in the past, but to no avail. They said it was difficult to commute on pothole-ridden stretches. Many a time, vigilant residents have taken it upon themselves to highlight the pathetic condition of roads on social media platforms pointing out the deplorable condition of different stretches, where travelling was nothing short of a nightmare.The MC officials, on Wednesday, however, informed that the construction work on almost all busy roads had been initiated and on some of the roads, potholes have already been covered.Rajneesh Dogra, Corporation Engineer (B&R), said: “At present, the contractors are recarpeting only busy roads and the ones near residential areas will be repaired in a phased manner. While the construction at the Patel Chowk-Mahiran Gate Road began during the lockdown, the construction work in subsequent lanes has also started. The road leading to the railway station from Domoria Overbridge has also been kept open for traffic. Likewise, we have planned to cover a large number of roads by the end of this year.”Residents at Model Town can now heave a sigh of relief, as potholes that had troubled them for the last several months have been repaired and recarpeting was in progress on other internal roads as well, claimed Dogra. Likewise, he said, commuters would now expect a smooth ride from Guru Ravidas Chowk to Telephone Chowk. Amid the repair work initiated by the civic body, the quality of concrete used on the road is, however, a major concern among residents.Roads ready for trafficRajneesh Dogra, Corporation Engineer (B&R), said roads that were ready for traffic after recarpeting are Model House, Ghai Nagar to Kala Sanghian Road, Master Tara Singh Nagar Road, stretch opposite Kamal Palace, Ladhewali to Chohakan Road, Nangal Shama to Chugitti Bypass Road, Guru Nanak Pura Railway Crossing to Ladowali Road, BSF Chowk to PAP Chowk and Guru Gobind Singh Avenue Road. In addition, concrete has been laid on the Ladowali-Railway Station road (in pic left), Garha-Jalandhar Cantt Road, Focal Point among others and only levelling was left, he said. ResidentspeakIn many cases, it has been observed that even though the roads get repaired, the poor quality of material and concrete comes off within a few months, especially when it rains. — Mohit Rubal, a city residentIt’s good that the MC has eventually paid heed to our complaints. Being one of the prominent and posh areas of the city, one can’t expect it to have damaged roads. It always remained an ordeal to cross roads, especially during the monsoon season. Apart from filling the potholes, the authorities should maintain these routinely. — Archit Manocha, a resident of Green Model TownOfficialspeakAt present, the contractors are recarpeting only busy roads and the ones near residential areas will be repaired in a phased manner. While the construction at the Patel Chowk-Mahiran Gate Road began during the lockdown, the construction work in subsequent lanes has also started. The road leading to the railway station from Domoria Overbridge has also been kept open for traffic. Likewise, we have planned to cover a large number of roads by the end of this year. — Rajneesh Dogra, Corporation Engineer (B&R)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/smooth-ride-on-cards%E2%80%A6but-for-how-long-166190
05-11-2020||---||Meter-reading concealment racket busted in Hoshiarpur||Jalandhar, November 4In a major breakthrough, the enforcement wing of PSPCL busted a racket of meter reading concealment in Hoshiarpur city.A team led by Senior Executive Engineer, Hoshiarpur, zeroed in on a suspicious commercial connection that was being billed on minimum charges for the past five years. Subsequently, a tab was being kept on the consumer and it was later established that the meter reader was arbitrarily generating bills on zero consumption without reporting the actual status of the meter to the department. This was being done in connivance with the consumer. The consumer also managed to damage the meter display in 2018 and meter readers of outsourced company reported the meter status misappropriately. The meter of the consumer was brought into the state-of-the-art meter testing facility of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) in Hoshiarpur and the enforcement officer was able to retrieve the past data of the meter from its memory called the ‘black box’.PSPCL has already installed intelligent meters for recording consumer readings. The last recorded reading of the consumer in 2018 was found to be 65,000 units, while he, in connivance with the meter readers, has been billed only for 150 units till date. The consumer has been charged Rs7.50 lakh for concealed reading and a penalty of Rs8 lakh has been imposed on meter reading outsourced company Sterling Transformers.The responsibility of erring officials of the outsourced company as well as the PSPCL would be fixed in this case and stern action would be taken, said Rajit Sharma, Deputy Chief Engineer, Enforcement, Jalandhar. He said the enforcement wing was also implementing latest software, tools and techniques for data handling and processing, including real-time data analysis of automated meter readings, on the directions of CMD, PSPCL, A Venu Parsad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/meter-reading-concealment-racket-busted-in-hoshiarpur-166191
05-11-2020||Our Correspondent||1 arrested for impersonating as Addl Secy||Garhshankar, November 4The police have arrested a person for allegedly cheating people by impersonating as an IAS officer posted as Additional Secretary, Punjab. A special police party arrested the accused from a hotel in Solan (Himachal Pradesh) here on Wednesday.Addressing mediapersons here, ASP Tushar Gupta and Mahilpur SHO Satinder Singh said Manveer Singh, a resident of Paddi Sura Singh, in his complaint to the police stated that the accused, identified as Hardeep Kumar, a resident of Binjon village, called him from various phone numbers and introduced himself as an IAS officer and sometimes as Additional Secretary (Punjab) demanding money. The police had registered a case against Hardeep Kumar on the statement of Manveer Singh on charges of cheating at the Mahilpur police station. Manveer had stated that he had applied for a gun licence some time ago. Then Hardeep Kumar started calling on his phone that he could get his licence issued for which he demanded Rs 10,000 from Manveer Singh. Hardeep Kumar would often call him using WhatsApp but he did not pick up the phone.He lodged a complaint with the Mahilpur police station. ASP Tushar Gupta said Hardeep Kumar used to live in a rented house in Mohali. He used to call officers by introducing himself as an Additional Secretary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-arrested-for-impersonating-as-addl-secy-166192
05-11-2020||---||Markets to remain open during chakka jam||Jalandhar, November 4Even as the farmer organisations have announced to hold chakka jam tomorrow from 11.30 am to 4 pm, the city markets will remain open throughout the day.The market associations have said that they have been conveyed by the farmer associations to continue to operate as they do not want them to suffer any losses during the ongoing festive season. Police officials, too, said chakka jam would be confined only to the highways and there would not be any inconvenience to residents moving around for their work within the city.Leaders of the Sikh Talmel Committee and the Bharatiya Kisan Union held a meeting at Ali Puli Mohalla here where Mandeep Singh, president of the district committee of BKU, announced that the farmers did not want to cause any losses to traders and shopkeepers owing to the protest and that they should continue to operate like a routine tomorrow.Sikh Talmel Committee members, including Tejinder Singh and Harpal Singh Chadha, said traders would support the farmers by their representation during the dharna at PAP Chowk and were thankful to the farmers for allowing them to keep their shops open tomorrow.Kamal Chauhan and Jatinder Pal Singh, members of the Jalandhar Two-Wheeler Dealers’ Association, said they would support the farmers tomorrow but would keep the markets open.The central point of the farmers’ chakka jam would be the PAP Chowk which connects Jalandhar to Ludhiana, Amritsar, Pathankot, Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr and Chandigarh. The entire police force in Jalandhar has been deployed to ensure that commuters are not harassed and that they are able to follow the diverted routes so as to reach their destinations.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Bhullar said, “The farmers have specified that the markets can remain open. So, there is a great sense of relief in the shopkeepers and market associations. The main thrust area of the city police will be the PAP Chowk and our teams have already been deployed to divert traffic via alternate routes.” Amit Sehgal, president, Jalandhar Electrical Traders’ Welfare Association, and Buta Singh Sachdeva of Sheikhan Bazaar said all shopkeepers would keep their shops open.Ravi Kumar, SP (Headquarters), Jalandhar Rural Police, said, “Our teams will be patrolling tomorrow along the highways to ensure that commuters do not get stuck anywhere.”Meanwhile, cops have also strengthened security around the residences of BJP leaders so as to ensure that they do not step out during the farmer agitations. Political leaders from the SAD, the Congress and AAP are expected to reach out to the farmers to offer support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/markets-to-remain-open-during-chakka-jam-166193
05-11-2020||---||Students get tips to handle adverse situations in life||Jalandhar, November 4 To inculcate the positive thinking and analytical skill, a guest lecture on the topic ‘Positive Attitude and Analytical Thinking’ was organised at HMV Collegiate Senior Secondary School under the guidance of Principal Ajay Sareen.  The resource person of the event was Dr Rashmi Vij, Principal, Police DAV School. The event commenced with traditional lamp lighting ceremony followed by Gayatri Mantra. Principal Ajay Sareen accorded formal welcome to the guest and also told students that they could solve all their problems with positive bent of mind.  She further added that they could overcome any problem by breaking it into smaller blocks and one by one they should handle each block. Rashmi Vij touched various aspects of human psychology and the attitude to handle various situations in life.  She elaborated on the idea of being optimistic in adverse situations of life by having firm faith in god and your efforts. She also told students to be thankful to god for whatever they were blessed with and always look at the brighter side of life.  School coordinator Meenakshi Syal thanked the resource person and expressed gratitude to the guest for sparing her valuable time for addressing the students. She also advised students to adopt positive thoughts so as to get positive results.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-get-tips-to-handle-adverse-situations-in-life-166195
05-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Read literature to ignite your creative potential: Edu Secy||Jalandhar, November 4To mark the Punjabi week, the Education Department organised ‘Vidhayak Muqabale’ in government schools from pre-primary to Class XII. Different contests, including poetry recitation, calligraphy, slogan writing, declamation, lok geet, kavishri etc have been planned which will be held on different dates till November 7.The contests would be organised online as well as physically in schools while adhering to the precautionary guidelines issued by the Health Department in wake of the pandemic Covid-19.The motive behind organising these ‘Vidhayak Muqabale’ is to preserve and promote Punjabi language among students. “All students have been asked to enthusiastically participate in the contest. Topics related to the history of Punjab and Punjabi language have been selected. Teachers also told students about the importance of mother tongue and how they should never hesitate while speaking their ‘maa-boli’, said officials of the Education Department.Meanwhile, a webinar was also held to mark the onset of these contests. Education Secretary Krishan Kumar, said, “These contests would go a long way in strengthening the roots of the new generation with the rich heritage of Punjabi language, culture and literature.”While interacting with the District Education Officers, Block Primary Education Officers, school heads, Punjabi teachers and Punjabi writers, the education secretary exhorted them to mobilise students to read good literature to ignite their creative potentialities.“We must teach students that their mother tongue is equally important Though they must learn all language, due respect and priority must be given to their mother tongue,” he said. He also added that these contests would encourage students to take up Punjabi literature to learn more about the language of their homeland.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/read-literature-to-ignite-your-creative-potential-edu-secy-166196
05-11-2020||---||Languages Dept celebrates Punjabi week with fanfare||Jalandhar, November 4To mark the Punjabi week that began on November 1, the district language office will be organising a play called ‘Eh Lahu Kis Da Hai’ on November 6 in Sultanpur Lodhi at 10.30 in the morning. The play dedicated to 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev has been directed by Dr Sahib Singh and written by Professor Gurdial Singh.Officials from the department said the main function was held in Patiala and the head office had given the responsibility to hold the play to the Jalandhar Language Department.The department was established to promote Punjabi language in Punjab, to ensure that the work is being done in Punjabi language in all government offices.Mahankosh back in the departmentAfter waiting for years, Mahankosh, the most awaited book by the literature lovers, is back in the department. More than 500 copies were received by the department and because of its popularity, only180 are left, of which the department has received an order for 150 copies. The most prominent Punjabi language encyclopedia has always been in high demand in Punjab.Mahankosh is the dictionary of Punjabi language that was written by Bhai Kahn Singh Nabha. The language department got the encyclopedia reprinted in 2011 for the 8th time. A total of 5,000 copies were printed at that time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/languages-dept-celebrates-punjabi-week-with-fanfare-166197
05-11-2020||---||National Unity Day celebrated virtually||Jalandhar, November 4  GNA University virtually celebrated National Unity Day as per the directions from the University Grants Commission. The event was held to mark the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, the Iron Man of India. The occasion commenced with the oath-taking ceremony with the intent of paying tributes to the leader, who was instrumental in keeping India united.  The online ceremony was followed by a quiz based on National Unity Day and its relevance till date. Students, along with NCC cadets, were also delivered a talk by Lt Kamaljit Singh, who made students aware of the great works of Sardar Patel and the importance to maintain the nation’s unity.  Gurdeep Singh Sehra, Pro-Chancellor, GNA University, said: “The observance of Rashtriya Ekta Diwas among a large number of students will provide an opportunity to reaffirm the inherent strength and resilience of our nation to withstand the actual and potential threats to the unity, integrity and security of our country.”  Vice-Chancellor Dr VK Rattan said: “The university is always willing to celebrate such events on a large scale as this keeps Indians rooted in their culture.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/national-unity-day-celebrated-virtually-166198
05-11-2020||---||I-T sleuths raid tobacco firm of Jalandhar||Jalandhar, November 4  The Income Tax Department conducted a massive five-day raid at 41 locations linked to a top tobacco manufacturing and trading group of Jalandhar. The I-T sleuths reportedly confiscated a huge amount of unaccounted cash, jewellery, documents related to business and properties owned by the Marwaha group.  The teams conducted simultaneous raids at various places including Jalandhar City, Nakodar and Kapurthala. Raids were conducted at business groups having links with Marwahas too.  Bank account details of the groups too have been taken for further verification of documents. The I-T officials refused to comment on the recovery and the alleged violations of the I-T Act saying that the details of the probe would be known after some more days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/i-t-sleuths-raid-tobacco-firm-of-jalandhar-166199
05-11-2020||Our Correspondent---||BJP to contest all seats in local bodies election||Talwara, November 4 The mantra of ‘Mandal, Shakti Kendra and Booth’ has been given to ensure the victory of Bhartiya Janata Party in the upcoming elections in Punjab.  The party is gearing up for the 2022 state assembly elections. This was stated by state Bhartiya Janata Party president Ashwani Sharma during his brief stay here on Wednesday while returning from Chintpurni.  A meeting was organised under the chairmanship of Sanjeev Minhas, president, Hoshiarpur district (rural).  During this Sharma said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would do more work in villages along with cities to increase its base in Punjab.  He also discussed the forthcoming elections for the municipal councils in Mukerian, Dasuya, Tanda and Garhdiwala falling under Hoshiarpur district.  He said the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) would field its candidates in each ward of these four municipal councils. The party has set a target to win all four municipal council elections.  The coming elections of local bodies are just a trailer, the film will be seen in the 2022 state assembly elections, in which the party will be fielding its candidates in all 117 assembly seats in the state, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-to-contest-all-seats-in-local-bodies-election-166200
05-11-2020||Kapurthala||Expedite work on Delhi-Katra Expressway: DC||Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal has asked officials of the National Highway Authority of India and SDMs of Kapurthala, Sultanpur Lodhi and Bholath to complete the official procedural work till November end so that the construction work of the project gets started in the stipulated time frame. In a review meeting with ADC Development SP Angra, SDM Kapurthala Varinderpal Singh Bajwa, SDM Sultanpur Lodhi Dr Charumita, SDM Bholath T Benith and XEN NHAI Prashant Mahajan, the DC said the project would provide a big push to the overall development of the area as it will give a boost to the business activities connected directly with the national capital and other important cities of North India. She asked the officials of the NHAI to provide required permissions and documents, including 3D notification to the SDMs so that the verification of land can be done till November 20. She said the expressway would also ease out traffic on state highways as it will promote direct connectivity of important religious places of the Majha and Doaba region and facilitate the pilgrims.  Mahajan from the NHAI and SDM Bholath said for the Delhi-Katra National Highway project, the 3A notification has already been issued regarding the villages namely Mana Talwandi, Talwandi Purdil, Sheruwal, Husewal, Chak Shah Wala, Dabulian, Nadala, Bulewal, Pasiewal, Raipur Rajputan, Mandi Sandhian Khan  and others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/expedite-work-on-delhi-katra-expressway-dc-166201
05-11-2020||Our Correspondent ---||Youth found dead in gorge||Garhshankar, November 4 The body of a 29-year-old youth from Himachal Pradesh was found in a gorge near Beenewal village adjoining Himachal Pradesh. It is apprehended that the victim died due to overdose of drug because syringes were found lying near the body.  After getting information,  police post Beenewal Sub-Inspector Satvinder Singh along with a police party reached the spot. The deceased was identified as Navjot Singh, a resident of Palasi Kalan in Nalagarh tehsil of Solan district. After conducting postmortem, the police handed over the body to his family members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-found-dead-in-gorge-166202
05-11-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar Administration starts demolition drive at Adampur market||The district administration today started the demolition drive at Adampur market to provide the already acquired land to the Public Works Department (Central Works) for the four-laning project (Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur).The Competent Authority of Land Acquisition (CALA)-cum-SDM Jalandhar-1 Dr Jai Inder Singh said the award for the acquired land was announced in 2016, however, a few landowners didn’t receive their compensation amount despite repeated requests. The SDM said the authorities started demolishing those properties whose owners didn’t gave the possession even after receiving their compensation and provided land to the PWD. Dr Singh said those landowners were apprised of demolition action as per the rules. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-administration-starts-demolition-drive-at-adampur-market-166203
05-11-2020||---||Several Contests mark the day||Jalandhar, November 4Sanskriti KMV School Principal and teachers joined in to mark the day of Karwa Chauth for celebrations and prayers. Working day in and day out, imparting education and life skills, Sanskriti KMV School grasped this day for self-rejuvenation, giving all chance to rise up from the daily duties and catch up for to collect happiness. Taking all safety precautions, a short programme was organised consisting of fun games, dance and song performances as well as ramp walk. Rachna Monga, Principal, in her greetings to staff on Karwa Chauth mentioned the celebrations as a much required to recollect, relive and pray for overall well being of all.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/several-contests-mark-the-day-166205
05-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Mehndi competition held at KCL institute||Jalandhar, November 4The cultural committee of the management department of KCL Institute of Management and Technology on Wednesday celebrated Karwa Chauth festival. Mehndi competition was organised for students. Students participated with great enthusiasm and they applied various alluring designs and exhibited their talent in this art form. Suman (MBA final year) and Parminder (BCom first year) got first position, Prabhjot (BCom second year) and Gurneem (BBA final year) got second postion, while Girisha (BBA first year) and Sonika (MBA first year) bagged the third position. Dr Inderpal Singh (HoD, management) applauded the efforts of all members and students. Sukhbir Singh Chatha, director, academic affairs, and Dr SK Sood, director, KCL-IMT, congratulated the whole team for conducting the event successfully.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mehndi-competition-held-at-kcl-institute-166207
05-11-2020||Hoshiarpur||Women robbed of gold at gunpoint||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/women-robbed-of-gold-at-gunpoint-166208
05-11-2020||New Delhi||Adani buys city gas licence for Ludhiana, Jalandhar||Adani Gas on Wednesday announced acquisition of city gas licences for Ludhiana and Jalandhar in Punjab and Kutch (East) in Gujarat from Jay Madhok Energy. It, however, did not disclose the name of the city gas licence holder for the three cities and the acquisition price.The deal, which adds high potential towns to Adani's kitty, will make it the nation's largest city gas operator.Jay Madhok Energy has been show-caused by the oil regulator Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) over defaulting on timelines and alleged irregularities in acquisition of the city gas licence. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/adani-buys-city-gas-licence-for-ludhiana-jalandhar-166082
