05-12-2020||Of the many langars which kept devotees satiated during Gurpurab celebrations at Sultanpur Lodhi was an elderly man with his stall of wheatgrass juice. Kapurthala resident Bhai Harjit Singh Pattar took wheatgrass juice to the sangat to stress on the importance of the miracle grass in warding off diseases. The fully organic juice—Pattar says—is a one-herb solution to the warding off myriad diseases. After three-day langar during Gurpurab||Wheatgrass juice langar at Sultanpur Lodhi||Ensure 2,000 Covid tests daily, says DC uppalKapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal ordered 2,000 Covid tests daily to ensure fool proof contact tracing and keep new infections in check in the district. Deepti Uppal and SSP Kanwardeep Kaur on Thursday reviewed the Covid control steps taken by the Health Department and police along with SDMs of all four subdivisions. Addressing all SMOs at a meeting held at the DAC, the DC asked Civil Surgeon Dr Surinder Kumar and SMOs to ensure speed up testing to avoid the second wave of Covid. Health officials informed that the district had crossed one lakh testing besides distributing 559 Fateh Kits to home isolated persons out of 1,000 kits. The DC also asked to ensure 100 per cent sampling of persons with comorbid conditions. Health officials informed that persons with comorbid diseases were tested 40 per cent in August, 77 per cent in September and 108 per cent in November. The DC also asked to chalk out comprehensive plan for sampling of all government employees by visiting government offices, besides students at ITIs and colleges who are coming to institutes for study. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wheatgrass-juice-langar-at-sultanpur-lodhi-180323
05-12-2020||---||IKGPTU staff against govt decision to use varsity funds||Jalandhar, December 4 In a joint general body meeting held here on Thursday, teaching and non-teaching employees of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU)  decided that they would protest against the decision of the state government to withdraw funds from the varsity for various government projects.   Members of the PTU Non-Teaching Employees Association in a press release issued on Thursday said, “The Punjab Government has asked about Rs105 crore from IKGPTU for establishment of 19 ITIs in the state (ITIs fall under the purview of Punjab Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training). The government through its Industries Department has asked the IKGPTU to set aside Rs100 crore to establish a start-up fund. An amount of Rs100 crore is being used for establishment of an incubation hub through TATA Technologies Limited. The state government has also asked to pay 50 per cent expenditure incurred on various government job fairs being held under the Ghar Ghar Rojgar Yojana held in different areas of Punjab.” They further wrote, “Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is establishing Skill-cum-Vocational University in his constituency at Chamkaur Sahib. The IKGPTU has been asked to pay Rs15 crore for the purchase of 42 acre land in Shri Chamkaur Sahib. A part of that for the construction of buildings in phase-I, the IKGPTU has been asked to pay Rs114 crore. Since Channi is also holding the charge of Tourism and Cultural Affairs Ministry, he had pressed upon IKGPTU to pay Rs88 lakh for conducting a state-level programme for celebrating 550th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev.” Association leaders Dinesh Kumar and Pawan Khichy said, “Similarly in an another letter written to IKGPTU, it has been asked to set aside a land of about 25 acre to establish a museum on the life and history of Dr BR Ambedkar. It seems very strange that the state government has failed to provide financial resources to various universities of Punjab as well as Government Technical Education Institutions in Punjab but still it is adamant to open new Institutions. The government is struggling to provide salaries to some existing institutions. Due to this reason, the state has initiated process of transfer of teachers and employees of Bhai Hira Singh Bhattal College of Engineering and Technology, Lehragaga. The government is putting pressure on IKGPTU to accommodate these employees in IKGPTU.” The IKGPTU employees associations have strongly opposed this move of the Punjab Government because the educational qualifications, scale and post of Lehragaga institute does not match with that of IKGPTU. The teaching and non-teaching association members also resolved that in case the government continued to put pressure on IKGPTU, then its employee would intensify the agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ikgptu-staff-against-govt-decision-to-use-varsity-funds-180303
05-12-2020||Our Correspondent---||Snatching case solved within six hours, accused arrested||Hoshiarpur, December 4 The Hoshiarpur SSP on Friday handed over Rs62,500  out of Rs67,000 snatched from Amar Kaur, an octogenarian woman of Seena village on Wednesday.  The accused was also arrested. Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal handed over the recovered amount to the victim at his office. He said an unidentified youth on an Activa had snatched a bag containing Rs67,000 on December 2 from Soham Lal, who was accompanying the old woman near Bassi Khawaju after withdrawing the money from the bank. Following the incident, a case under Section 379-B of the IPC was registered at Model Town police station. Mahal said a team headed by SP (D) Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu along with DSP City Jagdish Raj Attri, SHO city Govinder Kumar and SHO Model Town Karnail Singh was constituted to crack the case. He said the team led a technical and scientific probe and nabbed accused Gaurav Sidhu of Nainowal Jattan village within six hours.  The team also recovered Rs62,500 out of Rs67,000 from the accused. The police have also seized the scooter used in the crime.  The SSP said Amar Kaur had withdrawn Rs14,000 from State Bank of India and Rs50,000 from PNB near Vegetable Market. They were going back to their village, when an unidentified scooter borne youth wearing a red cap and blue jacket snatched the bag containing cash. The woman and Sohan Lal expressed gratitude towards the police for solving the case within a short time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/snatching-case-solved-within-six-hours-accused-arrested-180304
05-12-2020||Our Correspondent---||Despite Covid, no shortcoming in training of cadets: Brig Madan||Hoshiarpur, December 4 National Cadets Corps (NCC), Jalandhar, Group Commander Brigadier Advitiya Madan inspected the 12 Punjab Battalion NCC Hoshiarpur on Friday. He took account of the training being imparted to cadets and other related matters. He also reviewed the activities being conducted to train the cadets, especially for inculcating leadership qualities in them and the socially useful activities being conducted by the cadets in the corona period. He was welcomed by the battalion’s OC Colonel GS Dhaliwal.   Colonel Dhaliwal presented a report with regard to various training programmes organised by the battalion, achievements of the cadets, and staff of the battalion. Brigadier Madan said that the objective of NCC was to make the cadets disciplined and dedicated citizens of the country. Along with this, various activities were organised to inculcate the spirit of patriotism in the minds of the youth by connecting them with their society to enable them to solve the problems prevailing in the society and motivate them with social service.  “Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, there is no shortcoming in training of cadets and the training in online mode is being imparted seriously. Several cadets of this battalion and others from Jalandhar group have successfully secured their place in the most prestigious Republic Day camp of NCC. Our shooters have brought laurels to the Jalandhar group at national level. Special personality development programmes are being organised for the overall personality development of the cadets by subject experts”, said Brig Madan. He also interacted with the associated NCC officers of the battalion and took suggestions for betterment of NCC cadets and training etc. Earlier, on arriving at the battalion headquarters, a contingent of quarter guard of NCC cadets saluted Brigadier Madan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/despite-covid-no-shortcoming-in-training-of-cadets-brig-madan-180305
05-12-2020||Jalandhar||Blankets distributed||To commemorate International Day of Disabled Persons, the district Red Cross Society, along with NGO Fateh Forever Welfare Society, on Thursday, distributed blankets to students of Red Cross School for Deaf. Fateh Welfare Society chief handed over the blankets to Inder Dev Singh Minhas, secretary, Red Cross Society. Secretary Red Cross said persons with disability were the real heroes of society as they excel in life despite hardships.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/blankets-distributed-180306
05-12-2020|| ---||Two fall prey to virus in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, December 4  The district reported two more Covid-19 fatalities on Friday, taking the death toll to 571, while 126 new cases pushed the infection count in the district to 18,308.  The active cases in the district are 1,192 until today. As many as 16,545 people have been discharged while 717 people are under home isolation in Jalandhar currently. In Kapurthala, eight persons tested positive for the Covid-19 on Friday, while a 60-year-old patient died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-fall-prey-to-virus-in-jalandhar-180307
05-12-2020||---||Ex-PM Gujral remembered on 101st birth anniversary||Jalandhar, December 4The 101st birthday of country’s 12th Prime Minister Inder Kumar Gujral was celebrated at IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU) by holding an e-interaction.In the live address as the keynote speaker, his son and Rajya Sabha member Naresh Gujral remembered him saying: “When there was an Emergency in the country and brotherhood was at stake, no one was speaking openly. In such a situation, it was only Inder Kumar Gujral, who spoke openly in respect to brotherhood. Patriotism ran in his blood. When Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh was being hanged, the Gujral family was at the forefront of protests outside the jail. Gujral family faced jail in Quit India Movement and during many other freedom moments. Due to Covid-19, the event was held at a limited level in the university, in which thousands of people joined through various e-platforms such as Zoom, Facebook Live etc.Naresh Kumar Gujral shared his views in context of women education and its promotion, gender equality and scientific temperament. He said politicians from southern countries were always eager to meet and hear the ex-PM. He was a supporter of a series of historically-rich relationship eras, in which neighbouring countries or riyasats were asked to live in a favourable and better relationship with their neighbours, as this policy gave them more progress.Vice Chancellor IKGPTU Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma said subjects such as science and communication revolution had always been the thrust areas for Inder Kumar Gujral and the university was constantly moving in the same direction. He said: “It had always been that when an institution is named after a visionary person, it helps to make that institute its ideal direction and that institution, its employees feel blessed.”University Registrar Sandeep Kumar Kazal shared his views on the ‘Gujral Doctrine’ associated with the foreign policy of IK Gujral. He said it was a matter of pride that all five principles mentioned in Gujral Doctrine were still relevant. He also talked about the vision of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University towards the betterment of society and technical education at global level. He touched the events related to the life of IK Gujral, which were associated and relevant to Jalandhar city. The vote of thanks was delivered by Rajneesh Sharma, Public Relations Officer. During the event senior officers Dr Balkar Singh, Director, and Dr RPS Bedi, Joint Registrar, were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ex-pm-gujral-remembered-on-101st-birth-anniversary-180309
05-12-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj ---||Two renowned writers from city win Shiromani Hindi Sahitkar Award||Tribune News Service  Jalandhar, December 4  Two writers from the city — Dr Ajay Sharma (60) and Dr Kirti Kesar (78) — have won the prestigious Shiromani Hindi Sahitkar Award.  The Language Department had announced Sahitya Ratna and Shiromani Awards for 18 different categories of literature and art on Thursday. The awards were finalised at a meeting of the State Advisory Board chaired by Higher Education and Languages Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa.  Dr Ajay is already a known face in the city. He has written 12 novels, five dramas and a short stories’ book. His first book was called ‘Lakeer de aar paar’, and his first novel was ‘Chehra aur parchaayi’. He has also written a serial ‘Adharsheela’ of 26 episodes, which was aired on DD Kisan.  Sharma, a degree holder in BAMS, practiced medicine for several years before he quit in 1999. He shares an interesting anecdote: “I wanted to become an actor, but my parents, both teachers, didn’t allow me to do so. They wanted me to do something in the field of education. So, I completed my BAMS degree and started a clinic. The urge of becoming an actor gradually vanished, but in 1999, I decided to discontinue this work and joined vernaculars, because I wanted to do something in creative field. Until March this year, I have worked with several vernaculars and then I decided to say goodbye to this field as well.”  Sharma said the awards should come as a motivation. “My real award are my readers, but this has certainly given me a push,” he said.  Dr Ajay is now working on his next books. But at the same time, he is also planning to go back to where he started from — starting his clinic again. “I have the degree and time, I will start practising again,” he said.  He had contracted the coronavirus and is writing ‘Covid-19 positive, kamra number 909’ to share his experience with readers. He has also written three plays during the lockdown.  Seventyeight-year-old Dr Kirti Kesar is famously known for acting as a bridge between Hindi and Punjabi and 17 of her books have been published. She has also worked as a journalist. She was married and had three children when she started writing. The city-based poetess was also awarded the ‘Sauhard Puraskar’ for her work by the UP Hindi Sansthan. Nowadays, she is seen supporting farmers in their movement and is actively posting and writing in favour of them on social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-renowned-writers-from-city-win-shiromani-hindi-sahitkar-award-180297
05-12-2020||---||Attack at Basti Bawa Khel, 8 held||Jalandhar, December 4The Police Commissionerate on Friday arrested eight persons for attacking the head of Shri Ram Bhakt Sena Dharminder Mishra in Raj Nagar, Basti Bawa Khel, on Wednesday evening.The accused have been identified as Karan Kumar (21) of Bank Colony, Mehakpreet Singh (18) of Kabir Vihar, Gurpreet Singh Guri (21) of Mithu Basti, Sarbjeet Singh (20), Harjinder Singh (19) of Basti Bawa Khel, Amritpal Singh (23) of New Raj Nagar and Bhupinder Singh (19), Barjinder Singh (22) of Raj Nagar.The police have also seized sharp weapons and three bikes among other things from them. One of the key accused, property dealer Gurpreet Singh Ghumman, is still at large.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said victim Dharminder Mishra had his office near the colony developed by prime accused Gurpreet Singh Ghumman. He said a month ago, Ghumman along with Karan Kumar, who works at his office, indulged in an argument with the victim and workers of his outfit, following which the former decided to teach him a lesson and hatched a conspiracy with others.The CP said on Wednesday at 7 pm, the accused attacked Mishra with sharp-edged weapons and baseball bats and managed to flee after leaving the victim seriously injured.He said the CIA-1 staff was put on the task to nab the accused and the team headed by Harwinder Singh scanned the CCTV cameras, carried out a technical investigation and succeeded in cracking the case by arresting eight of the accused from their residences.Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said a case under Sections 323, 324, 427, 326, 148, 149, and 120-B of the IPC had been registered against the accused at Basti Bawa Khel police station and all eight accused would be produced in the local court. He said Ghumman, too, would also be arrested soon.Top cop takes stock of law & order situation in cityJalandhar: Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar reviewed law and order situation in the city on Friday. He inspected police nakas, shopping malls and other vulnerable points, falling under the jurisdiction of the Police Commissionerate. The Commissioner of Police was accompanied by Deputy Commissioner of Police Gurmeet Singh. Bhullar directed police personnel to beef up security at all vulnerable places. He said police teams/PCR staff has been monitoring and patrolling the city round-the-clock, especially those areas which witness high footfall on weekends, including shopping malls, markets and restaurants. He said their main objective is to prevent crime and instil a sense of security among residents. He directed officials to ensure that night curfew was strictly imposed to tackle the spread of Covid-19. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/attack-at-basti-bawa-khel-8-held-180298
05-12-2020||---||New normal for disability sector: Everything is different, but nothing has changed for them||Jalandhar, December 4Financial constraints, immobility, transport problems mar villagers nine months after the Covid lockdown was implemented, and the members of the disability sector are yet to come out of the impact. While some have been rendered jobless, others have had their incomes hit strongly. Even as the sector ran the campaign #Ask Captain on Twitter, two differently-abled people fighting for the rights of the disability sector, say the handicapped are most affected than rest of the population.Kaushalya, an activist and a resident of Garha village near Phillaur, says, “Our income has considerably sharply dipped. I am a social activist and a housewife. My husband sings. His programmes were a big hit during the pandemic. He had to open his own store where he sews paddy sacks. His shows are slowly picking up. But we still have to pay 10 months fees of our children. But when we have little to eat, how are we going to spare money for the fee?”During the pandemic, Kaushalya facilitated rations for the 10 to 15 disabled people at her village who were left without a lifeline. She has ensured cochlear implant surgeries for kids by mobilising help, ensured knee and heart surgeries for many apart from running a self-help group for women which contrives monetary support for women.“People from the disability sector in our village are poor people. Their mobility is completely hit. The government paid no heed to their plight when the lockdown was announced. Construction workers and women got money through schemes but no one thought about disabled. With Rs750 a month in pensions how can people survive?” she questions, before revealing, in our village ration was delivered only once during the lockdown.Advocate Palwinder Singh Pallav, vice-president of the District Bar Association Hoshiarpur expresses similar sentiments. Being a hand amputee, he is more active in social work than many of his colleagues. However, he also says incomes have taken a hit in the bar too.“My income has been hit with the pandemic. But my family has supported me and my kids. It is a bad time for those without any support system or help. Since courts were also closed in between, clientele has suffered massively. Especially women, who were hit due to accidents or the differently-abled people unable to move amid the pandemic, had seen very bad times,” he shares.“Each disability sector is a whole work in itself. Differently Children are educated by special educator at schools. Many parents don’t know how to handle them when they stay home. The Har Virvaar Divyangon ka Satkaar campign had to be closed in Hoshiarpur. The medical treatment of many was abruptly snapped,” Palwinder added. According to him, the least the government can do is ensure a decent amount of pension compared to Rs750 they now get. Also, in such times, the UDID cards with the differently-abled should be declared as good as curfew passes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-normal-for-disability-sector-everything-is-different-but-nothing-has-changed-for-them-180299
05-12-2020||---||7 shops sealed, reopened by MC in Phagwara market||Jalandhar, December 4Seven shops sealed by the town planning wing of the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation in Phagwara market at 7 am on Friday were allowed to open in the evening.The matter pertaining to commercial shops at the Phagwara Gate is in the court. As per civic body officials, residents of the area had filed a writ that people started using their residential spaces for commercial purposes.The owners were ordered to produce documents stating that they were using their spaces as shops before implementation of the Master Plan in 2009-2010.“Some shopkeepers could not produce the documents. As a result, we sealed the shops,” said an official of the civic body.The moment the shops were sealed, Baljit Singh Ahluwalia, chief, Electronic Market Phagwara Gate Association, along with shopkeepers met the Joint Commissioner and threatened to carry out agitation against the move.“We are standing with our brothers. After we pursued the matter, the shops were opened. There is no business in the wake of the Covid-19. What will we do if shops are sealed?” he asked.Members of the association then met Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri, Ravinder Dhir of Traders Forum and Mayor Jagdish Raja.A meeting was held and officials of the town planning wing decided to give 10 days time to those shopkeepers whose shops were sealed to prove that their shops existed before implementation of the Master Plan, failing which the MC would be free to take further action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-shops-sealed-reopened-by-mc-in-phagwara-market-180301
05-12-2020||---||Rs 91-cr power bill shocker for eatery owner!||Jalandhar, December 4 The owner of a city-based eatery at Model Town got a shock of his life as he got a whopping Rs91- crore electricity bill from the PSPCL two days ago. Owner of Baba Chicken eatery Sidharth Kesar said: “It was such a big shock for me which I may not forget for my entire life. While my routine bill varies between Rs30,000 to Rs45,000, this one was out of bounds. I felt as if I had been asked to pay for the bills of entire Punjab. Even Ambanis won’t be paying such a huge amount.” He said: “I had asked the PSPCL officials concerned to install the meter, but they said 3-phase power meters were out of stock. So, they said it was an average reading, which cannot be, according to me. My power consumption has fallen owing to less orders and less working hours in the ongoing pandemic. If I have three refrigerators, I used only two. So, when I contested the matter, I was handed over Rs2 lakh bill, of which they asked me to pay 50 per cent even if I wanted to contest over this amount.”  Deputy Chief Engineer PSPCL HS Bansal said: “From what I have checked, we had not served this bill to the consumer. He checked the amount on his own from the online system. The bills with extraordinary amounts are first checked at the higher levels for any error before being served. So, when he approached us, we rectified the technical error and issued him a Rs2 lakh bill instead. The 3-phase meters are out of stock because of supply issues from Delhi. We will install it at his premises as soon as we get it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-91-cr-power-bill-shocker-for-eatery-owner-180302
05-12-2020||Jalandhar||NRIs send 30 quintal almonds for protesters||Coming out in support of the farmers protesting at Delhi borders, US-based NRIs, popularly known as Tut brothers, have sent 30 quintals of almonds for them.Hailing from Jalandhar, the four brothers have sent the almonds through their relatives here. While 10 quintals of almonds were sent for the farmers yesterday, 20 quintals were dispatched today from the godown of Ranjit Tut at Paragpur village here. More sacks of almonds are being sent through farmers joining the protests from here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nris-send-30-quintal-almonds-for-protesters-180204
