05-10-2020||Hoshiarpur||2 motorcyclists killed in accident||Enmity claims life, 3 bookedHoshiarpur: Three persons were booked for killing a youth and injuring his friend owing to an old enmity. Harvinder Singh of Jamsher Chathiyala village, told the police that he was returning from the fields with his friend Daljit Singh, when residents of his village Paramjit Singh, alias Pamma; Narinder Singh; and Rahul Singh, alias Rana, attacked them due to some old enmity. He said both of them were injured. He was admitted to a hospital in Bhunga, while Daljit was admitted to a private hospital in Hoshiarpur, where he succumbed to his injuries. Garhdiwala police have registered a case. OCFather-son duo booked for fraudHoshiarpur: The Tanda Urmar police have registered a case against father-son duo travel agents for allegedly duping a youth of Rs12 lakh on the pretext of sending him to Portugal. Lakhvir Lal in his complaint said Lovpreet Singh and his father Surjit Singh promised to send his son to Portugal. The accused then reportedly called his (complainant’s) son to Delhi for an interview. Thereafter, they took his son and some others to the border of Greece by illegal route, where the youths were treated inhumanly. The accused allegedly pushed his son to Greece illegally, who is still stuck there. It was alleged that after taking the said amount, the accused were not cooperating them, while his son was still in Greece. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-motorcyclists-killed-in-accident-151319
05-10-2020||Take precautions||No longer business-as-usual, action plan must to revive tourism||Rebuild tourism in phased mannerSeptember 27 is observed as the World Tourism Day. But this year, it was celebrated under Covid shadow. The WHO experts claim that the virus is going to be with us till 2022 or even longer. There is no doubt that the tourism industry is one of the first casualties of this pandemic. But other industries such as automobile and cinemas have also been hit badly. As a result, so many people suffered and lost their jobs and earnings. To revive the tourism in the state, some special steps have to be taken. First of all people and pilgrims must be asked to get Covid-19 negative certificate from the relevant authorities. Face masks must be worn properly. Hand sanitisation should also be observed. In buses and trains social, rather physical, distancing must be strictly implemented. The seating capacity of the buses, trains and aeroplanes must be reduced to 50% or even less. Himachal Pradesh has opened its tourism sector but people there are wary of it. Tourism should be revived in a phased manner.Dr J S WadhwaQUESTION by Thursday (October 8).Need to Tap more natural resourcesThe outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic has adversely impacted all industrial and commercial activities but the tourism industry is a major casualty. In Punjab, where tourism is restricted to major religious and some historical places only, potential of tourism relating to culture, rural and ecology needs to be explored and promoted in addition to streamlining existing infrastructure. A state whose name is derived from the rivers, has miserably failed to link its water bodies to the concept of tourism. Punjab should feel proud in hosting some of world-class wetlands at Harike Kanjli and Keshopur, having multiple avenues of tourists'' interests but unfortunately they remain under utilised so far. Three districts, Hoshiarpur, Ropar and Pathankot, at the foothills of HP, where hydroelectric and various irrigation projects are commissioned, hold tremendous possibilities of making them tourists spots with multiple activities of tourists indulgence. In the post Covid era, the potential of water sports should be tapped to attract tourists. The spectacular view of hills around and lakes with boating facilities there at can be grown into world class tourists centres provided recreational and public utility services are provided at affordable cost. The concept can promote tourism which generally non-existent in the state.Jagdish ChanderMake small videos to educate travellersPunjab being one of the top tourist states in the country is famous for its delicacies, cuisine culture and history. Many tourists visit Punjab only to visit Golden Temple and Attari border which is no less than a holy place. After the Covid tourism has been worst hit and badly affected, the Punjab Government is not doing anything to promote tourism.. Government should make small advertisements to promote tourism. Low-cost hotels, basic amenities and a special focus should be given on hygiene, proper public utility system and create special care and disabled friendly atmosphere. Old forts and heritage buildings should also be given a facelift.Shashi KiranTourist sites must take initiativeEach and every place in the country has been closed for about more than 100 days. Starting a new venture after a full stop has been a difficult task but we together can achieve it. One major help can be taken from advertisements or pamphlets. The tourist sites should start floating ads. They should organise fun activities for every age group. The places should be clean and sanitised so that people are tension free regarding their health. The 'must visit' places should be worth it. Tourism is the best phenomenon of earning money. There must be a guide in each and every historical place to learn about the history of the same.IzleenPeaceful environment needed for revivalThe steps to control the pandemic are the best way to revive the tourism. Testing should be one of the mainstays to isolate the infected to win trust of the prospective tourists. Stuble burning by the farmers needs to be brought under the scanner as it hampers the tourism growth by creating pollution. Various strikes by different organisations flaunting the social distancing norms and creating fear and uncertainty must be nipped in the bud. A peaceful environment is a prerequisite for revival of tourism. All the ordinances and guidelines must be followed at the entry points of the state. Tour operators should come up with the attractive offers for the tourists and onus to aid the operators in all possible ways is on the government.Anil SharmaPrioritise hygiene, cleanliness & safetyThe state has incredible tourism potential and the pandemic has had a debilitating effect on the tourism industry as those dependent on tourism for earning their livelihood have been rendered jobless and savings bankrupt. Hence, the industry ought to be supported by the state with all our efforts. Tour operators and travel agents will have to adapt to a new business model to survive as people nowadays depend more on mobiles and digital mode. The need of the hour is to win the confidence of the prospective tourists by drastically changing attitude and behaviour towards them. Hygiene, cleanliness and safety should be given top-most priority. GST waiver or reduction is a must to resuscitate the industry. Collateral-free borrowing or government guarantee on tourism sector borrowing should be made facile. Advertisement and disseminating information are critical to boost the sagging morale of the industry. Public relations activities and media can play a significant role in this respect. It will be a shot in the arm if enlightened people join hands with the government bodies to develop policies and code of conduct to promote sustainable tourism and to motivate those engaged with the sector.Tarsem S BumrahDiscounts, freebies could helpAll of the safety protocols must be followed by every person employed in the tourism industry so that the faith of the people can be revived. Advertisements must be published to make people aware about tourism. If possible, some freebies must be distributed to people so that they spread the benefits of tourism to others through word of mouth. Police should be stricter against snatchers. Dustbins must be installed at regular distances in the city to avoid littering. Some special discounts for purchasing in shops or eating at restaurants can be offered to people. All this can make the industry thrive.Jatinderpal SinghTake comprehensive recovery measuresThe resilient, ever-evolving and thriving tourism industry, including its allied services such as aviation, travel, hospitality etc, is one of the worst-hit sectors in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Severe restrictions on recreational and entertainment activities, business operations and public and private transport have disrupted social interactions and travel behaviour. A sharp decline in consumer demand has eventually resulted in massive economic and job losses, affecting the livelihoods of millions of people in the country. Following the health and personal safety protocol, the 40th anniversary celebration of the World Tourism Day this year has been a modest, low-key affair. However, it strongly emphasised the need to revive this sector as it plays a stellar role in preserving and promoting the country's socio-economic, cultural, political and natural values and traditions; enhancing national unity, harmony and integration; and contributing to sustainable, inclusive development. The ongoing crisis provides an opportunity to recognise the potential of tourism and rethink its future by immediately developing comprehensive recovery measures. The Ministry of Tourism has launched the SAATHI application to ensure safety precautions in the hospitality industry. The state governments across the country have gradually opened up the tourist sector and relaxed the Covid rules for restoring confidence of the travellers. Besides exploring the lesser known places of tourist attraction, these governments should take immediate measures to promote the existing destinations such as heritage and pilgrim sites, landscapes, majestic hills and mountains, and charming towns that leave the tourists with memories of a lifetime. They should take more initiatives to formulate and execute right infrastructural policies and programmes at the right time to bring the beleaguered tourist sector back on the track within time.D S Kang||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-longer-business-as-usual-action-plan-must-to-revive-tourism-151321
05-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||From sasando to waterphone, he handcrafted musical instruments during lockdown||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 4If you go to his home and workshop one is bound to be mesmerised. For you would have an opportunity to chance upon an exotic range of instruments, including berimbau (Brazil), crystal quartz galassophone (US), stringoyidaki (derivative of an electric string didgeridoo), sasando (Indonesian), samsaw, samswing chimes among others.Samir Malhotra, a city-based doctor, is a music lover. But stands apart from rest – he crafts his own instruments, mainly to cushion the stress amid the pandemic. The 48-year-old owns 172 musical instruments and has handcrafted an array.He has been building his own collection for over 15 years. It includes guitars (acoustic and electric), darbooka, djembe, tanpura, pan flutes, sarod, nagadas and drums among many more lesser-known instruments.After his hectic tiring shift at the workplace, which happens to be a hospital, the peace of mind descends every time he comes home to the musical paradise. “In my 24 years of medical practice we work across gruelling schedules which leave us zapped. Music runs in our family. I have been playing guitar, sourcing drums and other percussion instruments for many years. Necessity gave way to invention and I recently made instruments of my own,” he says.Connoisseur of soulful tunesHis assorted collection includes meditative-like quality producing sounds salvaged from across the world. A connoisseur of soulful tunes, he has a knack for collecting the rawest–particularly ancient instruments created by indigenous tribes, which have therapeutic effect, are his forte. Interestingly, all his time and money is invested only for the passion and not for commerce.His first handcrafted instrument was a didgeridoo (an electrical stringed didgeridoo), a derivative of the Australian didgeridoo, an indigenous instrument originally developed by the Australian aboriginals around 1,500 years ago.Other handcrafted instruments include a Shanti M Pan 74 (crafted on the 74th year of Indian Independence) a derivative of an Israel-based instrument bajinn — a hollow wooden basket with horizontal metal bars which give out sonorous notes culminating in a calming effect. He has also created his own version of sasando – a tube zither (harp like instrument) native of Rote Island of Indonesia.The doctor has two holy grails at his place – a workshop and a recording studio — where he collects his treasured items. “I learnt the craft by the watching tutorials and videos on the internet. These instruments are made from the help at workshops of my friends’ steel and wood factories as well. While the concept is mine, I instruct the karigars on how to build them,” he shares.However, excessive charges on shipping and transportation made it difficult to order some exotic instruments from abroad. The bevy would otherwise have swelled but…“Amid the pandemic, the charges of sanitisation and protocols also piled on, I could not afford that. The PM says we should be ‘atmanirbhar’. And so I did.”What is he currently working on?Currently working on creating a derivative of the modern waterphone (in pic), originally created by the American Richard Waters, he explains his interest: “The trigger for the love of instruments was in fact a saxophone gifted by my wife. I have been glued to the meditative sounds of these instruments. After my five to six hours of sleep, I head to my workshop and begin crafting instruments.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/from-sasando-to-waterphone-he-handcrafted-musical-instruments-during-lockdown-151306
05-10-2020||---||Covid claims 5 more lives in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, October 4With 103 people testing positive for Covid-19, the district tally reached 13,350. With five deceased, the death toll also reached 406. As many as 11,619 people have been discharged, of which 191 persons were discharged on Sunday, while 1,325 were active patients and 984 people were under home isolation in Jalandhar. An ever increase in the number of discharged patients and decrease in the number of home isolation cases presents positive signs for the district. However, the rate of those deceased continues to average at 5 to 6 cases per day.Meanwhile in Kapurthala, 39 people tested positive for Covid on Sunday. No deaths were reported from the district.Three succumb, 25 catch virus in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: The district on Sunday reported 25 fresh Covid cases, taking the tally to 4,715. The fresh cases include seven from Hoshiarpur city and 18 from other health blocks. Three patients succumbed to coronavirus today, taking the Covid death toll in the district to 170. A 66-year-old Talwara resident died at a private hospital in Amritsar, while a 93-year-old woman of Bhol Kalota village died at Dasuya Civil Hospital and a 74-year-old resident of Sheenh Chathial village died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said with 25 new cases, the tally of positive cases has risen to 4,715 in the district. The total number of Covid-19 samples taken so far in the district has become 1,11, 605 with 1,318 new samples taken today of people with suspected flu-like symptoms. According to reports received from the lab, 1,05,642 are negative, while 1,705 reports are awaited and 127 are invalid. The number of active cases in the district is 478 and 4,067 patients have recovered.District round-up||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-claims-5-more-lives-in-jalandhar-151307
05-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj ---||Now, arhtiyas come in support of farmers||Tribune News Service  Jalandhar, October 4  Farmers’ protest against the farm Acts has become a massive movement, where not only farmers, but people from all walks of lives have come up in support of them.  To many people’s surprise, even arhtiyas have joined farmers in their protest.  The participation from protesters is huge. From writers, singers to actors and many bigwigs, all have come out in support of them. Many are expressing solidarity with farmers on social media too.  Naresh Bhardwaj, secretary of the Federation of Arhtiya Association, said arhtiyas were lending 100 per cent support to farmers.  “We are joining the farmers in their protest. I would like to let everybody know that because of these Acts, not only farmers, but everyone will suffer. Around 40,000 families of the arhtiyas will suffer badly with the Acts,” said Bhardwaj, who is also the president of Arhtiya Association, Phagwara.  “There are around 28,000 arhtiyas in the state, who have been provided with licenses to work and there are some others, who are working with them in partnership. Thus, everyone will be affected,” he said.  Even farm labourers have started worrying about their future. They know that if farmers will suffer, ultimately they will have to face severe consequences.  That is why a large number of farm labourers are participating in dharnas.When the pandemic hit in March and there was no work in factories, scores of construction labourers switched to doing labour in fields and were earning daily, but now, since farmers in the state have started a mass movement against the farm Acts, farm labourers, too, are scared. Kirpal Singh from Moosapur village in Jalandhar said: “This is was what farm labourers do and this is what they know. They understand that no matter what, working in fields can never leave them hungry, but this time, farm labourers, who are directly associated with farmers, have also started asking questions as to what would they do now,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-arhtiyas-come-in-support-of-farmers-151308
05-10-2020||Hoshiarpur||Avail 14 more services at Sewa Kendras from today||Starting from October 5, 14 important services of Saanjh Kendras will now be available at the Sewa Kendras. DC Apneet Riyait said these services include information regarding complaints, action taken on complaints, copies of FIRs or DDRs, of untraceable report in cases of road accidents, thefts and vehicle thefts, NoCs for loudspeakers, for fairs, exhibitions and sports events and for vehicles. The services also include police clearance of visas, character verification, tenant verification, employee verification and verification of domestic helpers or servants. The DC said with the availability of these facilities in Sewa Kendras, people would not need to go to police stations for these informations related to the police and they would also be relieved from the hassle for police verification or registration. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/avail-14-more-services-at-sewa-kendras-from-today-151309
05-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Pandemic has had a deep impact on wildlife: Expert||Kapurthala, October 4The world is fighting against an invisible opponent that has forced us all to push the pause button in our lives. This global pandemic has set off a ripple effect across the nations. This crisis has also had a deep impact on wildlife. While the world has come to a complete and utter standstill, nature seems to be reclaiming its territory, and the wild animals near urban cityscapes are taking this opportunity to step beyond the comforts of their forested homes. Basanta Rajkumar, Chief Conservator of Forest (CCF), Punjab, said this during a webinar on ‘Impact of Covid-19 Pandemic on Wildlife’ to celebrate World Wildlife Week, 2020, on Sunday.Pushpa Gujral Science City (PGSC), Kapurthala, had organised the webinar, in which Basanta Rajkumar was the keynote speaker. He spoke about the severe effects of Covid-19 on wildlife tourism.Besides, an e-book ‘The Lost Species’, portraying extinction of animals and plants, jointly published by the PGSC and Department of Forest and Wildlife Preservation, was also released.He said the global wildlife trade had been thrown into the spotlight and wildlife tourism had severely felt the impact of this pandemic.He said all around the world there have been reported incidents of animals venturing into cities, as people have started confining themselves at their homes in an effort to control the spread of coronavirus. “This global pause has given us a chance to rethink our relationship with nature. We must learn to co-exist if we want to sustain our urban ecology. Quarantine is affecting wildlife in an unexpected ways. In countries like India, monkeys and several other wildlife species are very much adapted to urban environments and are heavily dependent on human generated food waste to survive,” he added.Director general, Science City, Dr Neelima Jerath said human actions including deforestation, encroachment on wildlife habitats, intensified agriculture and acceleration of climate change have pushed na1ture beyond its limit.She said around 1 million species of flora and fauna have already become extinct due to deforestation and 50,000 species were being lost annually that was creating an imbalance in our eco-system.“If we continue on this path, wildlife loss will have severe implications on humanity, including the collapse of food and health systems. The emergence of Covid-19 has underscored the fact that when we destroy forests, we destroy the system that supports human life. Nature is sending us a message, which we need to decode and take collective action,” she said.Director, Science City, Dr Rajesh Grover said: “Wildlife Week in India is celebrated during the first week of October to focus on the importance of wildlife preservation for a balanced and healthy environment. Its ultimate objective is to sensitise people, appreciate our wildlife and work towards its conservation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pandemic-has-had-a-deep-impact-on-wildlife-expert-151310
05-10-2020||---||Hathras rape: Grief, anger sweep Jalandhar as residents take to streets||Jalandhar, October 4Demanding strict punishment against those responsible for the gruesome rape of a 19-year-old girl at Hathras, UP, members of the Istri Jagriti Manch today held meetings, protests, candle marches and awareness demonstrations across various villages in the district.Giving a call for protests across the district after the Hathras rape incident – Jagriti Manch activists toured various villages raising questions over the lack of action in the brutal Hathras incident. Meeting and protests were held across villages – Ismailpur, Sapranwan, Kharshaidpur, Bulanda among others.A candle light march began from the Udhowal village this evening in which activists and residents, including small girls walked across the village with candles in their hands and carrying placards bearing signs – “Auratan Virodhi Mansikta Murdabad”, “Bacchian Khilaaf vadh Rahe Zulm nu Nath Pao”.Women also raised slogans – “Down with anti-Dalit UP government”, Down with Manuwadi UP government”, “Down with Upper caste Brahminical system,” Down with patriarchy” and “Justice for Hathras victim”.The prime demands of the women included Rs 2 crore compensation for Hathras rape victim’s family, suspension if IG Piyush Moriya, suspencion of SP and DM for protecting culprits and for destruction of evidence by burning the victim’s body at night.Anita Sandhu, district president, and activist Jasbir Jassi said women were finding themselves exceedingly unsafe in various parts of the district. They said the partisan role played by the UP Police and administration, following the rape of a girl in Hathras raises questions about the justice in our country.Activists also condemned subsequent rape incidents at Balrampur and Kanpur in UP as well as incidents reported in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. They said this goes to prove that be it any government – the safety of women is not being prioritised across various regions in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hathras-rape-grief-anger-sweep-jalandhar-as-residents-take-to-streets-151311
05-10-2020||Hoshiarpur||‘Uttar Pradesh govt’s attempt to suppress Press is shameful’||A candle march was held in Dasuya on Sunday evening by Valmiki Shakti Seva Dal and Shiv Sena Hind under the chairmanship of Bunti Jogi, North India in-charge of the Shiv Sena Hind.The march began from Valmiki Temple Rishi Nagar and going via Vijay Market, Main Bazaar, Old Bank Road, Miani Road and Gurunanak Market ended again at Valmiki Temple. Here, a five-minute silence was observed to pay tribute to Hatharas gang-rape victim Manisha. Shiv Sainiks shouted slogans condemning the Uttar Pradesh Police and the Hathras administration.Bunty Jogi demanded that the cruelty meted out to Manisha was a shame on humanity and the accused should be hanged in public without delay. He said Manisha was the daughter of the country and not of any particular community and hence, every person of the country was striving to bring justice to her.He strongly condemned the UP Government for stopping the media from bringing out the truth. He said the UP Government was under severe condemnation all over India for perpetrating the freedom of the press, but still the Yogi government remains shameless. Chairman of Valmiki Samaj, Manohar Lal Bhatti said the officers posted in Hathras should be sacked immediately. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/uttar-pradesh-govts-attempt-to-suppress-press-is-shameful-151312
05-10-2020||---||Young farmers go for straw management, say happy with yield||Jalandhar October 4 Knowing that stubble burning can lead to a rise in severe respiratory problems among people and can exacerbate the Covid-19 situation, young farmers in Jalandhar have started adopting alternate techniques to shun the practice of straw burning. Sukhjinder Singh of Rajowal village, who had been managing the straw in 15 acres for past three year with mulchers, RMB plough, etc, said he had been witnessing a good yield of wheat crop with lesser amount of fertilisers.  He said he demonstrated the technique to fellow farmers in the village and explained them the harmful effects of stubble burning on the environment, soil and also yield. He said this year, he had procured super seeder and would sow wheat by harvesting the stubble in fields. Singh revealed that around 20 to 25 farmers of the village have already booked his machine which would help reduce cases of straw burning. Gurmeet Singh, a farmer of Cholang village who has been decomposing the stubble in fields for past five years, said more peasants joined the anti-stubble burning drive after they saw him getting a good wheat yield.  Singh said he had been apprising others about damages caused by stubble burning to the soil health and environment. The farmer said he owns super seeder, happy seeder, rotavator and mulcher and fellow farmers (owning around 150 acres area of his village) would be using this technique to manage stubble. Tarsem Singh of Basti Peer Daad is one of the farmers who managed straw in two acres last year and would be using super seeder in the entire 10-acre holding to sow wheat as it resulted in high yield. He said he had already booked the machine from a custom hiring centre to manage the stubble. Chief Agriculture Officer Surinder Singh said during 2019-20, of the 1.71-lakh hectare area of paddy, paddy straw was managed in about 1-lakh hectare area through in-situ processes.  He said numbers of farmers are setting examples in successful management of paddy straw and the Agriculture Department was planning to honour them for their pivotal role in the war against the stubble burning menace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/young-farmers-go-for-straw-management-say-happy-with-yield-151313
05-10-2020||Hoshiarpur||Road recarpeting work inaugurated||After a long wait of 14 years, the recarpeting work of the road, leading to Baba Banne Shah from Ward No.13 and 16, finally started on Sunday. Addressing area residents while inaugurating the work, Minister for Industry and Commerce Sunder Sham Arora said that Rs 25 lakh would be spent on the recarpeting of one and a half kilometre road and it would be completed in one week.   The minister said the previous SAD-BJP government had failed to fulfil this demand and the incumbent government would complete the recarpeting work within a week.  He said the road was constructed in 2006, and recarpeting of the road was a long standing demand of the people. He said the government had provided sewerage facility in the area. He also assured that there would be no shortage of water supply and other essential facilities in the area. Arora said the goal of the state government led by Chief Minister Capt. Amarinder Singh was  all-round development of the state and there would be no dearth of funds.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/road-recarpeting-work-inaugurated-151314
05-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||Many parents enrolling children in govt schools in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 4With many people losing their livelihood due to the Covid-19 pandemic, financially-stressed parents are shifting their children from private to government schools.At Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Virk, 30 students from private schools have taken admission this year. This is almost three times the number last year.Saroj Rani, Shivani’s auntCan’t pay pvt school feeShivani’s father isn’t getting as much work as he used to get before the pandemic. We cannot pay private school fee. So we have shifted both children to a government school.Sukhwinder Kaur, who runs a grocery store, stares at uncertainity amid reduced earnings this year due to the pandemic. Her husband, who is in Muscat, has been laid off and is unable to send money. She has planned to enrol her daughters in a government school as she is unable to pay private school fee.Sukhwinder says, “Private schools only care about fee. They began pressuring us that unless we pay fee, our daughters won’t be allowed to appear in exams, nor will they be allowed to attend classes. We are left with no option but to enrolour children in a government school.”The dreams of Shivani, daughter of a daily wager, to go back to her old school have been dashed as hit by the pandemic, her family can’t afford private education anymore. Both she and her brother have been enrolled in a government school at Patara. Her aunt Saroj Rani says, “Her father isn’t getting as much work as he used to get before the pandemic. We cannot pay private school fee. So we have shifted both children to a government school.”Hardeep Singh, a driver with a leading transport company, said, “When I lost my job, I decided to shift my children to government school. I have friends, cousins and acquaintances facing a similar situation. Everyone in the transport business is barely surviving. We cannot afford to send our children to private schools now. Both my sons know their father is out of job so they have dealt with the change smoothly. The silver lining is that government schools are also good.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/many-parents-enrolling-children-in-govt-schools-in-punjab-151083
