06-09-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Balraj Syal marries singer Deepti Tuli in a hush-hush wedding in Jalandhar; pictures go viral||Actor and comedian Balraj Syal tied the knot with singer Deepti Tuli in a private ceremony. The wedding took place on August 7 in Jalandhar, but it now that they have spoken about it publicly.  Given the constraints of social distancing, the wedding took place in the presence of just 30 people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/balraj-syal-marries-singer-deepti-tuli-in-a-hush-hush-wedding-in-jalandhar-pictures-go-viral-137320
06-09-2020||Jalandhar||Doordarshan’s quiz host Surendra Seth still a known face||This one is for those who are 40 or above, and can well recollect the good old Doordarshan days. As dials hit 8 pm, many would look forward for the much-awaited special telecast of quiz shows. The format, evolving through various shows titled Parakh, Kasauti, 20 Swaal and Ek Do Teen, but the quizmaster remained same – Surendra Seth.His perfect body language, spontaneity and style of using jumlas with the participants like ‘Agar jawab nhi aata, toh muskuraiye’ and ‘Agar uljhan hai, toh parchi bhejoon’ became very popular with the masses then. Having been picked up for shows for the DD Jalandhar right since its inception in 1979, Seth remained actively associated with the channel till 2006. Other than the quiz shows, he even came out with several documentaries and also seen in the daily news discussions on the show ‘Khas khabar ek nazar’. He was also popular for his running commentaries for important historic events.Still keeping himself active socially and busy with his literary works, the 75-year-old recalls, “That was an entirely different era. In those days if I had to show some pictures of historic monuments in the quiz, I had to walk down to Bhairon Bazaar in the city and hunt for some old calendars that carried such bold, glossy pictures which could be superimposed on a cardboard and shown to the participants. There were no readymade computerised images available. The advent of Google era has made things so easy.”For Seth, lack of technology in those days has left with no physical memories to cherish. “Even though both my sons, one of whom is a serving Colonel in the Army and other being software engineer, remember by days with the DD, I have no photograph or video to show to my grand children,” he says. There were strict copyright issues and the videos were never released out, not even to the anchors. Only a limited number of video tapes were available. “So, these, too, were often reused and overwritten. I explored the idea of retrieving some old videos, only in vain. Data storage facilities and social media came much later,” he adds.Still going strongEven at 75, Seth is aging like a fine wine. He retains his younger self. “I do not do anything in excess. I have a limited diet and sleep which keep me fit,” he tells. He is a blogger and a motivational speaker as of now. “Recently, I launched my digital book ‘Ek kitab, 60 kahanian’. I do some poetry too and the recent one is titled ‘Lockdown moon and expressions’, he also owns a hotel. Once a week, he is also participating in a Zoom meeting like the one lined up for September 7.His time onSeth reminisces his entry to the world of TV. “DD Jalandhar got launched on April 13, 1979. I was 32 then and public speaking and drama was my forte,” he tells. His selection came as a surprise as the first DD director KS Datari picked him during a Rotary Club function, where he was performing. “He liked my body language and told me that I had been picked for a quiz show,” he adds. Quiz show was a part of first few programmes that got started. Recording for the first show was done seven-eight days prior to the telecast. From that day on, he did at least 50 shows a year and it all continued for the next 27 years. “I did more than 1,500 shows in the quiz format and continued to ensure that there was some novelty in my script and style of delivery in each show,” Seth recalls.By now, he’s a bit nostalgic, “DD was one of the biggest institutions in those days. Working casually meant downgrading it. It was not just us, even the senior officers in those days worked with a lot of commitment. They used to personally supervise the set-up for each show and lead from the front showing full involvement.”Colours of life outdoorsHaving started in the black and white era, he says that technology came up fast with DD Jalandhar. “All thanks to the Asian Games in India, DD Jalandhar could run coloured shows and do outdoor programmes, just three years since its inception.” They had OB vans by 1982 and began organising outdoor quiz shows. “We took our programmes out of the studios to Tagore Theatre in Chandigarh and began doing live recording and relay, which was a completely new challenge then,” he’s a mechanical engineer by profession.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doordarshans-quiz-host-surendra-seth-still-a-known-face-137182
06-09-2020||Jalandhar||To dear teachers, with love||As many as five teachers from the district were awarded with the State Teacher Award 2020 on the occasion of Teacher’s Day. The awardees including three head teachers at primary schools, one principal and one lecturer were awarded on the basis of the development of their schools and overall performance of students.This year, total 54 teachers from across the state were adjudged as the recipients of State Teacher Award, 10 for Young State Teacher Award 2020 and Administrator Award each. None from the district managed to bag the award in the young state teacher and administrator categories.The awardees from Jalandhar includes Amandeep Kaundal, physical education lecturer at Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Poonian; Neelam Bala, head teacher, Government Primary School, Bahmanian block Shahkot-1; Boota Ram, head teacher, GPS Rurka Kalan Girls; Amandeep Kaur, ETT, GPS Sindhar and principal Dalbir Kaur, GSSS Randhawa Masanda.Any teacher or school head working in the education department having regular service of at least 10 years were eligible for the state teacher award.District education officer Harinder Pal Singh said, a state-level committee was formed for nomination and selection of teachers for the awards, which were given purely on merit based after evaluating different parameters of performance. The maximum weightage (30 per cent) was given to contribution in enhancing learning outcomes of students at school/blocks/district level, followed by professional development (10 per cent), innovative experiments for making learning process easy (10 per cent) and other prominent contribution for the school during the academic session, summer break remedial classes and others (10) per cent.Boota Ram said, he’s been teaching for the past 32 years and has been working as the head teacher for the last 10 years. “In the last academic year, our school was converted into a smart school from the Rs25 lakh donation. Ours is the only school in the Doaba region that received national-level certificate for scouting, development of computer lab, 77 per cent increase in the enrolment and students winning state-level medal in karate championship,” said Boota Ram, who runs his school, having a strength of 207 students, along with one more teacher.Similarly, Amandeep Kaundal, said he was selected for the award due to his contribution in multiple tasks. Over 100 students trained by him were state position holders, 10 were national merit holders and several others were district position holders. He said, his school was among the very few schools in rural areas having NCC at both junior and senior levels. Apart from the development of the school during his tenure as the officiating principal, he also developed the sports department at the school by spending Rs1 lakh from his own pocket.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/to-dear-teachers-with-love-137183
06-09-2020||‘Propagation of scientific temperament need of the hour’||Five teachers felicitated with State Teacher Award 2020 in Jalandhar||Prof Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary Science and Technology, Government of India, on Saturday, said experimental education at schools had disappeared and the museums and science centres had a big role to play in filling the gaps left by it. Addressing a webinar held to celebrate Teacher’s Day conducted by the Pushpa Gujral Science City, Kapurthala, he said, “One of the things going on in our schools is that experimental education has almost disappeared.” “The propagation of scientific temperament has to be created outside the classrooms. This is where Indian education system lags behind and changing things would be tall order. This is where the role of science museums and centres comes in,” he said. He added, “Science today is too big, too diverse and too deeply inter woven into an array of societal issues, which are equally diverse. It has profoundly impacted our lives, lifestyles, economy and ecology with the melting of barriers between Science, Technology and Innovation. Further, even in developed countries with high literacy rates, scientific literacy is shockingly low. The public needs to understand more about science if we want to see the end of fad diets, anti-vaccination movements and quick gobbling up of unverified information on the digital media.” — Aparna Banerji State Award Winners of HoshiarpurManjit Singh, BPEO, Dasuya-2Manjit Singh, BPEO, Dasuya-2, won the State Administrator Award, which has been introduced this year. He was appointed as a JBT teacher in 1988 and was promoted as BPEO in 2008 of block Tanda-1. “I had turned my office into a smart office in 2015 and then went out with this smart campaign to make the government schools of my block smart. I joined as BPEO in Dasuya-2 in January 2019. First, I improved my office and turned it into the smart office with the help of community and then all the schools of the block were turned into smart schools with the community partnership and Dasuya became the first block in the state to have all elementary schools turned into smart schools. The efforts paid and there was an unprecedented rise in the enrolments,” said Manjeet.Dr Jaswant Rai, GSSS, Nasrala villageBesides being a good teacher, Dr Jaswant Rai is also a writer and social activist. As a writer, he has eight books to his credit while as a social activist, he works with an NGO, Awareness Mission. He works for protecting the environment, tree plantation and women empowerment. Jaswant said, “I belong to a poor family and in my childhood I sold ice-cream pushing the cart from village to village to bear the expenditure of my studies. When I see children in school, I see myself in them. It inspires me to teach them well and help them.” He joined as a JBT teacher in 1997 and was promoted as a Secondary Punjabi Teacher and is now posted at Government Senior Secondary School at Nasrala village.Paramjeet Kaur, Govt Elementary School, Susana village: Paramjeet Kaur joined as an ETT teacher in 2006 and is posted at Government Elementary School, Susana village. Her idea behind teaching is ‘to do more, to do it differently’. “This mantra makes me find newer ways to teach my students even better. I always try to find new methods so that students may learn more and more, basically through first-hand knowledge of things,” said Paramjeet. She turned her school not only into an English medium model school but also introduced many learning oriented activities which are otherwise considered to be the monopoly of model schools. She developed a herbal garden in her school. There is also a maths park where students can learn even the complex formulae while at play.Two from Nawanshahr get state awardKavita Sabharwal, Govt Senior Secondary School (boys), RahonShe had contributed towards infrastructure development at Government Primary School, Kang, her previous school. At present, she is serving at Government Senior Secondary School, Rahon (boys). She made the buildings look attractive and colourful with useful information shared in a presentable manner on the walls for students to remember by heart. Besides, she has been contributing a lot towards content development for online education in English subject. Subject notes prepared by her for senior secondary classes are being shared and circulated across for the students of Punjab.Parmanand, Govt Primary School, SajawalpurHe has been felicitated with the state award for his contribution towards renovating both government primary and middle schools situated in the same campus at Sajawalpur. He collected donations to the tune of Rs 25 lakh and enhanced enrolment from 17 to 127 students in primary school and from nine to 36 students in middle school of Sajawalpur village in the district. Education Secretary Krishan Kumar made 500 newly recruited teachers visit the school. The objective of the visit was to mobilise the newly recruited teachers to have a first-hand experience of the dedicated efforts being put in by the government school teachers to spruce up infrastructure facilities in government schools with active community participation to boost the ‘Sikhya Sudhar Muhim’ of the Education Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-teachers-felicitated-with-state-teacher-award-2020-in-jalandhar-137184
06-09-2020||Jalandhar||Eleven deaths, 216 test +ve in Jalandhar||The district Covid tally has risen to 7,592, with as many as 216 people testing positive in Jalandhar on Saturday. With 11 more deaths, the death toll rose to 199.A 54-year-old man from Laxmipura; a 65-year-old man from Jalandhar Cantt (who died at Military Hospital); a 68-year-old man from Jalandhar Heights, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; a 78-year-old man from New Model House, who died at a private hospital; and a 61-year-old man from Urban Estate, who died at DMC Ludhiana, are among the deceased.One death, 91 infections in HoshiarpurThe district reported 91 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday while one patient died.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh said out of today’s 91 cases, 37 were from Hoshiarpur city, 14 from Tanda, eight from Chakkowal, five each from Harta Badla, Bhunga and Posi, three each from Mand Bhander, Dasuya and the remaining are from different parts of the district. Covid-19 patient Jaspal Kaur, 58, a resident of Bassi Khwaju in Hoshiarpur city, died at the Jalandhar Civil Hospital.He said the total number of positive patients in the district was 1,950 of which 492 were active cases and 1,401 patients had recovered. Sampling of 1,323 new patients has taken the total number of samples to 64,770 and according to reports received from the lab, 62,004 were negative, while 1,021 reports were awaited, 80 samples invalid and the number of deaths so far was 57.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eleven-deaths-216-test-ve-in-jalandhar-137186
06-09-2020||Declared Covid positive eight days ago||Quarantined ADC working virtually||Sarangal has been attending all video-conferences being held related to the coronavirus from Chandigarh and is passing on all directions to his staff from his isolation room. “Since I have been coordinating for all arrangements of beds, oxygen supplies and other inventory-related issues from the past six months, I am in a better position to answer all queries coming from the headquarters on a daily basis. Also, since I am asymptomatic, I am not finding it difficult to continue working,” he said. The ADC, whose wife is a doctor at Civil Hospital Nakodar, said: “My only worry is that the disease should not get passed on to my parents and children. My dad is 68 and my mother 63 and they both are co-morbid. My daughters are aged 3 years and 11 months. Both of us being in the field, we have practiced utmost care to ensure that we do not pass on the disease to anyone. When I am in a position to continue to perform my duty, I cannot leave off everything and start to take rest. Like a soldier, I want to continue to wage a war against the virus.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/quarantined-adc-working-virtually-137187
06-09-2020||Tribune lensman Malkiat Singh takes you on a journey to one of the world’s largest coach manufacturing units||Tracking the genesis of  RCF Kapurthala||How it all began...Spread on 1,178 acre land||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tracking-the-genesis-of-rcf-kapurthala-137188
