06-04-2020||Phagwara||NRI dies of Covid in New York||Trader fined for violating curfewJalandhar: Tightening noose around shopkeepers violating curfew norms, the Food and Civil Supplies Department on Sunday slapped a fine worth Rs10,000 on a shopkeeper for opening his shop. A case under Section 188 of the IPC was registered against the erring shopkeeper. Divulging the details, District Food and Supply Controller Narinder Singh said, in the wake of curfew, the district administration had directed all shopkeepers to shut their shops and only those shopkeepers could sell goods who had curfew passes. Narinder said the accused, Mohinder Pal, was held during an inspection in Nurmahal. The team of health officials detected that the accused had not only opened his shop in the grain market, but was also selling goods on exorbitant rates. TNS‘People not buying milk from us’Nakodar: After the Tablighi Jamaat incident, the Gujjars here have been alleging that people were not buying milk from them. Alamgheer, a Gujjar said same is the scenario in the whole area. “I don’t people to question everyone related to their religion just because of a certain group of people,” he said. Youth Akali Dal Doaba region (Muslim wing) president Ayub Khan said the pandemic must be fought in unison and nobody should get involved in communal angle in it. “We must stay united now and targeting a particular community won’t solve the problem,” he said. As many as 71 members of the Tablighi Jamaat have already quarantined. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nri-dies-of-covid-in-new-york-66135
06-04-2020||Open House||Joint efforts can help mitigate Covid||Deploy more police personnel, set up nakasIn the evening when police personnel come for patrolling in our lane, people who unnecessarily stand on the road run inside their houses and the street becomes empty. But the moment the cops go away, they again come out of their houses to walk and cycle. They start talking to each other in groups. This shows the lackadaisical attitude of the people towards the ongoing curfew. The authorities need to deploy more police personnel who can do round-the-clock patrolling even in residential areas. Besides, the police must install checkposts at the entry points of residential areas. Even during the relaxation in the curfew, only people with genuine issues must be allowed to step out, along with those who supply essential items. Essential item suppliers who give their curfew passes to others and people who defy curfew orders must be penalised. Their vehicles must be confiscated and a case must be registered against them.Simran SidhuAdopt humane attitude towards publicRecently several videos have gone viral on social media in which police personnel were seen beating up curfew violators. Are the police dealing with ultras, anti-social elements or hardened criminals? We all need to keep in mind that the curfew has not been imposed in apprehension of any law order and order problem. The step has been taken to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Instead of merciless beating people, and posting such disgusting videos on social media, the police should adopt a soft and humanistic attitude towards the public. Physical punishments given by cops to people have certainly brought a bad name to the police who are otherwise doing a good job. As pointed out by the Chief Minister, action of the police is nullifying all good work being done by them during these difficult times. Public should also keep in mind that restrain is mandatory to protect ourselves and remain healthy. We should also understand the gravity of the situation and extend a helping hand to the police force by following safety guidelines. We must all show self-discipline and not try to not violate the curfew restrictions. Our safety lies in saving ourselves from Covid by observing social distancing.Pursharth JoshiPolice must counsel curfew violatorsCurfew has been imposed across the state to contain the spread of Covid. But the way the police handled those who violated curfew has made people angry. The government must understand that the curfew was imposed all of a sudden and it has caused a disruption in the daily routine. All major countries of the world have been affected by the coronavirus, but in no other country people have been thrashed by the police to keep them indoors. First of all, people need to understand that this extreme step has been taken for their safety and to break the chain of Covid. In the interest of their personal safety, people must obey government directions and not to try to move out as far as possible. Even if someone defies curfew orders, there are several legal means. Youngsters who violate the curfew restrictions can be detained at police stations for a day or so. Legal proceedings can be initiated against those who repeatedly violate orders in this regard. Brutal thrashing of people is not acceptable in a democratic set up under any circumstances. The police should be directed to adopt a counselling and convincing strategy to handle the situation.NK GosainDeliver essential items on doorstep of peopleIn this hapless situation, we all need to follow government instructions. We do not try not to come out of our houses unnecessarily because this will create a problem for the police to control the situation. Moreover, we will put everyone in danger. People must follow social distancing norms and contact grocery stores, vegetable vendors and others for the supply of essential items on the doorstep. We must sanitise your main door time and again and avoid touching the face more frequently. While staying indoors, we should do something productive which we always wanted to do in our life. This is the best time to enhance our self in any particular field. Make the best use of time and if possible try to donate some money according to the needy. If one doesn't know how to help them, he or she should contribute towards he PM's Relief Fund online.Gautam AggarwalFind alternative ways to deal with violatorsIt is not police personnel, it is the government which is beating up the public in disguise. It has failed in educating, training and supervising them. They are on duty even for longer period without any rest. As they are also human being, fatigue and frustration is natural. As beating up anyone is illegal, so they should find certainly other ways to deal with curfew violators.MP Sharma QUESTIONWhile the state government and the district administration have been putting in all-out efforts to ensure the safety of the public by asking them to stay indoors, liquor vends in many areas in the district are selling booze in violation of the curfew? How can the administration stop the sale of liquor during curfew? What steps can be taken to ensure effective implementation of the curfew?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to btitribune@gmail.com or post it to Bathinda Tribune, SCF-117, Opposite Harchand Cinema, Goniana Road, Bathinda, by April 12.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/joint-efforts-can-help-mitigate-covid-66134
06-04-2020||---||Jalandhar DC orders survey for database of migrants||Jalandhar, April 5To maintain proper database of migrant labourers in the district, to facilitate their native states and for proper management of Covid-19 cases, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma recently ordered a survey in the entire district.The Deputy Commissioner, while chairing a meeting of officers of the district administration, said this was the need of hour to ensure that a proper record was made for every migrant currently residing in the district.He said the database would be sent to respective home states of these migrants so that they could effectively combat coronavirus, especially in the post-lockdown stage. Sharma said this was a national duty and all officers were duty-bound to implement it in right earnest.The Deputy Commissioner asked officers to dispatch teams in various areas to record the information. He said the data should be collected only from the migrants and not from other populace. Sharma asked the officers to compile and submit the report by next week so that accurate database could be sent to the Centre and the state government.The Deputy Commissioner said the Labour Department would be providing forms to the teams which had to be filled during the drive. He said the e-Governance Department would compile the report received from all officers.Additional Deputy Commissioners Vishesh Sarangal and Jasbir Singh, MC Additional Commissioner Babita Kler, Deputy Commissioner of Police Naresh Dogra, Superintendent of Police RPS Sandhu, Sub Divisional Magistrates Amit Kumar, Rahul Sindhu, Sanjiv Sharma, Dr Jai Inder Singh and Dr Vineet Kumar, Regional Transport Authority Secretary Barjinder Singh, JDA Estate Officer Navneet Kaur Bal were among those others present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-dc-orders-survey-for-database-of-migrants-66126
06-04-2020||Jalandhar||Now, applied maths for senior secondary classes||After introducing basic mathematics and standard mathematics for students with ‘maths phobia’, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has now introduced the concept of applied mathematics.While applied mathematics has been introduced as an academic elective subject at the senior secondary level, earlier, the board had divided mathematics into ‘basic maths’ and ‘standard maths’ to reduce the difficulty level of the subject for students who don’t want to study mathematics further.The option of the basic mathematics would help such students fetch a good score. Likewise, ‘standard mathematics’ was for the students who wanted to study the subject further and it assesses higher mathematical abilities as compared to the basic level.However, CBSE, in its circular, that was released on Monday mentioned, as secondary school education prepared students to explore future career options after passing out from the schools, mathematics was an important subject that helped them to choose various fields of their choice.Besides, maths is widely used in higher classes in the field of economics, commerce, social sciences and other subjects, but the existing syllabus of maths aligns well with science subjects only and does not align with commerce and social science-based subject in university education. Therefore, the availability of applied mathematics would help the students in developing an understanding of basic mathematical and statistical tools and their applications in the field of commerce and social sciences.In addition, the new elective subject would also develop logical reasoning skills and apply the same in problem solving.The circular further cleared out that only those students who had given basic mathematics exam in the Class X board would be able to opt for applied mathematics. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-applied-maths-for-senior-secondary-classes-66125
06-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Ration given to 600 Phillaur residents||Phillaur, April 5Intensifying the drive to deliver essential items to everyone on their doorstep, administration and Congress workers led by Assembly in-charge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary distributed ration to around 600 poor people in slum areas in and around the city on Sunday.The bags containing atta (10 kg), dal and sugar ( 2 kg each) were delivered to every family at their homes amid curfew restrictions. To slow and stop the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, the state has been under curfew for more than 10 days. Vikram Chaudhary said it was also important that the people had enough food and other essential commodities to survive. “The Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress government is leaving no stone unturned to provide food and necessary items,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ration-given-to-600-phillaur-residents-66124
06-04-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Covid warriors: Women guarding borders of this Hoshiarpur village||Mahilpur, April 5To prevent the spread of coronavirus in the area, women of Bhuno village in Hoshiarpur’s Mahilpur block have sealed all boundaries of the village.Instead of men, women are guarding the village from morning to evening and those entering the village are being questioned. Earlier, men had been guarding the village for the last 12 days and tests were conducted on 10 coronavirus suspects from the village.According to the information received, women panchayat members along with other village females are guarding the entry points. Bhuno village panch Balwinder Kaur, Neetu Bala, Kamlesh Kaur, Babli Rani, Soni Rani, Satveer Kaur and Surinder Kaur said 10 members of a family were sent to the Mahilpur Civil Hospital on March 28 for corona test and following that the village was sealed by the administration. After testing the reports negative, the administration took back the police guards, but for the last several days people have been patrolling the village by sealing all entry points.Sarpanch Paramjit Singh said, “The panchayat has formed a committee of around 60 women for this work and deployed them in groups of seven women on the routes connecting Bhuno with rest of the villages and a register has been put on each naka. The village has been barricaded to prevent people from entering. A register is being maintained to enter the name of every person coming and going out of the village.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-warriors-women-guarding-borders-of-this-hoshiarpur-village-66123
06-04-2020||Jalandhar||55-year-old woman’s body found in fields||The body of a 55-year-old woman was found in an abandoned field in Nijjaran village at Lambra today. Deceased’s husband Joginder Singh alleged that his wife was raped before the murder.Sub-Inspector Ramandeep Singh, SHO, Lambra, who reached the spot around 10.30 am, said, the deceased had bruises all around her body. However, it could not be ascertained that she was physically abused.“The victim’s husband said his wife was missing from Saturday evening and could not be traced during the night. The woman was appeared to be strangled to death between 8 am and 10 am,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/55-year-old-womans-body-found-in-fields-66122
06-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Delivery volunteers in Hoshiarpur get helmets||Hoshiarpur, April 5Nearly 200 home delivery volunteers, who are providing necessary services to people in these difficult times by going door to door, were given helmets on Sunday.Cabinet minister Sunder Sham Arora gave the helmets in collaboration with the district administration. He said these volunteers and their parents deserve a salute for their services, adding that society would always remember this service being done in the interest of the country.Arora said: “All these volunteers are rendering their services to people through scooters and motorcycles, so it is necessary that volunteers should also be safe.” Arora said he was very happy that the volunteers include a large number of girls, who were proving that they are not less than anyone.Arora said the way these volunteers were serving people in the interest of the country, in the same way, other people should remain aware and stay indoors during the curfew.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/delivery-volunteers-in-hoshiarpur-get-helmets-66121
06-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Now, TikTok competition to spread awareness on Covid||Hoshiarpur, April 5At a time when TikTok, a video-sharing social networking service, is being flooded with funny videos, the District Youth Services Department, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala, has decided to use the entertainment application to spread awareness on Covid-19.It has announced ‘Best TikToker Competition’ for people of age group of 15 to 35 years and having one to three participants. The video should based on safe hands challenge and other preventive measures that one can take to steer clear of Covid-19.Talking to The Tribune, Preet Kohli, Assitant Director, Youth Services Department, Hoshiarpur, and Kapurthala, said its his own initiative and he had created a post about the video competition and uploaded it on all social media platforms and forwarded it in school groups he was associated with.“To overcome boredom, people are highly active on TikTok these days. They make funny videos in which you can see husband washing utensils or children lip-synch to songs or famous dialogues. After realising the craze for TikTok among youngsters, I got this idea of best video competition and people would get motivated to keep themselves safe,” Kohli said.He said the fact that he had received 20-30 awareness videos in which people were cleaning their door knobs, washing hands and helping poor not only from Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala but from other districts also. He said this shows that his post had reached hundreds of people which was a good thing.“The last date to send videos is April 10. After that we will soon declare the results and the top three videos would be honoured with certificate and a memento,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-tiktok-competition-to-spread-awareness-on-covid-66120
06-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Chaudhary gives fully equipped ambulance to Civil Hospital Jalandhar||Jalandhar, April 5Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary handed over an air-conditioned ambulance van fully equipped with the life support system to the local Civil Hospital here today.The ambulance has been purchased at a cost of Rs 28 lakh with a grant from his MPLAD funds. He had sanctioned the grant about a week ago.Dedicating the ambulance to residents of the Jalandhar Lok Sabha constituency, Chaudhary said the ambulance was equipped with necessary modern facilities and would help people of the area in accessing medical help in emergency situations.He said there was a requirement for a patient transport vehicle at the hospital and in the wake of Covid crisis, the funds were sanctioned immediately.The Member of Parliament appreciated steps taken by the state government to deal with the pandemic and said under the leadership of Capt Amarinder Singh, the administration had taken all possible measures to provide the best healthcare and services to the public.He asked the hospital administration to inform him in case of any requirement in the fight against the virus and assured doctors that they would be provided with all necessary equipment and facilities.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, Civil Surgeon Gurinder Kaur, Medical Superintendent Mandeep Kaur and Dr Gagandeep Singh were among those others who were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chaudhary-gives-fully-equipped-ambulance-to-civil-hospital-jalandhar-66119
06-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Rail Coach Factory Kapurthala develops ventilator||Kapurthala, April 5Having received instructions from the Railway Board, New Delhi, about exploring the possibility of making ventilators in train coaches, the Rail Coach Factory (RCF), Kapurthala, had manufactured a prototype ventilator, ‘Jeevan’, which had an original design and was developed within a week and would cost less than a regular ventilator, said officials.The ventilator prototype has been conceptualised by RCF General Manager Ravinder Gupta. It will now go for final testing at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) before being put to production to aid the country’s fight against Covid-19.In-house medical professionals of the RCF Hospital have tested the unit and given it a go-ahead, he said. Ravinder Gupta, GM, RCF, said it was an emergency ventilator built as a defiant reply to the curse of coronavirus.“It will be submitted to the ICMR for testing and validation and hopefully, it will be a savior of lives amid these hard times. The cost will be under Rs 10,000 without the compressor unit. Overall, Its price will still be a fraction of what regular ventilators available in the market cost,” he said.He said it could be used as an emergency ventilator. Production was easy and could be done with locally sourced components. The ventilator was silent and it was not reverse engineering, but an original design from scratch.Gupta said the heart of the device was the compressed air container to work the Ambu bag with air without any moving parts such as servo motor or piston or link mechanism.“It has a microprocessor-based controller and the circuit has been designed by the RCF team. A valve has been installed to regulate the breathing of the patient whether young or old. This ventilator can be optimised to more compact size by using small-size components,” he said.“The body has been made from coach components. The argon flow meter is taken from a laser welding machine and the compressor from an air cooler,” he said, adding that the team of the RCF needed to source just two parts — a regulator valve and a micro processor— from vendors in Delhi and Noida, which they brought using emergency transit services.Gupta said the team of engineers from the plant, mechanical and electrical design and IT and a group of medical professionals of the RCF Hospital and the Stores Department had persevered hard for the culmination of the prototype of the ventilator. The intellectual property rights relating to the ventilator belong to the RCF.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rail-coach-factory-kapurthala-develops-ventilator-66118
06-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Fearing infection, Phagwara woman ends life||Phagwara, April 5An elderly widow, identified as Santosh Kaur (65), suffering from common cold reportedly committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance at her residence in Khurampur village on Saturday evening. The police said she took the extreme step as she feared of getting infected by coronavirus.She even asked her daughters not to visit her as a precautionary measure.Punjab Agro Industrial Corporation chairman Joginder Singh Maan visited the village to give condolences to the family. He told this correspondent that the deceased was paranoid of getting infected with the virus. She even wrote a suicide note before taking the extreme step, Maan said.On getting information, a team of doctors, led by Phagwara Senior Medical Officer Dr Kamal Kishore, visited the house of the deceased and medically examined her.When contacted, Kapurthala Civil Surgeon Dr Jasmeet Bawa told this correspondent here on Sunday that the deceased seemed be in depression. When contacted, Phagwara Deputy Superintendent of Police said the deceased had written a suicide note, wherein she stated that she was ending her life of her own accord. The DSP said as per preliminary examination, she showed no symptoms of coronavirus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fearing-infection-phagwara-woman-ends-life-66063
