06-08-2020||Avneet Kaur||IELTS exam today||Jalandhar, August 5Even though the state government has expressed disagreements with the Central government over conducting university exams in the state, it has allowed IELTS exams to be held in the city on Thursday.‘If gyms can open why can’t IELTS centres?’The owners of IELTS institutes condemned the double standards of the state government for not allowing IELTS institutes to open while a free hand was given to IDP, BC to conduct the exam. They said they were paying a hefty rent for their premises. Also, they were paying salaries to their staff. “Moreover, if gyms can be allowed to operate, we, too, should be given a nod to resume classes,” they said.As per sources, the IELTS exam is being conducted at the district level on a weekly basis and in two shifts – morning and afternoon. The Special Chief Secretary, Home, Satish Chandra in a letter addressed to all Deputy Commissioners last month, said both IDP and BC were allowed to conduct exams in accordance with social distancing norms and other precautions.“It was on July 16, that the first IELTS exam was held in the city after a break of nearly four months due to the lockdown. So far, the exam has been held four times and in two shifts on July 16, 18, 25 and 30. On Thursday, the exam will be held for the fifth time,” said sources, adding that the exam was being held on the same venues i.e. hotels associated with the IDP and BC.“In a hall having a capacity of nearly 200-300 candidates, only 30 candidates are allowed to sit for the exam. As the exam is being held in three to four venues and in two shifts, it could be said that around 250-300 students are taking the exam on one date. Nearly a gap of 4 metres is being ensured in the sitting arrangement and everyone has been informed to bring their own water bottles and pen-pencil kits. The IDP and BC are first accommodating those candidates in the exams, who were registered for the March test. The new candidates are also allowed depending upon the number of seats left,” said one of the IELTS academy owners.He said IELTS aspirants were elated, as they have been waiting to appear for the exam since long.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ielts-exam-today-122793
06-08-2020||Ajay Joshi||Restrictions lifted, fitness freaks still skeptical about hitting gyms||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 5Opening after a gap of over four months on Wednesday, fitness centres, including gyms and yoga institutions, brought smiles on the faces of fitness enthusiasts. Waiting to hit the gyms after such a long time, some health freaks started queuing outside gyms from as early as 5.30 am.While weights and dumbles remained the same in the gyms, the new thing that the health conscious residents were introduced to was ‘contactless workouts’. They had to maintain a distance of five to six metres from their fellow workout buddies. Unlike earlier, no support was available from others and they had to lift the heavy weights on their own. Many gyms had even kept cardio sessions closed for clients and only weight training sessions were available.Yoga institutes also adopted new sitting plans to ensure enough distance between two people and avoid contact. Everyone had been asked to bring their own yoga mats, water bottle, masks and sanitisers.Gym owners, who are among those severely hit by the lockdown, started cleaning their buildings to provide a safe and hygienic workout zone to their clients. Sumit Sharma and Vikram Dhiman, owners of Gold’s Gym, said they had prepared a new schedule for clients and the routine workout sessions were framed for their client.“As per the SOPs, we greeted the clients with thermal scanners and sanitisers, ensured social distancing during workout and also maintained a gap of 15 to 20 minutes between sessions to re-sanitise the gym for the next slot of clients. Only 20 to 25 people were allowed to exercises in one slot. As we have a large cardio room, we installed glass partitions between treadmills, cross fits and cycles to avoid contact between two persons. Besides, trainers were also directed to cover their faces with face shields while training people. Around 40 to 50 clients visited our gym today (Wednesday),” said Sumit.Likewise, Sarvesh Mehan, owner, The Old School Gym, said: “I had told my clients to bring their own towels, water bottles, masks, sanitisers, gloves and other safety stuff along with them. As most of the people are still afraid of returning to gyms, around 20 percent of my usual clients rejoined the gym today (Wednesday).”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/restrictions-lifted-fitness-freaks-still-skeptical-about-hitting-gyms-122794
06-08-2020||---||3 more die of virus in Jalandhar, toll hits 71||Jalandhar, August 5Three more people died of Covid-19 in the district on Wednesday, taking the toll to 71. Of these, two people, aged 60 and 63 (residents of Kishanpura and Basti Sheikh) died at a private hospital in Jalandhar, while one aged mere 36 years died in Amritsar. Meanwhile, eight PAP personnel were among the 100 new cases reported in the district on Wednesday, taking the tally of positive cases to 2,709 in the district. This includes cases from areas such as Khurla Kingra, PAP, Jamsher Khas, Nakodar, Ravidasspura, Bhogpur, Bhargo Camp, Sarai Khas, Model Town, Kot Bhahadur Khan, Raja Garden, Basti Nau, Chandan Nagar, Kartarpur, Bajwa Kalan and Dilabagh Nagar extension among others.Policeman among 8 positive in HoshiarpurThe reports of 266 samples were received in the district on Wednesday, of which eight persons have been found to be corona positive taking the count of positive patients to 601 in the district. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh said four cases, including a policeman and two bank personnel from Hoshiarpur city, were found positive on Wednesday. Of these, one case is from Model Colony, two from Shalimar Nagar and one from Preet Nagar. Apart from this, one case each is from Kokowal village, Bahibal Manjh, Talwara and Sheeh Chatial village. New samples of 445 persons with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken in the district on Wednesday, taking the total sample count to 30,140 in the district. As per the reports, 28,684 were negative, while 852 reports were still awaited and 55 samples were invalid. The number of active cases in the district is 64, while the number of patients who have been cured is 520 and the number of deaths is 17. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-more-die-of-virus-in-jalandhar-toll-hits-71-122795
06-08-2020||---||Expect audit of illegal ambulances soon||Jalandhar, August 5The district administration has been airing concerns about private ambulances overcharging from patients, but if sources are to be believed, a number of unregistered ambulances plying in the district are the elephant in the room which everyone avoids talking about.While less than 100 private ambulances/vehicles are registered with the Regional Transport Authority, estimates put the total number of vehicles being used to ferry patients in the district to over 100. Some say there are over 200 such vehicles plying in the district, but due to lack of a comprehensive database, the exact number remains a speculation.While the RTA has about 100 ambulance/medical vehicles formally registered with it, there are 108 ambulances plying in the district. Baring this, eight more vehicles are employed in Jalandhar and various subdivisions or CHCs for ferrying patients.While such vehicles can be seen parked at several prominent roundabouts, squares, thoroughfares and parkings near private hospitals, many of these are unregistered.However, according to the DC and the RTA, an audit would be conducted soon and the database of existing medical vehicles was also set to be expanded.A sources said: “There are private taxi drivers who label vans in the name of hospitals and there are religious bodies without hospitals of their own, which have ambulances plying. None of these unregistered vehicles have trained or specialised staff. They charge whimsical prices and sometimes drive vehicles very irresponsibly, which can endanger patients’ lives.”Sources said at some institutions, compounders, attendants, security men among other personnel drive privately owned vehicles, which are pressed into service as ambulances. Dr Navjot Dahiya, president, IMA Punjab Chapter, said: “Barring six to seven private vehicles, none of the ambulances in the district have ventilators. The rest of these are more of patient transport vehicles than ambulances, as they lack basic equipment. However, in the times of Covid, the government should press the 108 ambulance service to full time transportation of Covid patients. Rather, the pressure is again on the private lobby, whose prices are being capped. There is one doctor/nurse, attendant and technician in such vehicles and the price of ferrying patients is exorbitant.”Sources said there are ambulance services, which have also charged more than Rs10,000 from some patients.The RTA has been holding meeting with ambulance drivers for the past some days and on July 30, the Jalandhar DC capped the prices of private ambulances ferrying patients in the district.DC Ghanshyam Thori said officials have been asked to identify vehicles providing such services in the district whether they be associated with hospitals or private vehicles attached independently with hospitals. Vehicles ferrying bodies are also being identified, so that mortuary vehicles aren’t under pressure in the times of Covid. The RTA and Assistant Commissioner (GA) are looking into it and a detailed database update is in the offing, he said.“As far as price capping is concerned, some private players had a grouse that price capped for multi-specialty vehicles with ventilators be increased from Rs15 per km to Rs20 per km. Once the matter is looked into, these prices shall be amended,” the DC said.Secretary, RTA, Jalandhar, Barjinder Singh said: “We have been holding meetings with private ambulance drivers/ owners for the past few days. Some have an issued regarding the capping of prices and want charges to be increased on vehicles with ventilators. An amendment shall be made in this regard. As far as illegal ambulances are concerned, we shall be conducting an audit soon. We don’t have the exact number of vehicles plying in the district to ferry patients because there are many regional hospitals and those registered in the periphery. The exact number is difficult to tell.”Database of vehicles to be expanded||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/expect-audit-of-illegal-ambulances-soon-122796
06-08-2020||---||Contractual employees send ‘get well soon’ card to Capt Amarinder||Jalandhar, August 5‘Get well soon Punjab sarkar’ reads the front page of the card that the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, Mid-Day Meal Daftari Karamchari Union has sent in the name of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh as a mark of protest.‘Jaldi theek hove Punjab sarkar, lokan di hun ehi pukaar, sarkar ji quarantine vicho aao baahar’, adds another line.Notably, the union members have been seeking regularisation. In a sarcastic comment, the staff members said the government was sending an unwell person to 14 days’ quarantine, but the government itself was in quarantine for the past three years because they were hardly working and not listening to the demands, which is why the card was sent.Ashish Julaha, one of the active members of the union, said teachers appointed under the SSA in 2018 were regularised by the government, but the non-teaching staff that was appointed much earlier was still working on contractual basis, which was not right on the part of the government.They have been demanding regularisation for long. They said nearly a 1,000 employees in Punjab had been working on contractual basis and were getting meagre salaries.The protesters said most of the employees were getting wages ranging from Rs4,000 to Rs15,000, which was not acceptable. “Is it even possible to run families with such a meagre income?” they asked.‘Unique protest’ not the first timeEarlier also, they held a series of protests by adopting unique ways. On January 24, the staff members had cut a cake made in the shape of a Twitter logo. The members wore caps, on which ‘24th January Anti-Promise Day’ was written. The CM in a message, tweeted a year ago, had said that he would regularise the services of the employees working on contract basis, but the promise was not fulfilled by him, which is why they decided to celebrate the day as ‘Anti-Promise Day’.The tweet of the CM posted a year ago was printed on the cake. Also, to protest against the state government, the contractual workers had held a ‘Shok Sabha’ (condolence meet) of the manifesto of the Congress that was released before coming to power. The members had then said the promises made by the government had not been fulfilled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/contractual-employees-send-get-well-soon-card-to-capt-amarinder-122798
06-08-2020||---||Despite High court orders, political leaders continue to flout MHA guidelines||Jalandhar, August 5All politicians, especially the leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal, have been blatantly violating the MHA guidelines on Covid giving two hoots to the social distancing norms. Most leaders who held demonstration today and yesterday chose not to even wear the masks and stand along closely during the protests.While Akali leaders led by ex-MLA Sarabjit Makkar had flouted the norms yesterday, today Youth Akali Dal leaders who held a protest against Congress MLA Ramanjit Sikki over his alleged involvement in hooch tragedy chose to pay no attention to following Covid guidelines as the police teams kept a close watch on them throughout the protests.The police personnel neither warned them nor booked them for their alleged violation. Activist Simranjit Singh had recently filed a public interest litigation in the Punjab and Haryana High Court highlighting the matter.He had demanded that FIR be lodged against the political leaders who were disobeying the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act and not following the norms of social distancing and wearing masks. He had cited demonstrations organised by political parties including a dharna by the Congress at War Memorial on June 26, dharna by Congress MLAs and MP on fuel price hike in front of DC office on June 29 and dharna by the SAD on July 7.He wrote in the petition that the political leaders had absolutely no regards for law and were breaking it. He mentioned that even the authorities were proving unequal protection of law and ignoring action against the political leaders.In this PIL heard on July 29 through video conferencing from Jalandhar, the Senior Deputy Advocate General appeared for the State of Punjab and submitted that the representation of the petitioner shall be looked into and decided by the authorities expeditiously.The court took his submission on record and disposed of the PIL with a direction to the authorities that if the petitioner approached them with the copy of the order and the petition within 15 days from today, the authorities shall decided the representation expeditiously as per law. Simran Jit has been awaiting a certified copy of the orders to make his submission. “I will add these instances of fresh violations too,” he pointed out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/despite-high-court-orders-political-leaders-continue-to-flout-mha-guidelines-122799
06-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Devotees celebrate  beginning of Ram Temple construction||Hoshiarpur, August 5The foundation stone laying ceremony of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya was celebrated by various organisations in the district.The Youth Citizen Council Punjab organised a havan yagya under the chairmanship of district president Dr Pankaj Sharma at Shiv Mandir Bansi Nagar to commemorate the foundation stone laying ceremony of the temple in Ayodhya. The state president of the council, Dr Raman Ghai, said the dream of crores of people living in this country was fulfilled on Wednesday with the stone laying ceremony of the temple. Ghai said thousands of Ram devotees sacrificed their lives in the 500 years of struggle for the construction of temple.In Sarafa Bazaar here, Shri Ram aarti was performed by the Nai Soch Welfare Organisation, Swarnakar Sangh and the Jai Maharashtra Ganesh Utsav Mandal. Laddoos were also distributed.On the occasion of bhumi pujan of the Ram temple, saplings were planted under the ‘Ek Ped Shri Ram Ke Naam Ka’ campaign at various places by the district unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Activists of the Yuva Morcha beat drums at Shimla Pahadi Chowk and distributed laddoos. Mahila Morcha members rendered Ram bhajans in temples.Former cabinet minister Tikshan Sood said Wednesday was the historic day when the stone for the Ram temple was laid. Similar views were expressed the BJP district president Nipun Sharma.At Dasuya, Sundar Kand path was organised under the leadership of Gaushala Director Arun Babu Sharma to commemorate the bhoomi pujan ceremony of Ram temple, world peace and eradication of Covid-19 epidemic at Rajiv Dixit Gaushala.At Talwara, BJP workers led by senior party leader Sushil Kumar Pinki burst crackers near the party office on the Sansarpur-Terrace road.BJP Dasuya mandal activists conducted pooja in the Ram Darbar of Sanatan Dharam Sabha under the chairmanship of its president Kundan Lal.Shiv Sena Bal Thakeray activists also expressed their happiness over the laying of foundation stone of the Ram temple and distributed laddoos.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/devotees-celebrate-beginning-of-ram-temple-construction-122800
06-08-2020||---||Jalandhar Civil Engg gets 509th rank in UPSC exam||Jalandhar, August 5Gursimar Singh (30) of Punjabi Bagh near Wadala Chowk cleared the Union Public Services Commission (UPSC) examination, 2019, the results of which were declared on Tuesday.He passed his Class XII from MGN Public School, Adarsh Nagar, and did Civil Engineering from Thapar University in 2014. He was working with a GOI-run company — Engineer India Ltd — in Delhi. His father Simar Singh, who retired as SE (B&R), PWD, said: “My son was an NTSE scholarship holder in school. He cleared the Punjab Public Services Commission paper in 2018 and got selected as DSP (Jails), but he continued to strive for clearing the UPSC, which he managed in his fourth attempt.”Like him, Naveen Rattu (27) hailing from Mehatpur in Jalandhar, also cleared his UPSC exam by getting the 776th rank. Posted as Block Development and Panchayat Officer in Ludhiana, he completed his studies from Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-civil-engg-gets-509th-rank-in-upsc-exam-122801
06-08-2020||Jalandhar||After IMA, another private  Covid facility starts service in Jalandhar||After the IMA facility at Shahkot, another 30-bed private facility has now begun in the district to cater to the rising Covid tally. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday inaugurated a 30-bed facility for the treatment of people infected with novel coronavirus.Coming up with collective resources of hospitals, Mann Medicity, Joshi Hospital, Gulab Devi Hospital, and New Ruby, which have started the operations in the building of Gulab Devi Hospital with 22 beds for the Level-II patients, eight beds for Level-III and four ventilators from Wednesday, the DC said this would play a crucial role in fight against the pandemic. The DC said the facility would add 30 beds as Covid health infrastructure would help immensely. Thori said the special focus on severely ill and patients having co-morbidities is being given to ensure timely treatment to them in the hospitals. He asserted that there would not be any kind of shortage of beds in Jalandhar as administration has been working tirelessly to ensure bed availability round-the-clock. He said the administration had been updating status of beds and ventilators on its website www.Jalandhar.nic.in .Besides, the people can also call on 0181-2224417 helpline and seek information about the availability of beds in government and private hospitals here, he added.Meanwhile, gearing up for ensuring the adequate number of beds with piped oxygen supply and ICU facilities amidst the spike in Covid cases, the DC on Wednesday also ordered the SDMs and others to ensure the completion of inspections by Friday (August 7) in the 137 private hospitals which would be roped in for starting the Covid treatment here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/after-ima-another-private-covid-facility-starts-service-in-jalandhar-122802
06-08-2020||Ajay Joshi||Pandemic effect: Online shopping takes the sheen off markets||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 5Post relaxations of imposed curbs, shopping trends in the region have taken a peculiar shape. As life continues to limp back to normalcy in the markets, consumer behaviour, however, is yet to adapt to the pre-lockdown spell. The change has seen local customers spend more on essentials such as grocery and household supplies, while demand for garments, footwear, gifts and travel has dramatically dropped.After no business for almost two months, garment shop owners opened their stores on May 17. Since then they have been reeling from the effects and trying to make up for the losses. Being aware of the fact that people are still hesitant as the Covid threat is still looming large; the best bet of the current times is switching to online sale of merchandise.Anil Kumar, a local ladies garment dealer at Rainak Bazaar, says, “Though shopkeepers are opting for all available avenues to counter the setback faced, the absence of customers has hit businesses hard. Earlier, we used to make 50-60 deals in a day. Now, we are just making 8-10 deals after sitting for over 10 hours in the shop.” The business has reduced to 40 per cent and is hardly making up for his expenses. “We are currently relying only on our old customers,” Kumar adds. The weekends, once, was the high time but now due to restrictions “the sale on weekends remains dry.”Similarly, owner of Ganesh Cloth House, feels customers’ response is pathetic this year as compared to 2019. Taking a jibe on bringing business back on tracks, he adds, “We need same kind of panic buying that surfaced in March during the announcement of curfew.”A switch to online platformsUndoubtedly, maximising sale through online modes has emerged as the most popular option. While the businessmen and shopkeepers in the city are perturbed over the downfall in the profit, a recent report on the impact of Covid-19 on consumer behavior by McKinsey & Co, published in July, after conducting weekly, bi-weekly and monthly surveys in 12 countries, highlighted that 92 per cent Indians have changed their behavior amid the crisis.Many urban consumers, increasingly working from home are reluctant to visit crowded public places and are going online for their shopping needs. If demonetisation had compelled people to shift towards cashless payments, Covid has lured them into shopping online. Hence, traders are getting themselves acquainted with digital platforms, and retailers and wholesalers are also hiring delivery personnel and training the staff for e-commerce.Rehmat Collections, a leading retail garment shop near Babrik Chowk, has also adopted similar means to boost up sale. Training of staff wherein video call demonstrations and phone bookings for contactless delivery of goods are being taught as they hang by new measures to get back into groove.Arjun Papneja, the owner, says the lockdown had starved their business. The last two months were crucial. That was the time for winter stock clearance and bringing in the summer one. “Utilising the relaxation time of 9 am to 8 pm, we are making all efforts to increase the sale while ensuring social distancing at our shop. Not more than two-three customers are entertained at a time and are also directed not to rush outside the shop.”“We have circulated our phone numbers among our clients. They take appointment prior to coming,” Papneja adds. Apart from this, they are also offering free home delivery facility. “Our staff assists clients in choosing outfits and after selection we hire workers to deliver it on their doorstep,” he shares.In a bid to make up for the loss, the retailers have also slashed the prices of garments. “We have cut prices by 30-50 per cent,” Papneja tells.A visit to shopping malls is no longer the same. The entry is granted only after strict adherence to guidelines. Safety and hygiene of the customers are the top priority. “Visitors look for reassurance and visible safety here. Consumers are wary but they still have needs. Hence, we have adapted to the new normal to make sure patrons feel safe while shopping,” An official at the Lifestyle store in Viva Collage mall was quoted as saying.While sale of masks with matching outfits have gone up, the lack of buyers is not the same as before. The closure of eating joints and cinema halls has massively affected the customer count. Only essential items are being sold in good numbers these days.Likewise, joint managing director of MBD Group, Sonica Malhotra Kandhari, says, “Retail business started in the unlocking phase; we have seen growth in sales and footfall now after Unlock 3.0. Retailers & Mall patrons at MBD Neopolis mall in Ludhiana and Jalandhar are adapting to the new ways of conducting business. We are sitting at 50 to 60% of trading figures compared to last year at the moment and it is improving on a monthly basis and sale numbers are gradually gaining pace.”Sports equipment a big hitAmid lockdown many people gravitated towards fitness. While sales in most of the malls remained minimal, the sporting brands have managed to keep head above the water. Jatinder Singh, Decathlon store manager at the MBD mall, says, “We managed 20-30 per cent sale as people purchased sports and fitness equipment. People also showed interest in purchasing bicycles as the lockdown motivated them to go green.”Labour shortage woesAfter witnessing a huge downfall in their profit for two months, the shortage of labour has now become a major issue. Owners of many stores are either asking their workers to come back or are pasting posters outside their retail outlets to recruit manpower.Customers are keen as well as cautious to visit malls. Window shopping has minimised, but actual buyer wants to shop and does shop without hassles. Mall patrons and mall managements both are cautious and using all preventive methods to create awareness about hygiene.— Sonica Malhotra Kandhari, A residentTraining of the existing staff, video call demonstrations and phone bookings for contact-less delivery of goods are among the new measures being adopted to bring the business back on track. Not more than 2-3 customers are entertained at a time and they are also directed not to rush outside the shop.— Arjun Papneja, Rehmat CollectionsThe business has reduced to just 40 per cent that hardly makes up for our expenses. We are currently relying only on our old customers. Besides, owing to the restrictions in movement, the sale on weekends remain dry. We are desperately waiting for markets to return to normalcy.— Anil Kumar, Garment Dealer at Rainak BazaarThis is the first summer that our frequent visits to the markets have hung up. Being a shopaholic, I and my friends used to visit every store and shops to check what new stock was available in the market, but now, we are just sitting at homes scrolling e-commerce sites. I only prefer to bring clothes on my own. — Mayuri Muskan, a residentInstead of making frequent visits to the market, we prepare a list of items that we need and step out of our homes only once or twice a month. This way, we not only maintain our safety, but also equip ourselves with fresh stock. Also, we have avoided purchasing readymade garments this time. — Manju Mathpal, A residentLuckily, I don’t like to shop much and during the lockdown, I didn’t buy any new clothes or shoes. I went out to buy groceries and other household items only. Moreover, I even asked my family to refrain from frequent market visits. Along with fruits and vegetables, we bought groceries on the same day. — Jaipaul Kalia, A resident||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pandemic-effect-online-shopping-takes-the-sheen-off-markets-122808
06-08-2020||Gurnaaz Kaur||Spicing it up with trust: Jalandhar couple leads happy married life||After 23 years of being married, Dr Jaspreet Singh Grover, a surgeon who runs a private hospital in Amritsar and Raminder Grover, a fashion designer, say it is trust and space that are essential for a happy married life.College crushRaminder Grover: I was a student of BBK DAV and I never knew he was in love with me until he proposed.Jaspreet Singh Grover: It was almost three decades back in 1989 when I was in medical college and she was in BBK DAV college. For years, I would bunk classes just to see her pass by my college gate.Time to tie the knotR: Ours was a love-cum-arranged marriage in 1993.J: After kind of following her or you can say just admiring her for four years, I went up to my uncle and requested him to find out about the girl and her family. He helped our parents meet and that’s the first time I spoke to her.Life changed 360 degreeR: All of a sudden it was a new life where I was busy with my kids and husband, it was a total transformation.J: From a freebird to caring husband and father, it has been a wonderful change.Being together meansR: It’s a wonderful experience to live with a man who is loving, jolly natured and so caring.J: It’s a bliss when you have an understanding partner, who is more of a friend.Favourite activitiesBoth: We love travelling abroad, dancing and partying.Scope for changeR: I just want to limit his phone calls. Otherwise he is perfect.J: I have a perfect partner, but I wish I could give her more time.When it gets annoyingR: His lame excuses when he is late and I’m ready for a function.J: She snatches my phone when I am in the middle of a chat.Let’s unwindBoth: Our way of relaxing is watching shows and movies, going shopping and catching up with friendsCouple goalsR: To provide the best education for both our sons who are pursuing medicine.J: Yes, she is right, that’s top of the list.Wow factorR: The wow factor in our relationship is that we are friends first. In him, it is his sense of humour.J: Her beauty and fitness. She is diet conscious, a fitness freak and that’s why she still looks so young.To make a marriage workR: It’s the understanding between husband and wife that keeps it going. Trust is also the base of this relationship.J: I think it’s the rapport you build with each other, being each other’s best friend.Space talkR: Space is very important, having time for self and being able to focus on your individual goals is a healthy sign in a relationship.J: Everyone needs space. We have been together for 27 years and we have formed a bond so strong because we give ample space to each other.Of lockdown memoriesR: The lockdown gave us an opportunity to come closer. This was indeed a blessing in disguise.J: The lockdown period was the best time I spent with my wife, children and parents.A new hobbyR: Evening walks and gym became our daily routine.J: We started gymming.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/spicing-it-up-with-trust-jalandhar-couple-leads-happy-married-life-122816
06-08-2020||---||Supreme Court rejects Mulakkal’s discharge plea||New Delhi, August 5The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed nun rape case accused Bishop Franco Mulakkal’s petition seeking quashing of charges against him, saying there was no merit in his case. Will have to face trial “You don’t have a case. There is no merit in your plea,” a three-judge Bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde said. The accused Bishop had claimed that he had been falsely implicated after he questioned financial dealings of the victim.Mulakkal (56), the deposed Bishop of Jalandhar diocese, had challenged the July 7 order of the Kerala High Court dismissing his plea. The trial court had also rejected his plea. After dismissal of his petition by the top court, he will have to face trial in the case.Mulakkal was arrested in September 2018 after a nun in the Missionaries of Jesus congregation filed a complaint accusing him of raping her 13 times between 2014 and 2016 at Kottayam in Kerala. The Kerala Police have already filed a chargesheet against him, listing 83 witnesses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/supreme-court-rejects-mulakkals-discharge-plea-122712
