06-07-2020||Open House||Government’s decision may jeopardise future activities||Social distancing will take a hitGiven the present scenario of Covid-19 pandemic, the decision of the state government to allow buses to run at full seating capacity is not justified. The decision is immature and is inconsistent with the overall efforts being made to contain the spread of Covid which has recently shown a rapid surge. There will be no compliance of physical distancing norms and the public will be unnecessarily exposed to the chronic risks of being infected on a large scale. It appears that the decision is influenced by the transport mafia at the cost of greater public interests. The decision must be reversed immediately in order to restore the status quo. The matter may be reviewed later in case there is visible improvement in emerging fresh cases.Jagdish ChanderSafety of passengers IS of prime importanceThe decision of the Government of Punjab to allow the state-owned buses to run on full capacity will just thwart our attempts of fighting against Covid-19. Physical distancing between people is the most potent weapon against the dreaded virus. The decision of the state government is clearly unjustified in this backdrop. The government should realise that their primary responsibility is to protect the lives of people.Dr Gulbahar S SidhuRevoke the decision with immediate effectThe state government’s decision to allow running of buses at their full seating capacity cannot be justified in view of the worsening Covid-19 situation. The observance of physical distancing norms to check the spread of virus will not be practically possible in public transport. It is important to save the public from impending threats to their lives rather to appease a small section of bus transporters. The decision needs to be revoked for greater public good.Shashi KiranGovt move seems to be self-contradictoryIt is strange that the Punjab Government lifted the passenger seating capacity restrictions in the middle of crisis. Though the decision has been taken to safeguard the interests of the transporters (who were suffering huge financial losses due to increasing fuel prices) and commuters who could not afford personal vehicles, the decision of the government is self-contradictory and uncalled for. At a time when it is striving hard to ensure social distancing and hygiene protocols by penalising the violators, this decision is hard to digest. Will wearing masks and using sanitisers in the buses be enough to contain the transmission of virus infection? How will the bus staff ensure that all passengers fully adhere to the mandatory safety precautions? Isn’t the government evading its responsibility of securing public health and well-being and shifting it to the people? At a time when university, college and school examinations are postponed keeping in view the sudden surge in Covid cases, the government should re-consider its earlier decision regarding opening of liquor shops, hotels and restaurants. It is not wise to improve the financial situation at the cost of precious human lives. If buses can be run on full capacity, why can’t the authorities allow normal functioning of educational institutions, malls, swimming pools, gyms and cinema halls.DS KangGovernment seems confusedEveryone is shocked by the state government's move to run buses at full seating capacity. On the one hand, the state government is running a campaign named 'Mission Fateh', in which they are appealing to people of Punjab to observe social distancing norms, and on the other, the state government has allowed buses to run at full seating capacity. It seems the government is really confused. If you drive a car, you are not supposed to take more than two persons with you, though they are your family members and stays with you 24*7. If you violate this, hefty fine would be imposed. What kind of government model is this? In a bus, everyone is a stranger and one is sitting so close to each other, but in a car, even family members are not allowed to sit next to each other. The rules should be same for all. But the state government is just making money out of it by allowing buses to run at full seating capacity which is precarious.Saahil HansOffer level-playing field to all businessesThe state government's decision is completely wrong and biased as experts are saying that Covid-19 is going to stay with us and we have to learn to live with it. Even the WHO has reported that the spike in the spread of the virus is yet to come. Then, why is the government putting the lives of people at risk by allowing buses to run at full capacity? The traders are right in questioning the government's move. Shops and commercial establishments are fined and challaned to the tune of Rs2,000 for violating social-distancing norms, then why allow concessions to transporters? Even hotels and restaurants are allowed only 50 per cent capacity with social distancing. Cinemas and bars are also shut. So, the question arises as to why is the government magnanimous towards transporters? It seems the government has some soft corner for the said business for the reasons best known to it. People sitting in a cinema hall would be less closer than those sitting in buses as the chances of getting infected by Covid-19 is more in buses than in cinemas. The government should revise its decision and offer level playing field to all businesses. It's rightly said that justice must not only be done but seen to be done.Dr JS WadhwaFollowing norms need of the hourThe state's decision to start running buses at their full seating capacity can turn out to be quite reciprocative. It is a fact that the government has not been able to earn enough through their public transport system. But that does not mean one has to jump into the raging fire. In the aftermath of un-lockdown 1.0, the case load is skyrocketing with Covid-19 baring its real fangs to scare all. The need of the hour is to follow the laid down safety and security norms. Going down the annals of history, we come across many instances when determined and brave Punjabis rose to the occasion and even led others from the front with firmness in their heart. Same zeal and zest is expected now as well. So, all of us, including our public representatives, need to exercise some restraint and take decisions after weighing all pros and cons. A lot of questions need to be answered - how will the concept of social distancing be followed in principle in buses with all seats occupied? Our worthy benefactors should refrain from adopting suicidal measures and better focus on keeping the life and health of its subjects safe. With the recent upsurge in the count of people affected by corona wave, all of us need to be more proactive and step out of our homes only if essentially required. In compendium, I think the elected representatives must ponder over rolling back their decision for the welfare of all of us.Simranjeet Singh Sainidecision of punjab govt is fallaciousThe government's decision to run buses at full seating capacity is fallacious. The question is when the government has now permitted bus travel with full occupancy, then why is money being minted by issuing challans to innocent people? The government should be clear on the fact that no social distancing is required and only wearing face masks is mandatory. It means the government is not much worried about people. All that the government wants is just to make money. Is this some kind of joke? We chose the government for our better lives, but after making this decision, the state government is playing with our lives. The risk of spreading the virus in buses is very high. If buses run at full seating capacity, social distancing norms will go for a toss. This decision will bring big relief to bus operators and their business will increase, but at the cost of innocent lives? The government needs to be vigilant because this decision may jeopardise the future activities.SHAILJA THAKURQUESTIONMethanol in hand sanitiser: Amid the new FDA warnings, are consumers wary of the sanitisers they use? Do they think enough is being done by the authorities to ensure their safety?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com  by Thursday (July 9).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/governments-decision-may-jeopardise-future-activities-109225
06-07-2020||Industry & Lockdown||‘Will face losses in coming months as order bookings didn’t take place in May’||BHUPINDER KHOSLA set up Ajanta Woollen Mill, a large-scale shoddy weaving unit, in Amritsar in 1972. The unit is supplying shoddy material to various parts of the country, including Hyderabad, Bengaluru and parts of central India. The shoddy fabric industry falls in two major categories like shoddy spinning and shoddy weaving. Yarn for shoddy fabric comes from recycled fabric, which is used in making blazers, tweeds, school uniforms, etc. He is the general secretary of the Amritsar Shoddy Weavers' Association and also the patron of the Focal Point Industries' Association. He did his graduation from Hindu College in 1970. In an interview with Neeraj Bagga, he said the scarcity of finished material will be felt in the winter season as production did not take place in the months of April and May. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted your business?The entire shoddy spinning and shoddy weaving industry is scattered. From yarn to finished goods transportation is an inalienable part. Raw material comes mostly from Panipat while weaving is carried out at Mustafabad on the Batala road and Naraingarh in the holy city. Finishing is done at processing units which are also situated in different areas. It is a season-based industry. The schools are closed, so fresh bookings and payments have been blocked by traders. The March-April period is lean as we overhaul our machines and production is negligible. Besides, the impact would be massive as all order bookings, on the basis of which manufacturing is done, could not be done due to the lockdown in May. Now losses will be seen in the coming months.Do you expect any of your businesses to start running in the near future?Uncertainty is everywhere. Liquidity crunch has gripped businesses. The schools are unlikely to open soon. We are running units at 30 to 40 per cent capacity. In the winter season when demand will emerge, we will not have enough material to supply.Are you paying salaries to your workers?We employ workers on a contract and daily wage basis. Though we have no funds to release the salaries, we are paying salaries to the workers by taking loans and selling our stock on low rates. In the current situation, those who take risks can save their businesses.What is the share of online trading in your profession?The share of online trading in our profession is negligible.What are the lessons you have learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?A lot of change has been seen in attitude of those into the business. The moot question before them is how to proceed in future. The terms and conditions of transactions will change and entrepreneurs are not likely to go for credit.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?We consider the current crisis only as a challenge. Now, people will switch to new businesses. The season-based businesses like ours will be least preferred. Opportunities will emerge only after things get back to normal.What are your expectations from the government?Recently, the government had enhanced the CC limit, which was a temporary relief for entrepreneurs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/will-face-losses-in-coming-months-as-order-bookings-didnt-take-place-in-may-109226
06-07-2020||---||Jalandhar needs exhibition hall for industry, say bizmen||Jalandhar, July 5In a letter to Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Choudhary, members of the Jalandhar Industrial Focal Point (Extn) Association has requested for the development of new community hall for trade and industry in the city.“There is no community hall in Jalandhar where exhibitions and trade-related activities could be organised,” Narinder Singh Saggu, president of the association said.In the demand letter, the members further added that the association had been organising industrial exhibition for common cause at the Dana Mandi in Jalandhar for the last two years, in which more than 200 industrialists participate every year and more than 30,000 visitors come from all over India.It is also mentioned in the letter that numerous students of different engineering and management colleges also visit to gain knowledge on upcoming technology in every field and these exhibitions exhibit latest technology from all over the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-needs-exhibition-hall-for-industry-say-bizmen-109218
06-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Garhshankar college student wins top spot in online photo contest||Hoshiarpur, July 5DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, organised an online inter-college photography and giddha-bhangra bolian singing competition in collaboration with the Department of Youth Welfare, Panjab University, Chandigarh.College vice-principal Dr Arti Saluja, Profs Monika, Roma Ralhan, Chetna Sharma and Vishakha Broota were organisers of the events. Students from different colleges participated in the competitions. Subhash Chandra, President Award recipient and Rubin Bahalvi, two-time gold medallist in painting contest, inter-university youth festival, were the judges of the photography competition. In this competition, Vikas Pour from BAM Khalsa College, Garhshankar, won the first prize; Sebastian Topno from DAV College, Hoshiarpur, stood second and Aastha Dhawan of Government College for Girls, Ludhiana, got the third spot. Aaruksh of PG Government College, Sector-46, Chandigarh, and Manik Bhola of BCM College of Education, Ludhiana, got appreciation awards.In the giddha-bolian contest, S Pal Singh Samao, international cultural coach; Prateek Mann, Punjabi folk singer and Navdeep Kaur Brar, international gold medallist in giddha, were the judges. In this category, Satminder Kaur of SBHSM Khalsa College of Education, Mahilpur, won the first prize, while Ashwinder Kaur and Radhika from Khalsa College for Women, Ludhiana, were declared joint runners-up. Anmolpreet Kaur from Government College for Girls, Ludhiana, and Bhimakshi of BAM Khalsa College, Garhshankar, took joint third place. Amrit Kaur of Government College for Girls, Ludhiana, and Kiranjot Kaur from Government College, Hoshiarpur, got appreciation awards.In the bhangra-bolian contest, Saheed-e-Aazam Bhagat Singh award recipient Harjeetpal Singh, Azad Sandhu, gold medallist (folk song) and Maninder Singh, gold medallist (folk dance) were the judges. Jaswinder Singh and Harjinder Singh from GHG Khalsa College of Education, Gurusar Sadhar, Ludhiana, got first and second prizes respectively while Gurmeet Singh from Guru Gobind Singh College of Education, Beghpur Kamlooh, Mukerian, got the third prize. President Dr Anoop Kumar, secretary DL Anand and principal Shyam Sunder Sharma congratulated the winners and the teacher-in-charges for organising the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/garhshankar-college-student-wins-top-spot-in-online-photo-contest-109219
06-07-2020||Jalandhar||Firing incident: One arrested||13,928 fined for avoiding masksJalandhar: The Jalandhar Commissionerate have so far issued 13,928 challans to persons not wearing masks and imposed a fine of Rs63.09 lakh, said the Commissioner of Police, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar. He said fine worth Rs71,000 has been imposed for 40 violations of home-quarantine and of Rs40,600 on 302 persons for spitting in public places. The CP said total 40,412 challans have been issued so far to violators and 2,061 vehicles have been impounded. He said fine worth Rs1.02 lakh has been imposed on 55 overloaded four-wheelers, Rs16,000 on 32 overloaded autos and a fine worth Rs2,78,000 has been imposed on 139 persons for violating social distancing. Bhullar said 134 traffic challans were issued by the police on Sunday, adding that 172 persons were not wearing mask and a fine worth Rs86,000 was imposed on them. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/firing-incident-one-arrested-109222
06-07-2020||Ajay Joshi||Waterlogged road leaves people in lurch||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 5Rains this fortnight might have brought some relief from the scorching heat, but have also exposed the miserable condition of the roads as the poor quality concrete, used to fill potholes and pits, has come off. Waterlogging seems to be another issue irking commuters here.For instance, the service road on the Maqsudan Bypass to Sarb Multiplex or Pathankot Bypass Chowk stretch is crying for attention for the past several years. Due to the substandard quality concrete used in re-carpeting of the road, the problem stays the same every year. The nearby vendors claimed that even the sewer water remains stagnant on the road as the drainage system is lying defunct.Apart from the vehicular rush, the commuters said the stagnant water is another lurking danger. Many mishaps have taken place on the road in the past. Due to its vicinity to the industrial areas, it's majorly used by industry owners, Jalandhar-Ludhiana travellers, transporters and labourers who while peddling their bicycles through the water fear of falling in the water.Numerous potholes have emerged on the road making it from bad to worse. Aman Dhali, a local resident, even took to social media, asking the MC authorities about when the condition of roads would improve in the city as they feared mishaps while commuting on the road. Residents say call it a nightmarish experience to navigate these roads, especially during the night. The condition worsens on a rainy day as it becomes difficult for them to spot the potholes."Many a times, vehicles get stuck on broken roads. People riding two-wheelers have been grievously injured on these roads in the past. On a rainy day, rainwater gets accumulated for a long time. There is no use lodging a complaint with the MC as we know nothing would be done," said Rakesh, a fruit and vegetable vendor.A commuter, Sanvir Singh said, "The road has not been repaired for the past two years. The condition of the stretch has worsened with the passage of time. If the government does not carry out development works on time, it has no right to collect development tax from us. "Rains have washed away the metalled layer of the road. Now, the stretch is riddled with potholes, loose gravel and soil. Dust flying due to the dilapidated condition of the road has further added to our woes."Meanwhile, MC Engineer Rajneesh Dogra said the problem was still prevalent due to the damaged sewer line, which needed to be fixed. We are aware of the waterlogging situation and will repair the road shortly," added Dogra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/waterlogged-road-leaves-people-in-lurch-109223
06-07-2020||Avneet Kaur||Movie buffs take a fancy to OTT platforms||Jalandhar, July 5With the Covid-19 pandemic bringing down the curtains on outdoor activities, the craze for the over-the-top (OTT) entertainment service among the youngsters seems to have multiplied. Lying on their sofas or bed, glued to their smart TVs, laptops or mobile screens watching web-series or web-movies on online streaming giants such as Amazon Prime, Netflix, Hotstar, Disney plus, Zee5, etc, seems to have become a rage.As parents still reluctant to allow their children to go outside amid rising Covid scare, the only option left with the children to beat the lockdown blues is to watch online movies and web-series. But, with OTT becoming the new normal, the parents are worried that lack of physical activity and spending too much time on gadgets can take a toll on the children's health.Moreover, the recent surveys done on digital dependence has also highlighted that there was a record increase in OTT traffic during the lockdown and the subscriptions of Amazon Prime, Netlfix, Hotstar, Zee 5 and others were up by 30-40 per cent. Even several producers and filmmakers after the release of 'Gulabo Sitabo' on Amazon Prime Video on June 12, shared on their official social media handles about how they are considering taking the OTT path, instead of waiting for theatres to reopen.Speaking outEver since the lockdown was announced, I have been spending maximum time in my room, binge-watching all the movies I had missed earlier. Not being able to go out of the house has made me buy memberships of three different streaming platforms to keep myself entertained during these hard times. Prince Singh, a freelancer scriptwriterThere is hardly any option other than OTT platforms. But, I feel that instead of wasting time on those rom-com, youngsters must look for educational, motivational and among other movies or series that end up giving a beautiful message about life or self-love. I am these days watching movies that deal with mental health issues. Pooja Yadav, MCA pass outThe availability of all sorts of entertainment content online has proven to be a boon during this lockdown period. Being stuck at home, due to this pandemic, I am spending my time exploring thriller and horror web-series on OTT platforms for my entertainment. Archana Joshi, a student of Apeejay CollegeFor the time being, OTT platforms have been acting as saviours, as it helps me escape from the boredom and stress of Covid-19. But I want things to go back to normal because I am looking forward to watching movies in movie halls with my gang of friends and get dressed up for the same. Gursimran Kaur, student, GNDU College, Ladowali||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/movie-buffs-take-a-fancy-to-ott-platforms-109224
06-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||Covid count 900, but Jalandhar district yet to get its own testing lab||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 5Five months into Covid pandemic and the district is yet to begin its own testing.Of the total 24,867 samples collected in the district so far, 22,968 tested negative, while 900 have tested positive so far. The count was 255 in the beginning of June.While at one point the district had a backlog of over 2,000 cases with increased testing in Jalandhar following continuous hike in Covid cases, the district authorities claimed the current backlog of Covid samples is down to 50 pending tests. While the district had a backlog of 2,400 cases when the current DC came in, it was subsequently cleared over the past few weeks after special intervention from officials. The backlog of Covid samples tested until July 3 is down to 50.At present, around 600 tests are being conducted on a daily basis. However, despite being the third most affected district in the state with 22 deaths and a whopping jump of 900 cases today, the district is yet to have a Covid testing lab of its own.The district Covid report on Sunday stated that the reports of 731 samples were awaited in the district. On Saturday, reports of 960 samples were awaited. Health authorities said these awaited reports include samples of people tested yesterday and today. Health authorities said the new samples being taken per day is currently down to 600-700 from 900-1,000 at some point of time.Nodal officer Covid Jalandhar Dr TP Singh said: “We are testing about 600 people per day. The sample reports usually arrive two days later. Reports are usually coming out with a delay of 24 to 48 hours. It takes 24 hours for samples to reach only. All backlog until July 3 has been cleared, barring 50-odd cases. The reports of the samples sent on Sunday will be out after a few days. The rest of the sampling is going smoothly and proper contact tracing of all Covid patients is being done.” He said: “Given the cases and contacts, around 600 samples are being taken per day at present. The pending backlog includes only recent samples. The previous backlog has almost been cleared.”DC Ghanshyam Thori said: “A 2,400 sample waiting list awaited clearance when I came here. After taking up the issue with Isha Kalia, nodal testing officer for state, she helped clear the pendency. Now, the backlog is down considerably. At present, Jalandhar only has a True Nat machine for local sampling, which takes about 18 samples at a time. The rest of the samples are being tested from Faridkot. Samples are usually sent at a centre which receives bulk samples and is competent to handle the massive backlog.”Opening of RDDL gets delayedWhile Jalandhar is the third most affected district by Covid in the state, it has yet to get RT-PCR testing lab of its own. Currently, the only local collecting centres where sample collection takes place is at three labs – Lal Path Labs, SRL labs and Oncquest labs. The recently installed True Nat machine at the Civil Hospital can only test 18 samples at a time. Only urgent testing is done on the machine. All remaining government samples are sent to Faridkot. However, despite the Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab (RDDL) first slated to start on June 10, it hasn’t started functioning yet. MP Santokh Chaudhary, who inaugurated the RDDL and declared that Covid testing would begin from June 10, said: “It was slated to start from June 10 and then June 20, but previously there were some technical glitches. The VC of Baba Farid University had also promised Covid testing machines until June 20. The glitches have been cleared and testing shall start soon. I will also take up the issue again.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-count-900-but-jalandhar-district-yet-to-get-its-own-testing-lab-109215
06-07-2020||---||71 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 5The district on Sunday reported 71 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total count to 900. A majority of those who tested positive are defence personnel. Besides, the number of Covid-19 cases admitted in Military Hospital in Jalandhar has also climbed to 23.From 255 on the first of June, the district has had a dramatic hike of 645 cases in the past one month alone. Leave alone flattening the curve, the district has been witnessing a constant rise in the number of cases with some particular days reporting a spike of over 30 to 40 to a whopping 70 cases like today.The new cases include 10 minors aged between 1, 4, 6, 7, 9, 16 (2) and 17 (2) years. The infected persons are from areas like Ali Mohalla, Gadaipur, Kandola Kalan, Nanak Pind (Jamsher), Mohalla Charkhiri (Kartarpur), Lidhran, Lohian Khas (2), Dada Colony, Suchi Pind, Makhdoompura, Cheema Kalan, Sanghe Khalsa, Bundala, Mitju Basti, New Deold Nagar, PIMS Hospital (3), Kot Pakshian, Model House, New Devi Talab, Gulab Devo Road, Ajit Nagar, Basti Bawa Khel, Kazi Mohalla, Jalandhar Cantt, Bhogpur, Surya Enclave and Mithapur. Of the 71 fresh cases, three persons are symptomatic. Barring Army personnel, there were also a couple of other cases with travel history reported today.25 contacts of two anganwadi workers quarantinedAs many as 25 persons from Shahkot, including 17 people from their family, have been quarantined. These people had come in contact with two anganwadi workers, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The workers were posted at Fazalpur village. After their reports, both were sent to the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar. On Sunday, teams of the Health Department surveyed the village and prepared a list of the people who came in contact with them. Senior Medical Officer Amardeep Singh Duggal said the anganwadi workers were tested at a camp set up at the CHC, Shahkot. The test report revealed that both were infected with the virus. The teams then sent both to the hospital and made a list of the people who came in contact with them. On Monday, a corona sampling camp will be organised at the village level and corona tests will be done on all people,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/71-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-109216
06-07-2020||---||Health centres to have 100% piped oxygen supply, says DC||Jalandhar, July 5To meet the demand of adequate infrastructure amid rising Covid cases, the administration has ensured adequate Covid facilities, including 100 per cent oxygen supply at three urban community health centres, in the district.DC Ghanshyam Thori on Sunday said: “100 per cent piped oxygen supply would be ensured for 100 beds in three urban CHCs, including Basti Guzan, Dada Colony and Khambra, for which necessary arrangements would be made.” He said the facility would be provided to these CHCs by using corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds.Presently, level 1 Covid centre is available at the 500-bedded Meritorious School in Jalandhar whereas the 340-bedded Civil Hospital in Jalandhar acts as a level 2 and 3 Covid facility. In addition to this, patients under isolation are also being housed at the IMA facility at Shahkot and at NIT Jalandhar.The district administration is also deliberating upon making use of DAV institutions and universities in case of any contingency. With 645 people testing positive in the past 35 days, the district administration is gearing up to meet any sort of Covid exigency. The DC had also recently floated tenders for additional beds and other Covid services required in the district.Presiding over a meeting here at his office in the District Administrative Complex, the Deputy Commissioner said the move was aimed at meeting any sort of urgency in the coming times. Thori said the local Sub Divisional Magistrates would visit these CHCs and make the necessary arrangements for the completion of work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/health-centres-to-have-100-piped-oxygen-supply-says-dc-109217
06-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Paddy growers sweat it out in fields as labour in short supply||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 5To overcome the problem of shortage of labourers, many farmers switched to direct seeding of rice and many others persuaded the farm labourers to return from their native lands. However, two farmers of Randhawa Barota village in Hoshiarpur sowed and transplanted paddy in their fields on their own.Unable to find labour, Bahadur Singh (34) and his younger brother Naajar Singh transplanted paddy on 6 acres with the help of their family members.“We took help of our cousin Gurmeet Singh to transplant paddy in our fields. Thereafter, we carried out the same process on Gurmeet’s land, who owns approximately six acres. It was a difficult process, but we were able to transplant the crop on four acres,” Bahadur Singh shared.He said: “The remaining work is being carried out by labourers, so we are relaxed. Since direct paddy sowing is a relatively new concept, I feared the results.”Bahadur said: “We worked day in and day out to transplant the paddy. However, we never complained.” Manjit Rai, president, Bharti Kisan Union, Doaba, said back in the day farmers transplanting the crop on their own was a rarity. However, given the labour crunch because of the pandemic, such incidents were being witnessed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/paddy-growers-sweat-it-out-in-fields-as-labour-in-short-supply-109050
