06-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Kapurthala jail toughens rules to prevent Covid-19 spread||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 5After two inmates at the Ludhiana jail tested positive for Covid, Kapurthala Modern Jail is taking stringent measures to ensure that no such incident occurs here.The jail has nearly 2,400 inmates, including 107 women and two children. Any movement to and from the jail has been stopped so the inmates do not come in contact with suspects or carriers outside.Baljit Singh Ghuman, SP (Jails), Kapurthala, said: “We haven’t allowed any jail inmate to attend court hearing in the past two and a half months. Hearings are being allowed only through video conferencing. Relatives of inmates are also not allowed to visit and meet anyone in the jail.The police said food, grocery and other items being brought to the jail are being handled with utmost care. “Any slight carelessness can lead to a major spread of the virus, so the authorities cannot afford to take any risks,” he said.Three to four doctors from the Kapurthala Civil Hospital have been visiting the jail regularly to take random samples. Civil Surgeon Jasmeet Bawa said: “On Friday, we took five samples. This was a precautionary step. We have already set up isolation wards on the jail premises. Doctors have been instructed to immediately shift any suspect patients to the isolation ward.”The Civil Surgeon said the jail staff had been provided with sanitisers, gowns, gloves and masks. “Sanitisers, gloves and masks are also available to inmates. Doctors, cook and cops on duty are undergo thermal screening on a daily basis”, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-jail-toughens-rules-to-prevent-covid-19-spread-95102
06-06-2020||---||Police recover Rs19.82 lakh, weapons from 11 gamblers||Jalandhar, June 5The police have arrested 11 gamblers and recovered Rs19.82 lakh, three .32 bore revolvers, a .45 bore pistol and five cars from their possession. The cops also seized two boxes of cards.The accused have been identified as Sucha Singh of Dialpur, Sandeep Sharma of Mitha Bazaar, Davinder of Adampur, Vishal Bhalla of Babbia Mazar Katra Dullo, Mohit of Katra Dullo, Ricky of Hazat Nagar, Kamal Kumar of Tirath Road, Bhanu of Khoo Bambe Wala Gate, Kaushal Kumar, Manohar Lal of Ram Bagh Kot Aatma Singh and Parveen Mahajan of Kharas Wali Gali.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the cops raided a house in Guru Amar Dass Colony and arrested 11 persons, besides cash, weapons and cars.He said Sucha and Sandeep had sold the house from where they were arrested to a Shahkot-based NRI, but did not hand over its keys.He said the revolver seized from Sandeep, belongs to Joginder Pal, who will be arrested. The duo was also arrested in Ludhiana in 2017.Bhullar said Ricky was facing three criminal cases and works as a furniture dealer. “Vishal Bhalla is a property dealer and is facing a criminal case in Amritsar. Mohit is a driver of Vishal and Bhanu is his associate,” he said.The Commissioner of Police said Davinder runs a shop in Adampur and Kamal Kumar is a real estate agent. He said the pistol recovered from Kamal is of Rajiv Kumar. Manohar runs a salon, Kaushal Kumar owns an eatery in Amritsar and Parveen Mahajan has a footwear store, he said.Bhullar said a case under Sections 188 of the IPC, Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, Disaster Management Act 2005, 13-3-67 Gambling Act and 25,27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered.The Commissioner of Police said the Enforcement Directorate and the Income Tax Department have been informed to check the source money confiscated from the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-recover-rs19-82-lakh-weapons-from-11-gamblers-95103
06-06-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Migrant crisis: Farmers to go for direct seeding of rice||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 5Farmers are a harried lot due to massive shortage of migrants who have gone back to their respective states during the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. While some agriculturists are eagerly waiting for labourers to return, others have opted for direct seeding of rice (DSR) technique this Kharif season.Farmers said they largely depend on paddy produce to repay loans, deposit fee of their wards and avail medical facilities.Gurtej Singh, a farmer from Mehatpur, who has adopted the DSR technique, said, “You might have seen the condition of farmers sowing sugarcane. They are waiting for the payment from last six months. We are left with no other option, but to sow paddy.”Davinder Singh of Nawanshahr is waiting for migrants to return. He said numerous farmers do farming on lease basis and they have to pay in advance. “Good yield or no yield, we have to pay upfront. At least, we know the MSP of paddy.”Sukhwinder Singh, a resident of Sardarwala village, said, “At present, I don’t have labourers to sow paddy. I have decided to go for direct seeding of rice technique, but I cannot do away with paddy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/migrant-crisis-farmers-to-go-for-direct-seeding-of-rice-95104
06-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Urgent need to address global environmental threats: Experts||Jalandhar, June 5The three-day webinar series jointly organised by Pushpa Gujral Science City and Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) to mark World Environment Day concluded here on Friday. On the last day, Alok Shekhar, Principal Secretary, Science, Technology and Environment, joined the webinar and threw light on the aspects of climate change and need to protect the environment.The webinar focused on the theme, ‘Bio-diversity’, and the slogan was ‘Time for Nature’. Around 100 students from all over Punjab participated in the webinar series.Shekar said human actions, including deforestation, encroachment on wildlife habitats, intensified agriculture and acceleration of climate change have pushed nature beyond its limit.“If we continue on this path, biodiversity loss will have severe implications for humanity, including the collapse of food and health systems. Covid-19 has underscored the fact that when we destroy biodiversity, we destroy the system that supports the human life,” he added.The Principal Secretary said, “The nature is sending a message through Covid-19, which we need to understand. The message is clear that it is time we should save our environment and bring changes in our lives and adopt an eco-friendly life.”The host of the webinar, Dr Neelima Jearth, director general, Science City, said human beings are consuming natural resources beyond the carrying capacity of the earth. Thus, it calls for an urgent need to address the global environmental threats and World Environment Day is a reminder for action, she added.Speaking about the impact of Covid-19 on environment and bio-resources, PPCB Chairman Dr Satwinder Singh Marwaha said it has become important to nurture the environment at present when the entire world is fighting the pandemic.“Nature provides us food to eat, air to breathe and water to drink which represents the environment one way or the other,” he said, while stressing on the need to improve the quality of river water.Dr Marwaha urged the participants to sensitise the people, especially the farming community, not to burn crop residue as it not only damages the soil texture by affecting its fertility but also pollutes the environment and harms the human health.Underlining that every country has a sovereign right on its biological resources, J Justin Mohan, Secretary, National Biodiversity Authority, talked about the provisions in the Biological Diversity Act and lack of awareness among industries, public and traders about the concept of access and benefit sharing, which can be a big incentive for conservation and sustainable use.He emphasised that the government needs to strengthen and empower the biodiversity in the country to overcome these challenges.Dr Chandrika Bahadur, director, SDG Academy, which is associated with Earth Institute, New York, spoke on the 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs). She suggested that biodiversity, which cuts across several SDGs, could be a key strategy to achieve SDG and shared global experiences in the area.The Science City also organised poetry and declamation competitions on the occasion, which received an overwhelming response from students and people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/urgent-need-to-address-global-environmental-threats-experts-95105
06-06-2020||Our Correspondent||People exhorted to grow more trees, plants||Hoshiarpur, June 5World Environment Day was celebrated by participating in ‘Peepal Kranti’ movement jointly by Prithvi Welfare Society, DAV College and the Forest Department.Mahavir Singh, conservator forest, north block, Hoshiarpur, Prof Rajeev Sharma, HoD, Medical Science the department of DAV College, Hoshiarpur and Harinder Singh, president, Prithvi Welfare Society, Punjab, spoke on the occasion.Conservator forest, Mahavir Singh, said at present, about 7.8 per cent of land was under forest, while as per norms it should be at least 10 per cent of total land of Punjab. He appreciated the efforts of DAV College and Prithvi Welfare Society. He also assured all support by Forest Department in plantation drive. He planted a Peepal plant on this occasion.Prof Rajeev Sharma said the UNO had given a unique message that maximum earth should have trees and plants. Every person should not only plant at least 19 trees in a year but also care for them till they grow well. Harinder Singh said every person should celebrate his special occasions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/people-exhorted-to-grow-more-trees-plants-95106
06-06-2020||---||SBI organises plantation drive||Jalandhar, June 5On the occasion of World Environment Day, the State Bank of India (SBI) organised a tree plantation drive on the branch premises within the campus of DAV University on the Pathankot road here.Bank employees of the branch led by SBI regional manager, Jalandhar region, Pradeep Kumar said they are trying to fulfil their responsibilities towards society and environment by planting saplings. On this occasion, everyone pledged to carry out a public awareness campaign at their level for environmental protection and ensure their contribution towards the environment.The regional manager said in the current era, environment degradation is a concern. “The ecological balance is completely messed up. This unbalance is proving to be dangerous for the human existence. If you really want to save your and Earth’s existence, first of all we have to defend nature. Environmental protection requires public participation and countries around the world should make joint efforts to overcome the current problem of pollution and environmental degradation. Every person should make joint efforts and plant more and more trees every year. This will improve our nature and ensure the work of environmental conservation,” he added.Branch manager Pawan Bassi and human resource manager Santosh Kumar said human beings have a strong relationship with the environment.They said, “Everyone has to protect the environment. The defaulters need to be punished. Today, most people say that the responsibility of environmental conservation is of the government and social organisations. But it wrong. In fact, every person’s participation in environmental conservation is very important. Then we can conserve the environment. At the time of the pandemic when the world was in captivity, the nature attempted to heal itself and flourish.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sbi-organises-plantation-drive-95107
06-06-2020||---||Development works worth Rs 150 cr for 961 villages soon||Jalandhar, June 5The state government is mulling a plan to start development works worth Rs150 crore in 961 villages of the district under the Smart Village Campaign. This will be the second phase of works in rural areas. In the first phase, works worth Rs45 crore was done.DC Varinder Kumar Sharma said development works for 961 villages of the district have been identified. He said for the work, money would be executed from the funds of the Finance Commission, Rural Development Fund and others.He said proposals for the development works have been sent to the state government for approval and the funds would be released soon in this regard. The DC asked SDMs to ensure that the work is started and completed within the stipulated time period.Meanwhile, ADC Vishesh Sarangal said development works will be carried out in 69 villages of the Adampur block, 69 of the Nakodar block, 98 of the Phillaur block, 65 of the Rurka Kalan block, 95 of the Bhogpur block, 78 of the Nurmahal block, 46 of the Mehatpur block, 178 of the Jalandhar East block, 74 of the Shahkot block, 61 of the Lohian Khaas Block and 128 of the Jalandhar West block.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/development-works-worth-rs-150-cr-for-961-villages-soon-95108
06-06-2020||Jalandhar||235 units of blood donated||The Youth Congress organised a blood donation camp at Congress Bhawan in Rajinder Nagar here on Friday.Angad Dutta, president, Youth Congress Jalandhar, said, “Due to the coronavirus pandemic, there has been great difficulty in arranging blood donors. So, Punjab Youth Congress chief Barinder S Dhillon has decided that youth bodies of the party will hold blood donation camps in each and every district of the state.”Dutta said more than 235 units of blood were collected at the camp. A team of doctors from the Civil Hospital and Ohri Hospital Jalandhar were present to ensure safety and hygiene during the camp. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/235-units-of-blood-donated-95109
06-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Youth shot at in Mahilpur, miscreants absconding||Mahilpur, June 5Harpreet Singh, a resident of ward no. 8 of Mahilpur, was seriously injured when 13 persons entered his house, shot at him after assaulting him with sharp-edged weapons. The cause of the attack has been attributed to be a brawl that took place three months ago.The injured was rushed to the Mahilpur Civil Hospital from where he was referred to the Speciality hospital owing to his critical condition.According to information, 13 armed persons came on 5 bikes to the house of Harpreet Singh, at 4 pm on Friday. The outer door of the house was open at that time. When the persons who entered the house asked the family of Harpreet about his whereabouts, they refused of it. At this, they reportedly threatened to kidnap a child of the family standing there and barged inside the house.Harpreet was lying in a room in the house. One of the attackers shot at Harpreet. According to the family, the reason behind the incident is said to be the old enmity.The family told the police that Harpreet had a fight with the Pardeep Kumar Bada Pandit, alias Sunny’s brother Mani, three months ago. During this, Mani allegedly aimed a pistol at Harpreet, which was snatched by Harpreet.After this, Mani had died recently, for which the elder Pandit considered Harpreet responsible about it . According to Station House Officer (SHO) Sukhwinder Singh, the family claimed to have identified four of the alleged assailants as Pradeep Kumar Bada Pandit alias Sunny, a resident of Halluwal village, Bachittar Singh of Bahowal village.Sambri and Lala, both residents of Mahilpur. Family members alleged that the Bada Pandit had shot at Harpreet with a pistol. The police are investigating and a case will be registered after primary investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-shot-at-in-mahilpur-miscreants-absconding-95110
06-06-2020||---||Cong leaders unhappy over functioning of party||Jalandhar, June 5A set of Congress leaders from the city, who have not been adjusted in any post by the ruling party, are feeling disenchanted with the functioning of the party. They have written to the AICC chief, Sonia Gandhi, sharing their issues and seeking her intervention. Sharing details of a mail sent to the party, the leaders have said that ‘Speak Up India’ is a good initiative by the party to raise the voice against PM Narendra Modi. They, however, have taken a jibe saying, “We Congressmen demand that Speak Up, Listen Up and Follow Up programme should soon start within the Congress so that grassroot level workers, who are not recognised by top leadership, can easily express their sentiments”.Sanjay Sehgal, former senior vice-chairman of the RTI cell, PPCC, said, “ The Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee and all district committees in the state were dissolved in January this year. A number of leaders, retired bureaucrats and Army officials with their sources, links and connectivity have been adjusted as chairman, vice- chairman and directors in the state government. The leaders, who lost their 2017 Assembly polls, have been appointed halqa in-charges so that all activities and government funds can be distributed through them and by the next Assembly polls they will be in frontline to contest elections”.Another leader said, “The issues discussed by the party leadership in the last Congress preliminary session have not been taken up in reality and sentiments of party workers are always murdered. If everything goes like this in the organisation, we will not work for the party. Also it will not be an easy task for the party to achieve ‘Mission 2022’ in Punjab.” He said to strengthen the organisation, Congress leadership will have to listen to the ground reality and change its ideology and working style.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cong-leaders-unhappy-over-functioning-of-party-95111
06-06-2020||Our Correspondent||30 shanties gutted in fire in Chabbewal||Chabbewal, June 5Around 30 of 230 shanties on the Hoshiarpur main road in Chabbewal were gutted in a fire that broke out on Friday afternoon.The fire damaged household articles of many residents. Luckily, the wind turned towards the north and the around 200 shanties escaped the fire. The police reached the spot and fire tenders were called in to douse the fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/30-shanties-gutted-in-fire-in-chabbewal-95112
06-06-2020||Nurmahal||Two booked for assault||Two PrOclaimed offenders heldNakodar: The Sadar police on Thursday arrested a proclaimed offender (PO), who was absconding for the past many years. The IO, Gurnam Singh, said the suspect had been identified as Damanjit Singh, alias Daman, a resident of Sarihn village. The accused is wanted in a case of assault. In another case, the Lohian Khas police on Friday arrested a PO, Sukhdev Singh, alias Sukha, a resident of Harike village in Taran Tarn, wanted in a case of drug peddling, said (IO) Kulwindar Singh. OCSale of illicit liquor: 1 bookedNakodar: The Sadar police on Thursday booked a villager on the charge of brewing illicit country made liquor. The (IO) Harwindar Singh said 20 kg raw liquor (lahan) and utensils for brewing liquor were seized from the possession of the suspect, identified as Manjindar Singh, a resident of Talwandi Bharo village, who managed to flee from the spot. A case has been registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-booked-for-assault-95113
06-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Hustle and bustle still missing at Lovely Sweets||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 5It is a very unusual sight at the popular Lovely Sweets on Nakodar Road here. The shop that remained abuzz with customers throughout the day has now visitors coming intermittently only. There are no usual queues to get the sweets weighed, packed and make the payment.There is a single cash counter unlike multiple points that were there earlier and still one has to wait for maximum a minute or so.The counters for snacks such as ‘samosas’, ‘kachoris’ and ‘pakoras’ are shut. The variety of sweets on display has been cut down by 60 per cent. While there were at least 15 varieties of ‘ladoos’ available earlier, now there are 8-10 on any given day. Cashew sweets, too, have little variation and the same is the case with ‘besan barfi’ and rolls. The owners make a point that they offer fresh sweets.Shaishav Mittal, director, Lovely Sweets, says, “The lockdown has badly hit our business. We have less than 30 per cent customers as of now. Earlier, customers would come up with a specific demand for a special ‘ladoo’, rolls or ‘barfi’, but not now. It is very hard to say no to them. But we do explain that 90 per cent of our labour has gone back to their native places. So some sweets which only those people could make up to the required level of perfection cannot be available till they return. And we really do not know when that will happen as they left just days before we reopened on May 18.”Mittal shared, “The walk-in is less, but there are some people who are placing orders on Zomato and Swiggy. We have started making orange, pudina chips and namkeens for which we have a lot of customers.”He adds, “The best part in these tough times is that we have more women working on counters than men. These women are Punjab natives and used to attend to customers receiving them and taking them to the right counters. But now as we need more people behind the counters, they have happily agreed to extend their services in packing boxes too.”The sweets owner says, “Thankfully, there have been some marriages in May and June, which is otherwise not the time. These were all those marriages which were to be held in March-end or April, but could not be solemnised due to the Covid-19 outbreak. As the government has allowed a gathering of 50 persons for marriages, small functions have started taking place. The marriage orders have become smaller, but they are definitely there.”Mittal rued, “To keep our labourers intact, we provided them with free accommodation and food, but still most of them left." He shared that all sweets that they had got prepared when the lockdown happened was immediately distributed among the poor. “We allowed our labourers to take as much sweets as they wanted,” he added.Safety measures in place at the shopAs a safety measure in times when people are scared of eating outside food, Lovely Sweets has begun using UV light system to kill harmful germs. Says Shaishav Mittal, “We do not use this light for all sweets in routine as we simply ask people to consume sweets within 24 hours. We use this only on specific demand of customers or when the sweets have to be supplied for sale in retail and at other malls”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hustle-and-bustle-still-missing-at-lovely-sweets-95114
06-06-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||This principal preparing blueprint to restart classes at school||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 5Sandeepa Sood, principal, Saffron Public School, Phagwara, has already prepared a blueprint for reopening the school. He has already started going to the school and has been planning to recommence classes once the school starts.Schoolteachers have been making notes, creating videos and providing these to students. They have also been referring several online sites so that the students get to learn from various sources. The principal has been making sure that she interacts with parents on a regular basis.I have decided to split the sections and will allocate tables to the students. They would have to sit accordingly and we will strictly follow physical distancing in our classes. We will sanitise classrooms and every student will be asked to sit on the particular desk and every class, be it recreational class, yoga class or teaching lessons, the student will attend everything sitting on that one deskSandeepa Sood, Principal, Saffron Public SchoolOnline classes are being held according to the timetable. Besides, the psychometric test is held for students who will opt for various streams in the next session.A counsellor is also touch with the students of the school through the Internet.The principal agreed that the traditional classroom teaching could not be replaced by online teaching and students miss that. Despite it, she has been trying her best to provide equal level of education to students.“We don't know how long the pandemic is going to stay with us. For me, the safety of the students is foremost important. I have decided to split the sections and will allocate tables to the students. They would have to sit accordingly and we will strictly follow physical distancing in our classes,” she said.“We will sanitise classrooms and every student will be asked to sit on the particular desk and every class, be it recreational class, yoga class or teaching lessons, the student will attend everything sitting on that one desk,” the principal added.She said the idea is that no student should touch each other and such steps would be taken as precautionary measures.“Buses will also be sanitized and if parents want to drop their wards, they can," she said. "To ensure that the students don't suffer from any anxiety or depression and to boost their immune system, yoga classes will be made regular and compulsory in the school,” the principal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-principal-preparing-blueprint-to-restart-classes-at-school-95115
