06-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||District sees five new Covid cases, tally reaches 136||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 5The district reported five new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the count to 136.A combine driver, who returned from Maharashtra on April 20, tested positive for coronavirus. Besides, three pilgrims, who returned from Nanded Sahib, of Dalewal village and a 22-year-old man of Pholariwal village, who had returned from UP, also tested positive.The combine driver and his father, who also returned from Maharashtra on April 26, were sent to the quarantine centre here on April 30. Health teams on Tuesday sealed Gehlan village in Shahkot and sent four persons for further check-up.Senior Medical Officer Amardeep Singh Duggal said since the father-son duo had returned from Maharashtra, they were sent to the quarantine centre for observation.He said from Wednesday, the entire village would be surveyed every day.Yoga session at quarantine centre set up at schoolContinuing its spree to make the atmosphere at the quarantine centre set up at the Meritorious School for Children stress-free for 246 persons, including pilgrims who returned from Hazur Sahib, the district administration on Tuesday started a yoga session for them.Senior Medical Officer Raman Kumar apprised them the benefits of yoga.He said at a time when Covid-19 was spreading its wings, yoga could be very helpful in making life healthy and stress-free. The Senior Medical Officer exhorted them to ensure that they spare at least one hour for yoga daily. He added that yoga was very essential to keep the body fit.‘Pilgrims not tested for Covid in Nanded’Hoshairpur: A Nanded returnee from Hoshiarpur during his video calling with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh at the Rayat Bahra quarantine centre said pilgrims were screened at Hazur Sahib but not tested for Covid-19. The CM video called Sukhjinder Singh of Uchi Bassi village in Dasuya and asked him about his well-being. Sukhjinder told the CM that they had stayed at Nanded for 42 days. There was good arrangement for pilgrims. He said at the quarantine centre 11 of his family members were tested negative, while his 14-year-old son was tested positive. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/district-sees-five-new-covid-cases-tally-reaches-136-80978
06-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||A few migrants remain stranded as special train leaves for Jharkhand||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 5Eager to be with his folks back in Palamu district in Jharkhand, Ashish Kumar (26) remained awake on Monday night as he had started his day early today to travel to his native place.However, things got rough after he could not board the ‘Shramik Special’ train, his only hope to return to his native village.A daily wager, Ashish was residing with his father in the Cantt area here. Though he was left here alone, his father managed to board the train. Like Ashish, over 24 migrant workers have a similar story to share.Even after reaching the station on time, they failed to board the train. Considering himself unlucky, Gopal Mehta, another migrant, who was working as a salesman in the city, and other migrants alleged that they could not get a seat in the train due to miscommunication by administration officials. Even as they had completed their online registration and medical check-up, they could not get tickets. With an assurance that they would send another train, the officials made them sit outside the station, they said.Ferrying around 1,188 migrant workers stranded in the district, the special train left Jalandhar for Daltonganj in Jharkhand on Tuesday.The train ferrying migrants from Bihar, Jharkhand and UP departed from the station at 1.15 pm and will cover a journey of around 20 hours to reach its destination.Unable to make ends meet since the past 40 days, the migrants were happy to join their families in their native villages. Manoj Kumar, who was stranded in the city since the lockdown, said the lockdown had made him go through tough days.“There were days when we didn’t have regular meals. The landlord also demanded us to pay the rent. Troubled by uneasy situations, some of my friends left for their villages on bicycles,” said Manoj.These migrants who had enrolled them on the portal of the state government were delivered SMS and were called at different spots from where they were brought to the station on roadways buses. Amid high security, only those who had completed their online ticket registration and gone through Covid testing were allowed to board the train.ADC Jasbir Singh said all necessary precautions were taken, including screening of passengers and maintaining social distancing at the station and inside buses. The state government paid Rs 7,01,200 to the railway authorities before the safe and free-of-cost journey of the migrants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-few-migrants-remain-stranded-as-special-train-leaves-for-jharkhand-80979
06-05-2020||Our Correspondent---||Stranded Kashmiris sent back home||Hoshiarpur, May 5 The district administration on Tuesday sent back 348 persons belonging to Jammu and Kashmir through special buses from Hoshiarpur, Dasuya, Garhshankar and Mukerian under the supervision of the SDMs concerned. Till date 20,000 persons had registered to go back to their native states. Registered persons are being screened by the Health Department. As of now, there is no plan to send anyone by train; all the registered persons will be sent by buses.  Hoshiarpur Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the movement of stranded persons in Punjab was adopted. Those willing to go will have to apply online and a system generated ID will be issued to the applicant and his group. She said that appropriate arrangements would be made by the district administration regarding the return of registered persons.   225 return from Phagwara Phagwara: With the efforts of Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, ADC Rajeev Verma and SDM Gurwinder Singh Johal, 225 Kashmiri residents stranded in Phagwara were sent back in two different batches to the Vally.  As many as 75 Kashmiri were sent back to their native state in three buses on Sunday, while 150 Kashmiris were sent back in six buses on Monday. All Kashmiri residents were sent after medical examination, said MLA Dhaliwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stranded-kashmiris-sent-back-home-80980
06-05-2020||---||Punbus, Roadways workers stage protest, demand insurance cover||Jalandhar, May 5 Workers under the Punbus/ Punjab Roadways Contractual Workers Union on Tuesday staged a protest against the state government to provide them health insurance cover amid Covid-19 duties. The activists of the union held protests at several places in the district. They burnt the effigies of Chief Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh.  General secretary of the union, Jasbir Singhb said: “As the roadways workers have been roped in to perform coronavirous duties, no health insurance or benefits are provided to them. “Around 12 contractual drivers are deployed at Civil Hospital to operate government ambulances in the city and several others have been deployed to bring back the stranded passengers from Kota, Hazur Sahib and Nanded Sahib in Maharashtra. Despite serving as front line workers no arrangements have been put in place for the roadways workers,” added Jasbir.   He said: “On return from Hazur Sahib, 23 Punbus workers were tested positive for the virus in the state. Besides, Baljit Singh, vice- president, activists of the Punjab Roadways Workers Union said, the drivers and conductors, who had been quarantined alleged that no proper treatment was given to them at the quarantine wards.”  Therefore the workers demanded that they should be provided 50 lakh insurance cover like other frontline workers, regularisation of  jobs and all safety kits, including gloves, masks and PPE kits for all workers deployed on Covid-19 duty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punbus-roadways-workers-stage-protest-demand-insurance-cover-80981
06-05-2020||Industry and Lockdown||‘Golden opportunity to recapture domestic market’||Samir Goel, proprietor of Narayan Steels, which was established in 1952, talks about the current scenario of steel industry. An alumnus of Poona University, he runs a highly technical unit with in-house laboratory for steel testing. In an interview with Neeraj Bagga, he throws light on the coronavirus and its impact on the industry. Here are the excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted your screw manufacturing unit?Temporarily, it has ruined the unit. The effects of the coronavirus will be known only post lockdown. We have stalled procuring 200 tonnes of wire rods used as raw material per month from Rashtriya Ispat Limited and Jindal Steel. Similarly, the sale of the finished products of screw has also come to a standstill. Before the lockdown, there was a recession in the industry so there is no question of pending orders. In the absence of demand, we were forcing the customers to buy the product so that the entire trade is carried out on a credit basis. On the other hand, the cost of raw material to big companies is paid in advance. There is a high possibility that many of our customers will not pay at all. So, many of them are already not picking up my call.Do you expect resumption of your business in near future?It all depends upon the government policy and its relations with China. Chinese screws have already gobbled up the domestic market. In case, Europe and the US banned the import of Chinese products then there is a possibility that they may flood the Indian market at throwaway prices, which in turn will ruin the remaining industry as well. The 'Make in India' slogan was misleading as far as my industry is concerned as both the Centre and the state government did nothing to help revive domestic hardware production.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to employees?We paid salaries to employees in March. Half of the salary for April is also paid. The remaining salary will be paid in this month. We will not go for any salary cut and all efforts are being made to retain the staff.What is the scope of online trading in your profession?Since the business is based on a credit basis, there is no scope of online trading in our profession.Have any of your major investments been deferred due to the lockdown?There was a recession in the country, especially due to the effects of demonetisation last year. Expecting a surge in the demand for screws, we procured a tree guard and weld mesh making machine from Noida at Rs25 lakh a couple of weeks ago. It has been lying unused.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as businessman?Before the lockdown, nobody took a note of the recession. So, there will be consequences of the lockdown in the coming days. The government must take its congnisance in time and make its policy accordingly. There is no scope of more investments in the profession. Considering the present crisis, I feel that our action required promptness and ideally, I should have closed the unit after demonetisation. Stress of giving employment is being replaced with curtailing the staff strength. Contraction has taken over the expansion mode.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?This phase is apparently a challenge as it will bring out the best in us. Obviously, there will be some opportunities after it is over.What are your expectations from the government?With import from China coming to a halt, there is a golden opportunity to recapture domestic market. The government must aid MSME engineering units with R&D and associate them with engineering colleges. Thereafter, there is a chance of their revival. After the government closed all its laboratories one in Batala, they do not have any other alternative but to set up one within the unit to test qualities of all kinds of steel. In addition, the government should not focus on improving its own balance sheet by wrong cash disbursal. Instead, it should focus on improving balance sheets of MSME units, which offer a high number of jobs. At least, the government should give interest-free loans to the screw industry and it should not order the banks to do the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/golden-opportunity-to-recapture-domestic-market-80983
06-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Immunity-booster homeopathic medicine given to frontline workers||Nawanshahr, May 5As per the advisory issued by the government, the district Homeopathic Department today handed over immunity-booster homeopathic medicine Arsenic 30 to local MLA Angad Singh to be given to police personnel and sanitation workers who have been fighting against Covid-19 as frontline warriors.Dr Madhu Dutta, district homeopathy officer, along with Dr Hardeep Singh, Dr Harjinder Singh, Dr Amrinder Singh and Dr Neha Soni, while handing over the medicine to the MLA stated that a dose of medicine should be taken on an empty stomach for three days consecutively in the morning."After taking the medicine, there should be no intake of food or liquid for at least 30 minutes. After taking the medicine for three days, the dose could be repeated after a gap of 10 days. It will help in boosting the immunity against the Covid-19," they said.MLA Angad Singh while lauding the efforts of the District Homeopathy Department said he would also take the medicine as prescribed and give the same to the frontline warriors who had relentlessly been helping the people who were in distress. The Covid warriors are in great need of immunity booster doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/immunity-booster-homeopathic-medicine-given-to-frontline-workers-80984
06-05-2020||Jalandhar||Depot holder beaten to death||Burglars decamp with valuablesPhagwara: A repair shop was reportedly burgled on Khottra Road here on Sunday night. Owner of the shop, Chaman Lal, in his complaint to the police said he closed his shop on Saturday night and when he opened it on Monday, it was found burgled. The miscreants entered the shop after breaking the locks and decamped with valuables, including one AC, gas cylinder and Rs 20,000 in cash. The police have registered a case in this regard. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/depot-holder-beaten-to-death-80988
06-05-2020||Avneet Kaur||With help of few workers, Seechewal out to strengthen Dhussi bundh||Jalandhar, May 5At a time when people have been staying indoors amid the lockdown, environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal has been making all-out efforts to strengthen the Dhussi bundh on the Sutlej and supervising the ongoing desilting work under the rail-road bridge at Gidderpindi village in Lohian Khas.Seechewal said this massive desilting operation was executed by the Ministry of Railways in January at an estimated cost of Rs50 lakh. He said since then, he had been supervising the work.He said, “Earlier around 100 volunteers from 20 villages, including Mandiala Channa, Mundi Kalo and Darewal, were engaged in the work and three excavator machines were pressed into service to dig mud. However, as no volunteers were allowed to go to the spot after the lockdown, I decided to continue with the work on my own. It has to be done before the monsoon to prevent any damage.”“I reach the village around 6:30 am and return late evening. As we do not have enough manpower at present, I, along with a few workers, have been carrying out the work with excavating machines,” Seechewal said, adding that the major cause for floods in the area last year was deposition of silt under and around the bridge.“I have not let the work stop for even a single day. Even when I was home quarantined for 14 days last month, I used to supervise the work over phone. I sent my volunteers to help the workers,” he said.“Nearly 94 villages in Jalandhar were badly affected due to the floods. Residents are yet to recover from losses, while the pandemic has further worsened their situation. Thus, this desilting work has to be finished at the earliest to save villages from another calamity,” he added.The environmentalist said besides digging, the dug-up mud and sandbags were being deposited at the Dhussi bundh to strengthen it. Moreover, he was also helping the residents of the Gidderpindi and nearby villages by providing them with cooked meals and dry ration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-help-of-few-workers-seechewal-out-to-strengthen-dhussi-bundh-80990
06-05-2020||Baldev Khaira||‘Aid needed for those who lost livelihood’||Several of my NRI friends have joined me to serve people during the present Covid-19 crisis. Though Canada is also facing the crisis, NRI Satnam Singh sent around Rs 12 lakh to provide essential commodities to all needy residents of Phillaur town and 139 villages of the Phillaur Assembly constituency. I am receiving many calls from residents of my constituency who are apprising me about discrimination in the distribution of ration kits by government employees. I think why innocent people are being punished for casting votes against the Congress.I have spent over Rs 10 lakh from my own pocket to provide langar to around 1,000 persons and ration kits to 100 residents daily since the imposition of the curfew. Shockingly, no isolation ward has been set up at the Civil Hospital, which is not even equipped with a ventilator. I and my team are providing PPE kits and ration kits to medical staff in Virk village daily. I am providing 25 more PPE kits, 3,000 masks and medicine to the needy.I demand that the government should provide an economic package to cover all those who lost their livelihood. Wheat growers should be given a minimum bonus of Rs 100 per quintal and potato and vegetable farmers and floriculturists should also be given direct cash benefit. Milk producers should be given a bonus of at least Rs 5 per litre. Despite the biased attitude of government staff, I am here to serve people of my constituency.(As told to Ashok Kaura)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aid-needed-for-those-who-lost-livelihood-80991
06-05-2020||Hoshiarpur||Punjabi writer utilising time to hone skills & creativity||Amid the lockdown, Dr Pritpal Singh Mehrok, an eminent Punjabi writer, is devoting most time to reading writing and giving the finishing touches to his upcoming book.“Otherwise also, I avoid going out of my home due to health issues. The lockdown is a new normal for me, but it has no doubt provided me different and unforgettable moments of insight and experience,” says Dr Mehrok.The writer begins his day with newspapers and e-reading. He has been continuing with his normal routine of reading books and taking notes. Hundreds of his articles have been published in renowned monthly and quarterly magazines as a critique. He has penned down book forewords and reviews for many eminent authors and has five books to his credit as well.“These days I am writing more about global trials and travails of people undergoning during Covid-19 pandemic. I have got time and opportunity to read much about the spread of this disease, which has widened my horizons of thought," says Dr Mehrok.He prefers to utilise this time and make it more productive, creative and result-oriented by reading, writing and doing other creative works to kill boredom.Honoured by many literay clubs, cultural societies and institutions for his creative work and love for Punjabi culture and folklore, Dr Mehrok feels that the real and genuine honour is when you create an unforgettable place in the hearts and mind of your readers. “That is my belief and I always aspire to enlighten my worthy readers by providing my humble insights into Punjabi culture and folklore. Punjabi folkore is my favourite area of research. The rough draft of my upcoming book “Punjabi sabhiachar de vann-suwanne rang" is near completion and I am utilising this lockdown opportunity in giving the finishing touches to its press copy," he adds.A new normal for himPritpal Singh Mehrok begins his day with newspapers and e-reading. He has been continuing with his normal routine of reading books and taking notes. Hundreds of his articles have been published in renowned monthly and quarterly magazines as a critique. He has penned down book forewords and reviews for many eminent authors and has five books to his credit as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjabi-writer-utilising-time-to-hone-skills-creativity-80992
06-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Anxiety, cheer as workers head home after 2 months||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 5It was a sleepless Monday night for migrant labourers who waited for nearly two months to go back to their families in Jharkhand. They stayed awake to reach the railway station on time to board the Shramik Express, which chugged off to Daltonganj, Jharkhand, today.They got a message from the district administration at 11.30 pm and reached for medical screening at three centres set up by the administration at 5 am while the train left around 1 pm.Sitting in the train as it left for its destination, an elated Surender Yadav while talking to The Tribune over the phone said his family, including four children and wife, were in Jharkhand while he was living in Jalandhar all alone. “Bachhe roz phone karte the, rote the ki aa jao. Jaise hi pata chala ki jana hai, unhe phone kia (My children would cry daily for me and ask me to come back. The moment I received the message, I called them),” he said.Sanjay, another migrant worker, said, “We couldn’t sleep. There was excitement and fear. We were just praying that everything goes smoothly and we reach the railway station on time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/anxiety-cheer-as-workers-head-home-after-2-months-80927
