06-10-2020||Tanda Urmar (Hoshiarpur)||Thieves break into PNB branch||YAD questions Rahul’s silenceJalandhar: Youth Akali Dal activists asked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi as to why he and his party were shielding SC Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot accused in the SC Post-Matric Scholarship scam. The YAD leaders demanded a CBI inquiry into the case while staging a protest. The activists, who broke various police cordons to reach Dr BR Ambedkar Chowk from the DC office here, raising slogans. They alleged that the proceeds of the scam money could have reached both — the office of CM Capt Amarinder Singh as well as the party high command. “There is no other reason why Rahul Gandhi should keep silent on the issue and even refuse to direct the CM to take an exemplary action against the minister who was guilty of spoiling the future of 3 lakh Dalit students in the state,” said YAD president Parambans Singh Romana. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/thieves-break-into-pnb-branch-151650
06-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Ujjwal, Avval add another feather to their cap||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 5Ujjwal Mehta and Avval Amil from the city have another reason to cheer.Reason: Both have bagged top positions in the JEE Advanced, the results of which was declared on Monday morning. While Ujjwal Mehta secured the All-India Rank (AIR) 68, Avval Amil secured AIR 83.In September, too, both had grabbed headlines, when the results of JEE Main was out and Ujjwal had scored 99.995 percentile and AIR 27, followed by Avval Amil of Apeejay School, who became the district’s second topper by securing 99.998 percentile and AIR 43.Ujjwal Mehta, a resident of Jalandhar, started taking coaching in Class IX with an aim to enter IIT Bombay for computer science. In Class X, he left for Patiala and started taking coaching there. After celebrating at home in Jalandhar, Ujjwal said he was now leaving for Patiala. He said: “I knew I would secure a good position. My first exam didn’t go well, but I was confident about my second exam. On top of it, the pressure of Covid was also there. But, I am glad to have made my parents and my elder brother proud, who has been a constant support in my life,” he said.Ujjwal said he was inclined academically and never participated in any extra-curricular activity, but would play table tennis and badminton to keep himself refreshed after hours of studying.Navin Mehta, Ujjwal’s father who works at a private company, said he was getting congratulatory messages and calls ever since the results were declared.“My elder son is pursuing MBBS from AIIMS and my younger son is following into his footsteps by securing positions. Now, he will be an IITian. What else do I need? My both sons are naturally gifted academically. They have given me immense joy,” he said. Avval Amil was aspiring for IIT Delhi. He is a football lover and an avid reader. “He reads a lot and is a good football player too,” Tulika Sinha, Avval’s mother, said. Tanish Gupta from Jalandhar secured AIR 89.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ujjwal-avval-add-another-feather-to-their-cap-151651
06-10-2020||Our Correspondent||De-addiction centre owner from Mahilpur shot dead||Hoshiarpur, October 5A 27-year-old man Anakhveer Singh, alias Ankhi, son of Gian Singh, a resident of Mahilpur, who was operating a drug rehabilitation centre in Miani, was shot dead near the Toll Plaza at Adda Lachowal on the Hoshiarpur-Tanda road at 3:45 pm. The accused fled the spot after the incident.The victim was travelling from Hoshiarpur to Tanda in his Scorpio (PB08-DC-7861). When he reached near the toll plaza at Lachowal, he was suddenly shot at by unidentified persons and he died on the spot.As soon as the incident was reported, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Gurpreet Singh, along with the police party, reached the spot.Giving information about the incident, DSP Gurpreet Singh said when Ankhveer Singh had reached near Lachowal Toll Plaza, 5 to 7 gun shots were fired at him by unidentified assailants. The body has been sent to the Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur, for postmortem.He said some old enmity might be the cause behind the incident. The police are investigating the whole incident and the footage is also being taken from CCTV cameras installed in the area. He said the accused would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/de-addiction-centre-owner-from-mahilpur-shot-dead-151653
06-10-2020||Jalandhar||Youth kills dad, injures brother||A youth based at Bagh Bahria locality killed his father using a sharp weapon and seriously injured his younger brother over a property dispute late on Sunday.Jatin Nagpal, alias Sheru, killed his father Ashwani Nagpal by stabbing him with a knife-like weapon several times in his abdomen and chest. Ashwani died on the spot. He also attacked his younger brother Abhay Nagpal with the same weapon, who lay unconscious in a pool of blood. The accused, reportedly in an inebriated condition, then went back to his room thinking that he had killed both of them. As other family members heard the hue and cry, they raised an alarm. Area residents caught hold of Jatin and handed him over to the police.The younger son was immediately rushed to the Joshi hospital. SHO police station division No. 2 said Jatin was peeved over the fact that his father was more attached to his younger son. “Their father ran a catering business and owned some shops too. The elder brother was fighting over some financial and property issues with the younger one, when the father intervened. But in a fit of rage, Jatin attacked both,” he said. Veena Nagpal, wife of the deceased, said, “My entire family got ruined in a matter of just 10 minutes. It is so difficult to believe that my elder son killed his own father.” Both Jatin and Abhay are married and have kids. Jatin was produced in court and sent on two-day police remand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-kills-dad-injures-brother-151655
06-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Man gives cops a slip||Hariana (Hoshiarpur), October 5A person fled from the Hariana police custody after giving them a slip.On Sunday, ASI Sukhdev Singh of the Hariana police station, along with the police party, was present during a special checking drive at Adda Bagpur. During this, they saw a young man coming from the Hoshiarpur side on a motorcycle. He tried to run seeing the police party, but was caught by the police. He was identified as Mananhana village resident Mandeep Singh.He did not have the documents of the motorcycle. A case of vehicle theft has been registered under Sections 379 and 411 of the Indian Penal Code against him as the said motorcycle had been stolen. Meanwhile, the accused, who was arrested by the police, escaped by dodging the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-gives-cops-a-slip-151656
06-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Covid-19: 4 lives lost, 72 test +ve in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, October 5Four patients lost their lives to Covid on Monday in Hoshiarpur district, taking the toll to 174. The total number of Covid patients also increased to 4,786 with 72 new cases coming to the district.District round-upCivil Surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh said with new samples of 2,081 people with suspected flu-like symptoms, the total number of samples taken so far has gone up to 1,13,686 in the district. As per reports from the lab, 1,08,004 were negative, while 1,354 reports are awaited and 127 were invalid. The number of active cases in the district is 545 and 4,067 patients have recovered so far.The Civil Surgeon said of the 72 positive cases found in the district today, 28 cases were from Hoshiarpur city, while the remaining 44 were related to other health blocks. Those who succumbed to the virus on Monday include a 68-year-old resident of Puriharan, who died at Amritsar Medical College and Hospital; a 58-year-old Rupnagar resident, who died at PGIMER, Chandigarh; a 57-year-old patient from Chhawni Kalan village; and a 76-year-old patient from Nara village, who died at private hospitals in Jalandhar and Chandigarh. Dr Singh said under Paldi Health Centre in Garhshankar, Bhagatupur village was declared a micro-containment zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-4-lives-lost-72-test-ve-in-hoshiarpur-151659
06-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||Hefty Covid bills taking a toll on families||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 5Local private hospitals and Covid specialty centres are getting an increasing number of cases, where people are unable to pay their hospital bills amid the pandemic. Hospital authorities say there are an increasing number of cases, where families are unable to foot the bills.Doctors say given the frequency of patients from poor families, the state government should start a subsidy for such patients who are unable to bear the hospital expenses.It was a team of doctors, including Dr SPS Grover, Dr Vijay Mahajan, Dr Mukesh Joshi among others, who took a call on October 3 to not press for the immediate payment of hospital bills of a family on humanitarian grounds. The bills worth Rs3.10 lakh of two brothers, who lost their mother and savings to the pandemic, yet remains pending. Doctors say it was not the first time.Dr SPS Grover, consultant, Infectious Disease Centre at the Gulab Devi Hospital, says: “For poor patients, bearing charges of Covid facilities is a tough call. There have been three to four patients, barring this family, to whom we have given discounts. A 60-65-year-old elderly was left unattended to at the centre for days. His family kept calling but at the end of treatment, they had no money. Out of a Rs2.5 lakh bill, they gave Rs1 lakh. We saw the patient didn’t even get attendants, so what to talk about bills? We spent on PPE kits, food and staff charges, which are double due to the risk involved. Covid treatment of critical cases includes oxygen charges too. More and more families turn up, who can’t afford to pay. What are hospitals supposed to do?”Dr Grover said: “Keeping in view the hefty charges being incurred by those with critical patients from poor families, the hospitals are left helpless. There need to be some subsidy for poor and critical patients, who are shifted to private facilities from government ones.”The Infectious Disease Centre at the Gulab Devi Hospital is a centre set up by a conglomerate of several private hospitals. Specialists including Dr SPS Grover, Dr Vijay Mahajan, Dr Mukesh Joshi and Dr Mann are providing Covid facilities to citizens on government rates. The centre was started to alleviate pressure on existing private and government facilities amid increase in Covid cases in the city a few months ago.Rs 25 lakh ex-gratia for Milkfed employee Jalandhar: A cheque for Rs25 lakh was handed over to the family of Milkfed employee Harjinder Singh, who contracted the virus on duty and succumbed to it on September 13. Harjinder Singh was a milk procurement assistant in Jalandhar’s Verka milk plant. Punjab Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Monday handed over the cheque to Singh’s wife Surinder Kaur. He said Harjinder Singh had performed his duties fearlessly, with dedication and hard work in the pandemic. He said he died while serving people and his department was proud of him. He said Milkfed had ensured uninterrupted supply of milk to people during the curfew and the lockdown imposed due to the pandemic. He said the employees of Milkfed remained on the forefront during the pandemic and tirelessly worked round the clock to serve people. He said Milkfed had also increased the production of milk supply during the time of curfew. Milkfed managing director Kamaldeep Singh Sangha also remembered Harjinder Singh’s dedication towards his duty. TNSRs 50,000 for family that lost four members to Covid-19After two brothers Gary (21) and Prabhdass (16) lost four family members to Covid, Jalandhar DC Ghnanshyam Thori extended help in the form of Rs50,000 to Gary, who lost his mother, and his aunt Satnam Kaur, who lost her husband. Representatives of the DC handed over a cheque for Rs25,000 each to Gary and Satnam. Gary (21) said he was thankful to the administration. A self-respecting youngster plunged into penury by the sudden loss of four relatives (mother, uncle, grandparents), he says he needs a job more than ever as apart from paying the hospital bill, the money for mother’s last rites also has to be paid.We are always happy to help if anyone in dire straits needs help. While in the siblings’ case, money has been paid from my discretionary funds, in future, CSR funds are also available to help those actually in need. Private hospitals have also been asked to retain critical patients even if there are money issues. We have had similar funds in previous districts. Rs12 lakh was deposited from my account at the DMC Hospital. In future also, help shall be extended to families that are genuinely facing a crisis. Ghanshyam Thori, DC Many patients at private hospitals have been ripped off during Covid treatment. The hospital bills are hefty. While they spend all their savings for treatment, their family members sometimes don’t even survive. It is very tragic to see families grappling for treatment and scurrying for every single penny to save their loved ones. Surinder Saini, Social Activist Covid does not have any vaccine, yet, there is a very costly line of treatment. From malaria to pneumonia, all kinds of tablets are given for treatment. While a handful of private hospitals are doing a good job, in most of these inflated medical bills are being charged leading to anxiety and depression among those affected. A patient whose own mother got treated for Covid at a pvt hospital Keeping in view hefty charges being incurred from poor, critical patients, hospitals are left helpless. There need to be some subsidy for poor, who are shifted to pvt facilities from govt ones. Dr SPS Grover, consultant, Infectious Disease Centre||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hefty-covid-bills-taking-a-toll-on-families-151664
