07-06-2020||Jalandhar||Adampur-Delhi SpiceJet flight to remain suspended till June 30||Even as the operations of domestic flights have resumed in the country, the only Delhi-bound flight from the region is again suspended for next 24 days. Post-relaxations in the Covid-19 induced lockdown, the SpiceJet flight resumed on May 26, that too against it’s scheduled operation on May 23.Fact fileThe unavailability of required number of passengers was the main reason behind discontinuation of the flight services. There was another plan to start the Jaipur-Adampur flight on May 26, but this too could not be started. Flight operations on these routes have been severely affected due to less number of passengers. The flight was also cancelled on May 23 due to the unavailability of passengers. There were only six passengers for Adampur from Delhi on May 23.An official from SpiceJet confirmed that the flight would not reach the Adampur airport here till June 30.The unavailability of required number of passengers was the main reason behind discontinuation of the flight services. There was another plan to start the Jaipur-Adampur flight on May 26, but this too could not be started. Flight operations on these routes have been severely affected due to less number of passengers.The flight was also cancelled on May 23 due to the unavailability of passengers. There were only six passengers for Adampur from Delhi on May 23. Subsequently, after the recommencement of the 90-seater SpiceJet flight on May 26, only 18 passengers arrived at the Adampur airport from Delhi and left with 21 passengers. However, after three days of halt, the flight again reached here on May 30 with 36 passengers from Delhi and took off with 25 passengers. Since then, the movement of flight remain interrupted and on Friday, it was jointly decided by the authorities to suspend it’s operations till the next orders.Earlier, as per the schedule set by SpiceJet, the flights were planned to take off from Jaipur at 7.20 am and reach Adampur at 8.50 am. Then, it would leave Adampur at 9.10 am and reach Delhi at 10.25 am. It would again take off at 10.55 am from Delhi and reach Adampur at 12.10 pm. At 12.30 pm, the flight would take passengers from Adampur to Jaipur, culminating there at 2 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/adampur-delhi-spicejet-flight-to-remain-suspended-till-june-30-95673
07-06-2020||Jalandhar||Hotels, restaurants in city may not open tomorrow||Even as the government has allowed hotels to open from Monday, most hoteliers have said they might not resume their services from June 8.The hotel owners have said the strict guidelines issued by the Centre earlier and by the state government today were not conducive for them to start operations as of now.“We understand concerns of the government with respect to the safety of people but our business will not be viable under these conditions,” they said.Owner of Hotel Radisson Gautam Kapoor has said, “We are not opening up on Monday. How can we open when flights and trains are not operating and there is no business happening around? Most of our clientele is from Mumbai and Delhi, which are the worst affected cities. Till the time people from these cities plan to travel to Jalandhar for some business opportunity, we will not have our rooms booked. Even if we have booking for just 10 rooms, we will have to run our centralised AC system. The power prices are so high, that it will not be viable.”He said: “The state government said today that people could not dine out and they will have to take away the cooked food. There already had been restrictions on movement after 9 pm. People tend to go to hotels and bars after 9 pm. Hence, there is no point even opening up restaurants.”Likewise, the owner of Hotel Country Inn and Suits Kamaljit Hayre too is not sure if he will be opening it as he said: “We may not open on Monday. We want to watch the situation and make complete assessment before starting. We will hold a meeting tomorrow to take the final call.”Anil Chopra, who owns three hotels in the city, also holds a similar opinion: “I do not think that opening up immediately will benefit us in anyway. We will have to see as we cannot just keep on adding up our costs when the income may be negligible as of now.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hotels-restaurants-in-city-may-not-open-tomorrow-95674
07-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||Parents attend son’s wedding in Mumbai via video calling amid lockdown||Jalandhar, June 6Encouraging people to follow the ‘new normal’, city-based professors Rachna Tuli and Dr SK Tuli solemnised the wedding ceremony of their only son at Mumbai via video calling.While groom Gaurav Tuli and bride Mahak Maini got married in small temple in Mumbai, their parents here in Jalandhar and Panchkula, respectively, and around 200 relatives from India, US, New Zealand and Canada witnessed the nuptial knot through 80 screens on Zoom video-conferencing app on Saturday.Talking to The Tribune, Dr SK Tuli who is working as senior professor in DAV College here said: “Desperate situation demands desperate measures. The priority was the safety of the children in such a tough time. However, celebrations can be held at any time”.He said it was a different experience watching all my relatives and friends joining the celebrations via video calling. “As we couldn’t be there in person amid the lockdown, so we all did the next best thing we should do, we woke up early in the morning, put on our wedding clothes and hooked onto Bombay on a live call to watch our beloved son getting married”, he added.Dr Tuli further said he and his wife and all his relatives enjoyed the wedding, took lot of selfies with the newlyweds on the mobile and laptop screens. “I have attended a lot of big fat weddings and planned the same for my son too, but I must say witnessing this marriage was entirely different. I realised when we organise wedding ceremonies and get busy looking after the arrangements, we do miss a lot of emotional moments. While via video calling it was opposite, I felt I was present with my son every single second”, he said.Groom’s mother RachnaTuli, a professor at Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Daroli Kalan, said, “We had been planning this wedding trip for a long time but it the destiny had some other plans. We do not wish to postpone the marriage, so we asked them to marry on date that was planned and so what if we couldn’t be there in person, we were there in spirit and on screen”, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/parents-attend-sons-wedding-in-mumbai-via-video-calling-amid-lockdown-95675
07-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||Amid crisis, these budding architects dream to cement their ambitions||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 6Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, a group of budding architects are attending classes on Zoom app and dream to build a sustainable future for coming generations.After classes were suspended due to the lockdown, many students of BArch (4th year semester 8) left the Shahpur campus for their home while others stayed at PGs. But a bunch of architecture students from the CT Group of Institutions share a common dream - to become an architect and building futures. Shivam (23) dreams of being a practicing sustainable architecture and own his office one day.Taonga Sibongile Zulu (20), a Lusaka native, dreams of working with the Zambian government to provide affordable and sustainable housing to people of Zambia. Taonga's friend Lisa Mugara (22) from Zambia and Mizoram-based Immanuel, who left the campus recently and headed to home in Mizoram, have also been attending lessons on Zoom.The lockdown might have initially caught them off guard as a student describes it: "It felt like those apocalyptic Hollywood films." However, it has only strengthened their dreams and career goals. The students now eagerly await 2021, looking forward to architecture field trips.Putting up at a PG in Jalandhar, near her campus, Taonga has been attending the Zoom classes on her mobile phone. At times, she used to share screen with a friend when she ran out of data. However, with the relaxations in the lockdown, things have improved.Taonga says: "It was like devastating to be away from home initially. During a global pandemic, you feel safe with family. But we adapted. I am taken care of well here. Classes keep us busy. Theory classes on Zoom are going good but the architecture and construction classes are a bit tricky on video."An 8th semester student, Taonga dreams of affordable housing for Zambian people. “Architecturally, we can't afford mistakes of the past. Before we move forward, we need to look back. Architecture and construction need to adapt to climate change concerns. Our generations see that. My dream is to provide affordable, sustainable buildings to people. I want to serve the Zambian government to provide affordable housing."Shivam, her 23-year-old classmate, at present staying in Noida, left the campus in mid-April.Shivam says: “We are covering theory on Zoom and professors also send PPTs to us holding even doubt sessions. We are now awaiting field practice in 2021. A railway site was opened recently, commercial big sites have begun opening, soon residential will too. We have to adapt to this way of life for all future work.”Shivam, who is a follower of architect Sanjay Puri, also dreams of sustainable housing to preserve ecology.They said the PTU also recently surveyed their exam centre availability and their Internet access to make arrangements for their future exam centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-crisis-these-budding-architects-dream-to-cement-their-ambitions-95677
07-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||With ease in restrictions, sale of wedding fruit baskets goes up||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 6As stylish face masks became a necessity in marriages amid lockdown, the custom of exchanging fruit baskets between the families of the future bride and groom remained a major miss. Among several other wedding rituals, the exchange of hampers filled with fruits, chocolates, flowers, dry fruits and even jewellery is also a mandatory custom.But due to the lockdown, the sale of wedding fruit baskets suffered a huge set back even during peak marriage season.Now, as lockdown restrictions have been relaxed, the demand for wedding fruit baskets has again picked up pace. Not only the fruit vendors are gaining profit, basket makers are also back in business.Amritpal Singh, a fruit vendor, near the Maqsudan road said, after a hiatus of almost two months customer demand has picked up. From the past few days, we are selling around 8-10 baskets daily. A wedding or engagement basket comprises 2-kg mangoes, one papaya, 1-kg oranges, one-dozen banana, one pineapple, 1-kg apples, grapes, pomegranates, one coconut, plums and 3-4 packets of dry fruits, he said. "The cost of each basket is between Rs 600-1200, depending upon its size. I am happy that the sales have resumed as the trade of wedding fruits baskets is more profitable than selling fruits", added Singh.Similarly, Binod Kumar, another vendor who is into this business from past eight years, said to stay afloat we supplied the baskets to our regular customers at the doorsteps during the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-ease-in-restrictions-sale-of-wedding-fruit-baskets-goes-up-95679
07-06-2020||---||11 test positive, Jalandhar district count 288||Jalandhar, June 6Eleven new coronavirus cases were reported in the district, taking the tally to 288 on Saturday. The new cases include four family members of a Jalandhar-based astrologist – a Covid suspect who died a day ago. Hospital authorities said the patient was not taken in for treatment since he was brought dead. No sample of the patient was taken either and he was cremated by his family members. The new person tested positive include four family members of a Model House resident. Other people who tested positive include a 23-year-old pregnant woman; two men aged 70 and 33 from the Rose Garden area and two contacts of the 64-year-old Tagore Nagar man who died on June 3. Health officials remained unresponsive through the evening.As per senior officials, the person was neither sampled nor was Covid protocol followed in the death of the astrologer. He was cremated by his family members, four of whom have now tested positive. All of them are currently asymptomatic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/11-test-positive-jalandhar-district-count-288-95680
07-06-2020||Tthe city's 62-year-old St Soldier Group has over 42||‘Relief on school fee by state govt hit our education business hard’||How has your businesses been affected by the lockdown?Our businesses have been affected badly. We are into the businesses of real estate, hospitality and education. Unfortunately, all three sectors have got affected. There are absolutely no buyers for flats. Our three hotels in the city have been lying shut for almost 70 days now. We have not got even 10 per cent fee from school students. So, we really do not know what to do.How many educational institutions are you running and what is the status of their finances?We have 52 institutions — 33 schools and 19 colleges. We have a monthly salary expenditure of Rs4.5 crore. We have paid the salaries to the entire staff till April. For May, we paid them 20-day salary. We might not be able to continue ahead and we may have to relieve our entire staff in the coming months if we do not get the pending amount of the fee.How do you see college admissions and do you intend to start any new or short courses?The process to start fresh school enrolments has completely been washed out. We are expecting a large number of admissions because the youth are not able to go abroad. We will not start any new courses. For us, the main task is to handle all our existing courses well.What is your planning for reopening your hotels?There is no point making any planning for hotels. The hotels are opening in name only as practically, the business may not pick up for another year or two. No one will come to us to dine. People are avoiding travel so there will be hardly any room booking.Are you keeping your hotel employees intact?We have only 10 per cent staff with us now. We have relieved the rest as there was no work. They were mostly from Himachal Pradesh and have gone back.How is your real estate business going?We are neither selling flats nor renting out commercial properties. We have always sold flats, showrooms and office spaces in lump sum. So, there is no need to worry about pending EMIs or rents. For me, there is a bigger issue. My sales have become absolutely zero and it will remain like that for the time being. My new mall which was coming up near the existing PPR Mall will be slowly readied. But we will not open it for another two years.As president of the CBSE Affiliated Schools Association, how do you see the future of the education sector?There are 2.5 lakh teachers working in private schools and colleges of Punjab and there are 30 lakh students studying in these institutions. The state government has put the future of all students and teachers at stake by exempting parents from paying the fee. We feel like relieving everyone and locking all institutes until the lockdown is lifted. Let the government face the situation arising out of its orders.As chairman of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Associations, how do you see the current crisis?According to me, the crisis is only getting bigger. I can foresee worse happening. I even apprehend that the Indian currency may crash. The worst is yet to come. There is not much hope for the next two years.Is anything being done by your group as a relief measure these days?We paid Rs5 lakh to the Jalandhar DC for Covid-19 relief. This includes a small portion from the salaries of our staff. We also paid Rs2 lakh for ration distribution in Phagwara through Union MoS Som Parkash. We have also announced free education for wards of doctors, nurses or police personnel who passed away while doing duty during the Covid spread.What lessons have you learnt from the pandemic?The biggest lesson for everyone is to minimise expenses and keep reserves for such eventualities. Even nature has taught us a lesson not to fiddle with it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/relief-on-school-fee-by-state-govt-hit-our-education-business-hard-95683
07-06-2020||---||Plantation drive, online events mark World Environment Day||Jalandhar, June 6Various schools and colleges of the city organised events to mark World Environment Day. The events included tree plantation drives and online contests.Disha — an initiative under the aegis of Bowry Memorial Educational and Medical Trust — started a campaign on Save Environment. Students of Innocent Hearts School took part in online activities. Various activities were organised according to different age groups of students. Students of pre-school, nursery were asked to place water and food feeders for birds. Tiny tots of KGII and Grade I expressed their art by wearing fancy dresses. The kids planted a coriander sapling and promised to take care of the plant. Students of Classes III and IV made food feeders for birds using waste available at home. Grade V students made paper bags. Students of Grade II recited poems on the topic ‘Prayavaran Bachao’.Likewise, Kanya Maha Vidyalaya organised week-long activities to mark World Environment Day. The activities began with the KMVites taking a pledge to nurture the plants and tend their gardens with the planting of new saplings by the Department of Student Welfare. Throwing more light on it, Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that environment preservation is one of the prime duties of every citizen as it is very important that we should all understand the concept of sustainable development. The Department of Environmental Science organised online poster-making competition in which students made posters related to environment awareness. A slogan-writing competition was also held and an activity titled “Sapling of Life” was organised.Students of St Soldier’s Group of Institutions celebrated World Environment Day. They painted posters on “Go Green”, “Save Tree Save Life”, “Water Saving” and pledged to save trees. Over 200 students of the group planted trees at their homes and pledged to take care of them.Vice Chairperson Sangeeta Chopra appreciated the efforts of students and urged everyone to come together for a better environment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/plantation-drive-online-events-mark-world-environment-day-95684
07-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Rana is brick-kiln union president||Garhshankar, June 6The meeting of Brick-Kiln Union, Garhshankar, was held under the chairmanship of Sarjeevan Kumar Dutt, in which the election to the union was conducted. Kuldeep Singh Rana was unanimously elected as the president while Vasudev Puri was appointed as the general secretary and Charan Das Sharma was selected as senior vice-president by consensus.Besides, Jatinder Kumar Agarwal has been elected as vice- president; Vipan Agarwal Vicky as treasurer; Naval Dutt Bali and Pawan Kumar Sharma as secretary; Mohan Pal Singh Rikki as advisor; and Gaurav Arora as press secretary.Newly-elected president Kuldeep Rana expressed his gratitude to all and said he would try to get the kiln owners’ problems resolved from every front.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rana-is-brick-kiln-union-president-95685
07-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Administration issues Unlock 1.0 guidelines||Hoshiarpur, June 6In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Punjab Government today issued guidelines for a phased reopening of places of worship, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services and shopping malls.Things that you need to knowDeputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait informed that the places of worship and religious places, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services and shopping malls are allowed to open with effect from June 8. The management of these institutions would abide by the relevant standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoHFW). In addition, the managements would also abide by the guidelines of the Punjab Government.According to the guidelines, every person entering a shopping mall shall have COVA app on their phone. In case of a family, a single person shall have the app and the family will be permitted to enter the mall.The maximum persons allowed in each shop in the mall shall be fixed on the basis of maintenance of six-feet distance between customers.No more than 50 per cent of the maximum capacity shall be present inside the premises at a given time.Each shop shall have markers to indicate social distancing.The restaurants or Food Courts shall not operate in any of the malls except for takeaway or home-delivery.Restaurants shall only be allowed to open for take away and home delivery till 8 pm. There would be no dine-in facility till further orders. Hotels, restaurants shall remain closed and food shall be served only in the rooms for hotel guests. Night curfew shall strictly be enforced and movement of individuals shall only be permissible from 5 am to 9 pm.Guests would be allowed to enter and leave the hotel premises between 9 pm to 5 am based on their schedule of travel by flight or train.Places of worship will remain open only between 5 am and 8 pm and not more 20 persons will be allowed to enter the premises at a time. There will be no distribution of prasad, food and langar.Any violation of these guidelines and lockdown measures shall be punishable under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 besides legal action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/administration-issues-unlock-1-0-guidelines-95686
07-06-2020||Hoshiarpur||Youth dies in accident||A youth was killed in a road accident while another one was injured when the car they were travelling in collided with a canter near Davida Ahirana village on the Hoshiarpur-Phagwara road. The Mehtiana police have registered a case against the canter driver. According to information, Gurminderjit Singh, a resident of Ahirana Kalan village, was coming with his friend Ajay Singh in the car. When they reached near the village, a canter going towards Hoshiarpur collided with their car head on. Both were injured in the accident and were taken to a private hospital here for treatment. Gurminderjit Singh died during treatment. Investigating officer Gurminder Singh said a case had been registered against the canter driver Budharam, a resident of Mona Kalan village in Hoshiarpur. After postmortem, the body was handed over to his relatives. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-dies-in-accident-95687
07-06-2020||Jalandhar||ITC donates juice, milk||FMCG giant ITC handed over 5,064 B-Natural juice bottles and 17,610 bottles of Sunfeast Wonder Milk to district administration in the central warehouse house near Company Bagh Chowk.ITC Area Manager Vikas Sharma and ITC distributor, Pankaj Aggarwal, handed over the juice and milk bottles to the district food and supply controller (DFSC) Narinder Singh.Welcoming the move by the company, Narinder Singh on behalf of the administration, said this was a novel gesture on the part of the ITC and thanked their company’s representatives. Officials of the DFSC said juice and milk bottles would be disbursed among the needy as the administration was sensitive towards its role for the weaker and underprivileged strata of the society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/itc-donates-juice-milk-95688
07-06-2020||Nakodar||Mystery shrouds infant’s death||The Mehatpur police have failed to arrest any suspect in the murder case of a 40-day-old infant even after five months.Yakub, a resident of Baghela village, had complained to the police that the suspect started shouting in front of his house on the night of January and gate was locked.The complainant said the suspect started throwing bricks at his house and one brick hit his 40-day-old son Joban Sahota who was in the lap of his mother Harprit Kaur, adding that the brick hit proved fatal that killed his son.Investigating Officer (IO) Balwindar Singh said a case under Sections 302,506,148 and of the 149 IPC was registered against Navpreet, alias Navi, his brother Niraj, Gurprit, alias Upo, Harprit alias Haru, Jasbir, alias Sukha, Manidar, alias Bindra,Kuldip, alias Manni, all residents of Baghela village, and Manna, a resident of Pandwan village, in Jalandhar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mystery-shrouds-infants-death-95689
07-06-2020||Phagwara||Woman commits suicide in village||Man murdered by brotherNakodar: Sat Paul (56), was reportedly murdered by his younger brother Gurdev Singh with sharp-edged weapons at his residence in Aadhi village, near here, on Friday. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Nakodar, Navneet Singh Mahal, who rushed to the spot, said lminor money dispute was said to be the reason behind the murder. The police have registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC and handed over the body to family members of the victim after autopsy that was conducted at the local Civil Hospital. OCYouth held for kidnapping girlNakodar: The Sadar police on Friday arrested a youth on the charge of kidnapping a minor girl. The Investigating Officer (IO), Gurnam Singh, said the suspect had been identified as Karan, a resident of Tahli village. The IO said a case under relevant sections of the IPC had been registered against the suspect. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-commits-suicide-in-village-95707
