07-09-2020||Hoshiarpur||75 get offers at govt job fair||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/75-get-offers-at-govt-job-fair-137639
07-09-2020||Garhshankar||Wife, paramour booked for abetment to suicide||A 20-year-old youth, Mushtaq Ali, was found hanging with a noose in Shahpur village. The Garhshankar police have registered an FIR against his wife and her paramour for abetment to suicide. However, the family has expressed suspicion of murder. Roshandeen, a resident of Shahpur village said his son Mushtaq Ali was married to Jainam, a resident of Gorakhpur village, Nawanshahar, about one and a half years ago. After marriage, Mushtaq Ali and his wife Jainam used to often quarrel regarding her affair before marriage with Sadiq, a Ludhiana resident.  When Roshandeen woke up in the morning, he did not find Mushtaq Ali in the room. Later, Mushtaq’s body was found hanging with a noose. Roshandeen alleged that Zainam still had a relationship with her paramour Sadiq due to which Mushtaq Ali committed suicide. The Garhshankar police have registered an FIR against deceased Mushtaq Ali’s wife Jainam and her paramour Sadiq under sections 306 and 34 of the IPC. DSP Satish Kumar said a case had been registered against the deceased’s wife and her paramour. Further action will be taken after investigating the case.  The police have taken Mushtaq’s wife for questioning. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wife-paramour-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-137634
07-09-2020||---||35 Sikh organisations condemn SGPC chief’s U-turn||Jalandhar, September 6Condemning the backtracking by Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal on the issue of 328 missing Sikh ‘saroops’, 35 Sikh organisations under the Alliance of Sikh Organisations on Sunday issued a condemnation of Gobind Singh Longowal’s statement. They said his U-turn makes it clear that he wants to save the culprits.The statement comes after the SGPC chief retracted the executive committee’s earlier decision to file criminal cases against six of its employees indicted for their role in misappropriation of records of 328 ‘saroops’.The 35 Sikh organisations’ spokespersons Sukhdev Singh Phagwara and Parampal Singh, in their statement, sought from the SGPC chief the details of where the ‘saroops’ went. They also appealed to Akal Takht to seek resignation of the SGPC chief as well as SGPC spokesperson Rajinder Mehta on the issue.They said: “According to the SGPC chief’s new statement — as per recommendations by the investigating committee, no case shall be filed against those responsible for the missing ‘saroops’ of the Guru Granth Sahib. It is evident that Longowal wants to hide the real culprits responsible for the issue due to fears that the subsequent action shall expose the embezzlement committed in the committee under him. Gobind Singh Longowal wants to save himself and the interim committee. Isn’t his backtracking from his own declarations made some days ago, a violation of the rules of the Akal Takht Sahib?”They said: “The SGPC shall be met with fierce opposition if it backtracks from its previous declarations on the 328 missing ‘saroops’. The entire list of details should be made public.” They said if the SGPC chief fails to share these details, then it’s clear that the ‘saroops’ have gone missing somewhere, where they shall not be preserved as per maryada (respect accorded to sacred scriptures).”They appealed to Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh that Longowal and Rajinder Mehta and all culprits in the case be summoned at the Akal Takht and their resignations be demanded, following which restrictions be placed on them, so that they do not hold a major office or contest elections in any Sikh organisation for the rest of their life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/35-sikh-organisations-condemn-sgpc-chiefs-u-turn-137635
07-09-2020||---||Support pours in for  Jalandhar braveheart Kusum||Jalandhar, September 6Amazed over the bravery of Kusum, a 15-year-old girl, who recently fought her snatchers to save her phone from being snatched, several philanthropists came forward to help her. Chander Mohan, President, Arya Shiksha Mandal, has announced free education to the braveheart in all the educational institutions that are run by Arya Shiksha Mandal.Recognising the exemplary courage and bravery shown by Kusum, who foiled the snatching attempt despite sustaining wrist injury after being attacked by one of the accused, she will be provided free schooling and higher studies in all schools and colleges falling under the Arya Sikhsa Mandal.Chander Mohan, while offering help to Kusum at KMV College, averred that Kusum had exhibited immense courage and fearlessness, therefore it became imperative for them to promote women education in India.Gurugram-based firm offers smartphoneAfter The Tribune highlighted the importance of smartphone in Kusum’s life, “doubtnut.com” a smartphone driven application, has also offered Kusum, a smartphone worth Rs 20,000. It will be shortly delivered to the fearless girl. The application provides instant solutions to all the doubts of Class VI to XII students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/support-pours-in-for-jalandhar-braveheart-kusum-137636
07-09-2020||---||Award functions, online contests mark Teacher’s Day||Jalandhar, September 6Award functions, slogan writing, card making and a plethora of online events marked the Teacher’s Day functions at schools and colleges in the city.Sanskriti KMV School gets Eduleaders AwardSanskriti KMV School on the auspicious occasion of Teacher’s Day was awarded with the Eduleaders Award in the fourth Eduleaders Virtual Summit and Awards 2020 ceremony held in Delhi. The prestigious award has been conferred for the category -Effective use of ICT in school management. Rachna Monga, principal, received the award in the virtual session held on Sunday. In her online address, she mentioned that the use of ICT in every sphere of school management in Sanskriti KMV School was very much embedded in its regular working.Lyallpur Khalsa CollegeLyallpur Khalsa College celebrated Teacher’s Day at its campus here. On the occasion, a series of literary events were conducted by the English department of the college. In the prize giving ceremony, college principal Gurpinder Singh Samra said teachers could convert the current challenge of Covid-19 into an opportunity to enhance their technology skills and become more tech-savvy by adopting online teaching learning system. In paragraph writing competition, out of 50 participants, Ishpreet Singh Dhillon, Ravinder Kaur, Amandeep Kaur, Sakshi Sharma and Priyanka Jindal got the first, second, third, fourth and fifth position respectively. In message writing competition, Sakshi Bhargav, Sukriti Jain, Amrinderpreet Singh got the first, second third and fourth position respectively, while Shina Gill and Taranjit Singh shared the fifth position jointly.St Soldier Group of InstitutionsSt Soldier Group of Institutions celebrated Teacher’s Day wherein the management honoured teachers for their tireless efforts and gave appreciation certificates. Vice- chairperson Sangeeta Chopra said that teachers were working hard to educate the children especially during the lockdown period. On the occasion various teachers from different branches of St Soldier Group paid homage to Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan.Ivy World SchoolTiny tots of Ivy World School participated in the online events organised by the school on the occasion of Teacher's Day with full enthusiasm and excitement. They sang songs, enacted as their teachers, recited poems, etc. On this day, students appreciated their teachers with heartfelt gratitude. Principal S Chauhan accentuated that teachers of the school had shown a never giving up attitude not only in making the online teaching more effective and lively but also in organising such kind of events from time to time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/award-functions-online-contests-mark-teachers-day-137637
07-09-2020||Should formulate policies to simultaneously enhance economic resilience & revamp healthcare to deal with crisis||Move ill-conceived, govt needs to tread cautiously||Cases rising, decision of centre not rightImposition of the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of outbreak in the country has caused severe economic contraction with little hope of speedier recovery. Realising the gravity of the dismal economic scenario, the Home Ministry’s decisions regarding the lifting of other curbs are commendable. However, given the constant surge in positive cases and permitting social, religious, cultural, academic, sports, entertainment and political gatherings with a ceiling of 100 persons under Unlock 4.0, albeit with strict precautions, is ill-conceived. Social interaction is important for overall well-being, but many have expressed their disdain. While the curve in many countries has flattened, we are witnessing record single-day spikes. There has been no adherence to the advised health protocols due to laxity on the part of the people and the police administration. The government should formulate policies to simultaneously enhance economic resilience and revamp healthcare infrastructure to deal effectively with the crisis. At a time when even the World Health Organisation has warned about quick opening up of societies, the government should be more vigilant. Unless we succeed in dwindling the relentlessly upward trajectory of the virus, we have a bleak future ahead.DS Kang QUESTIONThere have been many instances of people in villages and industrial areas opposing sample collection for Covid testing. Do you think the issue requires intervention by the government?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@ Tribunemail.com by Thursday (September 10).Unlocking process should be gradualThe Centre’s decision to lift restrictions on social gatherings appears to be taken without understanding the ground realities. The process of relaxing the restrictions needs to be gradual and thoughtful. There are disturbing reports that our country has surpassed the world record of reporting Covid cases in a single day and they continue to surge. However, The Punjab Government has done a good job in seeking amendments to Centre’s order and fixing the limit of gatherings on marriages and funerals to 30 persons and 20 persons, respectively, besides making other changes in other norms. But the maximum limit of persons at religious places is left untouched for the reasons best known to them. It is generally observed that maximum violation of distancing norms happens in all types of social gatherings and the issue must be handled meticulously.Jagdish ChanderState needs to lift night, weekend curfewsThe Centre has decided to lift restrictions on social gatherings, how the state government will make their own laws as Centre’s orders are not to be disobeyed. No one really knows how long the pandemic is going to stay. In such a situation, there is no point in imposing night curfew or weekend curfew. Everyone is not a government employee. Government servants have not felt the pain of this lockdown because they are getting salaries on time. But private sector office-goers are facing the worst. Many have not been paid, while others are getting the boot. The reason behind this is that there is no business because of the curfews imposed at 6:30 pm and the entire weekend lockdown. The state needs to lift restrictions on night and the weekend.Shailja ThakurErase all curbs and move onThe Centre has asked all states to ensure no restrictions on inter-state movement of goods and persons. Curbs are creating problems and impacting economic activites. Employment is distrupted and affects the businesses. All local, regional and zonal bounderies should be erased in order to survive. All Chief Ministers should cooperate. Country is suffering from economical crisis and no wastage on social gathering guidelines should be strictly followed. Ultimately, for how long life can be at a standstill. We have to move on, but of course, with some precautions.Shashi KiranThe decision could be catastrophicIndia is experiencing a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. It has reached past 70,000 and the apprehension is that it will still go on increasing. So, the decision of lifting restrictions on social gatherings could be catastrophic. Already people are not adhering to protocols, the situation could go from bad to worse. Th government isn’t a democratic one, rather a timocratic one. Already intra-state and inter-state movement is allowed. It will only spread the infection.The Centre should allow the states to permit unlock as per circumstances and number of cases in that particular state. People can worship in their homes if they want to. There is no need to show their religion on their sleeves. No doubt life and livelihood both matter. The Centre should desist from its dictatorial attitude and give some leeway to the states to run their administration. Many CMs are better administrators and more qualified than the PM.JS WadhwaWell-conceived decision of GovtYes, the decision of the government to lift restrictions on social gatherings in Unlock 4 is well-conceived in the present condition. There is a need to remove some restrictions, especially in the corporate sector. However, the general public on the other hand should also try to take precautions and follow government guidelines to lower the increasing Covid graph. There are things to be done on behalf of the general public as the government authorities and frontline workers are doing their bit to curb the increasing number of Covid cases in the country.Neha Arora||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/move-ill-conceived-govt-needs-to-tread-cautiously-137643
07-09-2020||Harpreet Singh Walia||‘Back to work with double enthusiasm’||“Of the 30 samples, reports of 25 persons had tested positive. I was still waiting for my reports and when it came out to be positive, I was shocked because I had no symptoms. But still, I did not panic. I got admitted to the Civil Hospital the same day.“So, my first three-four days went in answering my loved one's queries about my health. I decided to make a video so as to let my well-wishers know that I was feeling good. The video went viral and I got an overwhelming response. Several magazines took my interviews too. I also read books during my isolation period and in the last four days, I watched web series and movies on Amazon Prime. That is how I passed my time in the ward of the hospital.“I was happy that none of my family members tested positive throughout my isolation period and everyone's report came out negative. I was worried about my wife, daughter and parents, when my reports came out positive. I just want everybody to know that if you have a strong mind, nothing can bring you down. So, just be strong. I joined work the moment I came back from the hospital and now I am doing my work with double enthusiasm.” (As told to Aakanksha N Bhardwaj)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/back-to-work-with-double-enthusiasm-137640
07-09-2020||Our Correspondent||92 new Covid cases reported 
in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, September 6On Sunday, the reports of 496 samples were received in the district, out of which 92 new Covid-19 positive cases took the tally of total number of Covid patients to 2,038.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh said out of 92 cases, Hoshiarpur city reported 27, Mukerian 19, Dasuya 14, Budhawar seven, Posi six, Harta Badla five, Garhshankar and Paldi four, Mand Bhandar three, Bhungahas two and Talwara one.Two positive patients died in the district including Paramjit Singh, 70, of Simbli village of block Posi, who was admitted to a private hospital in Nawanshehr and Kulwant Singh, 63, of Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar, Hoshiarpur, who was admitted to a private hospital in Jalandhar.He said the total number of samples taken in the district has increased to 65,486, of which, 62,447 samples were negative, while the reports of 1,241 samples were awaited and 106 samples were invalid. Dr Singh said due to the death of two patients, the toll had reached 59, whereas the number of active cases was 500 and 1,479 patients have recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/92-new-covid-cases-reported-in-hoshiarpur-137629
07-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Remembering Pash — a visionary man who rejected superstitions prevalent in society||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 6Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch president and convener, cultural wing, Desh Bhagat Yadgar Committee, Amolak Singh has remembered great poet ‘Pash’ as a simple man with a vision, the one who loved science and rejected superstitions prevalent in society.He shared his memories with revolutionary poet Avtar Singh Pash and said his poems were like iron, but his heart was soft and sensitive.Pash was born at Talwandi Salem village in Jalandhar on September 9, 1950. He will be paid tributes at his birth place in Talwandi Salem and at the place, where he was killed, on the occasion of his birth anniversary. Also, Pash memorial International Trust will hold a state-level literary event at Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall in Jalandhar on September 20 in remembrance of Pash, in which several noted literary persons, including Surjit Patar would be present.Amolak Singh recalls that Pash had a very simple personality and was a humble person. “He used to wear simple ‘chappals’ and would sit in the last row whenever he would visit any samagam. Anybody who didn’t know Pash by face could never know that the simple man sitting among them could be that powerful poet whom everyone adored,” Singh said.He was a visionary and had great interest in science and had extensively studied stars and the universe and also written an article on it. “However, it has nothing to do with poetry writing or anything of that sort, but still, he would study science because he loved it,” Amolak shared.Amolak said Pash had written a 32-page booklet called ‘Ki kendi hai tuhaadi raashi’, in which he clearly rejected the idea of believing in zodiac signs and indulgence in any kind of superstition. “So, he had a universal approach towards understanding everything,” he said. A poster with an image of Pash’s handwritten poem “Sab ton khatarnak” was also unveiled at Teacher’s Home in Bathinda on September 10 in 2017, a day after the poet’s birth anniversary.For the first five years after 1988, when the poet was killed, the birth anniversary was celebrated at Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall in Jalandhar. As the manch wanted people from other areas to know about Pash, it started celebrating the anniversary in other areas, each time celebrating what the poet stood for.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/remembering-pash-%E2%80%94-a-visionary-man-who-rejected-superstitions-prevalent-in-society-137630
07-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||Wheelchair-bound, he’s a warrior seeking only respect||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 6Vivek Joshi is a differently-abled person — but more of a fighter. He fights for the rights of his likes.The 40-year-old’s resolve took shape when he was boarding a flight to Delhi in October 2018. Joshi was asked by the Air India staff at the Mumbai airport to pay Rs1,180 for the wheelchair and an additional Rs400-500 as mandatory packaging charges for taking his wheelchair on board. Refusing to pay the charges, he along with his 71-year-old father Subhash Joshi, were heckled and made to wait for half an hour before they could emplane. Ever since then, he has been steadfastly fighting for his right to be treated with respect.As a result of his relentlessness, the airlines had to concede to the city-based activist’s chastising and released a new set of guidelines for the differently-abled. That would go on to take care of all their issues.Official Complaint Timeline “I had been asked to seek compensation from AI. But, I don’t want money… I just wanted the differently-abled to be treated with respect. On paper, there are hundreds of guidelines in all sectors but they are hardly abided by. India still has a long way to go to treat the disadvantaged of all kinds with respect,” says Joshi, who is also a national awardee, poet, an advocate and a writer.The triumph with the airlines is just one aspect of his resolutions. During the lockdown, he is also ensuring ration disbursals to the disabled, fighting to get Aadhaar cards made for them, and planning to write to the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment to provide greater rights for students with cerebral palsy (and other disabilities) appearing for exams. In order to exercise their voting rights, he personally conducted booth audits to ensure accessible booths to the handicapped during the general election.Born with 100 per cent physical impairment and written off by doctors, it was the sheer grit and determination of his parents (both over 70) owing to which he pursued BA, LLB and LLB MBA. He runs his own NGO Madhav Sewa Society and spends the pandemic attending to troubles of friends, students and the needy.Only if it was able to make all aware...Vivek rues lack of awareness among the disabled and their families – out of 2,000 people that his and disability activist Amarjit Singh Anand’s team reached out to ensure benefits of the ‘Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana’ amid the outbreak, only 150 responded.“The moment we seek Aadhaar details many are taken aback. Some even asked whether we were frauds. The awareness levels are low and it takes lots of sacrifices to convince people. Many disabled can’t get Aadhaar cards made and then miss out on schemes,” he says.Just as others, the fighter too has endured harsh effects laden by the lockdown. “The pandemic has brought a mental health crisis. Many are in depression. There is need for special counsellors and physiotherapists for many families. The district administration and state government should aid people amid this dilemma they face,” he wishes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wheelchair-bound-hes-a-warrior-seeking-only-respect-137631
07-09-2020||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur SSP warns against rumour-mongering||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-ssp-warns-against-rumour-mongering-137632
07-09-2020||---||With 234 cases, Jalandhar tally reaches 7,826||Jalandhar, September 6With 234 more cases, the Jalandhar tally reached 7,826 on Sunday. Apart from this, four deaths were reported in the district. The death toll has hence crossed the 200 mark. So far, 203 people have died in the district due to Covid.Meanwhile, six people died and 60 tested positive for Covid 19 in Kapurthala on Sunday.The deceased include an 80-year-old woman from Dhak Pandori in Phagwara, who died at Government Medical College, Amritsar; 54-year-old man from Ajit Nagar, RCF, who died at GMC Amritsar; 54-year-old resident of Tibbi village in Phagwara, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; an 83-year-old woman from Kapurthala city, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; a 70-year-old male resident of Baba Deep Singh Nagar, near RCF, who died at Civil Hospital, Kapurthala, and a 27-year-old woman of Friends Colony at Phagwara, who died atDMC Hospital, Ludhiana. She had blood cancer. So far 73 deaths have been reported in Kapurthala.Jalandhar Round-Up||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-234-cases-jalandhar-tally-reaches-7-826-137633
07-09-2020||Ajay Joshi||Two youngsters die, one hurt in car crash||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 6Two young men lost their lives, while one sustained grievous injuries in a horrifying car accident after it collided head-on with an electricity pole.The incident was reported around 2.30 am on Saturday near ARK Dhaba on Nakodar Road. The impact of the collision was such that the front portion of the car completely got crushed. The cops, who reached after half an hour of the accident, said the vehicle was completely damaged and the bodies were entangled inside.The deceased were identified as Amit Chouhan (28) and his friend Jaspreet Singh, alias Jass. A resident of Madhuban Colony, Chouhan was the only son of Baldev Chouhan, who runs Sekhon Grand Hotel on lease. Jaspreet, a resident of Kamal Vihar, has left behind his mother and sister. As per the police, the youth were heading home after closing the hotel and were accompanied by their waiter Popi. While Jassa was driving the vehicle, Amit was sitting in the front seat and Popi was sitting on the back seat of the car.Investigating Officer (IO) SI Kuldeep Rai from police division number 6 reached the spot and said all three victims received head injuries. While, Amit and Jaspreet succumbed to their injuries on the spot, Popi lost his consciousness immediately after the incident. A few commuters called the ambulance and informed the police after spotting the damaged car with lights on. All three victims were taken to a private hospital, when Amit and Jassa were declared brought dead and Popi was being treated at the hospital. His condition is still serious.Although eyewitnesses claimed that the boys were in an inebriated state before losing control over their car, IO rejected such claims and cited the statements of Amit’s mother, who had told the police that Jaspreet fell asleep while driving and lost control over the car.A case under Section 174 of the CrPC was registered and the bodies were sent for post mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-youngsters-die-one-hurt-in-car-crash-137628
07-09-2020||Actor and comedian Balraj Syal tied the knot with singer Deepti Tuli in a rather low-key wedding on August 7 in Jalandhar. Now||Wedding bells: Comedian Balraj Syal ties knot with singer Deepti Tuli||Talking about how he met his wife, the actor says, “We met in July last year, during a shoot in Chandigarh. I was hosting a show, while she was performing in it with her band. I developed an instant liking for her, but, I guess, she didn’t like me much or else she would have responded to my text messages.”He adds, “Later, I went to shoot for Khatron Ke Khiladi and kept texting her, but didn’t get the desired response. It was during my trip to Turkey and Greece that we started having long conversations. I met her a couple of times after I returned, and proposed marriage to her on my birthday (January 26), during a getaway in Goa. She was taken by surprise and didn’t respond immediately. I spoke to her again about marriage and she agreed. The families met just a few days before the lockdown in March and our horoscopes matched too.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wedding-bells-comedian-balraj-syal-ties-knot-with-singer-deepti-tuli-137598
