07-04-2020||Phagwara||Covid: 11 Jamaatis test negative||2 shops burgled in PhagwaraPhagwara: Two shops were reportedly burgled in around 48 hours. A cosmetic shop was reportedly burgled in the Model Town locality on Sunday. Suspects entered the shop after breaking the locks of the shutter and decamped with valuables worth Rs 30,000. The police have registered a case. In another incident, a grocery shop was reportedly burgled on the Phagwara-Banga road on Saturday. The suspects decamped with valuables after breaking the locks of the shop. The case has been registered. OCMan booked for growing opiumNakodar: The police have arrested a man on the charge of cultivating opium poppies in his mansion. Nakodar ASP Vatsala Gupta said the suspect had been identified as Sunprit Singh, alias Sunny, a resident of Mir Pur Marri village. She said he had cultivated 300 plants of opium poppy on his plot along with vegetables. The uprooted plants weighed 22.5 kg. The ASP and SHO SS Virk reached the spot and a case has been registered against the suspect. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-11-jamaatis-test-negative-66572
07-04-2020||Hoshiarpur||Project NOSH: Cooked food served to 5 Lakhs needy||Under the NOSH (no one sleeps hungry) project, initiated under the supervision of Punjab Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora, cooked food is being provided to 5,00,000 persons in Hoshiarpur district while packets of food grains and essential items are being distributed among 5,000 persons daily amid the curfew.The minister provided food bags containing wheat flour, pulses and other essential items to 415 sanitation workers of the Municipal Corporation Hoshiarpur. He also handed over such ration bags to 35 contractual sanitation workers of Civil Hospital Hoshiarpur and staff of anti-larval operations of the Health Department.Arora said under the NOSH project, he is ensuring that no needy sleeps hungry in Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr and Phagwara. “With the help of various NGOs, food is being provided to all needy. If anyone is found in need of food, it should be brought to the notice of the administration or to his own knowledge so that arrangements could be made to provide immediate relief,”he said. He said besides Hoshiarpur, similar services were being provided in Shahid Bhagat Singh Nagar and Phagwara too. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/project-nosh-cooked-food-served-to-5-lakhs-needy-66567
07-04-2020||Nakodar||Drones keep an eagle eye, help cops nab violators||Using ultra-modern technology to nab curfew violators, the Jalandhar rural police headed by SSP Navjot Singh Mahal on Sunday registered three FIRs against the violators by spotting them through drone. The SSP said more drones would be pressed into service and vigil through it would be enhanced. He said drones would be used to keep an eagle eye over the violators flouting the curfew norms.He said drone was being stationed at strategic locations especially around vulnerable areas to keep an eye over the entire situation. Mahal said violations, if any, noticed by the unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) would be dealt as per the law. The SSP said the move was aimed at ensuring strict compliance of curfew. He said the curfew has been imposed for the betterment of people so that the spread of Covid could be checked effectively. Mahal said every effort was being made to check the spread of this pandemic adding that these UAVs could cover an area of 2 kilometre in all directions and could go up to an height of 200 metre. The Nakodar ASP said the police have impounded four vehicles of the violators. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/drones-keep-an-eagle-eye-help-cops-nab-violators-66563
07-04-2020||Ashok Kaura||IMA, administration to set up 20-bed isolation facility in Nakodar||Nakodar, April 6Joining hands for meeting any sort of unforeseen emergency in the wake of coronavirus, the district administration and the Indian Medical Association has put the wheels in motion for creating an ultra- modern 20-bed isolation facility for Covid-19 patients on the outskirts of Nakodar city.On the appeal made by the district administration, the Indian Medical Association has agreed to set up this facility at Sant Waryam Singh Dahiya (SWSD) Hospital, named after renowned freedom fighter in Billi Chauharmi village on the Jalandhar-Moga highway near Nakodar. The hospital equipped with ultra modern facilities like operation theatre, X-ray room and others would have 20-bed isolation facilities with ventilators and other intensive care unit facilities. The initiative was a brain child of Punjab president of Indian Medical Association Dr Navjot Singh Dahiya and former president Dr GS Gill, who have roped in renowned hospitals viz. Global Multi-Speciality Hospital, Johal Multi-Speciality Hospital, New Ruby Hospital, NHS Hospital, Oxford Hospital, Patel Hospital, PGI Hospital, Shakuntla Devi Memorial Hospital, Tagore Hospital, Virk Fertility Centre, Carmax Hospital, Nova IVF Hospital and Janta Hospital for providing services.The doctors and other staff from these hospitals would be providing their services in this hospital 24X7 for effectively combating coronavirus. Apart from it, the Indian Medical Association has also asked the doctors to provide isolation facility in every private hospital also. Meanwhile, Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal on Sunday visited the hospital where this facility was being created. Both the officers lauded the efforts being made by the Indian Medical Association for combating this war against humanity.The Deputy Commissioner and Senior Superintendent of Police appreciated the humanitarian gesture of the Indian Medical Association in this hour of crisis. They said it was the need of the hour to combat the Covid-19 efficaciously. Sharma and Mahal said already state of the art Covid facility had been set up in the district to tackle this pandemic. However, they said the support from the Indian Medical Association would further strengthen the arms of the government machinery in this war against coronavirus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ima-administration-to-set-up-20-bed-isolation-facility-in-nakodar-66562
07-04-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Amid lockdown, writer Kali releases his book at home in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 6Interestingly, amid this lockdown, veteran writer Des Raj Kali has released his book Shanti Parav at his home along with his wife.Kali while sharing his experience said it was an interesting event in itself as he released the book from home.He said he had not done away with reading books. “I just finished reading ‘The fall’ which is really apt according to what is happening today,” he said. The lockdown has also come as a chance for the writer to sit and have meals with the family after a span of 15 years.“I belong to Mithapur village and back then we would sit, interact and eat together which had got lost in the busy life here. But everything is back now. I along with my daughter, son and wife make dishes and enjoy together,” he said.He said for long, he had no time to watch meaningful cinema, but now he was watching the same. “In the past two days, I have watched Article 15 and Parmanu, and both were amazing films. Besides, I also held constructive discussions with my children,” he said.He said his wife and both children had started reading some of his works.“Love for literature has increased during this period in my family and I have also noticed that since we have been spending so much time together, we are getting to know each other closely. For instance, I know how my children react to certain things, what are their hidden qualities and what can be improved,” the noted writer said.But there was one routine that the author misses a lot. He said he used to go out to his friends in the evening and have discussions on several topics.“For any writer, meeting people and having conversations are important. Our ‘mehfils’ are meaningful, if we want to discuss world politics or coronavirus, we cannot have these conversations over phone. This is the thing which I am missing a lot these days,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-lockdown-writer-kali-releases-his-book-at-home-in-jalandhar-66561
07-04-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Pathlawa no longer a Covid hotspot||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, April 6Pathlawa village that reported the state’s first Coronavirus patient is perhaps no longer a hotspot of the disease.“Of the 418 samples taken from the village, 392 had come negative. While 19 had came positive earlier, one was a case of repetition. Of them, some have recovered. The reports of six samples are yet to come,” said Nawanshahr Deputy Commissioner Vinay Bublani, who had himself gone to the village (risking himself without PPE suit) on the first day to placate the villagers and assure them that the administration was in action after the death of Baldev Singh.Having reported the first death and 18 positive cases, it has been a 19-day intense fight put up by nearly 600 government employees, including officials of the Health Department and the administration, police personnel, ASHA workers and sanitation staff, which has now provided some relief to the residents.The fact that Baldev was a functionary of a popular dera in the village and he had been meeting villagers since he returned from Germany and Italy left everyone worried. He had performed a kirtan for a family in the village. He lived in a joint family and had four grandchildren who had their own long list of close contacts.Immediate strict quarantine of Baldev’s family members, sealing of Pathlawa and 14 other adjoining villages and person-to-person daily monitoring with all multiple contacts of each family member also helped contain the disease.The shifting of the family members to a Nawanshahr hospital on the intervening night of March 20 and 21 after their reports came positive also helped the administration to tackle the disease. “As soon as we received their reports around midnight, we got into action and got all of them admitted to the hospital by 2 am. Having lost one precious life, we did not want to waste even a minute,” said the DC.Officials recalled, “On the next day when the sarpanch, his mother, dera head Gurbachan Singh and a sewadar tested positive, we actually got scared. We had already readied 150 beds — 100 at Nawanshahr and 50 at Dhahan Kleran-based hospitals. At that time, we had thought that even these could be less. We had started taking samples in a bulk. Every time when the reports were to come, our heart would begin to sink. But thankfully, we got all reports negative after March 21.”“After days of treatment, four persons have tested negative. We will send back eight persons home if more reports come negative tomorrow,” said the DC.Baldev’s son tests negative, makes emotional appealHaving faced the wrath of public for his father as people started calling him “super spreader” and songs being filmed vilifying him, Baldev’s son Fateh Singh (35) on Monday made an emotional appeal to people after he tested negative for the second time. On Monday, he was shifted from the isolation ward to the quarantine ward.“The strong willpower as well as faith in the Almighty can help you go through any untoward situation,” said Fateh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pathlawa-no-longer-a-covid-hotspot-66560
07-04-2020||---||‘Tackle lockdown with positivity’||Jalandhar, April 6As the 21-day lockdown is taking a toll on the mental health of masses and anxiety and fear have become common among people who are confined to their homes, senior psychiatrist and former in- charge of the Model De-addiction Centre, Jalandhar, Nirdosh Goel advised people to follow certain ways to keep themselves happy and healthy during the lockdown.He said firstly, people must utilise this time as a golden opportunity to complete all those pending tasks which they had failed to do due to lack of time.“People must pursue their hobbies. They can learn new languages, show their talent and art in activities such as painting and do things of their interest,” he said.Goel said anxiety could be cured if one indulges in activities such as exercise and yoga. “It is the time when one can spend quality time with their families,” he said. The psychiatrist said people must indulge in cooking and do things which make them happy.People staying at their homes due to the pandemic are adopting various ways to keep themselves entertained. Several PDF files of comics such as ‘Chacha Chaudhary’, ‘Billu’ and ‘Pinki’ have started surfacing and are being forwarded among their contacts to cultivate the habit of reading. Residents are also claiming that they were witnessing various species of sparrows and birds which they had never seen before.Abundance of e-comics at various online platforms and websites are a blessing for students and children. The millennials too are finding their genres of reading easily available on digital platforms to cater to their need. “I must say that these comics have revived my childhood memories. I am so happy to read them again,” said Tanvi Bhatia (26), a bank employee.The World Health Organisation in a list of instructions had advised people to exercise and practice yoga to keep themselves active and strong amid the coronavirus pandemic. Besides, various health workers and doctors are suggesting people to stay home, practice social distancing and adopt various indoor activities to keep themselves healthy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tackle-lockdown-with-positivity-66559
07-04-2020||Jalandhar||19-year-old migrant worker ends her life||A 19-year-old migrant worker reportedly hanged herself to death after a minor dispute with her companion.Fact fileThe police said the incident was reported on Sunday after the deceased’s mother spotted the girl hanging from the ceiling fan in her room.The girl, identified as Lakshmi, was alone in her room when she took the extreme step. A case under Section 174 of the IPC has been registered.The police said the incident was reported on Sunday after the deceased’s mother spotted the girl hanging from the ceiling fan in her room.“A resident of Saini Colony, Lakshmi’s mother told us that the girl was in a relationship with a boy in the neighbourhood for the past 11 months. However, she did not know about their affair. The girl was working at a shoe factory here and was residing with her mother,” said Singh, who further claimed that the police were trying to trace the suspect. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/19-year-old-migrant-worker-ends-her-life-66558
07-04-2020||Avneet Kaur||Beware! Deferring of EMIs doesn’t need OTP sharing||Jalandhar, April 6If you receive an unsolicited call that seems to come from your bank about the EMI moratorium scheme asking you to avail the facility to defer monthly payments by three months, and if you say yes and in reply they ask for an OTP (one-time password), then be alert, it’s most likely a scam.Palvinder Singh, Cyber security researcherFor EMI postponing, the bank has send a text message to customers providing them a link through which they could themselves defer their payments for April and May. Also, they have been asked to call on the customer care number to avail the facility, but banks are not making any calls for the purposeIn conversation with The Tribune, cyber security researcher Palvinder Singh, CEO and founder of Secuneus Technologies, here, said, there had been reports of EMI payment fraud with people in other states. The fraud was also doing rounds on social media and many banks, including the SBI, HDFC, Yes Bank, had been sending advisory to customers, asking them to not to fall prey to such frauds.He said fraudsters taking advantage of the EMI deferring facility was fooling people by sending them text messages which seem similar to the one received from banks or were making calls and then asking to share details of ATM or debit cards or OTPs.“Fraudsters keep finding new ways to dupe people. The only way to beat them was to be alert and aware. We should never share any confidential details with anyone and should immediately call our bank in such cases,” Singh said.He also asked residents to be aware of fake coronavirus websites and the world map circulation messages which highlight cases of each country.He said not every link was safe to open and forward as these could be a trap to hack your cell phones.Vivek Kakar, Relationship Manager, HDFC Bank Industrial Area, confirmed that EMI deferment did not require OTP sharing. He said he had released a warning note to its customers, alerting them for this new style of cybercrime.“For EMI postponing, the bank has send a text message to customers providing them a link through which they could themselves defer their payments for April and May. Also, they have been asked to call on the customer care number to avail the facility, but banks are not making any calls for the purpose,” he said.In-charge, cyber crime cell, Jalandhar, Monika, said so far no such case had been reported in the city. However, residents must remain alert and never do transactions while they were on call or click on links coming from any unknown source.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/beware-deferring-of-emis-doesnt-need-otp-sharing-66557
07-04-2020||---||Fourth round of sanitisation drive ends in 898 villages||Jalandhar, April 6With the spraying of over 1 lakh litres of sodium hypochlorite in 898 villages of the district, the Rural Development and Panchayat Department has completed four rounds of sanitisation campaign in the villages.About the driveDistrict Development and Panchayat Officer Iqbal Jit Singh said during the special drive, 2.16 lakh households in villages were being sanitised. All 898 villages falling in the district had to be sanitised 10 times to check the spread of Covid-19, he said.District Development and Panchayat Officer (DDPO) Iqbal Jit Singh said the drive was going on in full swing in all villages. He said teams of the department were conducting the special drive during which 2.16 lakh households of the villages were being sanitised. Iqbal Jit Singh said under the campaign, all 898 villages falling in the district had to be sanitised 10 times to check the spread of Covid.The District Development and Panchayat officer said one lakh litres of sodium hypochlorite had been already sprayed in the villages after multiplying it 10 times by dissolving in water.He said 1,760 teams had been constituted by the administration to carry out the work efficaciously. Regular monitoring of the work was being done to ensure that it was completed in a stipulated period and a professional manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fourth-round-of-sanitisation-drive-ends-in-898-villages-66556
07-04-2020||Ajay Joshi||This farmer in Jalandhar serves langar among have-nots||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 6From visiting every slum in the city to all penniless individuals in villages, Gurpreet Singh Atwal (32), a Bhogpur-based farmer, has hardly left any place in the district, where he hasn’t served food for free. Tirelessly working from March 22, since the curfew was imposed, Atwal has been uninterruptedly lending a helping hand to serve humanity.Earlier on Janta Curfew, he along with his cousins and friends came out on roads to offer free refreshments to people involved in emergency services. He said after the Janta Curfew was announced, he had already planned that he would serve food and water among all those on the frontline, helping the government in making the curfew successful. While the district wore a deserted look, he offered around 300 food packets and water to the mediapersons and cops deployed on every street and road for restricting people’s movement. However, after covering a few areas, he realised that there were other people such as daily wage labourers, migrants, beggars and slum dwellers, who were sleeping empty stomach after the enforcement of curfew.Subsequently, with the help of women in his family and neighborhood, he started cooking food for the underprivileged every day and it’s been 16 days since he has been visiting places and serving langar (community food) among the have-nots.“In the beginning, we utilised the ration and vegetables that we had stored from our fields, but when fellow villagers heard about our service, they also started donating ration and vegetables. We daily distribute around 500-600 food packets in Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala along with the youths from Bhogpur and Jalandhar. Besides, we also receive many calls from residents who run out of ration, following which we supply them with dry ration, including wheat, rice, pulses and oil,” said Atwal, who has been given curfew pass by the administration. Taking precautionary measures, he and his team never forgets to wear gloves and masks while preparing and distributing food.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-farmer-in-jalandhar-serves-langar-among-have-nots-66555
07-04-2020||Our Correspondent||40 Covid tests in Pensra village come up negative||Hoshiarpur, April 6All 40 Covid-19 tests of Pensra village residents, conducted after a resident (Harjinder Singh) was tested positive for the disease, came up negative.Habib, a youth of Kalewal Beet village, has also tested negative. He was tested as he was being suspected of visiting Tablighi Markaz recently.Civil Surgeon Jasbir Singh said of 233 samples taken from Hoshiarpur district, 216 have tested negative while reports of the remaining 11 were awaited. So far, six persons, including Harbhajan Singh who died last week, have tested positive for Covid-19 in the district.Dr Singh said report of Malkit Singh, a driver from Khanpur village who was tested two days ago, came up negative. He said the district Health Department team was monitoring the situation all day and night. He said the people should stay at their home to protect society from the infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/40-covid-tests-in-pensra-village-come-up-negative-66554
