07-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar district records sixth Covid death||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 6A 30-year-old resident of Qazi Mohalla died of Covid at the PGI in Chandigarh today. This is the sixth casualty due to the pandemic in the district.Meanwhile, the district tally reached 137 after a supervisor of Guru Nanak Mission Hospital was tested positive today. He is one of the contacts of the man who died today.Aggressive testing needed in dist: MinisterHealth Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Wednesday asked the Health Department to expedite the testing process in the district to keep the spread of Covid-19 at bay. The minister said testing of samples was a major challenge for the state government, which would be overcome soon. The government was mulling to set up a state-of-the-art laboratory to ensure quick report of the sampling.At least 90 staff members of the private hospital have been quarantined and their samples have also been collected.The Deputy Commissioner and the Police Commissioner today reviewed facilities at the Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences, where 350-bed facility has been created to cater to rising cases.Nodal officer, Jalandhar, Dr TP Singh said, “The samples of 90 staff members of Guru Nanak Mission hospital have been taken and they have also been quarantined. In total, 8,084 persons in the district are under home-quarantine at present.”The district administration on Wednesday gave in-principle approval to convert 350-bed Covid treatment facility at the Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) into Covid care treatment facility to meet any unforeseen urgency. During a meeting, it was decided that if required, a formal memorandum of understanding would also be signed in the coming days. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and members of the hospital management were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-records-sixth-covid-death-81530
07-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Three samples of patient’s contacts taken in village||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 6After a resident of Gehlan village of the Shahkot block, a combine driver, tested positive, teams of the Health Department started a survey and investigation today.Samples of the Covid patient’s mother and two other contacts were taken for Covid test today.Senior Medical Officer (SMO) Amardeep Singh Duggal said the report of the combine driver, who returned from Maharashtra, came positive on Tuesday.“He had returned on April 20. Since then, he was under home quarantine, while his father has tested negative,” he said.The SMO said the mother of the patient was alone at home since her son and husband were sent to the quarantine centre.“Their neighbours had stopped talking to them since the man turned positive. Even the milkman did not come to their house for two days. It was then, Block Extension Officer (BEE) Chandan Mishra and his team went to her house and provided milk,” he said.5,370 persons screenedOn Wednesday, Health Department teams across the block, including Gehlan, conducted a survey and a primary health check-up. The BEE said as many as six teams surveyed 166 homes and screened 902 persons in Gehlan village and 1,110 homes across the block and conducted a primary screening of 5,370 persons.As per information, 50 persons have been kept in isolation in various villages, who have reached the area from other states. The survey team at Gehlan included multipurpose health supervisor Jasbir Singh, Sukhpal Singh, Satinder Kaur, multipurpose health workers Manjeet Kaur, Paramjit Kaur, Anita Rani, Simarjit Kaur, Harwant Kaur, Mandeep Kaur, Varinder Kumar, Vishal Lal, Ravindranath Gupta, Amritpal , Amritpal Singh, Balkar Singh, Iqbal Singh and Asha workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-samples-of-patients-contacts-taken-in-village-81531
07-05-2020||---||Man carrying liquor illegally dies in mishap||Jalandar, May 6 A man died and another sustained serious injuries on Wednesday in a road accident, that occurred on 66 Feet Road. The accident was reported around 2 pm, when the victims, carrying liquor bottles, bumped into a truck from the rear. They fell on the road from their scooter. The bottles of liquor broke into pieces.  While the deceased has been identified as Raj Kumar (40), a resident of Bhargo Camp, the injured was identified as Varun Kumar, alias Jhonny (25). SHO, Police Division 7, Naveen Pal, said, the accident occurred due to the negligence of the scooter riders.  A case has been registered against Raj Kumar and Varun under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under the Excise Act. Notably, liquor shops have not been opened in Jalandhar with the district being in the red zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-carrying-liquor-illegally-dies-in-mishap-81532
07-05-2020||Hoshiarpur||Infection source of four Covid patients untraced in Hoshiarpur||Between the rising numbers of Covid-19 patients in the district, one thing that has started bothering more is unknown source of infection among new patients. Despite all efforts, the Health Department has not been able to ascertain the source of infection among four new Covid patients, including the Kirti Nagar resident who had died two days ago. Despite investigation of these patients, enquiries from their family members and survey of the area, the source of infection, could not be known. Of the four cases, the first Covid patient in the city, a speech and hearing impaired person, was from Mohalla Kamalpur. He neither had any travel history nor he was a contact of any Covid case. Also in case of Kirti Nagar resident Mahesh Sahni, who died of Covid, the source of infection could not be known. In the case of a patient from Bhumbotad village, it is feared that he could have got the infection from HP. He had returned from Baddi on his vehicle. The source of infection of another patient in Hardokhanpur village, near here, is also not known. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/infection-source-of-four-covid-patients-untraced-in-hoshiarpur-81533
07-05-2020||Our Correspondent ---||SSP (Rural) distributes essential items||Nakodar, May 6  Senior Superintendent of the Police (Rural) Navjot Singh Mahal on Tuesday visited Nakodar and distributed essential items among police personnel. He, along with ASP Vatsala Gupta, distributed 300 ration kits to the police personnel besides, one tiffin box, one water bottle, 200 gm of almond, one kg of sugar and biscuits to every cop performing duties day and night.  The SSP, while appealing to the people not to violate curfew norms told The Tribune that the rural police have registered 465 FIRs and arrested 646 persons on the charge of violating the curfew norms. A total of 141 vehicles of the violators have also been impounded, he said. Meanwhile, former ASP Phagwara Harish Dyama and his wife Amrita Singh, former SDM Nakodar, provided cattle feed of 10 trolleys for the cows and 100 bags of wheat for the needy in Nakodar on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ssp-rural-distributes-essential-items-81534
07-05-2020||Our Correspondent||‘Government schools witness spiral growth in enrolment’||Nawanshahr, May 6Various campaigns started by the Education Department, including online education, Each one Bring One drive etc. have started bearing fruit. The Nawanshahr district, during the lockdown, has witnessed a record increase in enrolment in primary classes.Pawan Kumar, District Education Officer (Primary) and Deputy DEO, Chhotu Ram, said due to the hard work being done by the Parho Punjab, Parhao Punjab team and the teachers, as many as 24,93 students had been enrolled in the pre-primary to Class V in the district, exceeding the previous session’’s tally by 1,433 students.They said the Nawanshahr block had exceeded enrolment to the tune of 638, Block Aur by 323, Block Banga 124, Block Balachaur (1) 92, Block Balachaur (2) 96, Block Saroya 95 and Block Mukandpur by 95 students.They duo further said during the unprecedented crisis, teachers resorted to the digital route and started taking classes through WhatsApp groups. The innovative idea has not only started keeping students in touch with syllabi but proved a relief for parents who have been finding it hard to keep their wards indoor during the lockdown period.“The online education has also been helping to bring in a positive change in public perception and proving a major attraction for parents to get their wards admitted to government schools,” they said.Satnam Singh and Neel Kamal, district coordinator and assistant district coordinator of Parho Punjab, Parhao Punjab, said as many as 6,709 students in pre-primary classes had already been admitted so far, while the enrolment in the previous academic session was 4,581. “In Class V in this session a total of 3,930 students have been admitted against the previous year’’s enrolment of 3,880 students.”Hoshiarpur DC permits online educationHoshiarpur: District Magistrate Apneet Riyait gave permit to all educational institutions in the district to carry out online education on Tuesday. The District Education Officer (Secondary) has been appointed as the nodal officer for the same. The DM ordered that schools, colleges and educational institutions in district would remain closed, but online education could be imparted. She said if any office work was necessary for online teaching or distribution of books, it could be done with only 33 per cent staff with pre-approval of the District Education Officer(s). The school, college or educational institution concerned will have to ensure to follow the state government’s instructions for the same. She said any other activity in schools, colleges or educational institutions was completely prohibited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/government-schools-witness-spiral-growth-in-enrolment-81535
07-05-2020||Rakesh Puri says migrant labourers should be encouraged to stay and work here||‘Reduce interest on credit limits, loans for growth of brick-kilns’||Brick-kiln units have been fighting the battle of existence in the lockdown. Rakesh Mohan Puri, owner of Puri Brick Kiln Industry, established in 1992, says the lockdown has put brick-kiln units on the verge of closure and a shortage of labour will have a long-term effect on the industry. In an interview withSanjiv Kumar Bakshi, Puri, who is also the general secretary of the Brick-Kiln Industries' Association, Hoshiarpur, throws light on ways to keep the units functional amid testing times.How has lockdown affected brick-kiln units?The lockdown has badly hit brick-kiln units. In most of the units, there is no production. Migrant labourers are not available as most of them had not returned after Holi. Some labourers who are present here are also ready to leave as the government is facilitating their movement to their native states.Do you expect resumption of work in near future?It seems to be an impossible task in near future. We have not been able to operate brick-kiln units. Besides, labourers, specialised in kiln operations, are not available. If the current scenario remains for some more time, most of the units won't be able to resume work even in the winter season.Has your any investment or major order been cancelled or deferred?Most of the orders have been cancelled for the time being. There are no buyers as the construction work has come to a halt.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to workers?With zero income, we have used our bank credit limits. Besides, we have also spent the amount reserved for raw materials and coal and personal savings. In some cases, we have to borrow more money for some necessary things.Is the lockdown an opportunity or a challenge?There are multiple challenges in front of us, including retaining labourers and arranging liquidity to meet the expenditures. The overall challenge is to survive in these testing times.What should be done for the growth of the industry?There is a need for more projects. Efforts should be made to generate sufficient demand for bricks. Labour movement should be facilitated, but migrant labourers should not be sent to their native states. They should be encouraged to stay and work here. It is completely a labour-oriented industry and without sufficient labourers, we can't operate.What do you expect from the government?We don't seek any special packages or financial assistance, but the government should consider decreasing the interest rates on credit limits and loans. The existing bank credit limits should be extended and interest rates be lowered to somewhere around the interest paid upon savings by the banks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/reduce-interest-on-credit-limits-loans-for-growth-of-brick-kilns-81542
07-05-2020||Our Correspondent||In trying times, she keeps the morale of police personnel high||Phagwara, May 6Sub-Inspector Usha Rani, SHO, Satnampura police station, has been making all-out efforts to keep the moral of residents and her colleagues high in this time of crisis. She has been working to keep stress among police personnel, who are working on the forefront in the fight against pandemic, at bay.She has got a sanitiser gate installed at the entrance of the Satnampura police station for her colleagues and visitors. Besides, the SHO has been celebrating birthdays of newly born with their parents and weddings amid the curfew.She has also been distributing sanitary pads and other essential items among poor people living areas that come under the jurisdiction of the Satnampura police station, including Nangal Khera Colony and Jafar Colony.Her father is a labourer and mother is a housewife, both residents of Bachhowal village near Phillaur. She has six sisters, all are government employees.The SHO said one of her sisters is a judicial magistrate. She has done MTech and during her preparations for civil services, she joined the police in 2015.Earlier, she was posted as SHO at the Nakodar, Jalandhar and Rawalpindi police stations. She has also worked with the cyber cell in Mohali for two years.Providing essential items to poor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-trying-times-she-keeps-the-morale-of-police-personnel-high-81543
07-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Wrestler spending time with his horses, feels relaxed||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 6Harpreet Sandhu, an international-level wrestler posted as Sub-Inspector in PAP, Jalandhar, is feeling relaxed in the lockdown. He said preparing for the competitions and championships had become a part of his life, and now it was like a break and he was not burdened and was a free mind.In the lockdown, Sandhu is spending time with his horses at the farm. Sandhu said there were around 15 horses and the wrestler makes sure that he visits the farm daily and look after the horses.Harpreet Sandhu says it is also very rare that he gets a chance to be with his family. He has a joint family and during the lockdown the star wrestler is getting to spend quality time all family members.He also makes sure that he doesn't miss his exercise and is also indulged in cycling these days. "Being a sportsperson, my routine hasn't changed. I wake up on time and sleep on time. I am exercising daily," he said.Belonging to a wrestlers' family, Harpreet Sandhu (30) basically hails from Karail village in Sangrur and is playing the sport since 2004. Earlier, he was also contemplated as the first Indian wrestler to have constantly won medals for three years in international games and since then he has several medals to his credit.He had consistently won in the 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 Asian Championships. In the Senior National Wrestling Championship that was held late last year in Jalandhar, Sandhu had won a gold medal. Enjoying the home support, Punjab's Harpreet Singh had defeated Rajbir Chhikara of the Railways with a 4-1 scoreline. This Asian Games silver medallist used his experience to dislodge his opponent's confidence and won the title in the 82-kg category.The achievements||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wrestler-spending-time-with-his-horses-feels-relaxed-81544
07-05-2020||THE lockdown has turned life upside down||‘It’ll be tough to bring life back to normal’||On the ground level, I'm organising meetings with the heads of every village to know about the important needs of locals. Both dry and cooked ration is being supplied in a systematic way and area-wise teams have been formed to distribute the same. Also, as only one Covid positive case has been reported in my constituency, I'm making sure that its spread is contained. Streets, cities and all villages have been sanitised and with the help of health workers, every house is being monitored regularly.NRIs have also been roped in to make donations for their villages at this time of crisis. So, we haven't faced any shortage of essential commodities so far. However, dealing with people having health issues is still a challenge. Every day we are approaching officials to grant curfew passes to people having medical emergencies. Apart from that, we are also making apt arrangements for expecting women. However, its challenging to arrange gynaecologists for women for delivery, as in the absence of public transport, we have to arrange for ambulances. A visit is also being paid by my staff to grain markets in my constituency to check arrangements for farmers. Those who approach for passes are also helped.Besides, we are planning to deal with problems post lockdown. As it is being considered that post lockdown it would be difficult for us to bring life back to normal. Meanwhile, the lockdown has also taught new lessons on how we can settle problems in such crisis.(As told to Ajay Joshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/itll-be-tough-to-bring-life-back-to-normal-81545
07-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||‘Livelihood gone, but happy to return home’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 6With folded hands, 28-year-old Sunita Devi waits for her turn to get registered at a transit point here before she would be transported to the railway station. The restlessness to return home in Faizabad, Uttar Pradesh, and see her two sons is palpable in her moist eyes.“It became difficult to manage two square meals a day after the curfew was imposed. There was no work. It pained me to see my child sleep on an empty stomach. Now, it seems the situation is getting back to normal. At least, I will be able to eat a healthy food and be among my loved ones on returning home,” she says with her voice trembling.Her husband, Ram Tilak, chimes in. “We faced several hardships during the lockdown. With no income, I had to sell my mobile phone to buy ration. The phone was dear to my children as they demanded a phone with an inbuilt camera. I somehow managed to make ends meet with the money received after selling the phone.”The couple has been staying in Jalandhar for eight months. The last month and a half were the toughest. But they are happy to return home. Others as well feel relieved at the thought of finally meeting members of their families.About 1.13 lakh migrants from Jalandar have applied for the online registration.But there are some, who are staying back, hoping to find work soon. A group of youths, who worked as loaders before the lockdown, said they would resume working in the fields in two to three days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/livelihood-gone-but-happy-to-return-home-81442
