07-11-2020||Jalandhar||Unable to return to New Zealand,  30 youth lodge protest||More than 30 youth from various parts of Punjab who had post-study work visa of New Zealand and had returned home before the lockdown due to Covid are in distress. The companies which had hired them are not calling them back to work leaving them in choppy waters as they have been in India for nearly eight months.Having spent Rs 18 to 25 lakh on their studying fee for over three years and now paying an average of Rs 30,000 monthly rentals from here for the safety of their belongings back in New Zealand, the youth said it had become really taxing for them. The youth, who had gathered at Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall to lodge a protest holding placards, want the Indian External Affairs Ministry to take up their issue with their counterparts abroad.The agitating youngsters included those from Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Patiala, Nawanshahr and Batala. Sandeep Kaur, a resident of Ludhiana, said it had been six years since she moved to Gisborne in New Zealand. “I did a course in business management in New Zealand after which I got a job at a restaurant. I had returned home for 20-25 days in March as the restaurants had got closed due to the lockdown but could not return. I have been contacting the NZ embassy for the past eight months for a return but to no avail,” she lamented.Sukhchain, who hails from Amritsar, said that he was working as a store assistant in NZ but his company hasn’t rang him up for work an he’s now stranded here in trouble. Arshdeep, also from Amritsar, said he was working as a bus driver for past four years. Their families had taken loans worth several lakhs which they were yet to return from their savings but joblessness had worsened their financial situation.Jyoti, who hails from Nawanshahr, said, “I came here in January as my marriage was fixed for March 4. I was to return in April after starting of visa processing work of my husband Parminder Pal Singh, who hails from Pandori Nijran village in Jalandhar. I have spent Rs25 lakh on paying fee for various courses in NZ, including those in bakery, horticulture and then in early childhood education. I had got a three-year post-study visa when I returned for marriage. But a strange turn of events…and now we are both stuck up here.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unable-to-return-to-new-zealand-30-youth-lodge-protest-167338
07-11-2020||Jalandhar||Just sarcastic comments & blame game at Jalandhar MC meet||After a gap of eight months, the General House meeting of the Municipal Corporation was held at Regent Park Hotel here on Friday. It started with heated arguments, sarcastic comments and blame game among the councillors.No proper seating arrangementsThe councillors of both the parties also indulged in a verbal spat. Right after mayor Jagdish Raja started sharing the works that have been done, Ward No.2 councillor and BJP head Sushil Kumar along with the other BJP councillors shouted that “you have told us in data that what works were done, but please show us proof on the ground. The roads are broken, sewerage system is in a shambles, illegal colonies are mushrooming, where is the work.”Councillors indulge in verbal spat The councillors of both the parties also indulged in a verbal spat. Right after mayor Jagdish Raja started sharing the works that have been done, Ward No.2 councillor and BJP head Sushil Kumar along with the other BJP councillors shouted that “you have told us in data that what works were done, but please show us proof on the ground. The roads are broken, sewerage system is in a shambles, illegal colonies are mushrooming, where is the work.” He also said: Ik paase tuhade kol paise di ghaat hai, dooji taraf hotel vich meeting krde ho. Naale social distancing kithe hai (On one hand, you say that the MC faces shortage of funds, then you organise a meeting in a hotel where there is no social distancing). Jalandhar shehar tuhaanu puch reha hai tusi kidda da Jalandhar banaya hai (The people of the city are asking you which type of development has been done here by you).” While Sushil was raising questions at high-pitched voice, the councillors of the Congress party took a jibe at him saying that bahut photo hogayiya tuhaadiya, hun baith jaao (So much for your photographs, now you sit down).The mayor maintained his calm and said no matter how much time you wasted, the meeting would definitely take place. “I know that there is a wish to stop the meeting, but I won’t let that happen. I will listen to everybody,” he said while asking the BJP councillors to take their seats and share the problems in a peaceful manner.Plaints against officialsMost of the councillors who spoke during zero hour complain about officials of different branches not working and listening to them. While they were raising their issues, the mayor was asking the official concerned to answer, to which a standard reply was that “will tell you in the next meeting”.Mayor Jagdish Raja too showed disappointment with the officials and asked them not to come unprepared in the next meeting. He said if they did not give a satisfactory reply in the next meeting, a strict action would be taken.When councillor Des Raj Jassal raised an old issue regarding the information on house tax of a private hospital and whether the “naksha” of the same was passed or not, the officer concerned couldn’t reply, to which Jassal said angrily that even after eight months, the answer was not given.Also, during the questioning, it was found that some of the branch officials were not even present and had given the meeting a miss. The Mayor got upset on the same and said, “When everybody else could come, why they could not. There was no point of missing this important meeting. Also, those present should be responsible enough to give an appropriate reply to the councillor concerned,” the mayor said.Councillors raise issuesAlmost everyone raised the issues related to lack of safai karamcharis, piles of garbage in the city and perennial sewerage problem. No regular lifting of waste is being done.Davinder Rony, independent councillor from ward number 66, asked the mayor sarcastically if his ward was outside the city.“Not even 1 kg of atta was sent to my ward during the pandemic. Why the works were being done only in your ward, why no work was being done in mine. I have showed my roads to B&R Department officials for over 100 times, but no work has been done. Hona tuhaade kol kuch nai, asi dekh leya teen saal vich (You could not do any work of development which we have seen in the last three years,” Rony said.Even adhoc committee chairman was not satisfiedWard No.1 councillor Tamanreet Kaur shared the sewerage problem in Indra Colony. She said people had been coming to her and were complaining that the sewerage water entered their houses causing a lot of trouble for them.Jaspal Kaur of Ward No.45 said there were piles of garbage in various areas of the city and she also took a dig at the ‘improved ranking’ of Jalandhar in Swachhta Survekshan.Councillor Charanjit Kaur, who had recently resigned as a member of the Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Ad hoc Committee, said overflow of the sewer had become a nuisance to people in the ward. She asked the mayor to tell her directly as to when the problem would get resolved. “I do not want ‘tareekh pe tareekh’ (No more postponements). Give me a proper date. We should not wait for an untoward incident to happen first and then act,” she said.Ward No.40 councillor Viresh Kumar Mintu said there was a dearth of safai karamcharis. There were only two sewermen and five safai karamcharis. He even made a mockery of the sweeping machine project. “The sweeping machine project is not successful. It starts and then it gets corona, it seems that the sweeping machine gets breathless,” he said. Building and Roads (B&R) adhoc committee member Vicky Kalia attacked Town Planning Department officials saying that they were hands in glove with the colonisers who have constructed illegal colonies.He said as many as 200 extra colonies were being constructed and the complaint was lying pending with the officials, but there was no action. “If they act properly, they can recover an increased revenue of Rs 200 crore which is just Rs 25 crore every year,” he said.Councillor Neerja Jain, who is chairman of the advertisement committee, took on every official and said the committee was not able to do anything because of the attitude of the official concerned. “All the 59 poles are wrongly installed,” she said. The senior deputy mayor also showed her disappointment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/just-sarcastic-comments-blame-game-at-jalandhar-mc-meet-167339
07-11-2020||Jalandhar||Nivia’s basketball gets FIBA certification||Coming as a proud moment for the sporting goods manufacturing industry of Jalandhar, Nivia Top Grip 3.0 basketball has got certification from FIBA, the International Basketball Federation.The company, already catering all kinds of equipment to many in the national and international market, has now got the certification after a long process of formalities, stringent laboratory and physical tests. The basketball features the iconic 8-panel deep channel design, with full ball pebbling for superior grip and 100 per cent nylon windings for consistence bounce, shape retention and durability, the company now boasts.Freewill Sports Pvt Ltd MD and chairman Rajesh Kharbanda said, “Getting the FIBA level-2 approval is a huge step for the Indian basketball. We are extremely proud to be able to provide affordable technology that also meets strict global standards. The same standards will now be available to schools, universities, amateur teams all over the country to train for the competitions. It is great to be the first in the country to have this recognition from FIBA.”He added, “We were already manufacturing balls of the same standards but not having the FIBA certification sometimes used to come as a handicap when tenders called for international events carried this condition. The push to move in this direction came with a growing chant for ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat’. The certification has helped us establish ourselves again as the market leader against rivals from Malaysia and China.”With focus on making elite level sports equipment accessible to the aspiring masses, this certification for Freewill Sports Pvt Ltd has become an important step in recognition of ‘Make in India’ efforts. Founded in 1932, FIBA is the apex governing body of World Basketball responsible for international competitions like FIBA World Cup and the Olympics basketball tournament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nivias-basketball-gets-fiba-certification-167340
07-11-2020||Jalandhar||Mumbai, Jaipur, Delhi flights from Adampur to resume from November 20||Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary will soon apprise the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh about the need for a 4.3-km approach road of Adampur airport to be constructed at a cost of Rs 39 crore.While presiding over the maiden meeting of the Adampur Airport Authority, the MP said he would soon meet the Chief Minister for early completion of this pending project. Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori and Kewal Krishan, Director, Adampur airport, among others were also present.During discussion, it was informed that survey for this 4.3- km stretch had been done and requisite land would be acquired for the project. It was also informed that under this project direct road would lead to the airport via Mehtiana village, which would immensely benefit passengers. The MP directed the authorities concerned to ensure proper repair and maintenance of the connecting road.The Advisory Committee also decided to write the Airports Authority of India for throughout week flights to Delhi as there was six-day flight operations earlier, which reduced to three days a week. The MP said from November 20 flights for three major cities, including Mumbai, Jaipur and New Delhi, with daily flight to Mumbai, besides thrice a week for New Delhi and Jaipur on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, and Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, will be operational.Meanwhile, Chaudhary also took stock of the ongoing project of new terminal being constructed at the airport. The officials informed the MP that this terminal would be completed by June.Chaudhary directed to accomplish the project within stipulated time frame. The terminal would come up at 6,000 square metres where 300 passengers could be seated, besides parking arrangement for 150 vehicles. The MP along with the Deputy Commissioner planted a sapling at the airport.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mumbai-jaipur-delhi-flights-from-adampur-to-resume-from-november-20-167341
07-11-2020||---||Women Technology Park rolled out at Science City||Kapurthala, November 6Joint Development Commissioner-cum-CEO Punjab State Rural livelihood Mission Neelima inaugurated the Women Technology Park set up at the Pushpa Gujral Science City here.Inaugurating the park, she said, “The economic empowerment of women was the most viable solution to integrate women with the developmental goals of the nation and Atma Nirbhar Bharat. The unseen foe (Covid-19) has really hit us hard, touching every section of the society, especially the poor, daily wagers and the women at large. The Women Technology Park will be an attempt towards empowering the rural women and making them ‘Atma Nirbhar’.”Key featuresAn IAS officer, Neelima said the Women Technology Park was a technology modulation and a training centre with livelihood technologies for women. The park will enhance the capabilities of women and promote entrepreneurship by providing equal opportunities especially in rural areas. Further, she said the Science City had started the first batch of residential training in mushroom cultivation. Punjab State Rural Livelihoods Mission has nominated krishi sakhis (64 in two batches) from seven districts (Sangrur, Tarn Taran, Ferozepur, Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Bathinda and Patiala) for the training. Now, these trained krishi sakhis will further train 15,000 identified mahila kisans within Punjab.Deepti Uppal, Deputy Commissioner, Kapurthala, was the guest of honour during the occasion. She said district administration had already provided a platform ‘Bibian Di Dukan’ for the sale of domestic items such as desi ghee, biscuits, turmeric, and other products prepared by the women Self Help Groups (SHGs) from the district. She also said the district had 188 SHGs and out of total 1,992 members, 1400 are women, who not only prepare domestic items but are also involved in stitching suits and making handicraft items. She said the products/goods made by rural women in the Women Technology Park will also be sold at ‘Bibian Di Dukan’.Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science City, said the park had been catalysed and supported by the Science for Equity, Empowerment and Development (SEED) Division of Department of Science and Technology, GoI. The park is an attempt to ensure that the benefits of science and technology percolate to the rural women of the surrounding villages and provide them livelihood opportunities to enable rural women (without specific skills) to earn in a dignified way.The Women Technology Park consists of three training units: Pleurotus sajor caju (dhingri) cultivation, value addition to existing textile materials (training on block printing and computer embroidery machine) and preparation of cow dung pots and logs (an innovative way of using cow dung). The project is of three-year duration and the total cost of the project is around Rs 59.60 lakh. Further, she said that efforts will also be made to collaborate with banks (including NABARD and TiE) for soft loan to women to set up their own enterprise (preferably collective) in the village after training under schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana, Cent Kalyani Scheme, Orient Mahila Vikas Yojna, Stree Shakti Package, etc.ADC, Development, Kapurthlala, SP Angra, appreciated the efforts of the Science City and said the Women Technology Park would make women of the region financially independent. Dr Rajesh Grover, Director Science City, present on the occasion said besides hands on and practical training, the Science City will also give training on marketing, networking and incubation facility which would be a unique feature of the technology park.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/women-technology-park-rolled-out-at-science-city-167342
07-11-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar DC announces Rs 50,000 for special children||Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Thursday met and interacted with intellectually-abled children of Chanan Association for Mentally Retarded Children.Chairman of association Bhupinder Singh Makkar and president Amarjit Singh Anand apprised the DC that the association was formed by the parents of these special children and some social people. The association is also running a vocational institute, where 20 children are being provided training.The children also presented self-made material including shagun cards, paper carry bag, leaf paintings etc. In recognition of their talent, Thori announced to give Rs 50,000 for these children from CSR funds.He also assured to soon visit the vocational institute. Prominent among those present on the occasion included association secretary Manish Aggarwal, treasurer Tejpal Singh, Vivek Joshi, Subhash Joshi, Rahul Madhok, Bhavnish, Chamandeep and Gitesh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-dc-announces-rs-50-000-for-special-children-167343
07-11-2020||Jalandhar||Delhi Bazaar Exhibition: Artists exhibit their creativity||Artists, designers and traders from across the Northern region have gathered at the Desh Bhagat Yadgar here for a five-day Delhi Bazaar Exhibition that got under way here yesterday.Various unique items on display included ceramics, pottery, brassware, wood craft and designer furniture. There were several stalls of designer and ethnic women wear, kids toys, kitchen utility items, make-up accessories, footwears, winter jackets, etc, which drew crowds. There were stalls of instant mug and cushion printing.Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall in Jalandhar. Photo: Sarabjit SinghThe exhibition also gave a platform to the local artists to showcase their work. Ritu, who runs Ritu’s the Creative Art Studio, put up acrylic paintings, 3-D mural, clay and resin art on display. The other items included wall painting, hangings, table tops, coasters and designer bottles. Kamal Preet from Nakodar road here put up various items of wood carving including corners, hangings, stands and tables.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/delhi-bazaar-exhibition-artists-exhibit-their-creativity-167344
07-11-2020||Jalandhar||Lidhar elected DBA president||In one-sided contest, advocate Gurmail Singh Lidhar got elected as president of the District Bar Association, Jalandhar, in the annual elections held on Friday. He polled 998 votes out of a total of 1,312 in the four-cornered contest.Lidhar took a lead as the first runner-up Prubjyot Singh Sidana trailed by 189 votes, followed by Aabha Nagar, who got 100 votes and Kapil Batra, who got only 25 votes. Ten votes were found invalid. Lidhar had earlier served as secretary of the DBA nearly five years agoFor the post of senior vice-president, Jagpal Singh Dhupar got 841 votes against 490 polled by his opponent Ram Chhabra. As many as 32 votes for this post were found invalid.The post of secretary went to Sandeep Singh Sangha who got 842 votes. His rival Vishal Paruthi got 456 votes and 24 votes were invalid. For the post of joint secretary, Vishal Waraich came out to be the winner getting 877 votes. His opponent Sunita Jassal Harsh got 415 votes, while 30 votes were found invalid.The contest for the post of assistant secretary was the most fiercely fought. Sangeeta Rani won getting 658 votes while Ravinder Kaur Munder followed her closely at 634 votes. As many as 30 votes were found invalid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lidhar-elected-dba-president-167345
07-11-2020||Chairman of Markfed Amarjit Singh Samra on Friday said it was a right time to increase the production capacity of the Markfed to further boost the farming community of the state. He participated in a function to mark the prize distribution of lucky draw in cattle feed coupons. The chairman congratulated the winners and stated that the cattle feed sales had increased substantially in the recent months. The lucky coupon draw was launched in July 2020 whereby a lucky coupon was given along with every bag of the cattle feed of Markfed. The scheme got a good response and more than 3 lakh coupons for cattle feed were distributed among farmers. The first two prizes were Royal Enfield||Samra: Increase production capacity of Markfed||‘Book those managing Dhilwan toll barrier’In a year-old case in which the body of an unidentified person got badly mutilated on the national highway near Subhanpur, the Human Rights' Commission has asked SSP Kapurthala to take requisite action against the toll company. The Human Rights Press Club, Kapurthala, had demanded that the authorities managing Dhilwan Toll Barrier should be booked under Section 304-A of the IPC. The road accident had taken place on October 8 last year and the body of the victim had got completely flattened as the vehicles kept crossing over it. This happened despite the fact that the site fell just a few hundred metres away from Subhanpur Police Station. The remains of the body had to be collected using a shovel and sack. President of the club Suket Gupta has been pursuing the case against the toll company with the authorities since then. He said it was the duty of the toll company operating from Bidhipur railway crossing to Dhilwan to set up patrolling teams on the road and provide emergency services. He had alleged that no one from the toll company either came to the spot in this case for the accident-hit person nor did they care about the fact that the body was repeatedly crushed by the speeding vehicles. He demanded that a necessary action should be taken against it for the lapses. After his representation to the SSP, police also failed to elicit any response. He wrote to the Human Rights Commission Chairman in Chandigarh for the necessary action. The commission has directed the SSP Kapurthala to look into the matter and dispose the complaint at his end in accordance with the law. The matter has been adjourned to December 12 by which the commission has asked him to submit the action taken report.Free robotics course for studentsThe youth of Kapurthala have a chance to hone their skills in robotics by availing a free, six-month course being offered by the Central Institute of Hand Tools and the district administration. The course is being offered as a part of the government scheme to enhance skills among the youth and make them self-employed. Announcing the scheme, DC Deepti Uppal said, "During the six-month course, students would be offered free stationery, books, uniforms and tablets from the institution. Besides, students coming from far off places will also be paid Rs 125 as daily travel allowances.” Training in-charge Amandeep Mahey and career counsellor Gaurav Kumar have been made nodal officers of the course.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/samra-increase-production-capacity-of-markfed-167346
07-11-2020||Hoshiarpur||1 booked for firing at Badal family’s office||Driver Major Singh in his complaint to the police said that he was talking on mobile phone standing outside the office of the transport company after parking his bus there at around 9.30 pm on November 3. He alleged that Sabi pulled out his revolver and threatened him to leave from there or else he would be shot.According to the complainant, Sabi then fired a shot towards the office door, which after breaking the office glass went into the wall through the chair lying inside the office. Subsequently, Sabi escaped from there hurling threats. After investigation, the police have registered a case against Sabi under Sections 336 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act. The police have recovered the bullet from the site. After getting information, SSP Navjot Mahal reached the spot. He said the police had started investigation in the case. ocCovid testing facility at PIMSJalandhar: Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Friday inaugurated the Covid-19 testing facility at Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) to facilitate people with the latest RT-PCR testing facility at the local level. Giving details about the new testing facility, resident director of PIMS Amit Singh said that a fee of Rs1,600 fixed by the government would be charged for the testing and the sample collection facility from home would be started soon. He further added that the tasting machine in PIMS could test as many as 96 samples at a time, which would add to its testing capacity. He said, “The RT-PCR test is one of the most-effective and accurate methods to detect virus transmission in a person just within four to six hours of harbouring the virus. On the occasion, Dr Rajiv Arora, vice-principal, Dr Kailash Chand, head, microbiology department, and others were present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-booked-for-firing-at-badal-familys-office-167347
