07-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||Farmers’ protest: When people united for a cause||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 6Four doctors from the Aam Aadmi Party headed to the farmers’ protest site earlier this week, where they are camping to extend medicines and other medical aid to farmers.Earlier this week, three SAD MLAs — Gurpartap Singh Wadala, Pawan Tinu and Baldev Singh Khaira — also joined the stir after staying at the Haryana-Delhi border for two days. Representatives of the Youth Congress also held a medical camp at the protest site and a langar in solidarity with the protesters.The farm protests have evoked passionate responses from leaders across party lines in an unprecedented show of solidarity, the likes of which haven’t been witnessed in any civil rights protest initiating in the state before.While former CM and Akali Dal patriarch Parkash Singh Badal declared that he would return his Padma Shri, many sportspersons also headed to Delhi to return their respective awards. They also include leaders bearing varied political allegiances. With health issues increasingly affecting farmers out at the protests, several doctors, who are members of the AAP, headed to help the farmers.Dr Sanjeev Sharma, AAP leader and an ENT specialist, said: “Four doctors were at Delhi for three days with 10 ambulances, 40 paramedics and a host of medical supplies. Our teams are still there. There are many elderly farmers here who are staying put in bitter cold in the open. Several elderly farmers have died. So, we doctors decided to come forward and extend medical support.”Dr Sanjiv was accompanied by Dr Shiv Dyal Mali, Jalandhar district urban president AAP; Dr Ravjot, heart specialist and Dr Balbir Singh, eye specialist and former co-convener of the state — all members of AAP. While a cardiac ambulance also stayed there for a day, doctors extended help for three days. A team of the AAP is still there.Dr Sharma added: “We went there first as doctors. If a doctor from another political party joins in to help, they would be welcome. This protest is beyond party politics. Medical aid is urgently needed at the protests. Medical camps must be aplenty, but there were a few doctors there. We held a medicine langar and will be taking in more medicines when we go back.”SAD leader Gurpartap Singh Wadala said: “About 150 of us in 30 to 35 vehicles went in to express solidarity with farmers. I was joined by MLAs Baldev Khaira and Pawan Tinu. The atmosphere is very high spirited and there is no telling for how long the protesters will stay. We spent two days and three nights there. The protests are bipartisan and stretch across political lines. Villagers are also going in large numbers independently to offer support. If the impasse isn’t broken soon, the party might even ask every village to take its own two to three trailers to extend support to protests.”Angad Dutta, president, Youth Congress, Jalandhar, said: “While Barinder Singh Dhillon state president of the Youth Congress is already in charge of the langar being organised for farmers at the protests, the IYC is also holding a regular medical camp for farmers. If need be, activists shall also reach the protests in solidarity with the cause. Many are already there in personal capacity.”Support for December 8 Bharat Bandh Jalandhar: The road on the Bachua toll plaza shall be blocked on December 8 to show solidarity with the protesting farmers. The decision was announced by the Kul Hind Kisan Sabha vice-president Nawanshar Karan Singh Rana here on Sunday. With the awareness and social media activism picking up pace, a number of farmer bodies, artists’ collectives and social organisations have extended support. While two protests were held on Friday night, effigy burning protests were also held yesterday across various places such as Lohian T-point, Sidhour road, Vishwakarma market, Lohian Khas proper among other spots. Appealing everyone to make the bandh a success, Rana sought the support of all Punjabis and asked people to reach the site in the morning. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-protest-when-people-united-for-a-cause-181056
07-12-2020||---||Now, make sustainable menstrual choices with Saukhyam pads||Jalandhar, December 6To provide a ‘Trash free, Rash Free and Cash Free’ periods to women of Punjab, particularly in rural areas, ‘Mata Amritanandamayi Math’, a Kerala-based NGO is shortly going to launch ‘Saukhyam Pads’ in the villages here. Having already spread its wings in Pathankot, the pads are also available online.As Saukhyam means happiness and well being, Saukhyam pads are dedicated to the menstrual well-being of women and girls. Being one of the leading reusable sanitary pad brands, these pads provide a sustainable and eco-friendly alternative to traditional sanitary napkins that contribute to the problems of waste and climate change. Saukhyam is a project of the Mata Amritanandamayi Math, an NGO with consultative status to the UN’s ECOSOC. The Math is led by Amma, Sri Mata Amritanandamayi Devi, revered globally as a spiritual and humanitarian leader.Available at a comparatively inexpensive prices, the pads follow the principles of sustainability and the circular economy. “These are made using banana fibre and cotton cloth. The banana fiber used in the pads is a type of cellulose fibre but with a key difference. No living trees are cut to extract this fibre. It is an excellent absorbent that is obtained from agro-waste. A Saukhyam pad set lasts for 4-5 years and is available for less than Rs 300. Those switching to reusable pads now no longer need to spend Rs 100 (or more) on monthly disposable pad purchases,” said, Anju Bist, Co-director, Amrita SeRVe project of the NGO.The sustainable pads are made by women in self-help groups in the Amrita serve villages. The Amrita serve project was started in 2013 by Amma to bring in sustainable development.Saukhyam Reusable Pads were honoured with the ‘Most Innovative Product Award Initiative (2016) by the National Institute of Rural Development, India. The project was lauded at UN Climate Change Conference (2028), in Poland for its sustainable financing mechanism. In 2020, the Saukhyam team was recognised as the Social Enterprise of the Year for its ‘exceptional impact, clarity and growth of work dedicated to furthering the UN Sustainable Development Goals,’ from the women for India and Social Founder Network coalition.Anju further said, “Menstruation is still considered a taboo in the Indian society. The main reasons for this taboo still being relevant in the Indian society are a high rate of illiteracy especially in girls, poverty, and lack of awareness about menstrual health and hygiene. Only less than 18 percent of Indian women use sanitary pads. Saukhyam pads are continuously working towards changing this scenario in India. Aligned with the ‘Swachh Bharat’ campaign, they are trying to prevent environmental catastrophe caused by using traditional sanitary napkins and increase the menstrual hygiene quotient of women across India through various programmes. So far, more than 50,000 of these pads sold and have helped eliminate 875 tons of non-biodegradable menstrual waste. The pads are also helping prevent the emission of 40.6 tonnes of CO2 equivalent annually. Hence, these reusable pads are both pocket and environment-friendly.There are about 8 million women of menstruating age in Punjab and an average woman uses 12-15 sanitary napkins per month. The non-biodegradable pads pollute for 500-800 years, adds AnjuAnuradha Singh, who works in a private company, said, she got to know about reusable pads through the Internet and she really feels that the pads are sustainable. “Instead of buying pads every month, I prefer to use these pads and after an easy wash, they also dry quick,” added Anuradha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-make-sustainable-menstrual-choices-with-saukhyam-pads-181057
07-12-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Traders await meeting with FM||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 6A meeting between the industrialists and the Finance Minister (FM) that was scheduled for Thursday, couldn’t be held and the former have been again left to wait for announcement of the implementation of the One Time Settlement (OTS) Policy. Sources from the industry said the meeting could now be held in a day or two. But the traders and manufactures have shown disappointment.“We just want some concrete decision to be taken in favour of industrialists by notifying the OTS policy,” Ravinder Dhir from the Traders Forum said.MLA Jalandhar Central Rajinder Beri, who has been accompanying the traders and manufactures everywhere, said, the meeting was now scheduled for December 8, but since the farmers have given a call for Bharat Bandh, it might get postponed again. “We will have to see now when the meeting could be possible. But, I am standing with them and the issue would be resolved,” he said.Last Sunday, the industrialists had expressed their disappointment while holding a meeting with the Finance Minister and the latter called them to Chandigarh on Thursday for further discussion. Even Rajinder Beri, MLA, Jalandhar Central, was present in the meeting.A delegation of industrialists, along with MLA (Jalandhar Central) Rajinder Beri, had also visited the GST Department with their grievances after industrialists Ravinder Dhir had received notices for VAT assessment for 2013-2014.Industrialists and traders have been demanding that they should not be issued ex-parte orders until any decision was taken on the policy.Dhir said the last date of submission of C-forms for cases from 2013-2014 was December 15. “This amounts to harrasment. Ex parte notices might be sent, but it shouldn’t be happening which is why we want a meeting with the government so that we come out of this problem,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/traders-await-meeting-with-fm-181058
07-12-2020||Jalandhar||Roshni Society honours 7 differently-abled persons||The Roshni Society on Friday honoured seven differently-abled persons for joining the mainstream as models for others. Father Thomas KJ, executive director, Roshni Society, shared the stories of all disabled. Amreek Singh got corrected his post polio residual paralysis of one leg with the support of Roshni Society.  He is now employed in a gurdwara play tabla and perform kirtan.  He is now married and blessed with two children. “Every month I spend  a part of my salary for the care of inmates of a leper colony in Rajpura as a token of his gratitude to god translating the lesson of service and inspiration he received from the Roshni Society,” Amreek added.  Sukhwinder Singh from Dhamanheri village, who suffers from polio in both legs, could not get timely treatment. But he now moves around on a tricycle working for a ‘Mandir’ and does tree plantation for a better environment. He also helps other differently-abled persons by helping them get pension from the government. He was also felicitated as a model for other differently-abled. Sarwan Josh, who got surgery done in both legs for polio correction and walks with a stick, is serving as office assistant of Roshni Society. He does all office work of Roshni Society and travels to different places for the rehabilitation of the differently-abled of the region. Like Sarwan, Labha Joseph too got polio correction surgery done on both legs at CMS Hospital, Ludhiana, and now walks without any aids. He is the general caretaker of the Roshni centre and attends all those who visit the place for information and guidance from Roshni Society.  Arjoo Rani, who is doing her MBBS second year in Gondia University of Maharashtra, was among others felicitated on the occasion but remotely as she could not turn up at the event. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/roshni-society-honours-7-differently-abled-persons-181059
07-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||Farmers’ protest: Now, help starts pouring in from UK as well||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 6While farmers’ protest against the contentious agricultural laws continues to intensify at the Delhi-Haryana borders, good Samaritans from across the globe have started coming forward by lending support to farmers sitting at the protest sites. Ensuring that there won’t be any shortage of basic essentials, ‘Midland Langar Seva Society’, a UK-based charitable organisation, has deployed its local members at Delhi border to deliver supplies to farmers.“Even as farmers agitating at the Singhu border claimed that they were carrying ration, which can last them up to six months, we are taking care of hygiene kits and medical supplies needed at the protest site,” a member of the society said.“From carrying soaps and detergents to brush and toothpastes, we are distributing all basic daily need items among farmers. Though farmers have already stored ration, we are also providing them with snacks, biscuits, fruits and milk packets. Apart from that, in case of any injuries or any other medical assistance, our teams are stationed to provide medical support to protesters. Initially, when we enquired about the items required at the borders, we were told that farmers were short of basic essentials. Subsequently, we have brought the same in abundance,” said Anhad Prabhakar, a member of the society.Daily visits are being paid by the youth of the society to review the situation at the protest site. A mini-van has also been parked by the NGO to store items to be distributed. Other members, including Tejinder Singh, Harwinder Singh and Jaswinder Singh, maintaining the supplies said their group leaves for the protest site early in the morning and makes arrangements for tea langar.“We make visits to each and every group and ask if they need anything. Medical assistance is provided through doctors associated with the society from Chandigarh. The funding for all items is being provided by Randhir Singh Heer, who had founded the society in the UK,” Anhad said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-protest-now-help-starts-pouring-in-from-uk-as-well-181060
07-12-2020||Deepkamal Kaur---||18 rainwater harvesting plants set up in Jalandhar district||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, December 6 While a check on the falling water table could not be handled through crop diversification plans of the government due to MSP issues, a slew of projects such as installing rainwater harvesting (RWH) system across the district by the Soils Department are expected to do some course correction in the coming years. While the department has already installed 18 RWH plants annually recharging 16 lakh litres of water, as many as 105 more such plants are in the offing, which are expected to recharge the water table with an additional 56 lakh litres of water each year.  Explaining the mechanism, sub-divisional soil conservation officer, Jalandhar, Lupinder Kumar, said: “In the set-up, clean rainwater from rooftops is collected by a gamut of pipes and directed towards underground tanks for groundwater recharge. An area of 16,100 sq m of terraces of various buildings has been covered in the scheme, which is already directing an estimated 16 lakh litres of rainwater into the water table every year.” Among the 18 projects which have already got completed are three RWH plants at the DC office, three in Cantonment, one each in the office of Executive Officer Bhogpur, Zila Parishad, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Nurmahal, and Rurka Kalan. Seven projects under the Centrally-sponsored Integrated Watershed Management Project (IWMP), too, have been completed, besides one community project covering rooftops of some houses in a 1700 sq m area. Among the upcoming 105 projects covering a rooftop area of 56,650 sq m are seven at PAP covering 7,370 sq m and one at Kendriya Vidyalaya, which will collect rainwater from 400 sq metres area. Under the IWMP scheme, 12 buildings are to be covered from where rainwater falling on 4,910 sq m would be collected. Under the Smart City project, 86 plants would be set up for 50 government buildings, which will cover an area of 43,970 sq m. Thus in all, 56 lakh litres of rainwater will be collected from upcoming projects annually. Other than this, for community rainwater harvesting system, a DPR of 10 projects of government primary schools situated in villages has been submitted to NABARD Jalandhar. The total cost of the project is Rs18 lakhs, for which Rs15 lakh has come from NABARD and the remaining Rs3 lakh from Youth Football Club, Rurka Kalan.  Demonstrating a new project set-up at Zila Parishad office here, Dharam Pal Sidhu, Deputy CEO, said: “We have spent nearly Rs1 lakh on installing the entire set-up, which will collect water from 500 sq m of rooftops of our building. We spent the money for we understand that it is the need of the hour and only a one-time investment.”  Lupinder Kumar maintains: “Whatever investment is being made now will benefit the generations to come.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/18-rainwater-harvesting-plants-set-up-in-jalandhar-district-181061
07-12-2020||---||Truckers to block J&K border from today||Jalandhar, December 6Showing solidarity with the protesting farmers, members of the All-Punjab Truck Operators’ Union announced that they would hold a protest at Madhopur and indefinitely jam Jammu and Kashmir border from December 7.President Happy Sandhu said, “Being closely associated with the farming community, we can realise the pressure that the farmers are bearing while holding the protest at Delhi border. Many among us too are farmers. While they are holding protest at Delhi border, we intend to jam the J&K border to further weaken the government over its adamant stand of not withdrawing the three Farm Laws”.On December 7, all of us will park our trucks and form long queues to block the J&K highway at Madhopu, he said. “Our protest will continue till the demands of the farmers are not accepted by the government”, said Jagjit Kamboj of the All India Motor Transport Congress, Jalandhar.Activists stand with farmersKartarpur: Members of the Kul Hind Kisan Sangharsh Sabha and Pendu Mazdoor Union on Saturday burnt effigies of the Central government and corporate houses against the farm laws. The farm union also appealed to make the December 8 Bharat Bandh a success. Activists said the protests should go on until the government decides to withdraw the farm laws, Electricity Act-2020, heavy fines on farmers for burning stubble, among other issues. They said all of them stood in solidarity with the farmers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/truckers-to-block-jk-border-from-today-181062
07-12-2020||---||3 succumb to virus in dist, 55 new infections||Jalandhar, December 6After 55 new cases were reported in Jalandhar, the tally of Covid positive cases reached 18,443 on Sunday. Three more deaths were also reported in Jalandhar from Covid taking the toll to 578. There are 1020 active cases in the district and 16,845 people have been discharged, while as many as 646 people are also under home isolation in Jalandhar at present. Meanwhile in Kapurthala, 12 people tested positive for the virus on Tuesday.2 fall prey to virus, 37 test positive in HoshiarpurThe district reported two more Covid-19 fatalities on Sunday, taking the toll to 265, while 37 new cases pushed the infection count to 7,174.Dr Jasvir Singh, Civil Surgeon, said as many as 997 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken on Sunday raising the total to 2,03,586. According to reports, 1,95,723 samples are negative, while reports of 2,087 samples are awaited and 149 samples are invalid. There are 213 active cases, while 6,683 patients have recovered. Out of today’s 37 positive cases, 15 cases were reported from Hoshiarpur city, while 22 are from various other health blocks of the district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-succumb-to-virus-in-dist-55-new-infections-181063
07-12-2020||Jalandhar||Farmers stocking themselves for coming days||Mid-day meal workers to align with cultivatorsJalandhar: In solidarity with farmers’ unions protesting against the farm Bills the Mid-Day Meal Workers’ Union on Sunday extended support to the ‘Bharat bandh’ on December 8. Union president Bimla Devi, general secretary Kamaljit Kaur, senior vice-president Parveen among others declared that the union’s workers shall express wholehearted support to all the action aimed at facilitating farmers in solidarity with their call. The union also called for all mid-day meal workers working across schools in the state to align with it. The workers also pressed for their demand for Rs3,000 as wages every month to them. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-stocking-themselves-for-coming-days-181068
07-12-2020||Do you think the Centre is at fault in handling the situation of farmers?||What have the farmers done to be treated this way?||Show some sensitivityWater cannons, tear gas, rapid action force and what not. The way our government is treating them is simply unacceptable. Even the promulgation of the farm Bills during the pandemic was not appropriate. An ordinance is meant for most urgent matters when parliament is not in session. What was the urgency? The government must recognise the depth of the sentiments of farmers, reach out sensitively and find a mechanism to assure farmers that their incomes will be protected.Shailja ThakurTackle the issue mindfullyFarmers have reached Delhi to get themselves heard over farm laws. One thing is clear that much of the opposition really is just one of the three laws. There is immense support from ruling and opposition parties that’s why farmers are protesting, blocking road and rail network. They are protesting at Singhu border for they can ee a threat to wheat and rice procurement as that is their staple food. This is for the first time the laws have been drafted to benefit farmers but it seems that there is no coordination between the farmers and the government. Every round of talk is a fail till now so all they can do is to hold these Bills for a few months. In the meantime, they can convince the farmers by meeting and having a dialogue — time for the government to step up and tackle the issue, mindfully.Shashi KiranShould’ve seen it comingThe farmers of the country especially from northern states are distressed over the three Bills enacted by the Centre to bring some major agricultural reforms in the country. The farmers are agitated and are strongly protesting and demanding their rollback. But since the Centre appears to be adamant, there is unprecedented conflict between both, culminating of late into ‘Delhi Chalo’ movement which has now become a national headline. The Centre has failed to tackle the whole situation since the very beginning and appears to have underestimated the organisational strength of the farmers who are greatly apprehensive about the regime of MSP and role of capitalists among other factors. Notwithstanding a few unfortunate and harsh skirmishes with marching farmers in Haryana, ongoing agitation at Delhi’s border is quite focused and peaceful without tilting towards any particular community, region and state which needs to be reciprocated by the Centre through constant and honest dialogue with the farmers. The movement may be supported by some opportunistic political parties but it certainly is not a political one as also collaborated by none other than Home Minister himself. One fails to understand how a measure presumed to be beneficial for a section of the society can be enforced against its own will. This is not only illogical but undemocratic also. Keeping in view all these facts and circumstances, the Centre should immediately set the process of revoking the controversial legislation but continue having meaningful and effective dialogue with farmers. Anyhow, the regime of MSP needs to be universal and widened through legal sanctity with strict enforcement thereof at national level.Jagdish ChanderCan dialogue do the trick?The callous attitude and the dictatorial approach of the Centre are responsible for the situation to go haywire. The three contentious farm laws passed reek of a great conspiracy to make the agriculturally-rich states Punjab and Haryana a mere beggar. I strongly believe the current regime at dispensation could have handled the whole situation much better, had they taken the farmers into confidence before bringing in the agricultural laws. The deadlock between the farmers and central government has spelled doom for the economy of our nation as for around two months the trains could not run to and fro from Punjab. Recently, the treatment handed to the peacefully protesting peasants speaks volumes of the fears and insecurities of our impatient public representatives. It seems as if the national government has not taken the farmers seriously and not heeding to their demands of total rollback of the malicious laws has led to an impasse. Now that the farmers have reached Delhi to intensify their protests, the union ministers should lend an ear to their cries without giving any political tinge. The people from all walks of life are standing firmly with the farming community and this may lead to great mayhem, which the central rulers won’t be able to control if the necessary steps are not adopted immediately. The need of the hour is to create a space for a healthy and fruitful dialogue to end the 2-month old stir for the welfare of all.Simranjeet Singh SainiGovt has taken farmers for grantedThe indomitable and dignified farmers of Punjab have always raised their voice when the governments turned a deaf ear to their miseries; the most prominent such movement before the present highly spirited agitation was 'pagrhi sambhal jatta', in 1907. The only messiah for them so far has been Sir Chhotu Ram, who was Revenue Minister of Punjab, during the British rule. If a minister could help the farmers during the alien rule to tide over their miseries, then how tragic it is that after the Independence the indifferent attitude of the successive regimes has made the living of the farmers pitiable. When the virus was speedily ascending, the regime took certain obscure decisions and proclaimed that it was turning a calamity into an opportunity. In this mindset, during the turbulent period, the government hurriedly promulgated the three laws. Since then, the voices have been raised against these laws but nobody heeded the simmering discontent of the farmers. This made the farmers and their unions and associations to stand against these at the national level. Call of 'Bharat band' and indefinite sit-ins proved ineffective. The State was also made to legislate on these laws. They had given a call for the march to New Delhi on 26th and 27th of November. A few days before that, the government again cleverly and deceitfully sent a notice for meeting on December 3. The farmers have remained calm, peaceful, willing to yield their ground to some extent, but they remained resolute throughout. The government had taken the farmers for granted, as it had done in the recent past in the case of mass migration of labourers during the abrupt lockdown, and during the demonetisation.Hardish SandhuTime for PM to think deeplyOur Centre, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has certainly got into the habit of taking blind decisions. Had the Centre consulted farm unions before passing the new laws, the ongoing protests, where large numbers of farmers are daily having a hard time, would not have taken place. Why is he always worried about benefiting the corporates? Many years ago, PM had also exploited Sikh farmers in Gujarat by forcing them to sell their land to the corporates, who eventually built factories on their land as also reported by some media houses. He is now experimenting with the same model with farmers of Punjab. In other words, he pretends a lot to be a PM who best thinks of the common public but the reality is something else. When farmers are feeling threatened with new laws, why can't he scrap them? As leader he should make everything as simple as possible and not complex, with which common man continues to suffer. What an irony that he did not have any empathy for the farming community too. It also makes me wonder what logic 'Mann Ki Baat' programmes holds when he rarely wants to listen to the concerned community before rolling out any new laws. But if he shall, there's still time for him to think deep about his blind decisions usually announced in the middle of the night, or else he may prove very grave for our nation.Rameshinder Singh SandhuHigh time farmers’ demands are heardIndeed, it is a double-edged sword. Farmers and the Union government, both are in an illusion. The government evaluated the power of farmers on a wrong note. People from the administration need to address this responsibly. And the Centre needs more mediators to solve this issue. At the end, I just want to add that we don't need to judge either of them. Let the government and farmers sit on a table and discuss what is right. India is a democracy, no?Aayush SharmaQUESTIONHow can the city roads bemade safe for commuters and pedestrians?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (December 10).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/what-have-the-farmers-done-to-be-treated-this-way-181070
