07-10-2020||Avneet KaurJalandhar||India’s only two-time Asiad gold medallist is busy promoting wrestling these days||Punjab’s heavyweight grappler Kartar Singh, who enjoyed a highly decorated international wrestling career, is currently keeping himself engaged with promoting wrestling in schools and colleges.Walking down memory laneKartar Singh said he had the penchant for wrestling since his childhood as he was born in the family of wrestlers. “I have been pursuing wrestling since I was in my ninth standard. At the age of 14, I emerged as the district champion,” said Kartar, who then over the years rose through the ranks and made his senior nationals debut at Mumbai (then Bombay) in 1973 in the 58-kg category and subsequently became an invincible figure in the domestic circuit, winning the senior national crown as many as 14 times. Besides, he said he won gold medals in the 1978 Asian Games held in Bangkok and the 1986 Asian Games held in Seoul. He also won a silver medal in the 1982 Asian Games held in Delhi and represented India at the Olympic Games in 1980, 1984 and 1988.Besides, he has been spending time imparting training to the aspiring wrestlers as well organising international wrestling tournaments from time to time, to give exposure to the youth and keep them motivated.Creating historyKartar Singh says after quitting international wrestling, he kept on visiting the mat regularly and went on to win the Veterans’ World Wrestling Competition, a whopping 21 times between 1992 and 2015. Besides, he brought laurels to the nation by winning different titles during the World University, World Wrestling Championships, Commonwealth Games and Asian Wrestling Championships.He said a sport was an essential element of learning and it enhances quality of leadership, teamwork, cooperation, hard work and confidence among the youth.“The lack of motivation actually discourages people from participating in sports activities. Thus, after officially retiring from my wrestling career in 2015, I have been promoting sports particularly wrestling among the school and college-going students by organising regular seminars, lectures and classes to explain to them the importance of sports,” he said.“Apart from this, being the president of both — Punjab Wrestling Association and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Sports and Cultural Club — I have been organising national and international tournaments to give players the platform, where they can showcase their skills and passion for sports,” said Kartar, who has been decorated with the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Award, Arjuna Award and Padma Shri, and also served as the Director Sports (2002-2007) and Inspector General of Police, Punjab.He said last year the Wrestling Federation of India gave Punjab the privilege of hosting the national championships and the Punjab Wrestling Association lived up to the expectations of all and it was a successful event. Besides, my sports club (Shaheed Bhagat Singh Sports) and Cultural Club had organised International Wrestling Tournaments, in which around 15 countries participated. “I have organised these tournaments from time to time. The sole purpose of this is to boost the progress of the sport in the state and encourage youngsters to opt for sports,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/indias-only-two-time-asiad-gold-medallist-is-busy-promoting-wrestling-these-days-152164
07-10-2020||Jalandhar||Life’s test passed with flying colours||Stories like Amrit Lal’s are like pearls found in the depths of ocean — rare, glittering and beautiful. Son of a security guard, he has managed to crack the JEE Advanced on his own and secured All-India Rank 2837.A student of Government Senior Secondary School (boys), Bhargo Nagar, he refused to appear for the exam because his father didn’t even have money for the form. How was he going to foot the expenses of pricey coaching required for the preparation, and highly recommended. But the father somehow managed, Amrit enrolled and now, both are walking on the air.The 18-year-old did self-studying as he was well aware of the severe financial crunch at home. He scored 83 per cent in Class XII. Until last year, he didn’t even know about the JEE exam. It was the teachers who guided him to appear for the exam. “Amrit had cleared his Class X in Punjabi medium and it was not easy for him to understand the science terminologies in English, but he worked hard and cleared it,” one of the teachers from the school said.He has a twin brother, Lovepreet Kumar. Both had cleared the JEE Main, in which his brother scored more, but unfortunately he couldn’t clear JEE Advanced. The boys would study all night sitting right next to their bed-ridden grandfather, whom they love immensely and want to help by becoming engineers; and the prevailing financial conditions, too.Life is already a test for both father and son, but they haven’t let the harshness of time get under their skin even for a moment. The father was working as a labourer in a surgical unit before the lockdown closed the unit and job was lost. He stood right back from the blow and started working as a security guard, where he does night duty and earns Rs7,000 per month. “You can imagine how I run my family. The amount is nothing but the Almighty has been kind,” he said, before going on, “my father wanted me to do well in life but that didn’t happen, now my sons are doing me and him proud. Although, he is not in good condition but knows that his grandsons are doing everything for him.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lifes-test-passed-with-flying-colours-152167
07-10-2020||Jalandhar||Contagion claims five lives in Jalandhar||A total of 113 Covid-19 cases were reported in the district on Tuesday along with five deaths. The district has a total of 1,160 active cases of whom 33 are undergoing treatment at the Civil Hospital and 854 persons have been sent for home isolation.Six persons are taking treatment in Ludhiana and one at PGI. The NHS Hospital is treating 35 patients, while 10 patients are recuperating at the Military Hospital. Seven patients are also taking treatment at Patel Hospital, Kidney Hospital, Mann Mediciti and Arman Hospital.Three succumb to virus, 62 test positive in HoshiarpurThree patients succumbed to the virus on Tuesday taking the toll to 177 in Hoshiarpur district. The total number of Covid patients has increased to 4,849 with 63 people testing positive on Tuesday.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh said with the new samples of 1,877 people with suspected flu-like symptoms, the total number of samples taken in the district has gone up to 1,15,563. As per the reports received from the lab, 1,09,654 were negative, while 1,523 reports were awaited and 127 were invalid. The number of active cases is 572 in the district and 4,100 patients have recovered. The deceased are a 72-year-old resident of Bainsla village in Garhshankar, who died at a private hospital in SBS Nagar, while a 46-year-old Preet Nagar, Hoshiarpur resident, died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; and a 66-year-old patient from Shastri Nagar, Hoshiarpur, who died at DMC Hospital in Ludhiana. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/contagion-claims-five-lives-in-jalandhar-152170
07-10-2020||Jalandhar||Multiplex owners gear up to start operations from Oct 15||Another 10 days and the cine lovers can expect some breather. Finally, after a gap of nearly seven months, Jalandhar residents will most likely be able to watch new film releases on big screens of the multiplexes.Most theatres are so far locked and the owners are waiting for a notification from the state after the Centre issued directions allowing theatres to start operation from October 15. “We are also yet to receive SOPs from the state government on how to run the theatres in pandemic using the required safety measures. But in any case, we are gearing up to open theatres from October 15. We will soon call in staff and begin preparations,” said Onkar, who supervises the functioning of PVR Malls in Jalandhar.A PVR operator shared, “Even though the guidelines are yet to come, we have already done some planning. There will be a full Covid prevention plan that will be implemented. Sanitisation will have to be done after every show. We may have to open to a lesser capacity and some seats will be blocked to have social distancing. Multiple sanitisation facilities will have to be given. Crowd management will also have to be done. E-ticketing will be encouraged. We also may have touch-less ticket scanning system. There might also be fewer shows to begin with.”PRO of the MBD Malls Sandeep Dua said, “We are also set to open in the next 10 days and are expecting directions from the government and our company. Jalandharites are also excited with the announcement regarding the opening of multiplexes that people have already begun making inquiry calls. Bored of staying at home, they are looking for a change, entertainment and drama. So, we are expecting a good response right from the beginning.”Gurjot Kaur of Sarb Multiplex, said, “We too are in the process of holding a meeting in a few days to chart out a final plan. In the meantime, we are also waiting for the government instructions.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/multiplex-owners-gear-up-to-start-operations-from-oct-15-152172
07-10-2020||Jalandhar||Rs100 cr for medical colleges in Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur||The work on setting up two medical colleges in Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala was underway, said Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni on Tuesday, while participating in the virtual culmination of sixth state-level job fair presided by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.He said the Government Medical College in Mohali would start this year, as the construction of the building was already complete. He said funds worth Rs50 crore each were released by the state government for these colleges and a whopping amount of Rs975 crore (Rs325 on each college) would be spent on these colleges in due course.He attended the event from the District Administrative Complex along with MLAs Rajinder Beri, Avtar Singh Junior Bawa Henry, Chaudhry Surinder Singh, Mayor Jagdish Raj Raja, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori and ADC (D) Vishesh Sarangal. He congratulated the 8,112 youths in Jalandhar district, who got jobs and have started with the new innings in their lives.Jalandhar dist third in ensuring placementsThe minister said the state government ranked Jalandhar district third in ensuring placements to youths, as it ensured jobs to 8,112 youngsters in 20 fairs held in September this year under the state government’s Ghar-Ghar Rozgaar Mission.He said during the 6th mega job fair, a total of 93,593 youth got placement in September, of which Jalandhar offered job opportunities to 8,112 applicants. He said the district had 14,947 vacancies from various companies and a total of 5,999 male and 2,112 female candidates and one specially-abled got placement during job fairs.Soni said the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise had organised 20 online and physical job fairs at various locations and had played an instrumental role in fulfilling the dream of job to every youth.He said in these 20 job fairs, a total of 502 companies participated, while a total of 10,205 youths applied for jobs.Ghar-Ghar Rozgar Hoshiarpur tops in ‘small category’ Hoshiarpur district secured the first position in ‘small category’ for providing jobs to unemployed youth during the sixth state-level mega job fair held across the state under the Ghar-Ghar Rozgar Mission. Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora told this to mediapersons here on Tuesday after virtual participation in the culmination of the sixth mega job fair by the CM Captain Amarinder Singh in the presence of Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, from Patiala. Arora said as many as 13 fairs were organised in the district providing jobs to 5,109 unemployed youth, which is twice more than the given target of 2,000. It includes 4,396 boys and 713 girls. The candidates had got packages between Rs1.08 lakh and Rs3.60 lakh annually in banking, insurance, health, schools, mobile, textile, security and plywood industry sectors. He said firms offered 6,615 vacancies and none of the jobs were offered with a remuneration below than the DC rates and minimum salary offered was around Rs10,000 per month with an annual packages up to Rs3.5 lakh. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs100-cr-for-medical-colleges-in-kapurthala-hoshiarpur-152176
07-10-2020||Jalandhar||From coal trading to selling planters||A house in the Mota Singh Nagar area of the city speaks volumes of its owner’s love for plants. All the floors of Pankaj Jain’s house are packed with plants. A businessman by profession, he took to gardening around four years ago. Today, there are more than 100 plants, including fruits, vegetables, medicinal plants, adorning his abode.Such is his passion that he converted his nature of business from trading iron and coal to selling planters, various saplings, pots, and sharing knowledge on gardening. “I changed my business slowly. It wasn’t an easy decision to make. My family members were a little apprehensive too. But seeing the craze of people towards gardening, I knew this was my calling,” Jain shared. He added that his wife, Riti Jain, wasn’t keen on him taking up gardening as profession, but now she takes care of the plants more than him.The ground floor is decorated with pots of different shapes such as faces of a king, queen, tooth, tie and bow. Other than this, even gift plants and insulin plants are grown in the same floor.Various fruits and vegetable plants have been grown in the second floor. Jain has also been conducting workshops on terrace kitchen gardening.Expressing his love for plants, he says, even a mini plant he owns is a family member for him. “It is disheartening to see any of our plants wilt. The passion began when we became more aware of maintaining a healthy lifestyle, and what is better than having green plants all around giving us oxygen all the time,” said Jain.He also gives herbs to the customers. Pankaj, who is also associated with Kheti Virasat Mission, an NGO also uses green grow bags wherein he has planted broccoli, tomatoes, cauliflowers. His house is indeed an eco-friendly abode!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/from-coal-trading-to-selling-planters-152177
07-10-2020||Jalandhar||Industrialists seek Rahul Gandhi’s help||City industrialists have been asking the state government to help them amid the pandemic. They said the work was completely stopped because of the present situation. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi visited Moga in support of farmers. The industrialists lauded his step to stand with the farmers, when they were suffering. They also demanded him to listen to the woes of traders.Ravinder Dhir, convener of Khel Udyog Sangh, said the Congress was ruling the state and they had been asking the government to provide them help, but to no avail. “At least now, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi must visit and listen to their problems. Notably, the manufacturers and traders were saying that the pandemic had hit their work and they needed support from the government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/industrialists-seek-rahul-gandhis-help-152179
07-10-2020||Our CorrespondentJalandhar||Bibi Bhani complex allottees demand action against Jalandhar Improvement Trust officials||Allottees of Bibi Bhani residential complex today met Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Balkar Singh and handed him an application demanding action against the Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT) officials who failed to comply with the orders of the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum regarding refund of payments to allottees with interest.Talking to The Tribune, Navtej Singh Chahal, one of the allottees, said, “The JIT has miserably failed to comply with the orders of the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum and has not given compensation to the allottees who recently won cases.”He said the JIT had promised the possession of flats in 2012, however, even after requesting the officials concerned numerous times, neither did they received the possession of their flats nor got refund. “Therefore, sick of the red-tapism, we (allottees) filed our complaints at the consumer forum,” he added.He said despite winning their cases, the JIT has not paid them their respective payments as mentioned in the judgment copy.“On many occasions, both bailable and non-bailable warrants have been issued against the JIT over non-compliance of orders, but the police had failed to make any arrests. Thus, we met the DCP and handed over him our application,” he said. Meanwhile, another allottee, Vivek Bansal, who was present with the delegation that met the DCP, said, “The JIT has duped people. Even after paying lakhs, we have neither received possession nor have we been refunded. Not even a single penny has been spent on the development work. Now, the JIT is not paying compenQsation as ordered by the consumer court,” he said.He said they demand the police to act in the matter and wanted to know why cops failed to make any arrest despite warrants issued by the consumer court. He informed that DCP Balkar has assured them that after carrying out the probe, action would be taken.Surya Enclave residents up in armsMembers of the Surya Enclave Extension Welfare Society staged a protest against the JIT on Tuesday. Members of the society sat outside the office of the JIT and demanded refund of the principal amount paid to the trust for plots. They said they have not received possession of plots till date.ML Sehgal, chief of the Surya Enclave Extension Welfare Society, said the JIT has miserably failed to remove encroachments, which was the main reason behind allottees not getting possession of their plots even after nine years. He said there are a number of encroachments at the ‘C and D’ block of the complex. Also, there are high tension wires of the PSPCL running over the allotted plots, which has not been removed.Sehgal said they have handed over a memorandum to the JIT Chairman, and he has assured that they will soon resolve their issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bibi-bhani-complex-allottees-demand-action-against-jalandhar-improvement-trust-officials-152184
07-10-2020||Our CorrespondentJalandhar||KMV College holds webinar to address mental health issues||The PG department of psychology, KMV College, celebrated World Mental Health Day, which falls on October 10, by holding a series of events, including a webinar, poster-making competition, extension lecture, training session on relaxation techniques and free online counselling.‘Healthy mind leads to a healthy society’Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi spoke about the importance of mental health in today’s time. She said mental health was essential to our overall well-being and as important as physical health. It is very important for all young people to understand the importance of mental health as only a healthy mind can make a positive contribution to society.The first day started with a webinar on “Managing Fear and Anxiety during Crisis”. Dr Shilpa Suri, who is a positive psychology practitioner, career development consultant and life-skill trainer, was the speaker. The webinar was attended by over 100 participants.She explained various concepts of fear and anxiety and gave away tips to students through which fear and anxiety could be dealt with. In addition, she also taught students various ways to be productive.Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi spoke about the importance of mental health in today’s time. She said mental health was essential to our overall well-being and as important as physical health. It is very important for all young people to understand the importance of mental health as only a healthy mind can make a positive contribution to society.She lauded the efforts of Dr Radhika, head, PG department of psychology and other faculty members for successfully organising this six-day long celebration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kmv-college-holds-webinar-to-address-mental-health-issues-152185
07-10-2020||---||Adi Samaj to block roads on October 10||Jalandhar, October 6Demanding punishment for those involved in the alleged SC Post-Matric Scholarship scam and action in Hathras rape case, the All-India Adi Dharam Samaj today announced a road block in Punjab on October 10.Members said they will block the roads from 10 am to 1 pm on October 10 and added that a seven-member committee has been formed under the chairmanship of Baba Pargat Nath (Rahimpur). Sant Sarwan Ludhiana has been appointed chief and other members include Mahant Parshotam Dass Dehra, Sant Inder Dass Sheike, Sant Surinder Dass Khuralgarh, Sant Jagir Singh and Sant Satwinder Heera.Heera denounced the clean chit given to Social Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/adi-samaj-to-block-roads-on-october-10-152188
07-10-2020||Jalandhar||Farm laws have been passed hurriedly, claim legal experts||St Soldier Law College today organised a webinar on ‘Legal issues related to recent farm legislation’ which saw participation of leading law experts – Prof PS Lathwal, Prof of Law of Delhi University, Dr Bimaldeep Singh, Associate Professor of Law GNDU, Dr Manoj Kumar Sharma, Senior Faculty, Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, Patiala, Harneek Singh, Retired Dist Attorney, and Harpreet Sandhu, former Additional Advocate General, Punjab.The experts said, “After long legal deliberations, it has been concluded in unanimity that the farm laws had been hurriedly passed by the Parliament even without adhering to the norms of the legislation.” The experts called the move ‘unconstitutional’ because it encroaches upon the legislative sphere of states. The laws are against federalism structure of the country and are ‘anti-farmer’ in general, the experts stated.College Director Prof SC Sharma, as moderator, welcomed the experts and conducted the proceedings of the webinar and a question-answer session. The faculty and students enjoyed the rich content of presentations by experts. They thanked the group chairman Anil Chopra and vice-chairperson Sangeeta Chopra for taking lead in holding the webinar. Prof Simi Thind (officiating Principal) presented a vote of thanks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farm-laws-have-been-passed-hurriedly-claim-legal-experts-152189
07-10-2020||Jalandhar||Man’s body found hanging from tree||Truck driver held with poppy huskDasuya: The Dasuya police have seized 60-kg poppy husk from a truck and arrested its driver. Dasuya SHO Gurdev Singh said ASI Lakhvir Singh along with a police party stopped a truck at Balggan Chowk. During search, 60 kg of poppy husk was found from it. The truck was coming from Mukerian side and the driver was identified as Jaspal Kumar, alias Kaki, of Shanti Nagar in Bajwara village. A case was registered under the NDPS Act. OC3 shops sealed for violating FSAHoshiarpur: District Health Officer Dr Surinder Singh and his team on Tuesday checked fast food shops in Bassi Khwaju market. During this, licences under the Food Safety and Standards Act were checked and quality of food items prepared in shops was checked. The officer said three shopkeepers, who were not registered/licenced under the FSA were served notice and their shops were sealed. The trans fats found in the shops were also destroyed. The DHO directed that the oil should be discarded after using it thrice for frying. Similarly, the use of spices and honey peppers used in fast food should be reduced as more spicy foods can cause cancer. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mans-body-found-hanging-from-tree-152190
