08-05-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar district sees mass exodus of migrants||Ever since the government decided to send migrants and labourers back on Shramik trains, the district has witnessed a mass exodus of labourers from Jalandhar to their native places.How many appliedAs many as 1,18,000 people applied to go to their native states, of whom 12,000 to 15,000 people would leave on their own. In all, over 1 lakh people have opted to leave Jalandhar district by the Shramik Train, of which 8,484 left till Thursday night.A team of over 150 employees deputed per train is making sure that the massive exercise is carried out smoothly. While over 1 lakh labourers have applied to go back to their native districts, 80 per cent of the applicants are migrant labourers.How they are being facilitatedEight trains, started since Tuesday, have ferried 8,484 passengers to various towns in UP and Bihar so far. Amid the Covid-19 lockdown, ensuring that they maintain social distancing is one of the massive challenges faced by the district administration.About 150 employees including drivers, conductors on a fleet of 30 to 40 buses, 60 police personnel, 30 patwaris and associated rank officials and about 20 doctors, paramedics and ambulance drivers have been deployed on every train. Barring one train, which had 1,320 passengers on board and another with 1,188, all others have left with 1,200 passengers on board.While 8,484 labourers had already left by Thursday night, some officials said with per day departures pegged at 3,600 (if one train leaves each day), it might take a month for all labourers to leave the city.Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma said: "As per the Constitution of India, everyone has equal rights. If we can bring people back from overseas, citizens of India also have the right to go back to their homes. Some have been forced to walk 1,500 km with bruises and blisters in their feet. We wouldn't want anyone to undertake such arduous journeys during the summer season. We honour their desire to go back home. While it might take a month for all to go back depending on trains, industry is also offering sops now. We will try that some might also opt to stay back if provided proper livelihoods here."The first train on Tuesday left for Daltonganj (Jharkhand), subsequently others for Gazipur, Lucknow, Ayodhya and Gorakhpur in UP. On Thursday, the 12 noon train left for Azamgarh (UP), 5 pm one for Darbangha (Bihar) and the 11 pm one for Gonda (UP). Of these, with 1,320 passengers aboard, the Azamgarh train was the most crowded.SDM Jalandhar-II Rahul Sidhu said: “For eight trains, a cost of Rs50 to 52 lakh has been borne by the state government so far. For each train, the cost averages Rs6 to Rs7 lakh. All passengers on board are also travelling on free tickets, for which the government is bearing all costs. They are also being provided food and water bottles for the journey.”ADC (general) Jalandhar, Jasbir Singh said: “Our staff is working 24 hours to provide safe passage to migrants. It is an unprecedented exercise and over 150 members are employed for every single train. Messages from the control rooms keep beaming late at night. And employees get up early again. For all migrants to go back, it will take nearly a month. But until then, we are on job.”FACTFILE||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-sees-mass-exodus-of-migrants-81981
08-05-2020||I am active on social media a lot these days and have been posting messages to follow social distancing norms to avoid contracting Covid-19. I have been posting messages on WhatsApp and other sites because I know how important it is to adopt hand washing||‘My top priority is to provide ration to all’: Chaudhary Surinder, Kartarpur||My priority is to provide ration to every household in my constituency. Today, also, I am going to distribute packets to nearly 12 villages. I make sure I stay in the field to listen to the problem of people. Also, there is a big concern right now for me about several people who don't have smart cards. So, there is a problem in giving them ration. But I have been taking help from NRIs and other good Samaritans so that no one suffers amid the pandemic.Otherwise, if I talk about my routine, after reading newspapers in the morning, I start calling my team members to know where there is a need for distributing eatables and then I start the working in the field and giving essential things to the needy.(AS TOLD TO Aakanksha)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/my-top-priority-is-to-provide-ration-to-all-chaudhary-surinder-kartarpur-81982
08-05-2020||Jalandhar||Stranded farm labourers queue up to return home in Jalandhar||Hundreds of sugarcane labourers who arrived here in the month of December are eagerly waiting to go back home. While they usually leave by March end and come back in the paddy season, this year they have been stranded due to the lockdown.Tuntun Kumar from Madhepura district in Bihar came here in December and is now trying to go back home as soon as possible. He is eagerly waiting to complete the registration process and go back. “I want to go back. My family is worrying for me and has been calling me daily. A day here seems like a month,” he said.Another agriculture labourer from Bihar said they were waiting for the confirmation and continuously looking at their phones as to when would they receive an SMS. “For the past five months, agricultural labourers from Bihar have been stuck here, longing to go back to their home. Little did we know that the wait would stretch beyond our imagination, testing us every day and night,” he said. There are scores of other migrants like them who are physically present here but their minds are back at their native places.Satnam Sahni, a farmer from Phagwara, said several labourers had applied for registration as they want to go back. “After remaining here for months, they have become restless and are running out of patience. But my only concern is that this home-going in such large numbers do not cause any problem,” he said. He also expressed concern over the fact that the farmer would need labour during the paddy season, but now, they would face problem, as a majority of labourers have applied for the registration.“In villages, several labourers are ready to leave,” he said, adding that there were some who have decided to stay back, so that they can earn in the paddy season and then leave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stranded-farm-labourers-queue-up-to-return-home-in-jalandhar-81983
08-05-2020||Jalandhar||...and add to the worries of farmers||After suffering acute shortage of labour during the harvesting and wheat procurement season last month, farmers are now foreseeing another problem — shortage of migrant workers for sowing paddy.Daily wage labourers, who transplant paddy, are mostly from Bihar and UP. However, with their mass exodus, farmers comprehend that with the shortage of labour, the area under rice cultivation would be reduced. Over 7,000 migrant workers have left for their native villages in the past three days and thousands of others have also registered to go back in subsequent days. With this, the paddy sowing process would be tremendously affected. It is a labour-intensive process and only trained labourers are needed for it. Paddy is sown largely by migrants only.The district produces paddy in an area of around 1,70,000 acre land and 22,000 acre land is used for sowing basmati rice.Farmers said local labourers could definitely be used, but they would demand more than the double amount that they pay to migrants, which eventually would impact their profit.Similarly, Daljit Singh, who grows paddy in an area of around 10 acres, said, it needs more than a dozen people to do the job in all fields for 12-14 hours. We don’t know how we are going to cope with it, Daljit said.Notably, the paddy sowing season begins from June 10-15 onwards and paddy plants are grown a month before.While mechanical transplanting is an available substitute, it needs raising the seedlings in special mat nurseries or trays, but farmers prefer mechanical process as it is cost-effective and prefer manual sowing only. Besides, machines used in transplanting are largely imported and farmers never felt the need to use these when labourers were available.Meanwhile, District Agriculture Officer Surinder Singh also agreed on the shortage of workers for paddy sowing and said they have already started informing farmers about Direct Seeder Rice (DSR) machines that could be used in the absence of labourers. It’s a direct technique to sow paddy saplings. The machine’s cost lies between Rs70,000 to Rs80,000 and 50 per cent subsidy is given to the SC category farmers and 40 per cent to the general category farmers. Diversification of crops would also be promoted, Surinder said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/and-add-to-the-worries-of-farmers-81984
08-05-2020||Jalandhar||Apahaj Sahaik Sabha continues to look after elderly at ashram in tough time||In these testing times that need strict protocol to keep Covid-19 at bay from elderly, Apahaj Ashram in Jalandhar has been following a set of proactive measures for its inmates even with reduced donations and significantly impacted essential services amid the lockdown.Despite a steady stream of donations, rations and cattle fodder, Apahaj Sahaik Sabha has made substitute arrangements at the ashram, which has 150 inmates and 112 cows in its in-house gaushala, to look after elderly.Since the lockdown, outsiders, including donors, have been barred from entering the ashram. Instead of the community kitchen, all inmates get hot tea and food in their dorms. Besides, every inmate has been provided with sanitisers and disinfectants. The ashram has already been sanitised five times.Around 10 inmates are bed-ridden, who are completely dependent on caretakers for any assistance.Tarsem Kapoor (64), chairman, Apahaj Sahaik Sabha, visits the ashram twice a day - two hours in the morning and two hours in the evening. He talked to a donor on Thursday morning to provide mangoes to the inmates.Kapoor, who just disbursed salaries to the ashram staff, said, "We care for them as our parents. Donations have decreased, but not God's blessings as help always pours in. Elderly inmates get tea at 7 am and breakfast at 9 am. They are served lunch at 1 pm and evening tea at 3.30 pm. They have dinner at 7 pm. Come what may, this schedule has been religiously followed. I am trying to get them mangoes now. Fruits are necessary nourishment."The ashram's hospital - Lala Ram Kishor Kapoor Viklang Sahayta Trust - has been closed amid the lockdown because many staff members come from areas, which have been declared containment zones. However, the ashram doctor continues examines the health of inmates twice a week. Earlier, the ashram was providing food to 200 widows daily. But due to the lockdown, the ashram is finding it difficult to feed them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/apahaj-sahaik-sabha-continues-to-look-after-elderly-at-ashram-in-tough-time-81985
08-05-2020||THE lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the business community hard||‘Ailing hotel industry needs relief package to come back on track’||How has lockdown affected hotel units?The industry suffered a major blow after the imposition of the lockdown. There are about 5,000 hotels in Punjab, including 850 in the holy city. There are about 2.5 lakh people employed in these hotels, including 50,000 in Amritsar. Tourism, being the most sensitive industry, ascends the popularity graph, which swiftly leads to rise in its occupancy. A minor issue is enough to spell trouble for the sector, crashing down the occupancy. People have lost their capitals just by sitting in their houses. All hotels have large scale power connections between 100 kW to 800 kvA. These connections have the fixed minimum charge whether one consumes power or not and expenses are imposed. Minimum charges of industries were waived, but hotels which fall under commercial establishments were exempted. Hospitality was granted the industry status in 2012, but it was not implemented.Do you expect resumption of business in near future?Hotels, restaurants and resorts will not likely open even after the curfew as people will abstain from dining out and going for outings. When the government will lift the curfew, it is likely to grant permission to the hospitality sector to resume functioning only with riders as it will avoid gathering of people and ensure social distancing. We recently renovated a hotel and was about to hand over it to a national hospitality chain for functioning from April 1. However, it refused to take over keeping in view the present situation and announced to do the needful after the situation gets normal.How are employers dealing with the issue of salaries?Most of the hotels paid salaries for March. Corporate house-run hotels are offering 30 to 50 per cent salaries. Hotels being run by individuals are not paying salaries for April and have assured the staff to re-employ them when the situation limps back to normalcy.What is the scope of online trade in the industry?About 80 per cent rooms are booked online and the remaining 20 per cent through walk-in. Online booking companies have not made payments to hotels which are receiving calls from customers for reimbursement.Do you consider the current crisis a challenge or an opportunity?For hotels, it is neither a challenge nor an opportunity. A challenge is expected to improve and touch greater heights. About 30 per cent of the hotels and restaurants will never function again. The lockdown has broken the spine.What are your expectations from the government?There is a strong need for government assistance and only a package can revive the industry. In this scenario, we can pay the salaries to staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ailing-hotel-industry-needs-relief-package-to-come-back-on-track-82018
08-05-2020||---||Nawanshahr police launch online portal||Jalandhar, May 7The Nawanshahr police have launched an app, 'STOP (Surveillance of Travellers Online Portal) COVID-19' to ensure that people entering the district from outside are checked and their details are mentioned on the platform.The portal has been made operational at the 14 functional inter-district nakas of Nawanshahr district in which complete details of the person entering the district are mentioned such as the place from which he or she started to their destination, vehicle type and number, whether the person is symptomatic or not and the quarantined place.It makes the monitoring of the persons entering the district convenient as the entire data is available on one platform. Proactive steps can be taken to ensure that the person coming from outside the state is quarantined in the facility and his screening is done.The police said since the inter-state movement of people has increased, it is important to ensure no person enters the district unchecked and he or she is tested and quarantined appropriately to stop the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-police-launch-online-portal-82025
08-05-2020||Our Correspondent||3 booked for extortion, two held||Tanda Urmar, May 7Tanda police have arrested two reporters booking 3 of them for criminal intimidation and extortion of Rs 30,000 from an RMP doctor threatening him of publishing the news that he has opened his clinic during the curfew in Gurala village and action by Health Hepartment and police.RMP doctor Jatinder Singh, a resident of Bans Awan, told the Tanda police that three reporters Amit Khosla, Ravinder Singh, alias Nanakveer Singh, and Kamal Arora, had extorted Rs 30,000 from him.He said he runs a clinic in Gurala village for the past10 years and kept his shop closed due to the lockdown. As there’s no medical store or any doctor nearby in the village, he opened the shop if someone needed medicine in an emergency.On April 13, sarpanch Baljit Kaur called her to provide medicine to some children. While he was giving medicines to the children of four families, Amit Khosla and Ravinder Singh, alias Nanakveer, started photographing his shop. Panch Bhulla Singh, stopped them and said they had called the doctor. On it, both of them left.Later, the sarpanch of the village also told them that she had called the doctor.The complainant said when he went home, in the evening Kamal Arora from local Press Club called him and said press reporters had taken photos of his open shop and the complaint had also reached the SMO, Tanda.He threatened him that they would publish a news in this regard in the morning newspaper and there would be separate action from the SMO and the police and he would not get the bail for six months.In the evening, his friend William approached him and said Amit and Ravinder had called him to meet in Jalalpur. When they went there, Ravinder and Amit demanded Rs 50,000 from him for not publishing the news. When he said he could not pay such a big amount. They talked to Kamal Arora over phone and settled the deal for Rs 30,000.The accused were reportedly handed over the said amount. They threatened him that if he told anyone about this, they would get a case filed against him through SMO and police.The police have registered a case last night under Sections 384, 506 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code and arrested two suspects Ravinder and Amit. Raids for the arrest of the third accused Kamal were on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-booked-for-extortion-two-held-82026
08-05-2020||---||6,698 complete home quarantine||Jalandhar, May 7As many as 6,698 persons have completed their home quarantine period of 14 days since the lockdown/ curfew has been imposed in the city.Around 7,730 persons were home quarantined by the Health Department for being in contact with the Covid-19 persons, of whom 6,698 have successfully completed their home quarantine period. Quarantine period of another 1,032 persons is active.Question mark over Covid samplesQuestions were raised over delayed samples and unaccounted for samples in the district during Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu's visit to Jalandhar last evening. Members of the media asked the Health Minister to direct the Health Department to come clean on samples in the district which couldn't be accounted for and also to explain unnecessary delays.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-698-complete-home-quarantine-82027
08-05-2020||Jalandhar||Fitness freaks switch to yoga, take virtual lessons||With the country entering the lockdown 3.0, people are opting for various measures to cope up with boredom, anxiety and depression. Missing out on their workouts in clubs and grounds, fitness fanatics are utilising the confinement by practising yoga everyday.Staying fitTaking motivation from the social media, the exercise enthusiasts have even adopted a 15-day yoga challenge. With the extension of every lockdown, the yoga challenge stretches further. Netizens are challenging each other with different yogasansTaking motivation from the social media, the exercise enthusiasts have even adopted a 15-day yoga challenge. With the extension of every lockdown, the yoga challenge stretches further. Netizens are challenging each other with different yogasans.Sachin Sharma (26), who has been performing yoga for over an year now, said, it not only helped them shape the body, but also relaxed their mind. “Learning to know about basic and extensive postures, my peers have also started devoting their time in yoga. With easy-to-do stretches, one can rapidly programme one's body in performing comprehensive asanas”, added Sachin, who urged people of every age group to deal daytime fatigue with yoga.Similarly, Rupinder Singh, a kabaddi player said, since they couldn't hit the grounds while the curfew was on, yoga seemed to be a good escape. “It's a great tool as stretching poses help to reduce tension in muscles and joints, and this can, in turn, help relax the sympathetic system,” he said.Deepak Sharma, who is currently providing virtual yoga sessions to his clients in abroad and in the city, said even as his yoga centre had been lying shut for the last two months, the online sessions had been in progress.On a daily basis, he conducts online sessions for around eight hours, for both local and international clients. “There are some basic yoga poses such as vraksh asan, tarasan, manmudra asan, Om chant, pranayam, parwat asan and others, that help manage blood pressure, build immunity and maintain body and mind balance,” said Deepak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fitness-freaks-switch-to-yoga-take-virtual-lessons-82028
08-05-2020||Jalandhar||11 more test +ve, tally reaches 148||1 more death in hoshiarpurHoshiarpur: A Hoshiarpur resident died during treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital Amritsar on Wednesday. The said person’s Covid-19 test report was found positive on Thursday. With this, the number of Covid-19 patients in the district has gone up to 90, while the number of deceased has increased to three. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh said Harnek Singh (55) of Harkhowal reported to the Civil Hospital on May 3 in a critical condition. He had renal failure and jaundice. Keeping in view his critical condition, he was referred to Government Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar. He died on May 6, while on May 7, his Covid-19 test report was found positive. His body has not reached Hoshiarpur yet. On Thursday, 46 new samples of people, who came in contact with positive Covid patients were taken. OCNo Covid-19 case in PhagwaraPhagwara: A total of 14 patients admitted to the local Civil Hospital were tested negative, out of total 57. The reports of total 43 patients admitted to the Phagwara Civil Hospital are still awaited, said Senior Medical Officer (SMO) Dr Kamal Kishore. Out of 43 patients, samples of 19 patients were taken on Thursday. The SMO said meanwhile all 14 patients, who were tested negative were discharged from Civil Hospital Phagwara and sent for “Home Quarantine.” The SMO said all 18 patients, who were tested negative were sent to the hostel of GNA University, Phagwara, were also sent to their respective homes for “Home Quarantine”. SMO Dr Kishore advised the people to follow social distancing as preventive measures. 527 Arrested for Violation: Kapurthala Senior Superintendent of Police Satinder Singh said as many as 335 FIRs were registered and 527 persons were arrested in Kapurthala district since the imposition of the curfew. A total of 90 vehicles of the curfew violators have been impounded till now. OCBurglars loot NRI’s housePhagwara: A house, belonging to an NRI, Jai Rani Bhardwaj, was reportedly burgled in the Adarsh Nagar locality here on Tuesday night. Sumit Bhardwaj, nephew of the victim, said the police here on Wednesday that the suspects entered the house by jumping over the boundary wall, broke open the locks and decamped with two gold bangles, a pair of earrings, a gas cylinder, two inverters and Rs 4,000 in cash. The police have registered a case. OCGirl missing since TuesdayNakodar: A 23-year-old girl, a resident of Bhullaran village, has been missing for the past two days. Nirmal Singh, father of the girl, complained to the police on Thursday that his daughter, Rajvir Kaur, went from the house without telling anybody on Tuesday evening on her scooter (PB 08 DW 1076) but did not return. Station House Officer Surinder Kumar said a case had been registered in this regard. OC‘State will be free from Covid-19’Hoshiarpur: Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said Mission Fateh initiated by the state government would soon free the state from the Civid-19. At a meeting held with officials at the District Administrative Complex, Hoshiarpur, on Wednesday, he reviewed the Covid-19 relief operations in the district. He said the government has not left any stone unturned in providing medicines and health services to the people, adding that sampling will be expedited at the district-level. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/11-more-test-ve-tally-reaches-148-82029
