08-08-2020||---||Rajya Sabha MP Naresh Gujral tests positive for Covid-19||New Delhi, August 8Punjab Rajya Sabha MP Naresh Gujral tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, a day after he attended a parliamentary standing committee meeting along with several other MPs.Gujral had given sample for testing on Thursday after one of his staff at home tested positive for the virus.Following the test report, he has been advised home isolation.Gujral had taken Covid test about 10 days ago, as there was a plan to travel and the report had then come negative.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader said he was asymptomatic and fine and that he had informed the Rajya Sabha Secretariat about his infection.The meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on personnel, public grievances, law and justice was held following social distancing norms and members wore face masks during it, he said.After reports came in that Gujral tested positive for COVID-19, TMC Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien again raised the demand for holding meeting of  parliamentary standing committees virtually, asserting that there was enough scope to tweak rules.“An MP who attended a parliamentary standing committee meeting on Thursday, tested positive today. We wish him a speedy recovery. Trinamool MPs are not attending. For 4 months we have been urging that these meetings happen virtually. Enough scope to tweak rules. Anyone listening!” O’Brien tweeted. With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rajya-sabha-mp-naresh-gujral-tests-positive-for-covid-19-123833
08-08-2020||Avneet Kaur||In a first, state survey to give impetus to school education in Punjab||Jalandhar, August 7With an aim to strengthen the school education system more effectively, the state Education Department, under the leadership of Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla and Education Secretary Krishan Kumar, is all set to conduct the Punjab Achievement Survey (PAS), a first-of-its kind initiative by any state.As per information, the PAS would not only prepare the students and teachers for the ‘National Achievement Survey’ well in advance but this exercise would go a long way in further strengthening the foundation of understanding level as well as enhancing the reasoning ability of the students.The PAS would be conducted in all the government schools of the state and the students from primary to Class XII would also participate in it. “It will be based on the parameters of the National Achievement Survey and the learning outcome of the students would be assessed on the basis of Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs) as per the prescribed syllabus of selective subjects, including English, Science, Math and social studies of different classes,” said Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla, adding that with this, they also aimed at achieving the first rank in the National Achievement Survey.He said to prepare the students as well as the teachers for the survey, a comprehensive programme of organising quiz in August and mock tests from September has been planned. “A training programme of the district mentors, block mentors, Parho Punjab District Coordinators (PPDCs), Block Master Trainers (BMTs) and Cluster Master Trainers (CMTs) has already been started. The question bank to develop comprehensibility of the basic concepts of different subjects among the students is being prepared,” he added.Besides, with a view to conduct the PAS meticulously, the department has also started organising webinars to sensitise the DEO, Deputy District Education Officers, Block Primary Education Officers, Parho Punjab Parhao Punjab Coordinators, Zila Sikhiya Sudhar Teams and Social Media Coordinators about the parametres, tools, procedures for the survey, so that all of them could play their role.Education Secretary Krishan Kumar said, “The officials and the teachers of the Education Department have braved the unprecedented pandemic and have done exceptionally well to provide quality education through digital mode to make ‘Ghar Baithe Sikhiya’ programme successful. Now, I am sure that they would successfully execute the PAS.”He further said as the education was a tri-polar process, the parents should also be involved to ensure successful execution of the survey.Know Punjab Achievement SurveyHow will it help?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-a-first-state-survey-to-give-impetus-to-school-education-in-punjab-123529
08-08-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||11 years on, NIIFT, Jalandhar, likely to start admissions this year||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 7Nearly 11 years since the Department of Industries had acquired the site for Northern India Institute of Fashion Technology (NIIFT) at the Guru Gobind Singh Avenue, classes for BSc (Fashion Technology) may finally start in this academic year.But even now, it is only the academic wing of the building which is ready while the construction work of the administrative block is still on. Since classes will most likely be held through online mode in the first semester, the officials intend to operate from the academic block as of now and are expecting construction work to be over by then.The department is also yet to recruit staff for beginning teaching work for 30 students. A team of IKG Punjab Technical University has already conducted inspection here this week and an approval for affiliation and a formal notification for starting admission in the course are still to come.The project was started in 2009 during the tenure of then local BJP MLA and Minister Manoranjan Kalia. The construction work was started at an estimated cost of nearly Rs 9 crore by the Punjab Small Industries Export Corporation but as the project got late, more funds were required which left the project hanging.Residents of the area, including industrialist Rajan Gupta, repeatedly approached the local Congress MLA to get the project started for which an additional grant of Rs 1.85 crore was required, which took some time to be released. While the project went into a limbo, the government had already started admissions expecting construction work to be over soon. Classes were started temporarily in the campus of Government Tanning Institute on Nakodar Road that did not have any required set up. The course could continue for only few years as only 15-20 students took admission, who had to pass out with no proper practical training and no-hands on experience provided by the government. The institute, sans any infrastructure of its own, kept levying Rs 68,900 per semester as fee.Poonam Aggarwal, Director, NIIFT, Mohali, who has additional charge of Jalandhar, said, “After all the initial hiccups, we are finally relieved that things have fallen on track. “We are expecting affiliation any time which will enable us to start our classes in this semester. Our academic block is completely ready with fittings in place. Appointment of faculty too would be done soon.” IKGPTU Vice Chancellor Dr Ajay Sharma too confirmed that inspection had been done and further documentation would be followed.Work delayed for want of funds||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/11-years-on-niift-jalandhar-likely-to-start-admissions-this-year-123530
08-08-2020||Avneet Kaur||Once home to fuel station, Ladowali road turns into garbage dump||Jalandhar, August 7When it comes to guessing a thing found most common on roads, markets, public places and residential colonies here, the very first image popping up in mind is that of a garbage dump. Heaps of waste lying unattended at every nook and cranny of the city has, as if, penetrated the subconscious side.Roshni, a commuter, said, “The condition of the road speaks of the sorry state of the affairs of so-called Smart City Jalandhar.”Moreover, at this time of the season when cleanliness needs to be a priority for the Municipal Corporation (MC), it seems like the officials are done with the job. The Ladowali road – the half stretch of which has turned into a dump yard — leading to the District Administrative Complex and SSP (rural) office is a crystal clear picture shredding to pieces the claims of the civic body’s ‘Clean and Green Jalandhar’.The commuters complained that during the rains, heaps of waste flows from roadside and intersection towards the center of road, rendering severe inconvenience. “The road is the main route to DC office, PUDA Complex and many residential colonies, but still none bothers about its upkeep. The condition is really deplorable. Stray dogs and cattle keep making rounds of the heap time and again, but still none bothers about its maintenance”, said Kanwaljeet Singh, a shopkeeper.The empty plot on the road used to be a fuel station – now, seemingly a midden. “It’s been years now that the petrol pump has been closed and the plot has been converted into dumping ground. Many times shopkeepers, residents of nearby localities have apprised MC about the poor garbage lying unattended here, but they never paid heed to our pleas,” Singh told.A resident of the P&T Colony said, “We can’t permit our children to play or even take a dog for a walk. The conditions of the area just don’t allow. The garbage is a threat to our health and an invitation to many diseases, but no one has bothered to tour the area and ask about our problems.”Meanwhile, when contacted, Mayor Jagdish Raja, said the MC has on many occasions lifted the garbage from the site but a section of residents, shopkeepers from the area wash away all the efforts by dumping waste time and again. “The councilor of the area in the past had carried out many sanitation drives and got the waste lifted, but the residents have failed to maintain the cleanliness”, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/once-home-to-fuel-station-ladowali-road-turns-into-garbage-dump-123531
08-08-2020||---||2 more die; Civil Surgeon’s steno among 104 test +ve in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, August 7A DSP, an inspector of CIA staff, an assistant (steno) of the Jalandhar Civil Surgeon, Congress leader Jasleen Sethi and councillor Bunty Neelkanth are among the 104 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Friday.The district also reported the death of two persons in the district. The first victim has been identified as a 50-year-old woman, a resident of Tej Mohan Nagar, who had coronary heart disease. She died at a medical college in Amritsar. The second victim has been identified as a 55-year-old man, a resident of Garden Colony. She died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.With new cases, the district tally reached 2,911 and the death toll reached remained at 75. While reports of the Jalandhar Civil Surgeon testing positive have been doing the rounds since afternoon, this has formally been denied by health officials.However, with the Civil Surgeon’s steno testing positive for the Covid-19 pandemic, the samples of those posted at the Civil Surgeon’s office were being taken. The sampling of some of the employees had already begun this afternoon. Nodal Officer, Jalandhar, Dr TP Singh said, “As the civil surgeon has not been tested so far, nothing can be said whether she has contracted the virus or not.”Those who tested positive are from areas such as Lamma Pind, Model Town, Kabir Nagar, New Kailash Nagar, Bhargo Camp, Basti Mitthu, Ram Nagar, Vikrampura, Ishwar Nagar, Kala Sanghian Road, Basti Sheikh, Gadaipur, Urban Estate and other areas.Meanwhile, 21 persons tested positive in Kapurthala district on Friday. Of the fresh cases, seven are women. The cases were reported from Sheikhpur, Bholath, Lambi Gate Phagwara, Mewa Singh Wala, Hussainpur, Mohabbat Nagar, Jahangirpur, a pregnant woman from Begowal, Sultanpur Lodhi, Ibrahimwal, Kothi, Palahi Gate and the RCF.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-more-die-civil-surgeons-steno-among-104-test-ve-in-jalandhar-district-123532
08-08-2020||---||1,084 cases, 1,130 arrests for bootlegging in past 7 months||Jalandhar, August 7To tighten the noose around traders of illicit liquor, the Jalandhar Commissionerate police and the Jalandhar Rural police registered 1,084 cases and arrested 1,130 persons involved in the liquor smuggling, bootlegging and illicit distillation of liquor, besides seizing 3,59,510 kg of lahan, from January 1 to July 31.The Commissioner of Police, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, said 496 cases had been registered at various police stations and 557 persons arrested in the city. Bhullar said the Commissionerate police had also recovered 1,430 kg of lahan, 167 litres of illicit liquor and 15,094 litres of English wine. He said preventive action had also been taken against 68 smugglers in the city.Jalandhar (Rural) SSP Satinder Singh said the Rural police registered 588 cases and nabbed 573 persons during the period. He said the police recovered 3,58,080 kg of lahan, 7,100 litres of illicit liquor and 26,994 litres of English wine.The two police officials said joint teams of officials of the Police and Excise Departments would be formed at sub-division level for round-the-clock vigil on illicit liquor trade. They said strict action was being taken against those involved in the trade, including government officials, under relevant provisions of the Excise Act, the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-084-cases-1-130-arrests-for-bootlegging-in-past-7-months-123533
08-08-2020||---||55 Seechewal model-based ponds to be developed in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, AugusT 7 To ensure recharging of groundwater table which is already depleting and to use the treated water for irrigation purposes, through an eco-friendly method, the district administration will develop 55 ponds based on the Seechewal model during the current financial year. All 11 blocks will have such five model ponds in the district. Additional Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal said the construction work had been started in 11 villages of various blocks in the district under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). Sarangal said funds ranging between Rs 16-17 lakh would be incurred on the construction of each pond. The ADC said under this model, the used water draining out of houses and other sources, passes through three wells where solid and oily waste are segregated, before flowing into the pond. He said refined liquid then flows into the pond and remains stagnant for at least seven days, which helps kill the germs in water naturally. Then it can be used to irrigate the crops through pumps. He said this model helped in recharging groundwater table as sewage water would be treated into three wells and the same would be used for irrigation and farmers would not have a need to depend upon other sources. He added that the Punjab government was making concerted efforts to save the groundwater from depleting further either by plantation of saplings, increasing green cover, promoting maize and other crops, which use less water, drip irrigation or installing rainwater harvesting systems in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/55-seechewal-model-based-ponds-to-be-developed-in-jalandhar-district-123534
08-08-2020||---||Civic issues aplenty in Jalandhar city's Ward No. 22||Jalandhar, August 7Prabh Dayal, councillor of Ward No. 22, sat on a dharna on Friday at the Municipal Corporation complex to protest against the no solution to severe problems the residents of the ward have been going through for last several months.He said that his protest was against the ‘afsarshahi’ prevalent in the MC’s premises. He said that the officers didn’t listen to him despite the fact that he had been raising the issue for long.The most serious problem is the accumulation of sewage water in various areas. It has made the lives of the residents difficult. Such is the gravity of the problem that even the toilets of many households are clogged exposing the residents to serious health. if this wasn’t enough, there is a huge waste dump also which hasn’t been lifted for long.The councillor said that under the policy Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna, some of the families had applied but as they neither received grant nor any help from the MC, they were forced to live either in temples or dharamshalas.“We are more scared of these infrastructural issues than the coronavirus,” a resident was quoted as saying. After Dayal sat on dharna along with the dwellers, he was approached by the Mayor Jagdish Raja who assured him that all issues would be resolved. The Mayor also called for a meeting of the branch officers with the councillor so that the latter could confront the officials.Dayal said, “I have been elected as the councillor by these people and I will fight for them no matter what. He added: “I have given an ultimatum till Wednesday to resolve the issues, failing which I shall intensify the protest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/civic-issues-aplenty-in-jalandhar-citys-ward-no-22-123535
08-08-2020||---||Jadla Government College under construction, students study in gurdwara||Nawanshahr, August 7To cater to students of 50-60 villagesBeing the only government college in the village, it will cater to the students from around 50-60 nearby villages, if built properly. Also, the fee is less but due to incomplete works, it is being reported that some families in nearby areas are double-minded regarding the college would be completed or not.The classes commenced two years back in August 2018, but not where it should have been. It’s a gurdwara where students of Government College, Jadla, in Nawanshahr, have been studying. The incomplete works of the building have forced them to do so. It was to be completed by March 2020.Two years on, the work is still in progress — the stone of which was laid on March 10, 2019. At present, only 42 per cent of the work has got completed. Nawanshahr MLA Angad Saini said in a week perhaps, funds more than Rs 1 crore would be released. “At present the colleges and schools have not resumed because of the pandemic. But the funds should have come on time, and the work should have got completed in the last six months but it has not happened yet,” the MLA said.As per the information, approximately Rs 12 crore will be spent on the construction of the building of the college that is being built on 5 acres. The college is offering BA and BCom courses.Being the only government college in the village, it will cater to the students from around 50-60 nearby villages, if built properly. Also, the fee is less but due to incomplete works, it is being reported that some families in nearby areas are double-minded regarding the college would be completed or not. Hence, they are thinking twice before sending their wards to the college for higher studies.In the gurdwara, where the students were studying, four rooms are provided. Earlier, a private school was running at the gurdwara. Now, it houses around 50 students of the college and six lecturers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jadla-government-college-under-construction-students-study-in-gurdwara-123536
08-08-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar district to have 55 model playfields in rural belt||Aiming to promote the sports culture among the youths belonging to rural areas, the district administration has decided to build as many as 55 model playfields in Jalandhar. Disclosing more details, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Vishesh Sarangal said five model playfields would be constructed in each block of Jalandhar and work on 22 model playfields would be started within this week. The ADC further said an amount of Rs 1.31 crore would be incurred on the construction of 22 playfields. The model playfields will be constructed on one-acre land and will have volleyball, kabaddi and basketball grounds in them, besides walking area, solar camp lighting and boundary walls. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-to-have-55-model-playfields-in-rural-belt-123537
08-08-2020||---||IKGPTU signs pact with Cambridge varsity dept||Jalandhar, August 7 To enhance the employability of students and to develop their communication skills for getting jobs in the global sector, IK Gujral Punjab Technical University has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Cambridge Assessment English, a department of the university of Cambridge. The MoU will support only students of IKGPTU, its campuses and affiliated colleges across the state. The MoU aims to enhance the English language proficiency of all students of IKGPTU and redefine the scope and creating access to language learning of the students. From the university side, Vice-Chancellor Ajay Kumar Sharma and from the Cambridge side, Regional Director-South Asia TK Arunachalam signed the MoU. The Cambridge department will develop a systematic method to improve the English language skills of students through continuous assessments, benchmarked on international standards. Cambridge Assessment English is a not-for-profit department of the University of Cambridge. It helps people learn English and prove their skills to the world, and every year provides English language exams and tests to more than five million people in 130 countries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ikgptu-signs-pact-with-cambridge-varsity-dept-123538
08-08-2020||Strap||‘Make Punjabi administrative language of Punjab’||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, August 7 | Punjabi should be the administrative language of all government and non-government offices in the entire Punjab – this was stated by the members of the Punjabi Bhasha Manch which called for all formal state business and legislative work in the state to be conducted in the Punjabi language hence forth. The declaration was made at the Vidya Dham, Jalandhar, which is the headquarters for the Jalandhar wing of the Vidya Bharti Akhil Bharti Shiksha Sansthan – the education affiliate of the RSS.In the presence of Vijay Nadda, organising Secretary Vidya Bharti, North-Zone, a declaration was made regarding the constitution of the Punjabi Bhasha Manch – to carry out the task or propagating Punjabi language. The committee, comprising members of the Punjabi Bhasha Manch were present on the occasion. The six members of the committee include - Desh Raj Sharma, National Convener Shiksha Sanskriti Uthan Nyas and Chief Patron, Punjabi Bhasha Manch; Jawahar Lal Siwiyan Advocate, Convener, Punjabi Bhasha Manch; Dr Baljinder Thakur, Ex-Member Punjab State Human Rights Commission, Chandigarh and Co-Convenor, Punjabi Bhasha Manch, Dr. Suman Sharma, Rtd. Principal Govt. College, Mansa, Co-Convenor, Punjabi Bhasha Manch; Dr. Sukhjinder Rishi – Associate Professor Punjabi Government College, Dhuri, Co-Convenor, Punjabi Bhasha Manch and Vishal Garg Advocate Punjab & Haryana High Court, Chandigarh.Co-Convenor, Punjabi Bhasha Manch. Speaking on the occasion, members the forum said they would take the demands of the people to the Governor of Punjab. They said, “The idea of the Punjabi Bhasha Manch is that Punjabi is our mother tongue. Therefore, Punjabi should be the language of all government and non-government offices in the entire Punjab as well as in the country and abroad.” Their prime demands included - decisions made in English in the High Courts and Supreme Courts, along with all the District Courts of Punjab, be made available in Punjabi. Additionally, the government should appoint the translators who code translate orders in Punjabi language - in the courts at the earliest. Their second demand stated that according to the Punjab Raj Language Act 1967, the Legislative Assembly should enact laws in English as well as Punjabi and do other business. Section 5 of the Punjab Raj Bhasha Act, 1967, allows the Punjab Legislative Assembly to enact all the laws in English as well as Punjabi, but till date, the Punjab Legislative Assembly is preparing all the drafts of the law in English itself. They said till now, the decisions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court were only in English. They said English was not the language of common people of Punjab. They demanded the Punjab government to adopt the necessary legal process in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/make-punjabi-administrative-language-of-punjab-123540
08-08-2020||---||Mehr Chand Polytechnic College unsafe: Principals to MLA||Jalandhar, August 7The Principals of DAV Colleges today met Congress Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry regarding the dilapidated condition of Mehr Chand Polytechnic.Principals Dr Ajay Sareen, Principal HMV College, Jalandhar, Dr Manoj Kumar, Principal, DAV Engineering College, Dr Jagroop Singh, Principal, Mehr Chand Polytechnic, Dr Sanjeev Sood, D.A.V Ayurvedic College, Dr Jatinder Sharma, DAV Physiotherapy and Dr Vijay Sharma, Principal, Mehr Chand Polytechnic, said that the institutes, which was established in 1994, has been declared unsafe by the executive engineer Bhagwinder Singh Tuli , Provincial division of PWD Jalandhar. They further said now executive engineer was intending to re-inspect the building so as to change his earlier report under pressure. Dr. Vijay Sharma said that in the certificate issued by executive engineer Bhagwinder Singh Tuli , it is clearly mentioned that all the building blocks of Mehr Chand Polytechnic are in dilapidated condition and are dangerous to use for students and staff hence declared unsafe. DAV Principles also said if executive engineer tries to change the report then strong action will be taken for the safety of the students and staff. MLA Bawa Henry assured for every possible help for the interest of the safety of students and public in general.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mehr-chand-polytechnic-college-unsafe-principals-to-mla-123542
08-08-2020||---||Poisonous gas claims 2 lives at Lohian Khas||Jalandhar, August 7Two workers of a mentha plant died after inhaling poisonous gas at Lohian Khas village here this morning.The deceased have been identified as Phumann Singh (40) and his brother Pala Singh, residents of Mundi Chohlian village.Investigating Officer Kulwindar Singh said both went down into the well and fell unconscious. They had to be pulled out by co-workers and were rushed to a clinic at Lohian Khas. The doctors declared them brought dead. Another worker, who too became unconscious, is under treatment.On the statement of Gurmit Singh, son of Pala Singh, the police have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. The bodies were sent for a postmortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/poisonous-gas-claims-2-lives-at-lohian-khas-123546
08-08-2020||---||Government employees go on strike||Jalandhar, August 7Employees of the state government under the Joint Action Committee on Thursday went on a pen-down strike and decided to stop the working of as many as 45 departments till August 16.Though there are a large number of driving licence cases pending, the tests being conducted by the Transport Department have been put off for 10 days now. Sukhjeet Singh, president of the committee, said, “All government services in the departments have been withheld owing to the anti-employee policy of the state.”They demanded that the old pension scheme be restored, the recommendations of the Pay Commission implemented, pending DA instalments paid and an equal work equal pay model followed for them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/government-employees-go-on-strike-123547
08-08-2020||Jalandhar||Protests over hooch deaths||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/protests-over-hooch-deaths-123548
