08-06-2020||Phagwara||80 volunteers donate blood||A total of 80 Youth Congress volunteers donated blood at a blood donation camp organised by the District Youth Congress (DYC) and headed by District president Saurav Khullar here on Sunday. Phagwara Youth congress president, Karamdeep, said the blood donation camp was dedicated to former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, IAS, inaugurated the camp. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/80-volunteers-donate-blood-95955
08-06-2020||---||SAD raking up Khalistan issue via SGPC, says Nimisha Mehta||Jalandhar, June 7Condemning the move of SGPC Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and SGPC Chief Gobind Singh Longowal to support the formation of Khalistan, Congress leader and PPCC member Nimisha Mehta on Sunday said the SAD was trying to play with Sikh sentiments by fanning the Khalistan issue through the SGPC Jathedar and Chief.She said the SGPC worked according to the whims and fancies of the Badal family. "Sukhbir Badal and his party is trying to rake up the issue of Khalistan through the SGPC office-bearers," she said.She said forming Khalistan would be a repeat of the Partition for Sikhs settled in other states and Hindus settled in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sad-raking-up-khalistan-issue-via-sgpc-says-nimisha-mehta-95956
08-06-2020||Our Correspondent||‘Properties of 38 drug smugglers to be seized’||Phagwara, June 7In a major breakthrough after attaching the properties worth Rs 14.24 crore of 26 drug smugglers in May, the Kapurthala district police, headed by Kapurthala Senior Superintendent of the Police Satinder Singh, have now sent its recommendations to the competent authorities to attach the properties worth Rs 9,79,00,825 of other 38 drug smugglers soon .This was stated by SSP Satinder Singh while talking to The Tribune here on Saturday. He said the competent authorities have approved to attach properties worth Rs 2,78,45,234 of eight drugs smugglers while the approval for attaching the properties worth Rs 7,00,55,591 of 30 more drugs smugglers would be cleared in the coming few days.A huge quantity of contrabands, including opium, puppy husk and heroin, had been recovered from the smugglers. The Senior Superintendent of Police and Superintendent of Police (Investigation) Manpreet Dhillon on Saturday said the step had been taken as per the guidelines issued under the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators Act and Section 68F (2) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.The Senior Superintendent of Police said fighting the drug menace was their top priority in the district. He said earlier the properties worth Rs 2,85,21,000 of five drug smugglers had been attached after getting approval of the competent authority for attachment of their properties in the month of February this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/properties-of-38-drug-smugglers-to-be-seized-95951
08-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Four migrants tested +ve in Phagwara block||Phagwara, June 7Four labourers, who came to work in fields in Myopatti village in the Phagwara block, have tested positive for Covid-19. The Health Department has started tracing of contacts of the labourers.According to Senior Medical Officer (SMO), Phagwara, six persons had came here from Moradabad on June 2 to plant paddy. After which, as soon as the Health Department received the information, they were isolated in a house and their samples were collected, out of which four reports came positive today and two were found to be negative.According to health sources, these include a 33-year-old woman, a 40-year-old man, a 20-year-old man and a 15-year-old person. The Chief Medical Offcier said the Covid-19 positive people were being sent to the isolation centre in Kapurthala and their two other negative co-workers were also being kept in home quarantine for 14 days. According to a source, the men had came from UP to work here and were scheduled to leave on Monday but now the situation had become clear due to the report.When contacted, MO, Dr Raghbir said these persons were on the outskirts of the village and as per the information received on the spot, they have not came in contact with anyone so far but the Health Department are investigating the matter. He appealed to the people not to be panic at all but to be aware of it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-migrants-tested-ve-in-phagwara-block-95952
08-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Farmer invents new machine for transplantation of paddy||Phagwara, June 7Though the Covid epidemic has made life bitter for all, it has forced courageous farmers to do something new and look for new opportunities.At a time when everyone is thinking about the problem of labour, the enterprising farmer Jagtar Singh Jagga of Nano Mallian village in the district surprised everyone by inventing a new machine for sowing seeds on mats for a paddy transplanter machine. This machine is being liked by farmers.Gursimran Singh, Jagtar Singh and Varinder Singh of Chakoki village in Block Dhilwan, realising the shortage of labour, decided to do something new and together in the first year of planting paddy on their own and other farmers’ rent.Thought of a new experience. Leaving behind the idea of going abroad, these youngsters, who had planted 100 acres of cheese in Raghbir Singh’s fields in the first year alone, struggled with new methods till late at night with their comrades. Gradually, they mastered the intricacies of this technique.Under the guidance of Gursimran, these impossibilities were made possible by adhering to the principle of ‘need is the mother of invention’. Sowing and rearing seeds for such a large area in the first year itself is not an easy task, which is highly commendable.The department of agriculture, had for a long time been encouraging the farmers to plant paddy with the help of machine, the foundation of which was laid by the Secretary, Agriculture, and Farmers, Welfare, Punjab.It was kept by Kahan Singh Pannu, who is now starting to get bored and these young men are the obvious proof of this. These farmers have proved that Punjabi youth can do anything.Chief Agriculture Officer Nazar Singh said with the planting of paddy by machine, the shortage of labour could be reduced. He said efforts had been made to solve this problem by mechanizing paddy sowing in the district and so far about 65 paddy transplanters and 121 drills for direct sowing had been provided in the district on subsidy basis.Paddy sowing is likely to be mechanized in an area of one thousand hectares. He said many enterprising farmers of Kapurthala district were supporting each other which was expected to yield good results.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmer-invents-new-machine-for-transplantation-of-paddy-95949
08-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Monkey menace haunts Talwara residents||Hoshiarpur, June 7Monkeys have wrecked havoc in Talwara area of district. A large troop of monkeys in the area, has been causing trouble for the residents here. They can be seen on rooftops, courtyards, roads, market and temples, terrifying people. Women visiting the market are more vulnerable. Troops of monkeys keep wandering around, ruining goods and trying to harm people.Monkeys have been coming from neighbouring forests of Himachal Pradesh and surrounding areas of Talwara. With nothing to eat, monkeys have been coming to Talwara. I urge the people not to feed them. — Gusharan Singh, DFOThe monkey menace has been more rampant in sector number two. Despite this, neither Nagar Panchayat, Talwara, nor the district administration is taking any steps.Monkeys have taken refuge in the temple of the area. There is panic in the quarters near the city’s local Sri Guru Harikishan Public School. Employees living in the residential complex and commuters on the Talwara-Hajipur GT Road, are the most terrified lot.In the blink of an eye, the eatables have been taken away by monkeys. DFO Gusharan Singh of the Wildlife Department, Hoshiarpur, said these monkeys have been coming from neighbouring forests of Himachal Pradesh and surrounding areas of Talwara. With nothing to eat, monkeys have been coming to Talwara. He urged the local people not to feed them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/monkey-menace-haunts-talwara-residents-95950
08-06-2020||Open House||Open malls, hotels, restaurants but with caution||Right move but extra precautions to be takenThe decision of the MHA regarding the opening of shopping malls, hotels and restaurants and places of worship is right, though Covid-19 cases are on the rise. Religion is ingrained in the psyche of Indians. It gives them solace and peace of mind in such distressing times. Mamta Banerjee has taken the right decision of not allowing more than 10 persons at one time in any place of worship. Other establishments have suffered huge economic losses due to the lockdown and curfew. They should have been suitably compensated with some financial help by the government like the way it is being done in the US, Canada and Europe. Even after opening, precautions have to be taken such as not allowing customers beyond 30 per cent capacity, wearing masks as mandatory and maintaining social distancing. As the graph of the pandemic is rising in the country, we have to be extra careful.Dr JS WadhwaA premature and risky stepAllowing opening of shopping malls, hotels, restaurants and places of worship in Lockdown 5.0 is a premature step which is fraught with avoidable risks. Since all essential services are restored and people in general are not facing any difficulty, opening of these places can be still deferred for at least a month or so as Covid cases are on the rise. The people would hardly comply with the social distancing norms, especially during public gatherings. None of these establishments that will be allowed to open in coming days are indispensable for a common man. Any wrong step at this juncture can be fatal and undone efforts made so far to contain and the deadly virus. However, the issue of financial losses to these commercial entities can be addressed later by granting them appropriate economic relief.Jagdish ChanderDecision will turn situation to worseCovid-19 has successfully introduced a new state of living for humans, the new normal of the lockdown, owing to pervasive adoption of prolonged 4 phases of lockdown. India is indebted for this success for entering Lockdown 5.0. This has helped the nation to gain appreciation in the international arena for minimal (around 6,000) deaths as on June 2 considering its population of 135.26 crore. On the other hand, countries which have acted negligently, such as the US and the UK, have seen a high rise of 1,09,000 and 39,728 causalities, respectively. The decision of the Ministry of Home Affairs, to open places of “public entertainment”, will accelerate the spread of the virus due to positive persons’ contact with others. What was prevented for so long is set to explode. Further, the Health Ministry has shifted responsibility to healthcare workers to train themselves and be safe from Covid. Hence, the onus is on the individual to protect oneself as the state dissociates from taking accountability.Pahul SondhMove to open malls, eateries justifiableThe first phase of lockdown started on March 23 with nearly 500 cases. Since then we are witnessing a steep rise in Covid cases. The numbers surge exponentially during lockdown 4.0, which itself shows the poor state of affairs. Unlike the West, no proper testing is done at the ground level. In view of the declining economy, the decision to open malls, hotels and restaurants to a limited extent seems to be justifiable but opening of places of worship and interstate movements will raise eyebrows. Are the places of worship a part of our economic model? And even if they are, is there any planning to control the pandemic, especially at shrines which witness high footfall? A same liberal approach in opening of inter state movements will prove to be suicidal. It’s high time that we people realise that the war against Covid is now majorly on our shoulders and we as citizens have to play our role diligently without expecting any major help from our governments.Ishan Chauhan AdvocatePeople should follow norms strictlyThe MHA has recently announced to open shopping malls, hotels and worship places, which is a good decision. Now the question is: “Are people ready to follow all norms in an appropriate manner?” People should not get overexcited, prevent shaking hands with anyone, and should not hug their friends or relatives though they are going to meet them after long. Instead, they should greet others with folded hands by saying namaste. If anybody violate the norms, our two-month stay at home due to lockdown will go in vain. Worship places are the one which is at high risk of spreading the virus due to high footfall. The administration should issue token numbers to pilgrims at such places to help maintain social distancing.Saahil HansNeed to implement strictest normsThe MHA has jumped the gun by announcing the opening of shopping malls, hotels, restaurants and places of worship as Covid-19 cases are on the rise. Instead of taking such a hasty decision, the Centre could have exercised more restraint and consulted state governments. There is no point of taking decisions in a hurry when most of the states are worst hit. Since announcement of Lockdown 5.0, the number of symptomatic people is hardly going down. Remember, India is one of the most badly-hit countries in the world with a remarkable rise in Covid-19 cases just in a few days. I would like to lay emphasis on this fact that the financial loss of any kind can be bridged only if we can safeguard our human resource capital. But, political thinkers and legislators have let us down again. The need of the hour is to implement the strictest norms and execute them religiously. The people should change their attitude of nonchalance and work in consonance with sincere and dedicated corona warriors who have left no stone unturned to bring the normalcy back in our lives. Let’s take a vow and stand up together to keep Covid-19 at bay by following prescribed rules and regulations.Simranjeet Singh SainiBypassing rules will be harmful for allThe government has relaxed some rules after Lockdown 4.0, but this does not mean that people should flout rules. Bypassing the rules will be harmful for all. We have to be vigilant while visiting shopping malls and religious places. We are the one who take very good care of ourselves by following the rules. In our country, people are very spiritual and they will definitely visit the religious places. Now, it is the responsibility of visitors to keep guidelines in mind which are issued by the government while visiting religious places. Shopping malls witness a huge crowd. In my opinion, if anybody really wants to buy something, one should go there. Those visitors who just go to malls for window shopping, they should stay at home because in the current situation, we can’t bear the huge crowd.Shailja ThakurFocus of ‘Unlock 1’ is to stem growth slumpThe condition of India’s ailing economy has got worse during the stringent national lockdown. Facing twin challenges of containing the spread of coronavirus and reviving the economy, the Centre has relaxed the lockdown restrictions in a gradual, careful and phased manner to resume commercial activities. The primary focus of ‘Unlock 1’ is to stem the current declining growth but with caution. Besides, the decision to reopen religious places, shopping malls, hotels and restaurants in non-containment zones is also welcome. The Ministry of Health has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) and empowered the states to make a detailed on-ground assessment of the Covid situation and impose restrictions if deemed necessary. This judicious and well-intentioned move is aimed at rebooting the hospitality and tourism industry and large retail chains, which have suffered huge financial losses and impacted the jobs and livelihood of millions working in their allied services. Public awareness about the presence and severity of the disease, strict physical distancing and other health protocols are urgent imperatives to encourage the footfall in these business establishments and shrines.D S KangWe should wait for another three monthsI do not fully agree with the government’s decision to open shopping malls, hotels, restaurants and places of worship. The decision is taken quite earlier. Shopping malls and religious places should not be allowed to open for at least another three months. People can easily manage without them as shopping from malls can be postponed and every home can be treated as a place of worship itself. Hotels and restaurants may be opened after one month. A sufficient gap will be available to assess the situation and the decision can be taken accordingly. Any complacency in fighting with the deadly virus can be fatal and there is no place for shortsightedness in dealing with the invisible enemy.Shashi KiranQUESTIONThe realty business, which was already facing slump, has seen a further decline post lockdown, especially in the commercial sector. What can be done to revamp the property business in the state?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (June 11).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-malls-hotels-restaurants-but-with-caution-95959
08-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||Brand ambassador of UN for Covid, she is fighting pandemic head on||Jalandhar, June 7Tanishqa Anand, a first-year student of BCom Financial Services, DAV College, who secured first rank in the college in her last semester exam and cracked an online test to be the brand ambassador for the United Nations Indian Team V Force for Covid-19 group, says she aims to become a successful entrepreneur.Lockdown gave us ample time to chalk out a plan for our career. It also gave us an opportunity to search about other programmes and online tests through which we can contribute towards serving the nation during the pandemic. — Tanishqa Anand, DAV College studentShe said she got to know about this programme of the UN through one of her school teachers and thereafter enrolled herself for the online test. “A team of 30 students from across Punjab has been selected to make the masses aware of Covid-19. The tenure of this programme is three months and we have been assigned different tasks to help people and make them aware of the safety guidelines of the WHO,” she said.“Lockdown gave us ample time to chalk out a plan for our career. It also gave us an opportunity to search about other programmes and online tests through which we can contribute towards serving the nation during pandemic,” she said adding that under the UN Covid-19 programme, she had been protecting the elderly from Covid -19 as they are the most vulnerable to this disease.Secondly, I have been working on spreading awareness among people to wear masks and gloves as a part of normal routine and welcome the changes so that the risk of the disease reduces, she added.She further said lockdown in a big way helped her to know herself better. “I tried to work on my communication skills and vocabulary. I figured out my weaknesses and the hurdles that I might come across in my journey to become an entrepreneur. I worked upon those weaknesses and followed a good routine giving time to my tasks for covid-19 and my studies at the same time.”Tanishqa said she was really thankful to her parents, college management, and teachers and principal for motivating her to devote her time towards social services. She said it was a tough time for the nation, thus, youth like her should come forward and extend a helping hand.DAV College, Principal Dr SK Arora, said, it was a proud moment as their college student had been leading the battle from front. “This exemplifies how youths can empower the nation. We as a society should learn and take a pledge to at least follow all the safety precautions to contain the spread of this deadly virus,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/brand-ambassador-of-un-for-covid-she-is-fighting-pandemic-head-on-95957
08-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||With just 25% sale, poultry biz yet to take off post relaxations||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 7With rumours of the Covid-19 spread being linked to chicken and eggs, poultry business of farmers in the region was hit even before the lockdown.The farmers reportedly suffered heavy losses in the past two months after the social media was flooded with several unverified claims, such as poultry products being responsible for outbreak of Covid. The meat industry has been worst hit as the wholesale prices had slipped below the breakeven level. However, with the help of official health guidelines and ease in the relaxations, the poultry business is gradually gaining pace. The average demand of chicken and eggs on the market also started increasing since the third phase of nationwide lockdown.Jaswinder Singh, owner of Nahal Poultry Farm at Hassanmunda village near Kartarpur, said, along with chicken, the sale of eggs was equally affected after the Covid outbreak. “The rate of a broiler of 1 kg had came down from Rs 90 to Rs 30-40. Similarly, the rate of 100 eggs, which was Rs 400, has dipped to Rs 200. Our daily profit of around Rs 14-15 lakh has drastically evaporated. Apart from selling the chicken and three different kinds of eggs in the state, our supplies go to many states in the country. In March, we even destroyed our production due to unavailability of customers. However, now that the sales have resumed, we are managing to sell 25-30 per cent of our produce on a daily basis. At present, we are making a profit of around Rs 2 lakh everyday. Besides, the local wholesalers and retailers informed us that the customers have started visiting them for chicken and mutton. But they don't want to compromise on the quality of the items purchased and are sometimes found in dilemma over buying chicken,” told Jaswinder.Hopeful of resuming the business in two months, the poultry farmers, who incurred even 100 per cent production loss during lockdown stated their major customers were restaurants, hotels, dhabas and marriage palaces.Brokers informed us that the consumption rate of eggs and meat has declined by around 50 per cent and they couldn't predict when they would start incurring the same profits. For ensuring smooth supplies later, Jaswinder said he had also been taking care of all his labourers and feeding them without any cost.HIT BY RUMOURS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-just-25-sale-poultry-biz-yet-to-take-off-post-relaxations-95958
08-06-2020||Phagwara||Forms filled for needy persons||District executive of BJP constitutedPhagwara: The BJP district president, Rakesh Duggal, in consultation with state president, Ashwani Sharma, constituted the district executive of BJP here on Sunday. While talking to mediapersons on Sunday, he said the working committee comprising 45 members, including 20 office-bearers in the executive. Duggal said Surjit Singh, Pawan Dheer, Ashok Mahla, Pawan Sethi, Mohinder Thapar, Naresh Sharma, Rajesh Sharma Rukki, Anurag Mankhand have been appointed as vice-presidents, while Inderjit Khalian, Jagdish Sharma will discharge the duties of district general secretaries. Rakesh Duggal said apart from Phagwara Municipal Corporation elections, the executive had been constituted mainly for the 2022 Assembly elections. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/forms-filled-for-needy-persons-95960
08-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||Places of worship in Jalandhar to lay stress on safety measures||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 7As all religious institutions are set to open on Monday after over two months of the lockdown, arrangements were made today at various religious establishments, including temples, mosques, churches and gurdwaras to contain the spread of Covid.While all devotees (excluding children below 10 years, pregnant women and persons above 55 years of age) are allowed to visit religious places to pay obeisance, people entering without masks will be sent back. Besides, none of the visitors would be allowed to say prayers in the ‘sanctum sanctorum’ of any religious establishment.In view of the Covid-19 precautions, the premises of the Devi Talab Temple was also sanitised today and circles were marked at several places to follow the social distancing norms.Ravinder Sharma, a supervisor at the temple, said after removing their footwear, devotees would be asked to stand in queues after which they would be sanitised before entering the temple. Thermal scanners had also been purchased by the temple authorities to check the temperature of devotees. Anti-germ soaps had also been kept in washing areas.The temple for the first time will entertain only 20 devotees at one time. In the past, on a daily basis around 20,000 people used to visit the temple and on special days, the count of visitors touches almost one lakh, Sharma said.“As only a limited number of people would be allowed to say the prayers at once, tents have also been erected at open grounds to accommodate visitors who will wait for their turns there. In addition, offerings inside the temple are also restricted. For zero contact between the visitors, new entry and exit gates have been created,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/places-of-worship-in-jalandhar-to-lay-stress-on-safety-measures-95945
08-06-2020||---||174 challaned for not wearing masks in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, June 7Continuing its drive against people for endangering the lives of people by not wearing mask, the Jalandhar Commissionerate of Police have so far issued 4,787 challans to them, under the ‘Mission Fateh’ initiated by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, thereby imposing a fine of Rs 17.39 lakh on them.Divulging the details, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the police have so far issued 4,787 challans to people not wearing the masks. A fine worth Rs 17.39 lakh has been collected from the violators. He said fine worth Rs 23,000 has been imposed so far for violation of home quarantine instructions, adding that 282 persons have been fined Rs 30,600 for spitting in the public place. Likewise, a total of 30,964 challans have been issued so far to the traffic violators and 1,914 vehicles have been impounded.The Commissioner further said fine worth Rs 30,000 has been imposed on overloaded 21 four wheelers, Rs 8,500 on overloaded 17 autos and fine worth Rs 2,000 has been imposed on a person for violating social distancing norms. He said on Sunday, 243 traffic challans were issued. Bhullar said today 174 persons without mask were challaned and a fine worth Rs 87,000 was imposed on them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/174-challaned-for-not-wearing-masks-in-jalandhar-95946
08-06-2020||---||Farmer bodies hold protest against Centre||Jalandhar, June 7On the call from the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), 10 farmer organisations from the state held protest marches to pay obeisance to six martyrs of a peasant movement by holding meetings and rallies at the tehsil and the district headquarters on Saturday.The farmers have also been condemning the anti-peasant ordinance issued by the Union Government.Kulwant Singh Sandhu, general secretary, Zamhoori Kisan Sabha, Punjab, on behalf of the Punjab chapter of the AIKSCC, consisting of 10 organisations, have been holding protests against the Centre.The leaders alleged that the Narendra Modi-led Central Government was formulating the ‘Power Amendment Bill-2020’ and amending the Agriculture Produce Marketing System.“These policies are getting the agriculture sector into the hands of corporates. Dismantling of minimum price arrangement for agriculture produces will ruin marginal, small, and middle peasants of the country, which constitute almost 90 per cent of total landholdings. These policies would adversely affect those regions, especially Punjab, Haryana, Western Uttar Pradesh and other pockets of the country,” he said, adding that it would divest states government of powers on agriculture.The protesting farmers rued that the Centre was trying to usurp states’ powers given by the Constitution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmer-bodies-hold-protest-against-centre-95947
08-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||Deceased astrologer’s kin allege delay in treatment||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 7A day after four members of the family of a Covid-19 suspect, astrologer Neeraj Tiwari, tested positive in the district, his family alleged today that contrary to claims he was not brought dead to the local Civil Hospital. Receiving treatment for typhoid at a private hospital, Tiwari (50), who died late on Wednesday night due to cardiac and renal problems, was a noted astrologer of the district, who had an acclaimed clientele.Another EMO was on duty that day. But as per our records, the patient came in at 1.40 am and was declared dead at 1.58 am. He was brought in a serious condition and there was not much we could have done. He had cardiac and renal problems due to which he died. — Dr Raj Baddan, Emergency Medical Officer, ESI HospitalHis family said after having intermittent fever for the past one week, it was the severity of his condition that caused his family to call an ambulance. His wife said the family felt ostracised as no one agreed to accompany her initially. She said at 12 midnight, she went out alone in the locality to see whether the ambulance had come. Many people, whom she asked for help, refused due to Covid fears but a neighbour finally agreed. The family says Tiwari was a healthy man with no major health issues.His wife, along with her two small children (aged 6 and 8), and sister tested positive for Covid-19 are currently under treatment at the Civil Hospital’s isolation ward. Speaking to The Tribune, she said: “My husband had been unwell for a week with intermittent fever. After blood test from a temple trust hospital at Model House, treatment for typhoid was started. Next day, on Wednesday night, his health deteriorated. I called many people to help us and take him to the hospital but no one helped. Finally, a neighbourhood woman agreed to go along. The 108 ambulance couldn’t find home. My husband had to walk to a nearby grocery shop and entered the ambulance himself, no staff helped him.”She said: “He was alive when we reached the hospital. No male person was at home, how would we even take him? He was not brought dead. But doctors delayed the treatment and scurried for oxygen cylinder and other things. I kept telling them to hurry up but they told me to keep him in an upright position. I held him sitting for long and the doctors just kept looking at him. Then I was asked to go out. I feel Covid fear also delayed the treatment as doctors were scared to touch him. After sometime, I was told he had died.”The sister of Neeraj Tiwari, who also tested positive, said: “He was healthy and even never had fever. After his death, he was taken to home. We cremated him sans the Covid protocol and he was not tested either. But we didn’t even get a chance to grieve for him as soon after his last rites, our testing began.”Dr Raj Baddan, Emergency Medical Officer, ESI Hospital, Jalandhar, said: “Another EMO was on duty that day. But as per our records, the patient came in at 1.40 am and was declared dead at 1.58 am. He was brought in a serious condition and there was not much we could have done. He had cardiac and renal problems due to which he died.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/deceased-astrologers-kin-allege-delay-in-treatment-95948
