08-09-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Modalities for final-year exams yet to be decided by Punjab govt||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 7Even after the Supreme Court ordered that exit-year students of universities and colleges cannot be promoted without an examination, the state government is yet to issue any direction in this regard to the institutes.Tript Bajwa, Education MinisterDECISION LIES WITH CHIEF MINISTERThe issue is to be decided by the Chief Minister. Since he has been directly contacting the Prime Minister’s Office and taking decisions on this front, the further course of action will also come from him.The authorities of all universities are waiting for the state government to take a decision on this front. So far, no meeting has been called of Vice Chancellors of universities to take a final call on the modalities of the examination. The Supreme Court had given the universities three options to conduct the examination: Online mode, offline mode or blended form. The university officials are largely in favour of the online mode so as to wind up the process fast and announce the result at the earliest.Vice Chancellor of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University Ajay Sharma said, “We are expecting a meeting with the Technical Education Minister to decide the process of holding the final-year examination. We had earlier conducted a survey taking feedback from students regarding their choice for modality of examination. Now, we are in the process of getting it conducted afresh.”“We have so far received no communication from Guru Nanak Dev University on how to go about the examination for final-year students. I personally feel it is very difficult to take examination in this situation when our students are scattered across Punjab and even in other states,” said Dr Atima Sharma, Principal, KMV College. Examination controller of GNDU Manoj Kumar said, “We will follow whatever guidelines we get from the state government.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/modalities-for-final-year-exams-yet-to-be-decided-by-punjab-govt-137828
08-09-2020||Ajay Joshi||Golfer wants greener pastures for sports lovers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 7Kshitij Naveed Kaul, a 19-year-old rookie golfer is on a mission to help children from a Kashmiri migrant camp area called Jagati to make it big in sports. Kaul, who belongs to Delhi, also recently supported a badminton tournament organised by the Jagati camp to promote sports in remote areas of Kashmir. The golfer bore all the expenses. In an exclusive conversation with The Tribune, Kaul, who was here in the city for a private event, speaks of his life’s passion and further ambitions.“Initially, golf for me was having fun with my parents, catching butterflies in the course, sitting with my folks outside in my lawn where my father had made green for me and enjoying barbeque. However, over the years it has become a way of life for me,” he shares.Growing up from topmost junior in 2014-15 to No. 1 amateur in 2017-18 to Rookie of the Year 2019 in the professional circuit has been a reflection of his love for the game. “Considering the importance of the game in my life l will continue to support children at Jagati camp and my dream is to make indoor facility for all the sports fanatics,” Kaul adds.After winning several tournaments, he was at the top of his game when the outbreak came crashing in, however, that didn’t deter him from maintaining his form. The crisis was unprecedented but adapting to the situation and making most of it, he has refined some parts of his trade long overdue. “I followed a routine where I could focus on fitness, building strength, flexibility, and being mentally strong. Fitness and remaining injury-free are paramount in golf. I have also worked out my swings well,” he tells.Throwing in a piece he had stumbled upon once, Kaul recalls, “I am sure it will be surprising for many sportspersons that a 2016 study stated that golf is the most injury-prone sport in the world after basketball.”Now, as things are gradually coming back to normalcy, he is keen on returning and showing off his newly-obtained assets. “It would be thrilling to get back on the course after a long gap. With my increased fitness levels and my ability to hit the ball longer, it will give me a lot of advantage and take my overall game to next level. I am also looking forward to playing some international events and improve my world ranking once flights start,” he says of his future plans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/golfer-wants-greener-pastures-for-sports-lovers-137999
08-09-2020||Jalandhar||Students’ union lifts dharna||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-union-lifts-dharna-138000
08-09-2020||---||Raising funds for poor, they are truly the ‘helping hands’||Jalandhar, September 7Two and a half years ago, a group of five friends—in the age group of 27-34 years — embarked upon a journey to help the poorest of the poor in Jalandhar by providing them with education and health-related facilities.Having formed an NGO Helping Hands, Jalandhar, they have been working on a unique format of collecting donations. Having enlisted 500 members, who have been donating Rs 200 per month to them, they make a whopping collection of Rs 1 lakh per month. “Using this money, we support the needy children in their education by paying for their fee in schools. We are also providing a financial aid to 14 poor patients undergoing dialysis. We also help poor patients in arranging blood donation facilities. In addition, we are also supporting poor families in getting their daughters married,” said Milan Sachdeva (27), heading the NGO.Sachdeva says that his friends in the NGO including Sahil Pathania, Ashish Sharma, Rajdeep Shetty, Rohit Arora and Rohit Bamotra too were involved in verification of all requests for help coming to them and meeting the genuine requirements. “We have even held blood donation camps. We have donated wheelchairs to some needy patients. We have been organising breakfast langars of porridge and sandwiches every morning at Civil Hospital in Jalandhar,” he said.How it all beganSachdeva said, “All five of us were attending a wedding in Jalandhar on January 1, 2018 when we decided that we need to do something worthwhile in life. We formed a WhatsApp group of our contacts. We requested all members to start donating Rs 200 per month. They all agreed. The group started expanding. Now, we have over 500 donors from the city, all of whom are regular with their donations.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/raising-funds-for-poor-they-are-truly-the-helping-hands-138003
08-09-2020||Our Correspondent||6 die, 106 new cases in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, September 7On Monday, 106 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Hoshiarpur while 6 patients died.Civil surgeon Hoshiarpur Dr. Jasvir Singh said that 5 of these cases were related to other districts, so their report has been sent to the respective districts. Of the remaining 101 cases, 51 cases were reported from Hoshiarpur city, 12 from Harta Badla, one each from Mand Bhandar, Dasuya and Paldi, 10 from Tanda, Two each from Hajipur and Posi, Three from Budhawar and 18 from Chakkowal. In the district, 6 corona victims have died, among them Balveer Singh, 59, resident of Manak Dheri village died in a private hospital in the city. Ashok Kumar, resident of Katcha Toba was undergoing treatment at DMC Ludhiana and died there. Joginder Pal, 50, resident of Dasuya died at Amritsar Medical College while Mangat Ram, 70, resident of Prahlad Nagar Hoshiarpur died at CMC Ludhiana. Raj Kaur, 75, resident of Fatehgarh Niada died in Civil Hospital Hoshiarpur while Harbhajan Singh, 70, resident of Ranjit Nagar died in a private hospital in Jalandhar.The total number of positive patients in the district has increased to 2139 and the death toll so far is 65. The total number of samples taken in the district is 67053 and as per the reports received from the laboratory, 64267 are negative, while 889 reports are awaited and 106 samples are invalid. The number of active cases is 567 and 1507 patients have recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-die-106-new-cases-in-hoshiarpur-138004
08-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||A curated garden with an eye for aesthetics||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 7Spread over a sprawling area at Khambra, every bit of the space in the house of entrepreneur duo Purnima and Ambika Beri has been reclaimed with plants and curios sourced from across the country. While Purnima Beri is Chairperson and Manager of Leader Valves Ltd, Ambika is Material Managing Director of the company.A winding stone and grass pathway dotted with trees of various exotic and indigenous varieties ushers a visitor in. Further inside, a round-horned goat statue nestles restfully under a Slash Pine. Carefully sourced and verdant greens dot the imposing façade of the house which is marked by curated pathways and manicured lawns. The green pathway winding across the house is lined by hedges and lamps on both sides leading across a gazebo to a heavily vined canopy right at the entrance of the house.A refreshing sight for the senses, the grand home entrance leads to a grilled ‘baithak; while a tulsi plant welcomes one at the entrance, green foliage peeks into the verandah. From the indigenous tree varieties to the kaawad (a wooden almirah, emulating a temple structure, with various apertures ornamented with pictures of deities) at the entrance –the effort of the duo — Purnima and Ambika Beri — to give an aesthetic touch to their home space is pretty visible. A green haven – a lawn enclosed by the house’s living space.The house is filled with verdant trees from the front to the back and the huge open lawn hemmed in by huge mango trees. Grapefruits, magnolias, oranges, tangerines, plums, pomegranates and mango trees dot the property. Tall palms rise up from the backyard to which another branch of the gravel-lined pathway leads.Ambika says, “We shifted from the previous house 9 to 10 years ago. The architect originally meant to work on the home left abruptly to work for an airport project. The pathways were all designed by me.” The verandah has also been painstakingly designed. It is lined with trees and myriad coloured foliage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-curated-garden-with-an-eye-for-aesthetics-138006
08-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Surprised to see work going on at snail’s pace: Ad-hoc panel head||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 7Two months have passed, when the Building and Roads Ad-hoc Committee raised the issue of colonisers owing crores of rupees to the Municipal Corporation.It was revealed through a report on the regularisation of colonies submitted by the MC’s Town Planning Department to the ad-hoc committee. But the issue remains the same.The chairman of the ad-hoc committee, Nirmal Singh Nimma, again held a meeting with the Town Planning Department and Joint Commissioner on Monday and said they should have recovered the dues by now and that he was amazed to see the work going on at a snail’s pace.In the meeting, the chairman along with the members of the ad-hoc committee also highlighted that a special meeting, which the Joint Commissioner holds with branch officials and other staff, should have happened by now, after which they would be able to take their dues from the colonisers.“We will give this in writing to the Mayor tomorrow that the meeting should happen at the earliest,” he said.Nimma said the physical measurements of the colonies should also have started. The chairman sarcastically commented that it seemed the department would complete the work by 2030 and the Corporation will receive its dues after some more years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surprised-to-see-work-going-on-at-snails-pace-ad-hoc-panel-head-138007
08-09-2020||---||Farmers protest, want ordinances annulled||Jalandhar, September 7As many as 250 farmers from the district on Monday assembled outside the District Administrative Complex and held an agitation against the new agriculture ordinances promulgated by the Central Government.The farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee announced to continue with their state-level agitations against the government for the next seven days. In a strange manner, they also pressurised the government to withdraw the anti-farmers ordinances or lodge them inside jail.Salwinder Singh Jahnia, district president of the committee, said the committee members had formed a group of 11 farmers who would daily appear at the Deputy Commissioner’s office to get them arrested.Worried over the discontinuation of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) structure, they raised anti-government slogans and showed their dissent against the ordinances passed by the Modi-led Union Government.Declaring the Capt government as a failed government that couldn’t benefit farmers, the farmers demanded that the ordinances be withdrawn. They also threatened to intensify their protest if the government failed to meet their demands.Jania further said, “Farmers are against the three ordinances — Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance — 0which the Centre had promulgated. Besides, we also oppose the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, as it may adversely hit free power to farmers.“As compared to the farmers in the neighbouring states, we are paying the highest electricity bills. Therefore, we demand that the farm ordinances be withdrawn and the electricity tariffs and fuel prices be revised for farmers,” he added.The protests will be held in all the districts under the supervision of Satnam Singh Pannu, state president of the committee.Agitation in Hoshiarpur tooThe Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Samiti held a protest demonstration against the Centre in front of the Hoshiarpur District Administrative Complex also. Farmer leaders Surinder Singh and Manjit Singh said these ordinances brought by the Centre were completely anti-farmer. They said these would lead to economic exploitation of farmers and unemployment will increase among farm workers as well. They said farmers would start the Jail Bharo movement to get these ordinance cancelled and the struggle would continue till the government cancels these ordinances. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-protest-want-ordinances-annulled-138008
08-09-2020||Ajay Joshi||Passengers facing a tough time at rly station||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 7Long wait at the city railway station for verification and medical screening is giving a harrowing time to passengers arriving from long-route trains.Despite the guidelines issued by the Health Department to follow Covid-safety norms, even basic preventive measures are being flouted at the railway station. Passengers can be seen crowded at the exit points while registering their details.After the Railways announced to resume its services as part of the major public transport system for ferrying people stranded in different cities, away from native places, apt arrangements were made at all railway stations to enter the names of passengers returning to their homes. This was done as a part of mandatory contact-tracing process. However, within a few weeks, all arrangements seem to have disappeared. Even as the Government Railway Police (GRP) and Railway Protection Force (RPF) remain deployed at the station throughout the day, there is no mechanism to monitor the huge rush of passengers. Caring two hoots to social distancing norms, passengers who get off from their trains, crowd in long queues. Besides, there are no seating arrangements for passengers, who wait for long hours to get their verification done.Gurjit Singh, who arrived at the station from Amritsar-Haridwar Janshatabdi, said: “We don’t mind submitting our address and contact details, but we should at least be treated properly. After carefully completing our journeys, we are asked to stack up with people who we barely know. The official who enters the details also behaved differently and we felt discriminated. At least seating arrangement should be put in place for women and the elderly, who also remain standing in queues for several hours.”Similarly, another passenger said the police and the civil staff lay stress only on ensuring that passengers join the lines and not on their safety. The cops while holding their lathis speak rudely with passengers and at times even shout at them.While, Doctor Anil, who has been deployed by the medical department at the railway station, said the health team was only responsible for the medical screening of visitors, SHO GRP, Dharminder Kalyan assured that he would look into the situation and ensure that all norms were strictly being followed at the station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/passengers-facing-a-tough-time-at-rly-station-138010
08-09-2020||Online Teacher’s Day was celebrated at Police DAV Public School||Police DAV Public School celebrates Teacher’s Day||Apeejay College of Fine ArtsStudents and teaching fraternity of Apeejay College of Fine Arts, Jalandhar, celebrated Teacher’s Day online. Even amongst the pandemic, the students did not forget to show their affection and regards towards their teachers, who are making every possible effort that the show must go on and this crisis should not affect the education of students which they deserve. They presented a collaborated video of various students of different classes where they sang and expressed their affection they have for their teachers. They dedicated various songs for them. Prachi of BA (third semester) in her speech talked of the efforts college and faculty was making to impart them the quality education. Dr Sunit Kaur, HoD, English, highlighted the role of teacher in the modern day as it had changed and transited in the cotemporary times.HMV Hans Raj Mahila Maha VidyalayaOn the occasion of Teacher’s Day, HMV Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya in collaboration with Assocham, New Delhi, organised a webinar-cum-panel discussion on the topic “Role of Guru and Responsibility of Shishya in the World of Virtual Learning”. The webinar-cum-panel discussion was organised through online platform in which more than 600 participants, including ‘gurus’ and ‘shishyas’ participated. Principal Ajay Sareen welcomed all the panelists. Divya Lal, managing director, Fliplearn Education Pvt. Ltd, said that teachers were digital immigrants but the students were digital natives. They are smarter than teachers in using technology. She said students need to be enagaged in online classrooms. Dr Pankaj Mittal, secretary general, Association of Indian Universities, said, earlier there was gurukul concept in teaching, where student has to remain with the teacher all the times. At present, things are changed. Teachers have to give something extra or different in classroom to the student which is not available on internet. If the student will get something new, only then he/she will respect the teacher. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-dav-public-school-celebrates-teachers-day-138011
08-09-2020||---||Engineers flay Montek panel’s suggestions||Jalandhar, September 7The Punjab State Electricity Board (PSEB) Engineers’ Association has sought a meeting with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Montek Singh Ahluwalia-led expert committee recommendations on power sector. Ajay Pal Singh Atwal, general secretary of the association, said, the union had written a letter to the Chief Minister on the recent recommendations of the expert committee which were very discouraging and in total disregard to the performance of PSPCL/PSTCL.The association had pointed out that there was no expert from the power sector in the committee and even the committee had no discussion with PSPCL management and engineers. In matters related to the power sector, Atwal said, “The overall distribution losses in the PSPCL are at 11.7% and are among the lowest in India with mixed load urban feeders having a loss of 13.35%. The exclusive industrial feeders are having a loss of 1.8%. The abnormal losses in certain pockets can be easily brought down to less than 10% with political will. The association is of the considerate opinion that the recommendation of the committee to privatise distribution system in cities is not based on a fair analysis and knowledge about the Punjab’s power sector”.The expert group has failed to point out that independent power producers (IPPs) in Punjab are creating an extra burden of Rs 1,000 crore per annum in the form of fixed charges. The closure of the state thermal plants would not only raise the tariff but also lead to total blackmail by the private sector IPPs.The association also strongly recommended using high-quality coal from the PSPCL coal mine in Pachwara at PSPCL plants. Moreover, the cost of power from GVK Goinwal Sahib, TSPL Talwandi Sabo and L&T Rajpura has become uneconomical at a rate of Rs 9.54, 6.62, and Rs 5.05 per unit respectively. With an assured high plant load factor and use of coal from Pachwara coal mine, the rate per unit from Ropar and Lehra Mohabbat thermal plants of PSPCL will be significantly lesser.“Regarding solarisation of all AP tubewells is not wise economics. To solarise 14 lakh AP tubewells having a connected load of about 13,000 MW, solar panels having a capacity of 30,000 MW shall have to be installed requiring a capital investment of Rs.1.20 lakh crore, besides 1.25 lakh acre productive land shall have to be spared by the farmers of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/engineers-flay-montek-panels-suggestions-138012
08-09-2020||A farmer was found hanging from a tree at Shalimar Bagh. The deceased has been Identified as Pyara Singh. The police said he had committed suicide||Farmer commits suicide||3 arrested for robbing a widowA man identified as Lakhvinder Singh Lakkha was booked by the police on Thursday for attacking and robbing a woman of her valuables in the Kazi Bagh area. The accused was arrested with 270-gm heroin. The officials also arrested his associates Rajan, a resident of Kapurthala, and Soma, who is a resident of Pandori. Lachman, alias Tinku, the fourth aide, is yet to be arrested. A suspicious man spotted near Saduwal village was also nabbed by a police party on Wednesday. He revealed that on August 26 he had hatched a conspiracy to rob the elderly widow Jasvir Kaur, who lived at her home alone.Webinars keep Science City afloatWith Pushpa Gujral Science City at Kapurthala closed ever since the pandemic started, there have been no visitors at the establishment for the past five months. In the absence of science aficionados frequenting its premises, the Science City is sustaining works by holding webinars, awareness programmes and summer camps for students. Every month four to five webinars are being held amid the pandemic.'Get tested, don't pay heed to rumours'The city had been witnessing less number of positive cases for a long time. However, in August the virus really took off causing a dramatic increase in cases. In an appeal to residents Civil Surgeon Dr Jasmeet Bawa, Kapurthala raised concerns that people were shying away from testing while paying heed to rumours and false news. Appealing to people to come forth for testing, she said the Health Department was also preparing a list of co-morbid people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmer-commits-suicide-138014
