08-04-2020||Phillaur||Nurmahal youth dies in accident||Lahan, illicit liquor seizedPhillaur: The police, headed by Deputy Superintendent of the Police Davinder Singh Attri, along with Excise and Taxation Officer Baldev Krishan, and Jagtar Singh on Tuesday raided Aallowal village, falling under Phillaur subdivision, near the Sutlej and seized 1,19,000 litres of lahan (undistilled liquor) and 120 litres of illicit liquor on Tuesday. The police have booked several unidentified persons in this regard. Davinder Singh Attri, DSP, Phillaur, said 220 tarpaulins, four drums, six plastic drums, four brass pots of large size, one gas cylinder and one cooking gas stove were recovered from the spot. OCOne held with illicit liquorJalandhar: A team of the CIA Staff -1 of the Jalandhar police, on Tuesday seized four cartons of illicit liquor from a person and arrested him. The suspect was nabbed from Babrik Chowk. He has been identified as Sumit Kumar, a resident of WE-154 Oil Street. Cops at police division five informed that the CIA staff received an information that the suspect bought the illicit liquor before the lockdown and was being sold it to his usual customers at exorbitant rates these days. The cops caught him red handed. A case has been registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nurmahal-youth-dies-in-accident-67036
08-04-2020||---||Energy-rich goodies for police personnel||Jalandhar, April 7Appreciating dedication and performance of the Punjab Police, Congress leader Nimisha Mehta presented packets of energy-rich roasted grams and candies to police personnel on duty at various nakas in the Garhshankar constituency.Mehta said: “People are being advised by health experts to stay inside their houses to avoid catching infection. But, policemen, who check that people do not violate the curfew, are themselves vulnerable to the virus and more exposed to the infection. Despite knowing the fact that their lives are at risk, they still perform their duty with dedication.”Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee member Mehta said in developed countries such as USA, Italy and UK Covid spread was spurting but the situation has been under control in the state and the credit of confining people to their houses primarily goes to the Punjab Police. She appealed to public to cooperate with policemen who are risking their lives for saving public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/energy-rich-goodies-for-police-personnel-67030
08-04-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||SMO skips immersing father’s ashes for duty||Hoshiarpur, April 7While some people are still not adhering to the lockdown, there are warriors in the battle against Covid-19 who are working day and night, despite adverse family situations calling them to be at home with family members. One such person is Hajipur SMO Balwinder Singh. He did not go to immerse his father’s ashes after cremation because he had to attend to duty.Dr Balwinder Singh’s father was living with him and finding not much time to take care of his 94 year-old- father, for better care of him Dr Balwinder sent him to Faridkot to stay with his elder brother. On April 1, while on corona prevention duty, Balwinder got to know about his father’s death in Faridkot. He left for Faridkot and after funeral of his father there in the evening, he returned to resume his duty in the morning. He asked his elder brother to take care of his father’s ashes and could not go with them to immerse them as he had to handle his duties in his block. Balwinder said that his heart was pained that he was not with him in the last days of his father and he could not even go to immerse the ashes but there was comfort that he was carrying out his responsibility towards the society, for which the father had made him a doctor. He said his father had taught him to care for the society before the family and he was following this lesson. Balwinder has 25 sub-centers in his block and he is regularly inspecting all the centers. He has quarantined 143 houses in his block and these are being followed up regularly.Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said that officers like Dr Balwinder were a source of inspiration for the society. The district administration is proud of such hardworking officers who are serving the people at this critical juncture leaving families worries aside.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/smo-skips-immersing-fathers-ashes-for-duty-67029
08-04-2020||Jalandhar||Long queues of vendors witnessed at sabzi mandi in Jalandhar||An attempt of the administration to check rush and maintain social distance at Maqsudan sabzi mandi is leading to delay and formation of long queues of vendors every morning on the old GT Road.As vendors reach the mandi every morning, officials allow them only in small numbers at a time so that there is no rush and each one of them maintains social distancing while picking daily lot of fresh vegetables and fruits for retail sales outside.Each vendor is also checked by a team of IMA doctors at the site for any signs of coronavirus or fever using thermal guns. The queues outside the mandi are getting so long that sometimes these stretch up to a few kilometers. “There are about 250 arhtiyas having their outlets at the mandi. Each one of them has two-three labourers for unloading and loading jobs. Since there is a population of about 12 lakh in Jalandhar, there are 500-700 vegetable vendors who keep touring around their areas in the city to sell vegetables. In all, there are about 1,500 persons who gather in the mandi every morning and our whole idea is to ensure that there is no rush inside at a given point of time,” said DC Varinder K Sharma.He said: “We have been trying to streamline things and have even formed a committee comprising a District Market Officer, an IAS officer, SDM and a PPS officer to look into day-to-day issues. We cannot shut the mandi in curfew as people need fresh fruits and vegetables to have a good immunity to fight against the disease.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/long-queues-of-vendors-witnessed-at-sabzi-mandi-in-jalandhar-67028
08-04-2020||---||Chemist shops to open from 10 am to 5 pm in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, April 7Giving a major respite to people during curfew imposed to check the spread of coronavirus, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said today that all chemist shops in the district would remain open from 10 am to 5 pm, but with riders.The Deputy Commissioner said the purpose was to facilitate people in getting medicines. Shopkeepers had to ensure that social distancing was maintained during these hours so that spread of Covid-19 was checked. Sharma said this would be applicable to chemists, both retailers and shopkeepers.However, the Deputy Commissioner said in Dilkusha Market, only retailers could buy the medicine and no individual would be allowed to purchase the same directly.He said it would help in removing decongestion at medical shops. Sharma said clinical laboratories would open from 5 am to 12 noon. The step had been taken to ensure that people were able to get themselves diagnosed properly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chemist-shops-to-open-from-10-am-to-5-pm-in-jalandhar-67027
08-04-2020||Avneet Kaur||Jalandhar artist Kimi Juneja  exploring her creative side to beat lockdown blues||Jalandhar, April 7If everything had gone as planned, city-based artist Kimi Juneja, alias Manpreet, would have been participating in the World Art Festival in Dubai from April 8 to 11. But, the festival was postponed to October due to Covid.Now, Kimi has been utilising her time by exploring her creative side and trying hands at different genres of painting. The artist said, “So far, the paintings I have made depict love, friendship, romance and beauty. However, it is for the first time that I have enough time to try something new. Sketching and painting are considered as intellectual ways to pass time and if you have experienced hands, it is needless to say that the benefits are plenty.”“Since the first day of the lockdown, besides spending a quality time with my family, I have been expressing my suppressed emotion with creativity. My daughter has inspired me to come out of my comfort zone and explore my art as much as I can,” she said.On being asked about her experience of the lockdown, Kimi said it was strange that now everyone, who was so busy till March 22, had ample amount of time to do what they wanted. “I never made any spiritual painting, but the lockdown gave me an opportunity for it,” the artist said.“Generally, it takes me 30 to 40 days to complete one painting. However in past 15 days, I have finished two painting on the current situation. One of my paintings is a thanksgiving gesture to all the saviours i.e. doctors, while the other one is a prayer for the world. Both paintings are my core feelings that have emerged after observing the people stuck at home,” Kimi said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-artist-kimi-juneja-exploring-her-creative-side-to-beat-lockdown-blues-67026
08-04-2020||---||229 arrested for violating curfew in Jalandhar over two weeks||Jalandhar, April 7To tighten the noose around the curfew violators, the police have arrested 229 persons between March 23 and April 7.Divulging the details, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said apart from setting up checkposts, the police had been keeping a watch on the violators with the help of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs).Bhullar said since the curfew was imposed, as many as 165 FIRs had been registered at various police stations that come under the Commissionerate Police. He said 3,147 challans had been issued and 302 vehicles had been impounded.He added that the curfew was imposed to contain the spread of Covid and strict action would be initiated against the violators till it was lifted.“A viable mechanism has also been put in place for the elaborate security arrangements. Sectoral police officers have been deployed,” said Bhullar, who categorically mentioned that no one would be allowed to violate the law,” Bhullar said.Nine nabbed in Nakodar, Shahkot, BilgaNakodar: The police have arrested nine persons for violating the curfew orders in the past 24 hours.Nakodar Assistant Superintendent of Police Vatsala Gupta said the Nakodar sadar police arrested a person in this regard on Monday. Meanwhile, the Nurmahal police arrested three persons for defying the curfew orders as they were loitering.She said no one would be allowed to defy the restrictions. The police officer said cases under various sections of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act had been registered against the suspects. Later, they were released on bail. She said a number of two-wheelers had been impounded. Besides, challans had been issued to violators.Shahkot DSP Piara Singh said the police arrested two persons on the charge of violating the curfew orders. The Mehat Pur police also registered arrested two persons in this regard. The Bilga police on Tuesday arrested a person for violating the curfew orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/229-arrested-for-violating-curfew-in-jalandhar-over-two-weeks-67025
08-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Led by 37-yr-old sarpanch, Rurkee’s all-women team fights Covid||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 7Led by a 37-year-old MA BEd qualified woman sarpanch, Rurkee village here has devised measures on a war footing by starting a mini-community movement to defeat Covid-19.Daljit Kaur, Sarpanch of Rurkee villageWe had a vague idea of what was coming. We wanted to prepare ahead. Before the 22 March Janta Curfew, we started going home to home, making announcements about social distancing. Three women made masks for the village which were distributed home to home by village vegetable vendors employed by us. Vegetable disbursal did not stop even after lockdown as we ensured to cover all homesRsAnnouncements from gurdwaras to adopt social distancing, deputing village vegetable vendors and women volunteers to distribute village-made masks on the doorstep, formulating teams of 3 ANMS, ASHA, anganwadi workers, santisation drives, theekri pehras and routing Lohri-collected money for feeding poor were some of the measures taken by the village in its fight against the virus.Starting much ahead, the village gave information about its over 150 NRIs to the administration. The key aspect of Rurkee’s fight against Coronanvirus is that it was a campaign devised and carried out primarily by women. The sarpanch as well as other women volunteers, donning hand-made orange masks, going door to door is a common sight at Rurkee. The village has also disbursed ration among over 280 persons, comprising over 150 migrant labourers in the village, with the funds collected by youngsters during Lohri.Sarpanch Daljit Kaur said: “We had a vague idea of what was coming. We wanted to prepare ahead. Three women made masks for the village which were distributed home to home by village vegetable vendors employed by us. Vegetable disbursal did not stop even after lockdown as we ensured to cover all homes. Asha workers, ANMs and anganwari workers led the three-member teams which went house to house distributing masks and spreading awareness.”Ahead of the Janata Curfew, women of the village began holding meetings with ANMs and social workers while maintaining social-distancing to counter Covid-19. A campaign to make masks, sanitising the village on a regular basis, provision of ration to the over 200 families of migrants and theekri pehras include the efforts the village to defeat the disease.Daljit Kaur said: “A group of youngsters of the village had started a WhatsApp group with the help of which they arrange rations. The money collected on Lohri and monetary help from NRIs was used to ensure rations for over 250 persons. With help from the BDO office, we have also been sanitising the village. We have sanitised village streets four to five times so far.”As many as 350 masks made by three-women have been distributed in Rurkee so far. More are being prepared daily. The women team has 16 members, including the village sarpanch, panchayat members, village board chairman, ANMs, anganwadi and ASHA workers and other residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/led-by-37-yr-old-sarpanch-rurkees-all-women-team-fights-covid-67024
