08-07-2020||Jalandhar||Patwari caught taking Rs5K bribe||34-year-old Man commits suicideJalandhar: A 34-year-old man, Amandeep Singh, alias Sonu, has committed suicide. He was a resident of Old Kacheri. Sonu hanged himself to death when he was alone in the house. SHO, Nakodar (city), Inspector Aman Saini said the suicide was reported on Monday. While the wife of the victim failed to provide any reason for the suicide, Sonu’s mother Sukhi Gill, a resident of Mohalla Rehmanpur, stated that her son called her before taking the extreme step. She said Sonu was depressed due to quarrels and was being harassed by his mother-in-law and brother-in-law. The victim is survived by his wife and three minor daughters. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/patwari-caught-taking-rs5k-bribe-110130
08-07-2020||---||Academicians hail move, seek more revision||Jalandhar, July 7After cancelling the remaining board exams for Classes X and XII, the Central Board Of Secondary Education (CBSE) today announced to reduce the syllabus for Classes 9-12 by 30 per cent for 2020-2021.Considering the loss of classroom teaching time due to the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, the CBSE reduced the syllabus with the help of suggestions from the NCERT. The revised syllabus has been uploaded on its website.The school heads and teachers in the city welcomed the board’s decision, Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank stated that the CBSE syllabus had been rationalised keeping intact the learning outcomes so that the core concepts of students could be retained. The CBSE, in its notification, mentioned that the deleted portions of the syllabus should neither be considered for internal assessments nor for the year-end board exams. However, teachers should ensure that the deleted portions are explained to the students so that they can use it to connect to other topics, says the notification. Besides, alternative academic, calendar and inputs from the NCERT or transacting the curriculum using different strategies might also be a part of the teaching pedagogy.District CBSE coordinator and principal MGN Public School, KS Randhawa appreciated the step take by the board and stated that by reducing the syllabus for the secondary and senior secondary classes, the CBSE had ensured the continuity in the academic calendar and with this, even the students won’t be burdened. Similarly, Rachna Monga, Principal, Sanskriti KMV School, said as of now, only 30 per cent syllabus deduction had been accepted but the CBSE should further revise the syllabus as most of the schools have also taught the deducted syllabus and uncertainty still prevails on what to include and what not.It is certainly a good idea to reduce the syllabus as for few subjects it was difficult to explain the topics to the students virtually and CBSE has rightly taken this decision as we have already covered more than 50 per cent syllabus. In addition, the board has kept only the relevant topics from the examination point of view,” said Satwinder Singh, who teaches maths and science at a private school.Meanwhile, Nitin Kumar, a student of Class X said he was happy that some portion of the syllabus has been reduced as it was already tough to understand certain topics during online classes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/academicians-hail-move-seek-more-revision-110129
08-07-2020||---||Drivers & technical workers’ union protests, refuses to lift garbage||Jalandhar, July 7The Drivers and Technical Workers’ Union on Tuesday held a protest and refused to lift garbage. The members said that their demands have for long not been met. They complained that the vehicles were not in good condition and haven’t been used for a long time and no one was ready to look into the matter.“The tyres of the vehicles are in poor state and require service at the earliest. The monsoon has arrived and the road leading to the Wariana dump is still unconstructed and the drivers have to stand and wait for three hours for their turn to dispose off the garbage there,” the members rued.They also raised the issue of workers not receiving the salaries for last five months. However, the issue has earlier been raised in a meeting with the MC Commissioner and the Mayor but till now they have not been heedful.Around two months ago, Mayor Jagdish Raja along with health and sanitation adhoc committee chairman Balraj Thakur, had held a surprise inspection of the sanitation works. While examining, Thakur had pointed out that the vehicles used to lift the trash were 15 years old and not fit to be used on roads. “They should be dealt with immediately and transport department must check this, because it is vulnerable to accidents,” he had then said. “Many vehicles don’t even have registration numbers. Because of heavy rush and one-way traffic towards Wariana, these vehicles take longer time to come back, so, there must be another way to lift more waste from the city,” Thakur had raised the issue.Apart from this, in a letter to the MC Commissioner, he had written that the waste-lifting vehicles were without number plates and in dire need of repair.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/drivers-technical-workers-union-protests-refuses-to-lift-garbage-110128
08-07-2020||---||1 million species of flora and fauna face extinction: Expert||Kapurthala, July 7The Pushpa Gujral Science City organised a webinar to encourage plantation of saplings. The programme was sponsored by the Department of Forests and Wildlife Preservation, Punjab.On the occasion, Kunal Satyarthi, Principal, Central Academy for State Forest Service, Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, said, “Forests are a major environmental resource in India. It is also one of the 10 most forest-rich countries of the world with rich biodiversity. According to National Forest Policy, there should be 33 per cent of the forest cover in India. According to the Forest Survey of India, the forest cover has increased to 69.8 million hectares as per satellite measurements representing an increase of 5,871 square kilometers of forest cover in 2 years. At present, forest degradation was a matter of serious concern. Sincere efforts and awareness is required to save the flora and fauna in our country.”He said one million species of flora and fauna had already got extinct due to deforestation. “Hence, 50,000 species are being lost annually which creates imbalance in our eco-system. This occasion is meant to educate and make people aware of the need of planting trees, as trees are the best solution to control the global warming,” he added.Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science City, said, “Punjab should have at least 15 to 19 per cent forest area. If Punjab wants to increase its forest area to 19 per cent, more plantation activity is required. The Department of Forests and Wildlife preservation is taking it up under the Green India Mission. However, this is possible only through public participation. Pushpa Gujral Science City is playing an important role to bring awareness on the environmental issues. PGSC harbours rich floral biodiversity with cactus garden, herbal garden and avenue of rare endangered species. It has 5,500 trees having rich cultural and heritage value”.DG Science City urged the students and teachers to grow more plants for saving our mother earth. People were appealed on social media to plant trees around their homes and send pictures to the Science City. In response, 271 people sent their pictures out of which selected pictures were uploaded on the PGSC website. Dr Rajesh Grover, Director Science City, was also present on this occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-million-species-of-flora-and-fauna-face-extinction-expert-110127
08-07-2020||Avneet Kaur||No check on burning of waste in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 7Heaps of garbage lying around in the city is something we all have seen every now and then. Dealing with these mounds of useless things in a better and efficient way still seems far-fetched. Taking in account the lack of innovative methods, the practice of burning garbage in the open, despite being banned, has continued.Setting ablaze the waste is fairly a normal sight to witness. One can see residents, shopkeepers and even workers of the Municipal Corporation (MC) reducing it to ashes on vacant plots or on roadsides and in residential areas too. With no proper system in place, the local civic body has miserably failed to check the practice which is irking residents. Needless to say, the burning causes pollution which in turn is enviromentally unfriendly but also can prove to be detrimental to those having respiratory issues.Talking to The Tribune, a resident of Urban Estate Phase II, Sukhjit Singh, said, “A few days ago my son, who’s asthmatic, was playing outside the residence and suddenly felt a heavy chest congestion and started coughing while his eyes also turned watery and red in couple of minutes. When I went outside to check, I found some unknown people burning heaps of plastic pipes in corporation yard here.”He said the black smoke emanating from that place was visible as far as from one kilometer and he even clicked pictures, made video of this and brought to the MC officers’ notice. “But all in vain”, said Singh, adding that, “there is no check on the practice and even the officials concerned seemed helpless.”Harpreet Singh, a resident, said, around a week before he found few private bank employees burning trash openly in a plot near Choti Baradari. He said that when educated class can indulge in such practices then what should one expect from those uneducated and class IV employees of the MC. “We are all responsible for this.The responsibility of protecting the environment lies with everyone. The government registers FIRs against farmers for burning crop residue, while burning of waste is being ignored. It is high time that a strict action be taken against all these pollution-causing agents and no one should be spared”, he added.A shopkeeper near the railway station, said, “On a daily basis garbage was set on fire during night near the road entering the station from the flyover side. The same is being done on the Chuggiti road too as huge stocks of trash are lying unattended there, so the slum dwellers who reside nearby often burn the garbage to get rid of it.”Meanwhile, when contacted, Dr Raj Kamal, incharge sanitation, said, “We are keeping a regular vigil in the city to check the problem. People are being fined too and even employees had been warned against such violations and action would be taken against those who would unnecessarily indulge in the practice.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-check-on-burning-of-waste-in-jalandhar-110126
08-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||People turn poets amid pandemic||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 7With lockdown of varying degrees imposed in the country, farmers, police officials and people from all walks of lives have turned to writing songs and poems amid pandemic, expressing their concern on the Covid pandemic and motivating people to remain in high spirits amid tough times. Writing and expressing the feelings through words has become a new normal in the society.The incidents happening in the world have prompted people, otherwise busy in their normal routine, to write more during this time. People penned enthusiastically about problems faced by others due to lockdown.‘Rail di patri, patri tureya, jawa main mazdoor ho, kut khavan, chori ghar javaan, mera ki kasoor ho', wrote Amolak Singh, president of the Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch while highlighting the plight of the migrant workers.Youngbir, Sub Inspector and in-charge of the horse-riding wing at the PAP is into writing the poems these days. Notably, the horse riding team has been taking part in national tournaments since 1990. ‘Dosto aajao ik sallah banaiye, corona di afat nu gall toh laiye, aap bachiye te apneya nu bachaiye,’ reads a few lines of the poem he has written. Apart from this, he has also written poems on mothers and fathers and now Youngbir is in the process of writing another article on Covid -19, which he says would come out soon.Farmer Jagtar Sahota has written, ‘China vich dekh lo, te Italy vich vekh lo, ihne agg laayi, kite tusi vi na sek lo, iss to bachan layi khich lo tayariyaan, bhul jao rishte naate, bhul jao yaariyan.’The lines of his another poem go like, ‘Hath na milao bai, japhiyaan na paao bai, door door reh ke isnu maar mukaao bai, chhuhn naal faildiya eh mahamariya, aa gaya Corona bai, laa lo buhe bariyaan.’Gurtej Singh, another farmer from Mehatpur in Jalandhar, had expressed his gratitude to nature in a poem. He writes, “Mainu Jalandhar toh Dalhousie dikh gayi si, rabba mainu maaf kari, main taan kudrat bhula ditti si.”He believes that everyone must be hopeful as this time too shall pass. ‘Baazi palt deyaan, bahuti der na lagdi, din oh na rahe te eh vi nai rehene, rakhi hausla tu, jit tere dar te ve.’ Gurtej had also written when floods had ravaged the crops in Lohian and Shahkot areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/people-turn-poets-amid-pandemic-110125
08-07-2020||Ajay Joshi---||Admn creates three containment, 7 micro-containment zones in Jalandhar||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, July 7 In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in the district, the administration on Tuesday created 10 containment and micro-containment zones.  As per the directions of Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ghanshyam Thori, the officials have set up seven micro-containment and three containment zones in localities, where more than five Covid cases have surfaced to contain the spread of the infection.  The declared micro-containment and containment zones include Aman Nagar and Rose Park in Kartarpur, where five active coronavirus positive cases each were found, Ram Nagar Industrial area (10 cases), Sant Nagar (5), Dukh Niwaran Gurudwara, near Lamma Pind (6), Sanjay Gandhi Nagar (8) and Uccha Suraaj Ganj (5).  Besides, the active containment zones include Mohalla Makhdumpura, where there are total 20 active positive cases, maximum in any area followed by Fatehpuri (Kishanpura) and Babbu Babe wala street (Bhargo Camp). Both areas have 16 Covid positive cases.  The areas have been sealed to contain the further spread of the virus. Officials from Civil, Police and Health Departments have been deployed to strictly review the situation in such zones. The DC said this would ensure better coordination among various departments to make plans at microscopic level to detect patients.  The Health Department can call for sealing of any area, depending on the Covid spread or threat being perceived in the area. A curfew-like strictness has been imposed in these areas and cops on eight-hour shifts would be deployed every time for prohibiting the movement of people. SHO, police division 1, Rajesh Kumar, who has two areas under supervision said: “Two cops will always be available outside the sealed areas and none of resident will be allowed to move. The civil officials and police will take care of the requirement of all essential commodities in these areas.” Similarly, Kartarpur SMO, Dr Kuldeep Singh said, they have directed to visit each and every household in the containment or non-containment zones. “The doctors will check if anyone is symptomatic to Covid or have co-morbidities. A maximum number of samples will be taken from these zones for the early detection of Covid patients,” the SMO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/admn-creates-three-containment-7-micro-containment-zones-in-jalandhar-110075
08-07-2020||A research team of the CT Group of Institutions||‘Disinfectant robot’ rolled out by Jalandhar's CT Group of Institutions||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/disinfectant-robot-rolled-out-by-jalandhars-ct-group-of-institutions-110076
08-07-2020||Jalandhar||10-yr-old Jalandhar boy launches video on Covid awareness||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-yr-old-jalandhar-boy-launches-video-on-covid-awareness-110077
08-07-2020||---||Tehsildar tests +ve, Balachaur tehsil shut for three days||Jalandhar, July 7 The Nawanshahr administration on Tuesday shut down the Balachaur tehsil after Tehsildar Chetan Bangar tested positive for the coronavirus disease. He had reportedly attended a dharna outside a factory at Fatehpur village in Balachaur as the duty magistrate on July 3. Since he hails from Chandigarh, he is considered as a patient from the UT. After the Tehsildar tested positive, even Balachaur SDM Jasbir Singh has also decided to quarantine himself. Deputy Commissioner Shena Aggarwal said the entire tehsil office would be disinfected and only after that the work would be resumed. She said a team of the Health Department would take samples of the tehsil staff tomorrow, who have been asked to go into quarantine. In Jalandhar, there are reports that Bishop Franco Mulakkal and his aide Father Peter have also given samples for the virus after their lawyer Mandeep Sachdev tested positive. The Bishop and the priest had reportedly met the lawyer in his office on June 29 and 30. The lawyer was tested for the coronavirus on July 3 and his report came out positive the next day.returnees and six are new cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tehsildar-tests-ve-balachaur-tehsil-shut-for-three-days-110078
08-07-2020||Our Correspondent---||Akali activists go all out against anti-people policies of state govt||Hoshiarpur, July 7  Led by district president (urban) Jatinder Singh Lally Bajwa, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) workers on Saturday staged a protest against the state government for shooting up fuel prices, deletion of blue cards of the needy, hike in power tariffs and other afflicting policies of the state.  Staging a dharna in front of the Mini Secretariat, Hoshiarpur, they raised slogans. Bajwa accused the Punjab government of pushing the people towards economic recession. “Even during the pandemic the government did not provide relief to the people but worsened their state by implementing such policies” said Bajwa, adding, “due to continuous rise in oil prices, inflation has gone up, which has had a direct impact on the common man.”  Speaking on the occasion, Harjinder Singh Dhami, general secretary Shormani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), said the government itself ticked all the boxes for being termed as anti-people by deleting the blue cards of the needy amid these testing times. On the other hand, the exorbitant hike in electricity and fuel prices has put more financial burden on the common man. He said that with the rise in prices, inflation has reached a record high. Various leaders demanded the roll back of these policies. Elsewhere, in Garhshankar, SAD activists protested against at the Banga Chowk and Adda Jhungian, spearheaded by the district rural president and former MLA Surinder Singh Bhullewal Rathan. He said that the government has failed on every front. Every section including farmers, laborers, traders are disturbed by these wrong policies.  At Dasuya, the activists led by Gurpreet Singh Vicka, SAD national general secretary, and Dasuya president Bhupinder Singh Neelu Cheema protested in front of the local SDM office. They alleged that the party in power has cheated people by raising false hopes and is now retracting from its promises. In Talwara, a similar protest was staged by SAD activists led by Deepka Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/akali-activists-go-all-out-against-anti-people-policies-of-state-govt-110079
08-07-2020||Our Correspondent---||School fee hike: AAP burns Education Minister’s effigy||Hoshiarpur, July 7 Activists of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) youth wing, led by district president Dr Harminder Singh Bakshi and state vice-president and Hoshiarpur constituency in-charge Sandeep Saini, burnt an effigy of Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla in protest against the alleged economic plunder in the name of school fees by the private schools. Addressing the protesters, Bakshi said in the High Court, the state government and the education minister failed to put forward the general public’s interests. “We doubt that the state government along with the private school mafia is promoting the interests and economic plunder of the general public. Today, the general public is falling prey to the government and non-government loot from all sides, which the Aam Aadmi Party cannot bear at any cost”, Bakshi alleged. He said AAP was ready to make every sacrifice to protect the interests of common people. Sandeep Saini said the party was raising the issues of people in the state. “It is our duty to raise the voice of the people in general. We are committed to safeguard the interests of the common people and providing them relief taking the path of struggle against its economic plunder,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/school-fee-hike-aap-burns-education-ministers-effigy-110080
08-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur---||SAD protests rising fuel prices, blames BJP-led govt at Centre||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, July 7 Holding their ward and village level protests, leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)  on Tuesday held protest where they not only blamed the Congress for increasing the VAT on fuel prices but also blamed their alliance partner at the Centre for the same. Even the posters and placards that the leaders carried mentioned that the protest was being held to oppose the move of the Centre to levy Rs 19 and that of the state to charge Rs 33 as VAT per litre. The placards that the workers carried clearly mentioned the demand of the SAD that both the state and the Centre should reduce their levies by Rs 10 each to reduce the burden of increasing fuel prices on the common people.  Almost all MLAs, district president, councillors and other leaders organised small protests at various locations. SAD leader Chandan Grewal held a protest outside the MC office. Ex-SAD MLA Sarabjit Makkar said he attended dozen-odd protests organised by the workers in the city on Tuesday. The same placards were found at almost all protest sides with a clear indication that the format for the same had been designed at the party level.  Meanwhile, senior BJP leader Monty Sehgal said that if the SAD found fault with the policies of the BJP or the Centre, there was nothing that was stopping the Akalis from breaking away from the alliance. “It is not good for the Akali Dal to make such false propaganda against the alliance partner in the state”, he retorted to the tone and tenor of today’s protests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sad-protests-rising-fuel-prices-blames-bjp-led-govt-at-centre-110081
08-07-2020||Vishav Bharti||Jalandhar firm loses licence over hazardous sanitiser||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 7In an order issued on Monday, Dr Rakesh Sharma, Director, Ayurveda, cancelled the licence of a Jalandhar-based hand sanitiser manufacturing company till further orders. Besides sealing their stock, the authorities have recalled their product supplied to market. “Any sanitiser containing methanol is a serious issue and we will take strict action,” said Dr Sharma.Lethal chemicalThe sanitiser made by the Jalandhar-based company was found to be containing over 95 per cent methanol alcohol. The firm had used 6,000 litres of chemicals in the last three months.The amount of chemical used was enough to manufacture over 75,000 (100 ml) bottles of sanitiser. The manufacturer, Galiberry Formulations, was making hand sanitiser for various brands.According to record of the Directorate of Ayurveda, the company was already making ayurvedic medicines and was granted another licence to manufacture hand sanitiser in March.On the label of the sanitiser bottle, the manufacturer had claimed that it contained extracts of medicinal plants. However, when the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) tested the samples of various brands, it was found that the one made by Galiberry Formulations contained more than 95 per cent methanol alcohol.Joginder Pal, Drug Inspector (Ayurveda), Jalandhar, said they had collected samples of other batches and sent them for testing to a government lab in Patiala. He said the manufacturer had been served a show-cause notice.However, Jaspreet Singh, owner of the company, said they manufactured only isopropyl-based hand sanitiser. “We have valid bill of the purchase of isopropyl and each batch of our sanitiser was tested before it was sent to market. We have provided entire record to the authorities,” he said.The FDA had found that hand sanitisers of four manufacturers contained high amount (35 to 95 per cent) of methanol alcohol. Of these, three were based in HP and one in Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-firm-loses-licence-over-hazardous-sanitiser-110005
