08-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||Capturing nature in miniature with bonsai||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 7Spotting a bonsai plant on a trip to China eight years ago spurred this landscapist’s imagination to create her own plant. Also a bamboo collector, Rupinder Kaur has 900 trees at her home. She also thrives on the positive energies of bamboos.Her beautiful house is adorned with a 48-year-old Ficus-caged Bonsai and a 29-year-old Bougainvillea bonsai which looks wondrous with its pink flowers. A number of bamboo trees on her terrace evoke a Zen-like ambience. Her home is a green haven loaded with tastefully-curated foliage.Seeking inspiration from her trip to China – she soon started branching out and providing her services as a landscapist to people inspired by her works. Until now, she has landscaped villas, homes, gardens and terraces not just in Jalandhar, but also a British-style bungalow in Dehradun. To curate rare bonsais and plants for her customers, she has also gone all the way to Pune, Delhi, Amritsar to search new varieties.Rupinder Kaur says, “When I saw the bonsai plants in China, I realised these are actually created. I thought why can’t we do it here. I started building my own terrace and while the initial few bonsai that I brought from China wilted, I found more around and learnt ways to sustain their growth and longevity. When you are attached to them, it is hard to see them wilt.” When she gets any project – her gardener spends a considerable amount of time to ensure that plants are placed according to the amount of sunlight and air they receive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/capturing-nature-in-miniature-with-bonsai-181260
08-12-2020||Our Correspondent---||Corneal transplant restores eyesight of 20 blind people||Hoshiarpur, December 7 The Rotary Club Midtown has restored the eyesight of 20 blind people through corneal transplant in October and November, said Gopal Krishan Vasudeva, president of Rotary Club, Hoshiarpur Midtown, while addressing a special meeting of the club members.  He said selfless social service and making society free from blindness is the main motive of the club. To achieve this, blindness eradication is a permanent project adopted by the club.  He said under the project, 14 patients were operated by Dr Rohit Gupta of Guru Ka Langar Eye Hospital, Chandigarh, whereas Dr Shakeen Singh of Shakeen Eye and Dental Hospital, Amritsar, operated six patients. Among these patients, 14 were from Punjab, two from Haryana, three from Himachal Pradesh and one from Jammu.  According to club secretary Parveen Palial, all these operations were done for free and the expenditure of travel, lodging and food etc. was borne by the club. Cornea were arranged by the club from Jaipur, Bhubaneswar, Hyderabad and Karnal-based government eye banks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/corneal-transplant-restores-eyesight-of-20-blind-people-181261
08-12-2020||---||Apeejay student shines||Jalandhar, December 7Archana Joshi, a student of Apeejay College, here, has made the college proud by clinching the first position in Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) exams. She managed to secure the top spot by obtaining 363 marks out of 400 in the last semester of MA Dance, the results of which were declared recently.Having received her training in Kathak from her teachers, including Dr Santosh Vyas and Dr Ranjana Chabra, she also secured highest marks in practicals (196/200). In the era of dance forms like jazz, zumba, rumba, bachata and ballet, Archana is letting no stone unturned to preserve the essence of Kathak. Owing to her flawless dancing moves, she got selected at Kathak Kendra, New Delhi, in August, this year and is refining her skills under a well known Kathak artist and teacher Dr Samiksha Sharma.Keeping the rhythm alive, Archana has been performing in the youth festivals for the past five years and has also won several prizes in the inter-college and district level dance battles. She says, after graduating in commerce, she continued to follow her passion in dance and made a shift from Bollywood and folk dance to Indian classical dance. For the budding classical dancers she said, “If you have some talent, then do not worry about whether you can earn money out of it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/apeejay-student-shines-181262
08-12-2020||---||DC announces Rs 1 lakh aid for welfare of Army personnel||Jalandhar, December 7Remembering the martyrs, serving and veteran soldiers for their supreme valour and determination in protecting the honour of the Indian soil on the occasion of Armed Forces Flag Day, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori today said it was a momentous day to reiterate solidarity with the armed forces and to recognise the services of ex-servicemen.Paying floral tributes to the martyrs and soldiers at a function to commemorate the Armed Forces Flag Day at Punjab State War Memorial, the Deputy Commissioner said the courage of Indian soldiers was high. He said every soldier has a commitment to sacrifice his life for the sake of the nation and serving the country by donning a uniform is a matter of great pride and satisfaction for every individual. Soldiers perform their duties in extremely harsh conditions to safeguard our boundaries and we all enjoy our sleep knowing well that the soldiers are protecting Mother India, he added.Exhorting the people to contribute voluntarily and generously towards the Flag Day fund, the DC said it was a humble contribution and token of respect towards the services rendered by our brave soldiers who guard our borders round the clock. He said any veteran or retired soldier and their family members can contact him in case of any problem they face.Ghanshyam Thori also announced a financial aid of Rs 1 lakh for the welfare of armed personnel. Meanwhile, Major General RK Singh, Group Commanding Officer (HQ 91) Sub Area, also paid homage to the serving and retired officers of the Indian Armed Forces. He added that the Indian Army is duty-bound to safeguard the interests of these soldiers who have given their productive years of life to the nation.Meanwhile, they also honoured veteran soldiers and distributed Rs 5.5 lakh among the needy ex-servicemen and their families. Further, the major contributors to the Flag Day fund were also felicitated at the function.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-announces-rs-1-lakh-aid-for-welfare-of-army-personnel-181263
08-12-2020||---||NRIs to provide kits to hockey players||Jalandhar, December 7NRIs Gakhal Brothers have announced to provide sports kits to all players participating in the ongoing hockey coaching camp run by Surjit Hockey Society from the US.On the completion of the 74th day of the coaching camp here at Surjit Hockey Stadium, Jalandhar, taking note of the large number of participation of budding players under the age group of 14 and 19 years in the camp, the eminent sports promoter, transporter, hotelier trio — Amolak Singh Gakhal, Iqbal Singh Gakhal and Palwinder Singh Gakhal, respectively, have announced to provide sports kits to all players participating in the camp.Deputy Commissioner Jalandhar Ghansham Thori, who is also the president of Surjit Hockey Society; secretary Iqbal Singh Sandhu and chief PRO Surinder Singh Bhapa, who is also the director (coaching camp) of the camp, lauded the efforts being made to promote hockey in the state.Rendering yeoman serviceGakhal brothers, who hail from Gakhal village in Jalandhar district, after noticing the talent of players from their village in the camp, said they have spent Rs2 crore for the development of their native village Gakhal last year, and now every facility would be provided to players from their village as well. Amolak Singh Gakhal appealed to parents to send their children to this camp to learn hockey as much as possible, so that they can have a better future.Gakhal brothers, who have been giving away Rs5 lakh to the winning team of the Surjit Hockey Tournament since many years, have also announced a prize of Rs5.51 lakh for the 37th edition of the Surjit Hockey tournament to be held in the end of the February. Gakhal brothers, who hail from Gakhal village in Jalandhar district, after noticing the talent of players from their village in the camp, said they have spent Rs2 crore for the development of their native village Gakhal last year, and now every facility would be provided to players from their village as well.The great Indian hockey Olympian Surinder Singh Sodhi, had also visited the camp as the chief guest recently. Arjuna Awardee Olympian Surinder Singh Sodhi is a gold medallist of the 1980 Moscow Olympics. Sodhi is known for playing a major role in helping India win a gold medal at the 1980 Moscow Olympics after a gap of 16 years. Sodhi had also interacted with players and shared his experiences and taught them some hockey tricks. He said after a long time he had seen more than 100 players under the age of 14 and 19 participating in the 70-day long hockey camp, which was started with just five players. He lauded the initiative of Surjit Hockey Society and also appealed to other clubs, sports bodies to start camps for players under 14 years and under 19 years in their respective villages and cities to gain the lost glory of hockey.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nris-to-provide-kits-to-hockey-players-181264
08-12-2020|| ---||CTIHM holds cake-mixing ceremony||Jalandhar, December 7 Holding pre-Christmas celebrations, the Department of Hotel Management of CT Institute (CTIHM) organised a cake mixing ceremony at its South Campus, Shahpur. Spreading the cheer along with the budding chefs, it invited the participation of executive chefs, human resource heads from various hotels like Ramada Encore, Best Western to name a few, CT Management and corporate guests and in-house guests were dressed in typical chef’s attire of. The guests and colleagues together rolled up their sleeves and put their hands in the mixing pots to make a delicious Christmas cake. An interesting array of fruits, including raisins, glazed red cherries, orange peel, tutti-frutti, black currants, dates, figs, dried apricots, prunes and walnuts, cashew, almond flakes and pistachio, aside from spices such as ground cardamom, cinnamon and cloves were poured into a caldron.  The mixing reached a spirited level when endless bottles of liquors, such as whisky, white and dark rum, vodka, gin, wine, beer and syrups like golden syrup, molasses, honey and vanilla essence were added. The mixture was put into airtight bags and left to mature until around Christmas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ctihm-holds-cake-mixing-ceremony-181265
08-12-2020||Jalandhar||Veteran wins Shiromani Punjabi Patrakar Award||Kuldeep Singh Bedi (70), a city-based veteran scribe, who remained associated with Punjabi journalism for nearly five decades, has won the prestigious Shiromani Punjabi Patrakar Award.  The Language Department had announced Shiromani Awards for 18 different categories of literature and art on December 3. The awards were finalised at a meeting of the State Advisory Board chaired by Higher Education and Languages Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa. A journalist by profession and a writer by preference, Bedi, needs no formal introduction. An ardent reader and writer, Bedi, worked at a vernacular — Jagbani — and took retirement from his services in March this year. Before Jagbani, he worked in the Gurudwara Gazette magazine during the late ’70s.  As a prolific writer, he has also written five novels and three short-story books. Adding more feathers to his cap, Bedi had also made contributions to the Punjabi film industry. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/veteran-wins-shiromani-punjabi-patrakar-award-181266
08-12-2020||---||1 held with 50-gm heroin||Jalandhar, December 7The CIA staff-1 of the Jalandhar Police Commissionerate have arrested a 19-year-old college student for allegedly supplying drugs in the city. The arrested accused has been identified as Pankaj, a Class XII student of Khalsa College.A patrolling team of the CIA received a tip-off that the accused along with his brother were selling drugs here. Following which, the cops on the midnight of December 4 arranged a trap to arrest both the brothers.Brother of suspect manages to escapeWhile the cops managed to arrest Pankaj at a checkpoint near Ghai Hospital, his brother Sahil managed to escape. After investigation, Pankaj told that he was going to Model Town after delivering a consignment at Ravidas Chowk.While the cops managed to arrest Pankaj at a checkpoint near Ghai Hospital, his brother Sahil managed to escape. After investigation, Pankaj told that he was going to Model Town after delivering a consignment at Ravidas Chowk. Along with a car, the police seized 50 gm heroin from his possession.A case under Sections 21,61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against both the brothers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-held-with-50-gm-heroin-181267
08-12-2020||---||Phenomenal support for Bharat Bandh call||Jalandhar, December 7Wearing Santa Claus attire and sporting Santa beards, members of Catholic Yuva Dhara (CYD) were seen making an appeal to city residents to march to Delhi.They marched from the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall to the Company Bagh in Jalandhar in support of the farm stir in Jalandhar asking people to participate in the Bharat Bandh on December 8.Dressed as Santa, CYD leaders Gagan George, Amern Happy, Dominic Mattu among others said this struggle was not limited to farmers’ community only but to all communities, because all people depend on agriculture in one way or another. Leaders said the Christian community was mostly attached as labourers to farming for their employment. Hence, the community supports the struggle of peasants of Punjab and will support the Bharat Bandh on December 8.Raising slogans such as ‘We want Justice for Farmers’, ‘Repeal all three agricultural laws’, ‘Lok Virodhi Kehtibari Kanoon Radd Karo’, members of the community sought the withdrawal of all three farm laws.They said farmers, labourers and others attached with farmers were on roads today asking the government to roll back the three laws, which it says were in favour of farmers. But as per the plea of the farmers, these three laws were anti-famer and anti-people. This struggle has been going on for the past few months, but the government paid no heed and this resulted in the march to Delhi.Members said though farmers were marching towards Delhi leading their struggle peacefully, the government was putting obstacles on their way to stop them. Despite resistance, farmers flooded the Delhi border and are camping there, they said, adding that the CYD shall stand in solidarity with them and extend wholehearted support to the December 8 Bharat Bandh.United they standAAP seeks relief for kin of ‘martyred’ farmers Hoshiarpur: The Hoshiarpur district unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Punjab, on Monday demanded that the state government should frame a state-level policy for the aggrieved families of each farmer who attained martyrdom during the ongoing peasant movement, adding that the beleaguered farmers were struggling against the ‘draconian’ central agriculture marketing laws to protect their existence. In a joint statement issued by the party here on Monday, District president Mohan Lal and senior party leader Harminder Sandhu demanded that the state government should frame a policy to ensure full debt waiver, adequate compensation and a government job to a member of the aggrieved family of each farmer who attained martyrdom during the ongoing farmers’ stir against the ‘black laws’. Harminder Sandhu said, “The sacrifices being made by the protesting farmers in the peasant movement will not go waste and will be recorded in golden words in the annals of the country’s agricultural history. In such a situation, it becomes incumbent upon the government to fulfil its duties towards them. The leaders said the AAP, despite having limited resources at disposal, is extending help to the affected families financially at their level and is ready to go any further to provide succour to the families left in the lurch.” AAP leader said the Aam Aadmi Party, under instructions from party national convenor and Delhi Chief Minister, Arvind Kejriwal, countless party volunteers and cadres were engaged in the service of the farmers who are fighting a spirited battle against the farm laws on the borders of the national capital for their survival and sustenance. Mohan Lal said the AAP Delhi Government was serving the farmers, day and night, on Delhi border in this biting cold of December. The leader said AAP ministers from Punjab and Delhi, MLAs, other leaders and volunteers were monitoring the arrangement put in place for farmers round-the-clock. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phenomenal-support-for-bharat-bandh-call-181254
08-12-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Returning awards just the beginning, says 1988 Mr Universe||Hoshiarpur, December 7Country’s first Mr Universe (1988) Prem Chand Degra, considered the father of bodybuilding in Punjab, returned his Padma Shri and Arjuna Award in support of farmers’ protest.Degra, who has been a role model for the youth in Hoshiarpur for years, told The Tribune that two days ago, he went to Jalandhar to hand over his awards to the delegation that left for Delhi from Jalandhar for returning the awards to the Central Government.He said: “No matter what we are doing today, we all have our roots and foundations in agriculture and are sons of farmers. Now that the government of the country is not listening to the voice of the annadatas (farmers), what will we do with such awards? So, I decided to return my awards.”Neither the government took farmers into confidence while making the law nor it seems ready to accept the demands of farmers. One thing is very much clear that I am fully with the farmers in the struggle and returning awards is just the beginning. I will support farmers in this struggle against the anti-farmer laws. —Prem Chand Degra, Country’s first Mr Universe (1988)Degra said: “It’s sad that the government of the country neither took the opinion of farmers before enacting the law nor is listening to their voice now. Rather, an attempt is being made to suppress it.”He said had the government taken farmers into confidence in the law-making process, this issue would not have snowballed today. “But neither the government did it then nor it seems ready to accept the demands of farmers now. One thing is very much clear that I am fully with the farmers in the struggle and returning awards is just the beginning. I will support farmers in this struggle against the anti-farmer laws.” He said the government should listen to the demands of farmers and cancel the anti-farmer laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/returning-awards-just-the-beginning-says-1988-mr-universe-181255
08-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||Covid has been a window of opportunity for some||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 7From opening start-ups to launching their own channels on social media sites, youngsters these days are turning the Covid blues into an opportunity to ‘earn while learn’. While some have opted to take up jobs to support their families, some are making their resumes more appealing. Apart from framing their skill sets with digital marketing, being a known face on social media is considered as icing on the cake.However, limiting himself with traditional trading methods, Prakash Kumar (19), a migrant is profiting by running his own kirana stall. Having started his kiosk in the beginning of February, this year, at Maqsudan Sabzi Mandi, Prakash didn’t know how he would go about it but relaxations announced tilted things in his favour.To supply more income to my family, I thought of entering into the business. Unaware of the gains and losses, I gathered knowledge about the field from existing kiosk owners, and their stories were convincing enough to persuade me to set up my own stall. —Prakash Kumar (19), a migrant who is profiting by running his own kirana stallA native of Bihar, he says, “In order to supply more income to my family, I thought of entering into the business. Unaware of the gains and losses, I gathered knowledge about the field from existing kiosk owners, and their stories were convincing enough to persuade me to set up my own stall.”Considering him naive, his father lent him only Rs10,000 to purchase goods on wholesale rate. Initially, besides competing with other vendors, he struggled to get customers. Subsequently, the complete shutdown of affairs amid the lockdown left him on the receiving end. “I could sell my stock only to some known customers. However, contrary to my apprehensions, the gradual lifting of the curfew propelled my business and unexpected surge in demand.”When layoffs in various sectors were making the headlines, Prakash, who is a graduate of Sports College, also hired a jobless man to help him. From selling masks and sanitisers to chips, snacks, soft drinks and clothes, he has stocked all the essentials. Looking for expansion, his bank balance is touching lakhs, and after installing a coffee vending machine, he has given employment to one more person.Likewise, making suitable use of her social media accounts and her culinary skills, 18-year-old Ashnoor Kaur, is satisfying the taste buds of local foodies with her homemade chocolate and cakes. Tushaar Manocha (22), along with his friend Anuj Joshi, also launched his ‘foodies ki dunia’ page on Instagram to discover their skills. Within months, it garnered over 11k followers virtually.Meanwhile, Jaswant Rai, District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE), said, “Compared to previous years, this was the first time a large number of youngsters approached employment bureau for jobs.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-has-been-a-window-of-opportunity-for-some-181256
08-12-2020||Jalandhar||4 die, 136 test positive in Jalandhar district||With 136 new cases, the Covid tally reached 18,579 in the district on Monday. Four more deaths were also reported in Jalandhar from Covid taking the number of deceased persons to 582. There are 994 active cases in the district so far and 17,003 people have been discharged, while 573 people are under home isolation in Jalandhar. Meanwhile in Kapurthala, one person tested positive for Covid on Monday. — TNS3 deaths, 27 new positive cases logged in HoshiarpurOf 1,731 samples, 27 were found positive on Monday. With this, the tally reached 7,201. With the death of three Covid patients, the toll increased to 268. A 69-year-old woman of Passi Kandi village of Dasuya died at home, while a 53-year-old resident of Radhaswamy Colony Dasuya and a 76-year-old woman resident of Tanda died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.— OCJalandhar round-upSamples collected 4,00,448Negative 3,65,030Positive 18,579Active 994Discharged 17,003Deceased 582Sample inappropriate 3,237Results awaited 403Home isolated 573||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-die-136-test-positive-in-jalandhar-district-181257
08-12-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||In solidarity with farmers, industrial units to stay closed from 8 am to 3 pm||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 7With support pouring from people of all walks of life, industrialists, too, have decided to back farmers. To support the Kisan Andolan, industrialists will paste banners highlighting ‘We support Farmers’ protest’ outside their units on Tuesday and shun work from 8am to 3 pm.The industrial organisations that will be supporting Bharat Bandh by pasting banners outside their units and on their cars are Jalandhar Industrial Focal Point Extension Association, Udyog Nagar Manufacturers’ Association and Northern Chamber of Small and Medium Industries. However, some industrialists said although they were in support of farmers, they could not stop the work.We will be pasting a big banner at Focal Point Chowk, too! We are supporting farmers wholeheartedly and will do our best to support them. —Narinder Singh Saggu, President, Industrial Focal Point Extension Association“The rest depends upon the situation, but we are definitely supporting farmers. We understand their concern. They must win,” an industrialist said.Narinder Singh Saggu, president of Industrial Focal Point Extension Association, said we will do everything possible. “We will be pasting a big banner at Focal Point Chowk, too. We are supporting farmers wholeheartedly and will do our best to support them,” he said.From sportspersons, singers, artists, to city residents, people are leaving in large numbers to support farmers. Even arhtiyas have joined farmers in their struggle. The participation is huge. Many are expressing solidarity with farmers on social media as well.Kirpal Singh from Moosapur village said he was thrilled to see the response coming from everyone despite not knowing who they are. “I get emotional seeing people coming and joining us. They are sending lots of food along with fruits and dry fruits for us. Honestly, we never ever thought this would become such a big movement. Now, we are hopeful that we will win,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-solidarity-with-farmers-industrial-units-to-stay-closed-from-8-am-to-3-pm-181259
