09-04-2020||---||Jalandhar man who had tested positive for coronavirus passes away||Jalandhar, April 9Parveen Kumar, who had tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday, has passed away.He was 59 and a resident of Mitha Bazaar here.He was reportedly on ventilator for the past three days at Jalandhar Civil Hospital but his test report came on Wednesday.He ran an ayurvedic medicine centre in the city and his son is a block Congress president here.The son is a close contact of MLA Bawa Henry, who has chosen to remain home-quarantined for now.3 more test positiveMeanwhile, three more people tested positive in Jalandhar.They are 65-year-old woman, a 42-year-old woman and a 53-year-old man.The 65-year-old is a resident of Bhairon Bazaar, the 42-year-is-old is from Purani Sabzi Mandi and the 53-year-old man is from Maqsoodan.None of them has an established contact history yet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-man-who-had-tested-positive-for-coronavirus-passes-away-68821
09-04-2020||Nakodar||Agricultural machinery shops exempted from curfew in Nakodar||Keeping in view the upcoming harvesting season, the Union Home Ministry has exempted agricultural machinery shops and repair shops from the lockdown and curfew.Punjab Additional Chief Secretary (Home) in an official communication to all administrative secretaries, Director Generals of Police, Divisional Commissioners, Deputy Commissioners, Zonal Inspector Generals of Police, Commissioners of Police Deputy Inspector Generals of Police and Senior Superintendents of Police said consolidated guidelines of home affairs had been reviewed by the Union Government and it had exempted certain areas from lockdown restrictions. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/agricultural-machinery-shops-exempted-from-curfew-in-nakodar-68487
09-04-2020||Our Correpondent||6 booked for fake ration calls in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, April 8Taking strict action against those who have been making fake distress calls for essential items during the curfew, around six FIRs have been registered at various police stations of the district.One such case was reported in Bhana village of the Dasuya sub-division of Hoshiarpur district. A resident of this village, Surinder Singh, called upon the control room, saying that his family was in trouble and he should be provided with ration immediately. When Dasuya SDM Jyoti Bala sent a team there along with ration, it was found that there was no shortage of any food items.When asked, he said he had come to know that the administration was providing free ration to the needy, thus he made a fake call to get benefit from the same. The SDM said the Tanda DSP had been asked to register a case against the suspect. Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyat said strict action would be taken against those who make fake calls for getting ration or food items. She said about six cases had been registered against such callers and strict action would be initiated against the suspect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-booked-for-fake-ration-calls-in-hoshiarpur-68484
09-04-2020||Nakodar||2 held with stolen copper wire||Cash stolen from templePhagwara: Some unidentified miscreants reportedly burgled a temple, situated in local Joshian Mohalla, on Tuesday night. The suspects entered the shrine after breaking the side doors, broke open the offering box and decamped with Rs 15,000 on Wednesday. Priest of the temple, Pt Sham Sunder Sharma, said the incident came to his notice when he came to open the temple at 5:30 am. A case has been registered. In another case, some unidentified miscreants attempted to commit thefts from different places from local Sham Nagar locality on Tuesday night. OCCountrymade pistol seizedPhagwara: The Mehli police recovered a countrymade pistol from the possession of a car driver and arrested him on Wednesday. Mehli police in-charge Pawitra Singh said the suspect was nabbed at a checkpoint, near Zandiali village, on the Phagwara—Banga Road when he was coming in a car (PB 64 0414). The police have also impounded his car. A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered. OCRoadways staff to donate Rs 16.8LJalandhar: Around 4,200 employees of the Punjab Roadways on Tuesday announced that they would donate their one-day salary to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Resham Singh Gill, president of the Punjab Roadway/Punbus Workers’ Union, and Baljit Singh Gill, state general secretary of the union, said the roadways employees would donate Rs 16.8 lakh. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-held-with-stolen-copper-wire-68480
09-04-2020||Jalandhar||School served show-cause notice over fee in Jalandhar||The District Education Department has issued a show-cause notice to Apeejay School seeking a response on why the school management was asking students to deposit the tuition fee.Notably, owing to the Covid-19 crisis, Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on March 30 had directed all private schools in the district to not to demand school fees from parents. However, irrespective of the orders, the Apeejay School management was allegedly asking the parents to submit the school fees.In an official notice from the Education Department it was mentioned that the department had received a complaint that pressure was being made by the school on the parents to deposit the fee of their wards studying at the school.Following this, the school has been asked to submit a response within seven days, failing which strict action will be taken against it. The accreditation of the school could also be cancelled.As per the earlier notice, Sharma had stated that all private schools, including PSEB and CBSE schools, couldn’t not ask parents to deposit the fee till the curfew was observed. The school authorities could clear the pending dues only after the curfew was lifted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/school-served-show-cause-notice-over-fee-in-jalandhar-68479
09-04-2020||Hoshiarpur||‘Stop salaries of ministers, MLAs’||Convener of Safal Bharat Guru Parampara, an NGO, Veer Pratap Rana said: “All our ministers and MLAs are from financially sound background and the government must discontinue their salaries and pensions till the Covid threat comes to an end.”Urging CM Capt Amarinder Singh, Rana said, “It would save crores of rupees from the state exchequer. The amount can be spent for providing relief material to needy people in distress.” He said the expenditure on salaries and pensions can be prevented and utilised for the benefit of people of the state. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stop-salaries-of-ministers-mlas-68472
09-04-2020||---||Councillor in Jalandhar seals ward No. 28 to fight Covid||Jalandhar, April 8Councillor Balraj Thakur has sealed 90 per cent areas of his ward no. 28 to fight Covid. Besides, he has formed a ‘fight corona’ group in his ward. In every area, only one entry point has been kept open.Thakur said entire ward would be sealed completed by Thursday. He added that volunteers will restrict outsiders from entering the ward.The councillor said the initiative had been taken as a precautionary measure against Covid. “It is important to take steps at this stage to prevent any untoward incident. After holding a meeting with residents, we have taken the initiative,” he added.Even outsiders will be asked for their identity cards and their purpose of visit to the area. Anyone entering the ward will be asked to sanitise their hands.Councillor of ward no. 78 Jagdish Raja also sealed some of areas of his ward.3 with Tablighi links test -veNakodar: The administration has breathed a sigh of relief as three persons who came in contact with those who visited the congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi tested negative for Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/councillor-in-jalandhar-seals-ward-no-28-to-fight-covid-68471
09-04-2020||---||4 youths arrested with pistol, intoxicant in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, April 8The city police on Wednesday arrested four youths and seized one pistol, two live cartridges and intoxicating powder from their possession.The accused have been identified as Akashdeep Singh (20), a resident of Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Nagar, Lovepreet Singh (24) of Shiv Nagar, Shivam Sodhi (24) of Baba Kahan Dass Nagar and Mohit Malhotra (25) of Aman Nagar.Divulging the details, Commissioner of Police(CP) Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said a police party had nabbed Akashdeep and Lovepreet Singh in Ali Mohalla road after they were found violating the curfew on April 7 and a case was registered against them under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.During interrogation, Akashdeep told the police that he along with Shivam and Mohit had a brawl with a person in Basti Bawa Khel and had opened fire on him on March 25 and they were now hiding in Lovepreet’s house.After raiding Lovepreet’s house the cops took Mohit and Shivam in their custody.The Commissioner of Police said Akashdeep had five criminal cases in various police stations, two cases were being faced by Lovepreet and one case was already registered against Mohit and Shivam respectively.Following the arrest a fresh case has been registered against all the accused under Sections 212 and 216 of the IPC, 25 and 54 of the Arms Act and Section 22 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-youths-arrested-with-pistol-intoxicant-in-jalandhar-68470
09-04-2020||---||IK Gujral Punjab Technical University makes face shields for doctors||Jalandhar, April 8To support the medical staff and doctors, IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU) has developed face shields for them. These will fulfil the urgent need of the Indian Medical Research Association (IMRA) for doctors and nurses who are treating Covid patients.Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma, Vice-Chancellor, IKGPTU, said in the first phase, the university’s target was to manufacture 2,000 face shields for Kapurthala, Jalandhar and other nearby districts. He added that in future, the university would provide the same to other states as well.The VC said in the initial stage, the university manufactured 50 face shields and handed over these to the medical staff through the Kapurthala administration.Kapurthala DC Deepti Uppal gave her thanks note to the VC. The DC said it was a proud moment for the district, which was contributing towards the world-level crisis management.The VC said the university had taken the initiative with Tata Technologies at Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji Centre for Innovation, Invention and Incubation (CIIIT).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ik-gujral-punjab-technical-university-makes-face-shields-for-doctors-68469
09-04-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||2,600 cops examined under Covid-19 screening drive in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, April 8Around 2,600 police personnel have been screened as part of a campaign launched by the district police. The campaign has been launched to keep a track on their health and check the spread of Covid-19 among them.The policemen were examined at screening posts established at various police lines. Mobile team led by SMO Dr Lakhvir Singh also goes from various police stations to police posts and conducts check-ups of police personnel stationed there. Screening of about 2,600 police personnel has been done, so far, including 1,500 employees who have been checked at screening posts at police lines, while around 1,100 personnel have been screened at various police stations and checkpoints.Talking to The Tribune, District Police Hospital SMO Dr Lakhvir Singh said, “On the instructions of SSP Gaurav Garg, the campaign was started 11 days ago. Under the campaign, police personnel deployed on night shift duty were screened first and now those on day shifts are being screened. On Wednesday, 110 people were investigated, including those of Model Town police station, Shamchurasi and Nasrala police posts.” He said during this period, physical examination of police personnel, including investigation for nasal discharge, eye discharge, cough, chest, BP, sugar, etc are done. Also they are being given tips on prevention of Covid-19 infection, he said.Dr Lakhvir said during the screening, seven police personnel who had returned from abroad and those who were on duty at Hola Mohalla were quarantined. “They have all completed their quarantine period and have been sent on duty after being found healthy during the check-up,” he said. Dr Lakhvir said the Jalandhar Police Range had setup an isolation centre for police personnel in Kapurthala, where he goes for duty every fifth day.He said the spread of the Covid-19 virus is caused by droplet infection through coughing and sneezing or contamination by infected surfaces. He said people must repeatedly wash their hands with soap for 20 seconds and avoid touching face, hands, nose, eyes and exposed surfaces while outside. “Use face masks only when necessary and change the disposable mask timely. Wash reusable mask thoroughly and make sure that the surface of the mask is not touched by hands,” said Dr Lakhvir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-600-cops-examined-under-covid-19-screening-drive-in-hoshiarpur-68468
09-04-2020||---||Jalandhar MC councillors turn helpers for residents of their wards||Jalandhar, April 8Since the lockdown has started, the administration and NGOs have been making sure that no one sleeps hungry and efforts are being made to provide ration to needy people.In the present situation, councillors in the city have also been helping residents of their wards. Several migrant labourers, daily wagers, slum dwellers and other needy persons have been turning to them for help.The councillors have also been helping people by shelling out money from their own pockets.Ward No. 6 councillor Nirmal Singh said the majority of the people here are migrant workers, and besides NGOs, he was also helping them with essential services.“There is ample ration for them now. We won’t let anyone suffer in this situation,” he said. Parveena, a councillor from Ward No. 11, has also donated her five months’ salary to help those in need. She has also been distributing langar among people belonging to economically weak sections. She said she was always available for her ward residents.The councillor from Ward No. 78, who had started distributing cooked food among people living in slum areas, is now also giving medicines to elderly who have medical problems such as high blood pressure, diabetes or those are suffering from heart-related ailments.No help from admninistration, officials, allege councillorsSushil Kumar, BJP councillor of Ward No. 2, has been organising langar for the needy people of his ward and is ensuring that if anybody comes to him, he or she would be provided help. He said there was a large number of people in his ward who belong to labour class. Thus, they keep on coming to him for help.“I also visits them and keep on asking if they need any help at this point of time,” he said. Today, Kumar alleged that he had gone to take food packets from MC officials who have been giving the ration to all 80 councillors.“But when I asked to give it to me, I saw that against my name, there was a cross sign. When I asked, the officials said the ration had already been given,” he claimed, adding that he did not understand that why at this point, everyone was indulged in politics rather than helping the needy.An Independent councillor, Davinder Rony, from Ward No. 66 has written to the Deputy Commissioner that he was not getting any help from either the MC or the government in his ward. Thus, he has been helping his ward residents on his own and has also been taking those who need medical help to hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-mc-councillors-turn-helpers-for-residents-of-their-wards-68467
09-04-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Sanitation workers in Jalandhar are doing their bit||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 8When everyone is staying inside their homes amid the lockdown as advised by the administration and the government for safety of people, medical staff, police officials and safai karamcharis are acting like soldiers for protection of others.Safai karamcharis are playing an important role in this difficult scenario and are being seen as superheroes of lockdown. The safai karamcharis are keeping the city clean when the pandemic has gripped the world.Every day, the workers are ensuring cleanliness in the city and are also visiting houses to pick up waste.Different areas are being cleaned on a daily basis by the safai karamcharis. The workers are ensuring that no garbage is left on streets and the city should be clean.One of the safai karamcharis said: “We don’t want to sit at home at this time. We are doing our work zealously with an aim to make the city rubbish-free. I am also visiting homes to pick waste. We have to fight it together.”Workers honoured for their servicesEven the administration today felicitated 150 sanitation workers for rendering their services to humanity by cleaning the city during the ongoing curfew.Nakodar Sub-Divisional Magistrate(SDM) Amit Kumar Panchal today honoured around 150 sanitation workers who were performing their duty zealously. Led by the SDM, administrative officers felicitated the workers in the main market and expressed gratitude towards them for rendering their services to people. Panchal said it was a testing time and such commitment towards society was expected from every individual.However, the SDM said sanitary workers had displayed exemplary commitment for work which was unparalleled. Entire society in general and he himself in particular was indebted to the ‘’soldiers of cleanliness’’ for the noble cause.He said masks, sanitisers and other logistics required by the workers were already being distributed among them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sanitation-workers-in-jalandhar-are-doing-their-bit-68466
09-04-2020||Ajay Joshi||Animal lovers feed strays amid curfew in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 8As the country has entered its third week of lockdown to contain the spread of Covid, stray animals have also been facing a tough time. To meet the shortage of food, some people have come out on streets to feed stray animals.Yuvi Singh has been preparing and arranging food for stray dogs for the past 15 days during the lockdown. He aims to serve hundreds of stray dogs.After the imposition of the curfew, Yuvi started feeding 8 to 10 dogs in his residential colony.He said, “Being an animal activist, I started feeding dogs after realising the fact that thousands of stray animals in the district also depend on food and waste in markets, restaurants and grocery shops. But with public establishments shutting down due to the coronavirus, stray animals have been facing a tough time in finding food.”As he also runs an NGO, Animal Protection Foundation, he has roped in members of his NGO for feeding strays all around the city. Having received curfew passes from the district administration, he said they were connected with each other through WhatsApp and Facebook.“Earlier, all of us faced issues as pet shops were shut. Thankfully, we are now easily getting pedigrees from medical shops. Milk and bread are available at grocery stores. Now, we sometimes fear that in the absence of proper safety kits, we are at high risk of catching the virus”, said Yuvi, who visits different parts of the city to feed strays and treat injured dogs on roads.Similarly, Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Bharat Nagar, and Rohan Kapoor, Kamal Kapoor, Sachin, Ajay and Rampal of Baldev Nagar have also been feeding over 150 dogs and cattle daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/animal-lovers-feed-strays-amid-curfew-in-jalandhar-68465
09-04-2020||---||Can’t fight battle sans PPE kits: Jalandhar nursing staff||Jalandhar, April 8Staff nurses and frontline workers deputed at the most sensitive trauma ward of Civil Hospital in Jalandhar on Wednesday raised objections over the non-provision of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to them.Over 20 frontlines workers, including nurses, sweepers and Class IV employees, donning masks and gowns, gathered outside the office of medical superintendent and stated that they needed PPE kits for carrying out their duties.Out of 11 persons deputed at the trauma ward which include four staff nurses, three doctors, two sweepers, two Class IV employees, only three have been provided with PPE kits. In a shift, the kits are made available to only a doctor, a nurse and a sweeper.A nurse deputed at the trauma ward said, “Only three personnel deputed at the isolation ward are being provided with PPE kits. We earn a meagre Rs10,000 per month and have no health insurance. We and our families are at serious risk.”Another nurse said, “After a patient lodged at the Civil Hospital’s emergency ward tested positive today, a nurse who had been attending to her for the past two days broke down as she feared having caught the infection. She has a two-year-old child. Support staff with PPE kits spend 90 per cent of their shift in close contact with patients. Unless we are provided with adequate protection, and health cover, it is risky for us to work with both suspects and positive patients.”Dr Mandeep Kaur, Medical Superintendent, Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, said, “Adequate PPE kits are being provided to all staff members and there is no dearth of the kits. Patients are being taken care of properly and three also went home today after getting recovered.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cant-fight-battle-sans-ppe-kits-jalandhar-nursing-staff-68498
