09-05-2020||Phagwara||Lovely Professional University to waive fee of Covid warriors’ wards||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lovely-professional-university-to-waive-fee-of-covid-warriors-wards-82557
09-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||District reports 7 more +ve cases||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 8With seven more Covid positive cases on Friday, the Jalandhar tally reached 155.Those positive in Jalandhar include three returnees from Nanded Sahib — all women aged 55, 30 and 30 years; three persons aged 4 and 35 (males) and 27 (woman) from Basti Gujan, who are contacts of deceased factory workers; and a 49-year-old male from Basti Danishmandan with no established contact history.While positive and active cases have been listed at 155 and 128, respectively, in the district bulletin, the state bulletin on Friday put the total positive at 158 and active cases at 144. There was a difference in the active patients in the state and district lists yesterday as well. As many as 18 more people tested positive in Nawashahr, taking the district total to 95. At least eight new travel history persons have added to the concerns in Nawanshahr, which has also seen a steady rise in cases after a 30 day lull was broken by a trucker testing positive. The 18 include 10 returnees (five of them drivers) and eight more people from various villages.At Nawanshahr, 19 persons tested positive on Friday. Of these, 10 were returnees from Maharashtra (of whom five were Punjab Roadways drivers who returned from Nanded). The remaining eight are eight persons from Garcha, Bhaura, Kamam, Gunachaur, Banga (Shakti Nagar) Mahipur and Mangupur, and a case associated with Machhiwara in Ludhiana. With all of them having a travel history, their samples were a precautionary measure, but they turned out positive.Jalandhar samplingTotal positive: 155Samples collected: 4,819Negative: 3,498Active: 128Recovered: 19Deceased: 5Results awaited: 1,055Avoid using AC: SMOJalandhar: Senior Medical Officer AS Duggal has advised people to avoid using coolers and ACs as coronavirus spreads faster in moisture and closed environment. So, the doctor advised not to sit by switching the cooler or AC on, and if need be, then take precautions. “People generally close every window and door when they switch on the AC and coolers, but from now onwards, they will have to make sure that they open at least a window for ventilation,” Dr Duggal said, adding that the temperature of the room should be maintained between 24°C and 27°C. He said people having cold and cough should avoid sleeping in the AC room.Seven dischargedIn a major sigh of relief, seven city residents on Friday defeated the coronavirus and were discharged from the local Civil Hospital. So far, 19 patients have recovered from the Covid-19 in the district. The Covid test reports of all seven persons came out to be negative on Friday. The patients were treated by a team of doctors led by Kashmiri Lal, Senior Medical Officer, Civil Hospital. The seven include a nine-year-old girl who defeated coronavirus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/district-reports-7-more-ve-cases-82513
09-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Financial help sought for lawyers in need||Garhshankar, May 8Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari today held a meeting via video conferencing with presidents of the bar associations related to financial problems being faced by some lawyers. The legal fraternity has demanded financial help for its members due to lockdown in the country. Tewari assured the members that he would take up the matter with the state government and find an acceptable solution.The representatives of the legal fraternity demanded financial assistance from the Punjab government to the needy lawyers in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. They said some lawyers were getting a financial assistance of Rs 5,000 from the Punjab and Haryana Bar Council, but majority of the lawyers do not fill terms and conditions of the council.The lawyers’ representatives demanded setting-up a committee by the state government to help medical needs of lawyers. They also made several suggestions regarding prevention of corona infection and demanded strict implementation of social distancing during the relaxation of lockdown.Tewari assured to solve the problems of the legal fraternity. Dayal Partap Singh Randhwa (President, Punjab & Haryana High Court Bar Association); Pawan Dewan (Chairman, Punjab Large Industrial Development Board); Manpreet Singh Chahal (President, DBA Mohali); JPS Dher (President, DBA Ropar); Varinder Pahwa (President, DBA Nawanshahr); Pankaj Kirpal (President, DBA Gharshanker); Harjinder Singh (President, DBA Balachaur); Daulat Singh (President, DBA Anandpur Sahib); Sachin Kumar (President, Kharar Bar Association) and Aman Slatch spoke with Tewari.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/financial-help-sought-for-lawyers-in-need-82515
09-05-2020||Jalandhar||EPFO allows registration of digital signatures via e-mail||The Regional Commissioner of the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), Sunil Kumar Yadav, on Thursday said the organisation has decided to allow employers to register their digital signatures through e-mail. This facility has been provided in view of the Covid-led lockdown.He said several important tasks such as KYC attestation and transfer claim attestation are being done online using digital signatures (DS) or Aadhaar-based e-sign on the EPFO portal by persons authorised by the employers. To use the DS or e-sign facilities, the authorised persons send a request to the EPFO’s regional office. But owing to the lockdown, many employers have been difficulties in sending the requests, he said.Employers can send a scanned copy of the request letter to the e-mail: sro.jalandhar@epfindia.gov.in, the official said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/epfo-allows-registration-of-digital-signatures-via-e-mail-82516
09-05-2020||Our Correspondent||2 die in car-truck collision||Mahilpur, May 8Two persons were killed when the car they were travelling in collided with a truck near Bahowal village on the Hoshiarpur-Chandigarh road on Friday.According to information, Hardeep Singh, alias Deepa (55), a resident of Mahimadowal village along with Gurjinder Singh, alias Kaka (45), a resident of Fatehpur Kothi were returning to their village from Hoshiarpur in the car. When they reached near Bahowal village a truck coming from the opposite direction collided head-on with their car. The car was completely damaged while the truck overturned on a roadside.Car driver Hardeep Singh died on the spot, while Gurjinder Singh was referred to the Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur, where he died during treatment. The truck driver, Jasvir, also suffered injuries in the accident and was referred the Civil Hospital, Mahilpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-die-in-car-truck-collision-82517
09-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Traders express concern over migrants’ exodus||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 8Industrialists are not in favour of the decision to allow labourer to leave for their homes when they have finally resumed their operations.A meeting of industrialists was held here on Friday. Barinder Kalsi, chairman, CII Jalandhar Council, was also present at the meeting.Balram Kapoor from the Jalandhar Autoparts Manufacturers Association said everyone discussed the hardships faced by them during the lockdown."The industry needs work so as labourers, which is why they travelled so far for greener pastures," he said.The industrialists said they have faith in the state government and hoped that exodus of the labourers would be stopped soon. They said the industry is capable of taking care of their workers and they will find a way to live amid current unprecedented times.They said the industry is exuberant and confident of a new start.Narinder Sagoo, president, Focal Point Association, said Union Minister Nitin Gadkari should stop plying of trains as the industry will collapse.Manish Arora, president, Surgical Complex Association, said social distancing norms are being blatantly violated amid the current mass movement.Sports industry worried tooRavinder Dhir, convener, Khel Udyog Sangh Sangharsh Samiti, has also written to the Chief Minister. He said for the past two months, industrial owners have been helping their workers and now when the government has ordered to start operations, migrants are going home. He said it will be a disaster. If the units are opened, there will be no work.“We understand the emotions of our migrants, but the decision to send them back at this time is not right,” he said, adding that the decision should be revoked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/traders-express-concern-over-migrants-exodus-82518
09-05-2020||Our correspondent||Scared of catching infection, woman refuses to accept husband’s body||Hoshiarpur, May 8Family members of Harnek Singh, a resident of Harkhowal village, who died of Covid at Amritsar Medical College on Wednesday, refused to accept the body, forcing the district administration to perform the last rites.Dr Sunil Ahir, SMO of PHC, Harata Badla, on Friday performed the last rites in the presence of MLA from Chabbewal Assembly constituency Raj Kumar and SDM, Hoshiarpur, Dr Amit Mahajan. Harnek was referred to the medical college on May 3 in a critical condition. However, he died on May 6. The report of his Covid-19 test came positive the next day. Harnek is survived by his wife and two daughters. They did not attend the cremation.The SDM was present there on behalf of the district administration. He told The Tribune that earlier, a medical team had spoken to the family and tried to convince them to come for the funeral. The team told them that there was no danger, but the family refused to come.The Chabbewal MLA appealed to the people to take precautions to prevent the spread of the virus. He said people should not panic, but follow the guidelines of the administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/scared-of-catching-infection-woman-refuses-to-accept-husbands-body-82519
09-05-2020||Avneet Kaur||He uses this opportunity to pen down drama pending for long||Nawanshahr, May 8Dr Devinder Kumar, a Punjabi writer, has been utilising his free time effectively during the lockdown. He is completing works that he had kept aside for long.Dr Devinder, a retired assistant professor from Sikh National College, Banga, and currently working as a professor in the Punjabi department at Desh Bhagat University, Mandi Gobindgarh, says, "I have been using this lockdown period to explore such works, including writings, which got sidelined because of my busy schedule and commitments.Although we are stuck at our homes, we are still very much connected with the outside world through technology. If you ask any person if he/she is getting bored at home, I think the answer is no, because by now everyone has found how to entertain themselves and they are busy either on social media, cooking, painting, watching movies, writing, practicing their hobbies etc.Dr Devinder Kumar, A Punjabi WriterHe is currently writing a drama, which he wanted to pen down long before.The writer says that he begins his day in the nature's lap doing some yoga and meditation. Afterwards, he spends time reading books, online journals and doing some research work on the drama he is penning down. "Although we are stuck at our homes, we are still very much connected with the outside world through technology. If you ask any person if he/she is getting bored at home, I think the answer is no, because by now everyone has found how to entertain themselves and they are busy either on social media, cooking, painting, watching movies, writing, practicing their hobbies etc", he added.So far, he has written three books as a critique, while nine of his books in the form of dramas based on social issues and human rights have been published and widely acknowledged by readers.Besides, Devinder has been spending time with his Phd students helping them with their research work via video conferencing. "I have four students who have been doing their research work under my guidance. I have divided 40 to 60 minutes time slot for each one of them. I think this is the best time for everyone who has been longing for a break. We should make the best use of this time and explore our creative sides", he added.He said for information as well entertainment purpose, he along with his writer friends have been organising an online symposium after every two weeks. "We are a group of 30 persons, all writers and poets by profession. We collectively decide a topic to be discussed during the symposium and everyone is given time to deliver their thoughts and opinions", he said."This activity takes most our time and keeps us busy other days too as it takes time preparing about the topic", Devinder said, adding he also make sure that he stays away from rumours and invest his time in rational things.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/he-uses-this-opportunity-to-pen-down-drama-pending-for-long-82523
09-05-2020||Nawanshahr||50 examined at medical camp||Three booked for assaultNakodar: The Lohian Khas police on Friday booked three persons on the charge of assaulting a villager. Investigating officer (IO) Kulwindar Singh said those booked included Sukhprit Singh alias Sukh and Karan, both residents of Nihaloowal village, and Juj of Sechewal village. In his complaint to the police, Balraj Singh of Nihaloowal village said the suspects waylaid and attacked him on April 30, when he, along with his wife, was going to his fields. He was seriously injured in the attack. The IO said a case has been registered. ocResidents get dirty waterNurmahal: Residents of Krishana Nagar, Mohalla Khateekan and Qila have been receiving contaminated water supply for the past many days and despite repeated complaints, the department concerned has failed to rectify faults in supply lines. Qila locality Ashok Kumar Sandhu, who is the president of the Lambardar Union said he has brought the issue to the notice of officials of the Nagar Council many a time, but to no avail. Executive Officer Vikram Sharma said efforts were being made to supply pure water to the areas. ocBurglary at Sewa KendraPhagwara: A burglary was reported at Sewa Kendra in Baba Gadhia Phagwara on Friday morning. Sewa Kendra operator Bimal Kumar said after the orders of the government, he went to open the Sewa Kendra on Friday morning, but found the locks of broken. The burglars took away four LCDs and three printers from the Sewa Kendra. The police have registered the case. OCgas cylinders stolen, 2 bookedNakodar: The Nakodar Sadar police have booked two villagers on the charge of stealing cooking gas cylinders from a house. Investigating Officer (IO) and Shankar police post in-charge Gurnam Singh said the accused have been identified as Ravi Kumar, alias Bhalu, a resident of Bajuha Kalan village and his brother Gurprit Singh, alias Kaka. Jagroop Singh of the same village complained that the accused barged into his house and decamped with two cooking gas cylinders. A case was registered. Raids were on to nab the accused. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/50-examined-at-medical-camp-82524
09-05-2020||Navtej Singh Cheema||‘Countering myths my prime concern’||REGULATION of accurate information and countering myths and scaremongering has been among the first concerns we have in the constituency for our people. The second is disbursal of ration and the third insulating the farm sector.Initially, people got very scared, because many in our area are NRIs and there was a lot of talk about NRIs spreading it. But we have started an effective chain of WhatsApp and FB groups and information dissemination system to counter fear-mongering. All key information regarding Covid-19, outreach of ration and farm-related issues is circulated through these groups. The first three people who tested positive in Sultanpur Lodhi also got caught through these groups. Thirteen people from Maharashtra who had come in taxis were trying to enter villages without undergoing mandatory checks. Alert villages reported these on groups and didn't allow them to enter. So, a major crisis was averted. If they had been allowed to get into villages, they would have infected other persons.Adequate arrangements have been made for those to be out under isolation. All returnees are being taken to Bebe Nanki Sarai, where one floor with 70-80 rooms has been dedicated to Covid-19. More rooms have also been assured if need be. Villages have also been asked to dedicate 20 beds per village at makeshift units set up in schools for Covid. In meetings and social media announcements, villagers had been asked to do it eight days ago.We shall also be ensuring ration to all families who need it or those under quarantine. We send ration packets to the BDO office. It is important to check genuine people and it is provided only to the needy. As far as agri sector is concerned, wheat has already been sold in mandis. In Sultanpur Lodhi, 150 drills (sowing machines) have been ensured for farmers for sowing paddy. Other machines that are used for sowing have also come from Italy to aide farmers. We are trying to put machines to use as much as possible so that farmers don't get impacted by the labour crisis. At mandis also, it was mostly village labourers on job. While migrant labourers were previously working, most of them have left. Labour costs have also escalated due to that. Farmers can't cope with that so machines are a prime support. We will experiment shifting farming work to machine sector as much as possible(AS TOLD TO Aparna Banerji)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/countering-myths-my-prime-concern-82526
09-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Former Sr Deputy Mayor extending helping hand||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 8Former Senior Deputy Mayor Kamaljit Bhatia, who is also the husband of the councillor from Ward No. 45, has been working tirelessly for ward residents. Bhatia has also been extending a helping hand to residents of other areas.On Friday, Bhatia distributed the homeopathic medicine among 500 households in the city to boost their immunity. “The medicine is approved by the Ministry of AYUSH and advised by the Homeopathy Department, Punjab, to boost immunity during the pandemic. Therefore, I started distributing it free of cost,” he said.Bhatia has also been organising langar for two times a day for the past 50 days under Chanpreet Memorial Charitable Hospital. “We are being helped by other organisations, including Sewa Ashram, Sri Guru Ravidass Mandir and Sri Krishna Welfare Society,” he added.A few days ago, Bhatia was seen accompanying people from the Basti Gujan area for testing at a Community Health Centre (CHC). From six houses, 124 contacts of 48-year-old Covid patient in the area were called to the CHC.He said people were still not following social distancing norms. Bhatia has been asking them to stay indoors and maintain some distance from each other.“I have also distributed masks among residents in the ward because I don't want that anybody get infected. I am focusing on making people understand that they must follow the guidelines of the administration and avoid any kind of risk,” Bhatia added.He has also been carrying out sanitisation in his ward and other areas. “Till date, five rounds of sanitisation have already been completed. I am trying my level best to help everyone,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/former-sr-deputy-mayor-extending-helping-hand-82527
09-05-2020||---||Kabaddi player shot by ASI in Kapurthala||Jalandhar, May 8An ASI allegedly shot dead a 27-year-old international kabaddi player at Lakhan Ke Padde village in Kapurthala last night. The accused and his accomplice have been arrested.The victim, Arvinderjit Singh (27), who had played many kabaddi tournaments in England, Canada and the US, allegedly had an altercation with ASI Paramjit Singh over the latter’s car parked at the village.Paramjit Singh, who was posted at Dhilwan police station in Kapurthala, has been dismissed from the service. He had opened fire at the player and his friend Pardeep from his licensed .32 bore revolver. While Arvinderjit died on the spot, Pardeep sustained injuries.An FIR under Sections 302, 307 and 34 of the IPC and the Arms Act has been registered at Subhanpur police station against the ASI and his accomplice. Both have been arrested. Kapurthala SSP Satinder Singh said, “The ASI has been dismissed from service. The two groups had an altercation over the parked car of the ASI. During the scuffle, the ASI shot the kabaddi player.”Refuting the charge, Mangal Singh, president of Dashmesh Sports Club, Lakhan Ke Padde, said, “Drug peddlers often visit the village. Last night, when Arvinderjit and his six friends were returning from practice, they spotted a car. When they tried approach it, but it sped away. They chased the vehicle. But the accused opened fire at them without any provocation.”Kulwinder, a friend of Arvinderjit, said, “The villagers are devastated. Since the vehicle had black film on windows, Arvinderjit and his friends suspected that something was wrong. So they chased the car. Arvinderjit had no enmity with anyone. He was the sole breadwinner of this family.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kabaddi-player-shot-by-asi-in-kapurthala-82272
09-05-2020||---||Gangster, aides with terror links held||Jalandhar, May 8The police have arrested wanted gangster Baljinder Singh alias Billa, who allegedly had links with “slain” Pakistan-based KLF chief Harmeet Singh Happy and Germany-based Bagga of the KZF. Baljinder’s five aides have also been nabbed.The arrests were made in a joint operation by the OCCU team from Chandigarh, Counter Intelligence, Jalandhar unit and the Kapurthala police last night. Besides Billa, those arrested have been identified as Sukhjinder Singh of Kamoke Beas village in Amritsar; Mohit Sharma of Kapurthala, Lovepreet Singh alias Lovely of Amarkot in Tarn Taran; and Mangal Singh and Maninderjeet Singh alias Happy.Billa was wanted in more than 18 criminal cases, including those of murder, attempt to murder anddrug smuggling.DGP Dinkar Gupta said the police had recovered highly sophisticated weapons, smuggled from Pakistan. The recoveries included two .30 bore drum machine guns, three pistols (marked SIG Sauer made in Germany), two glock pistols (made in Austria), two .30 bore pistols, one .32 bore pistol, one .315 bore rifle, 341 cartridges and two drum magazines, 14 pistol magazines along with Rs 3 lakh and 100 Australian dollars.Terming it one of the biggest caches of highly sophisticated weapons from a gang, Gupta said the SIG Sauer pistols are in fact being used by members of US Secret Service, which protects the top US leaders, especially the President.The DGP said they were investigating the role of militants in the supply chain of illegal weapons. Vehicles, including a Toyota Fortuner, Etios Lava and Alto cars, and some fake documents were also seized.Rich haulThe recovery includes two .30 bore drum machine guns, three pistols (marked SIG Sauer made in Germany), two glock pistols (made in Austria), two .30 bore pistols, one .32 bore pistol, one .315 bore rifle, 341 cartridges and two drum magazines, 14 pistol magazines along with Rs3 lakh and 100 Australian dollars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gangster-aides-with-terror-links-held-82292
