09-08-2020||---||With 66 new Covid cases, Jalandhar district tally reaches 2,977||Jalandhar, August 8The District Immunisation Officer and a clerk at the Civil Surgeon’s office are among the 66 persons who tested positive for Covid, taking the tally to 2,977 on Saturday. Members of the CIA staff have also tested positive for Covid. With another death, the district toll has reached 76. With many in the Civil Surgeon’s Office testing positive, speculations were rife about the Civil Surgeon’s Covid status. Many health officials are also getting themselves tested in view of the spate of cases at the CS office. Those tested positive include residents of Phillaur, Shahkot, Lohian, Lohian Khas, Gatta Mundi Kasu, Windsor Park, Harnamdaspura, Shahkot, Police Academy Phillaur, among others. One dies, 11 infections in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: With 11 new cases being reported in the district on Saturday, the tally of Covid-19 patients increased to 634, of which 69 are active cases. Meanwhile, a corona positive patient aged 42, died at Puhari village. Giving this information, Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 32,050 samples have been taken so far in the district, of which 783 samples were taken on Saturday. So far, 55 samples have been found invalid, while 1,809 samples are yet to be reported. Of the 11 cases found positive on Saturday, three are from Mukerian, three are police personnel from Hoshiarpur, two from Mand Pandher and one each from Hajipur, Bhunga, and Dasuya....25 persons +ve in KapurthalaAs many as 25 persons tested positive for Covid in Kapurthala on Saturday. A 35-year-old resident of Fattu Dhinga in Kapurthala lost his battle against Covid at a private hospital in Jalandhar on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-66-new-covid-cases-jalandhar-district-tally-reaches-2-977-124112
09-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||Kailash Satyarthi congratulates Chief Minister, Punjab Police||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 8Two days after 47 children were rescued following a police raid in Jalandhar, Nobel Laureate Kailash Satyarthi tweeted to express thanks to CM Capt Amarinder Singh over the issue. Kailash Satyarthi tweeted: “Congratulations Capt Amarinder Singh Ji and Punjab Police for the rescue of 47 trafficked children from the rubber sandal factory in Jalandhar, arrest of traffickers, and sealing of the factory. I promise my continued support to make Punjab free from child labour and trafficking.”While the Bachpan Bachao Andolan, founded by Satyarthi, has been active in providing information and rescue of children illegally employed in various vocations (hazardous and others) in the state, it has also assisted in the rescue of many labourers in Ludhiana. It is also after eight to nine years, that a raid and rescue of this magnitude was held in Jalandhar. The last time BBA helped in the rescue of children (12) in Jalandhar was before Satyarthi was awarded with the Nobel prize in 2014.While the police have arrested six people – two owners of the factory and two agents in connection with the raids – the BBA has also taken up the issue of addition of requisite sections with the police. Notably, the FIR filed on August 6 includes Section 188 of the IPC, Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act and Section 52 of the Disaster Management Act.BBA activist Dinesh Kumar said: “We had previously submitted a complaint regarding the same factory to the Jalandhar DC in 2019, which was marked to the DC. But this time, following a complaint by the Chandigarh unit, prompt action was taken. The police have assured us of due action and also assured us of the inclusion of other requisite sections in the FIR.”The Jalandhar Commissionerate on Thursday had rescued 47 child labourers including 13 girls from JK Rubbers Industry Private Limited and JK Polymer Industry, Wariana Leather Complex, on the Jalandhar-Kapurthala road. The factory had employed these children sans any social distancing measures amid the pandemic.On a tip-off from NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan, a team set up under Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar had raided both factories. While the factory on first inspection was found to be empty, 37 children were seen hiding on the rooftop. Ten more children were found from another block in the same factory. The owners are currently out on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kailash-satyarthi-congratulates-chief-minister-punjab-police-124113
09-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||Dealing with whining kids, peeved elderly wasn’t easy, docs on Covid duty played counsellors too||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 8In the past four months, a single doctor on Covid testing has slid the nasopharyngeal swab (the 6-inch-long stick used for Covid tests) into the throats and noses of 5,000 people, while others have been pushed away by peeved toddlers and 3 to 4-year-olds to 70-year-old people, unwilling to allow the intrusion.Scurrying streets, alleys, hotels, deras, residential colonies and slums for the past four months, these doctors, assisted by a team of lab technicians and nurses, have been scrambling across high-risk and containment zones.Some of them have elderly parents who they haven’t hugged for months and other have little children, who have to await their parents’ customary shower and gargle (a mandatory daily ritual in Covid times) to hang out with them each day. While five of the dental doctors have been on the job from the day testing took off in the district, as many as six to seven teams have been carrying out sampling since April.Recently, seven to eight more ENT and other dental specialists were also included in the team. Barring doctors, a team of lab technicians, nurses, para-medical staff also accompany the mobile and CHC-based testing teams for conducting sampling. In all, about 40 to 45 doctors carry out sampling in Jalandhar.Dr Manpreet Ghumman hasn’t hugged his 71-year-old grandmother for months and lives in his own house like a recluse. Having trained over 30 doctors in the district himself, he has conducted testing of 5,000 to 6,000 people so far – sometimes over 100 a day.He says: “The heat is certainly a factor which made testing in PPEs challenging at first. But now, we are used to it. My 71-year-old grandmother looks at me questioningly saying nothing will happen to me. But I still stay away and restrict myself to my room.”He said doctors also have to play counsellors to reluctant patients, “There have been kids who cry, push us away and raise hell over testing. They fear it more than a vaccine. But we have to convince them. Sole elders too! Coaxing and persuading patients is a big part of testing process. But we have not let anyone go without a test ever.”Dr Jatinder Kaur, Medical Officer, Dental, who has conducted sampling of over 1,400 to 1,500 people so far, faced similar challenges. She says: “One afternoon, a 70-year-old pushed away the swab stick and declared that he didn’t want the test. There are women, who refuse to get tested because they don’t like the stick to be pushed into their mouth. We have to sit there and convince them. Many people nudge us aside or push swabs away, prompting a long wait.”Dr Kaur said: “There have been times, when I tested 100 people in a single day, but I never felt tired or drained, at least while on job. While Dr Kaur lives with her 70-year-old mother, she doesn’t enter the house until she takes off her shoes and dupatta etc, outside and doesn’t come in contact with anyone at home until she has first taken a bath, washed her hands with disinfectant/soap and gargled thoroughly.Dr Deepak Kajla who has tested at least 2,000 people so far, also says there was no question of contact until he sanitises himself first. Dr Deepak says: “I have myself been tested once and some of our lab technicians and staff too! We have tested NRIs, residents and a countless other people. The most important part is taking the right precautions and protecting both — your patients and yourself. During sampling, sometimes the mucosa of some people is inflamed. Others don’t like the idea of swab tests. But when you get the hang of it, it’s a simple procedure.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dealing-with-whining-kids-peeved-elderly-wasnt-easy-docs-on-covid-duty-played-counsellors-too-124115
09-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||Online classes leave village students in dire straits||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 8Students of Sanghowal village don’t have time to attend online classes. In the last four months, many haven’t attended even in a single class. Well, being dwellers of an obscure settlement here, they are too busy working as daily wagers in paddy fields to attend any classes.But, could this be the real reason behind skipping sessions? Paramjit Kaur, a resident of the village and a BA final year student, is among the defaulters. She clears the air. “I haven’t attended a single class because I was never called! Some music students had been attending but I never received a notice or an invite. Many of my classmates also suffered same fate,” she tells.Of a class of 30 to 40 majority of students fail to make it. “Either we are being deliberately left out or our teachers haven’t bothered to call us. My parents live here and I continued to stay in a PG in Jalandhar to study better. Now, I am thinking whether I should quit BA and pursue a job. The fate of exams is uncertain and education has taken a backseat. These are very difficult and sad times for us,” says Paramjit, whose father is a vegetable vendor.While the heart-rending stories about the sufferings of poor school children due to lack of smartphones has captured the limelight amid the pandemic. The wailing of college-goers of the underprivileged section has largely gone unnoticed. The pressure of fees, uncertainty of examinations and the never-ending accessibility issues are constantly nagging them.Varjit Kaur, an activist of the Punjab Students Union, says students are planning a protest on between August 17 and 18 against the forcible thrusting of online classes.She says, “Students get notices about paying fee regularly. But are we even getting proper education? One of the key demands of our upcoming protests is that adequate substitutes to online teaching be given. Majority of students from poor and farming families are not able to attend online sessions. Two of my classmates haven’t attended a single online class since they are working on paddy transplantation.”Matter of fact is that remote villages do have poor connectivity. “Of our 30-40 students in the MA Political Science class, barely seven or eight turn up for the online class,” she shares, before adding, “there are families where the only phone is with parents. While thrusting online classes on to students, no one cared if many one has a home environment to cope with online lessons or not.” Protesters will be appealing to call students in batches to college and give lessons to clear exams along with study material as well.Ramnita Sharda, Prof at HMV College, says. “They should be taught in asynchronous manner and not synchronous. Students are going to have eyesight problems, lifestyle diseases and mental health issues perpetuated by online classes. Academic organisations need to bear these factors in mind. Study material ought to be made available to students where they are. Many can’t access it online.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-classes-leave-village-students-in-dire-straits-124116
09-08-2020||---||Illegal construction: Action demanded against erring officials||Jalandhar, August 8  Nirmal Singh Nimma, chairman of the building and roads ad hoc committee, who has been blowing the lid off the malpractices prevalent in the MC, has now demanded action against those who allowed the construction of illegal building near the bus stand and its owner. Notably, two years ago, then Local Bodies Minister Navjot Sidhu had inspected 35 illegal buildings in the district and suspended some officials for allowing illegal constructions. One of the illegal buildings was getting built near bus stand, the work of which was stopped after Sidhu had carried out the inspection.   After receiving the complaint on Thursday, Nimma, along with a member, visited the area and found the building constructed. “I don’t understand how it can be possible, when it was illegal. There are nearly 20 shops inside the building. I am going to talk to the Assistant Town Planner, Joint Commissioner and the MC Commissioner and will seek an answer, how it was allowed to get constructed. Also, I would seek documents,” he said. Nimma  said that he met Mayor on Friday, who has further asked the Commissioner to take action and demolish the building.  Earlier also in a big revelation, the chairman had told that even after getting refusal from the MC, 40 colonies were established. “This is a big scandal. The 40 colonisers didn’t pay even a single penny to the MC during the five years. On the other hand, 42 colonies that were regularised paid only 10 per cent of the total amount and the remaining 90 per cent was still pending. The total amount owed to the civic body, along with interest, is a whopping Rs 18 crore,” Nimma said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/illegal-construction-action-demanded-against-erring-officials-124117
09-08-2020||Our Correspondent---||Six special teams to tighten noose around illicit liquor traders: SSP||Hoshiarpur, August 8 To tighten the noose around bootleggers and liquor smuggling, the district police have chalked out a comprehensive action plan. SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said six subdivision-level special teams, headed by DSPs, had been constituted to crackdown on such anti-social elements. The teams would also comprise SHOs of the areas concerned, he said. The SSP said the teams had been briefed via a special training session on methods to launch ensure and effective raids. Mahal said special nakas would be set up and raids would be conducted in wee hours by the teams to nab smugglers. He said checking at the inter-state and inter district border had been intensified. 248 cases, 297 arrests till Aug 6 Giving a breakup of seizure of illicit liquor from July 30 to August 6, Mahal said 36 cases were registered and 32 persons were arrested under the Excise Act. The police also seized 324 litres of smuggled liquor, 753 litres of illicit liquor and 13,900 kg of lahan. He said on August 4, the district police nabbed a proclaimed offender, Sandeep Kumar, booked under the Excise Act in 2013.  From January 1 to August 6, 248 cases were registered, and 297 persons apprehended. Similarly, the police seized 1.37 crore ml of illicit liquor, two working brewing units, 33,900 kg of lahan and 1.20 crore ml of smuggled liquor, he said. The SSP said joint teams of officials of the Police and Excise Departments were leaving no stone unturned to put the traders of illicit liquor behind bars. He said the joint teams had registered a laudable success in the district, especially in the Mand area falling in Tanda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/six-special-teams-to-tighten-noose-around-illicit-liquor-traders-ssp-124118
09-08-2020||---||Now, MPs, MLAs, councillors just a click away||Jalandhar, August 8To bridge the gap between the public and political leaders across the state, city-based techie — Sandeep Kumar Gupta — has launched web portals to enable locals to approach their area leaders in just a single click.Different web portals have been created for Member of Parliaments (MPs) and Members of Legislative Assembly (MLAs). Councillors, too, can be approached through the web portal.Gupta, founder of Sakar Micro Solutions Private Limited, said the portals would be managed by a team of volunteers under the NGO — Bridge Gap Society. “The web portals will help residents to register their grievances in an easy way and the governance will be accessible to the public. A team of 11 members, including technicians, will also communicate to the IT teams of all MPs and MLAs to make use of the portals for resolving the complaints of people. All particulars of the political leaders and councillors have been filled in the portals.Locals can open different portals by opening a web address by typing mp.com, mla.com and wardno..com for example: mpjalandhar.com, mlajalandharcentral.com and wardno11.com. They can also send suggestions, feedback, problems and questions with the facility of submission,” he said. These portals were inaugurated in the presence of Congress leader Manoj Malhotra, MLA Rajinder Beri and Mayor Jagadish Raja among others.Gupta had also launched 545 different portals for MPs in the country in 2018 and for this, he was named in the Limca Book of Records, Asia Book of Records, India Book of Records, Golden Book of Records and World Records India. The digital access will help voters in making a comparison between their leaders. The portal will be updated after every state and municipal elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-mps-mlas-councillors-just-a-click-away-124119
09-08-2020||Avneet Kaur||Non-bailable warrant issued against Jalandhar Improvement Trust Executive Officer||Jalandhar, August 8The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has issued a non-bailable arrest warrant against the Executive Officer (EO) of the Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT) over the non-compliance of orders given by the state commission following the complaints filed by six allottees of Bibi Bhani Complex.Forum president Karnail Singh and member Jyotsna in the previous hearing over the execution appeal on August 5 have ordered the issuance of arrest warrant of the EO for September 8.The orders were issued after the forum found that the JIT had failed to follow the orders of the state commission regarding the refund of the principal amount along with 12 per cent interest to the allottees. The case pertained to complaints filed by six allottees of the Bibi Bhani Complex. The complainants are Geetika M Grover, Kewal Ram, Balbir Singh, Rajinder Kumar Vij, Surinder Pal and Harbir Singh Aneja. The total amount the JIT has to pay to all of them is nearly Rs78 lakh, including principal amount, interest as well compensation expenses.In their complaint, the plaintiffs said the JIT miserably failed to hand over the possession of the LIG flats of the Bibi Bhani Complex, which was meant to be given in 2012. Hence, they were forced to approach the consumer forum to seek justice. The complainants filed their cases in the district consumer forum against JIT in 2017 and won their cases in 2019. However, the JIT challenged the judgment of the district consumer forum in the state commission.Interestingly, the state commission, too, dismissed the appeal filed by the JIT and ordered the Trust to comply by the compensation orders issued by the district forum and return the money to the allottees at the earliest. The JIT has also paid Rs25,479 in each case to the state commission as legal expenses, which has now been transferred to the district consumer forum to be further paid to the allottees.The counsel of the complainants, Darshan Ahuja, said in 2009, JIT allotted 51.5 acres for the development of the Bibi Bhani Complex, announcing a self-financing scheme promising two-storeyed apartments equipped with all basic facilities and good-quality infrastructure. The JIT then declared that the possession of the flats would be delivered by 2012.He said the complainants paid the entire price of the flat to the tune of Rs6 or Rs6.5 lakh to the JIT in installments or at once as per the terms and conditions applied. Their last installment was paid in 2012. As per the conditions of the allotment letter, the JIT was to give the possession of the flat to them on the payment of the last installment, but it has not delivered the possession till date.“Shockingly, in case of Geetika Grover, he alleged that JIT, despite having taken the complete amount, never constructed her flat even till date and that her flat simply exists on papers,” Ahuja said.Amount that Improvement Trust has to refundIn Geetika Grover case: Rs13.25 lakh (Rs6.18 lakh principal amount + 12 per cent interest + Rs50,000 compensation + Rs5,000 legal expenses)Kewal Ram case: Rs13.25 lakh (Rs6.27 lakh principal amount + 12 per cent interest + Rs30,000 compensation + Rs5,000 legal expenses)Balbir Singh case: Rs13 lakh (Rs6.18 lakh principal amount + 12 per cent interest + Rs30,000 compensation + Rs5,000 legal expenses)Rajinder Kumar Vij case: Rs13.50 lakh (Rs6.67 lakh principal amount + 12 per cent interest + Rs30,000 compensation + Rs5,000 legal expenses)Surinder Pal case: Rs12.50 lakh (Rs5.87 lakh principal amount + 12 per cent interest + Rs30,000 compensation + Rs5,000 legal expenses)Harbir Singh case: Rs13 lakh (Rs 6.18 lakh principal amount + 12 per cent interest + Rs30,000 compensation + Rs5000 legal expenses)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/non-bailable-warrant-issued-against-jalandhar-improvement-trust-executive-officer-124120
09-08-2020||Hoshiarpur||204 beneficiaries to get houses in  Hoshiarpur: Deputy Commissioner||A total of 204 houses built under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana will soon be handed over to the beneficiaries by the district administration as the construction of the houses is in final stages. The houses are being built with the financial help of Rs 1.20 lakh provided to each beneficiary in three instalments.  Disclosing this here on Saturday, DC Apneet Riyait said with the addition of 204 beneficiaries, the number of total beneficiaries in the past four years would become 1,377.  A total of 543 pucca houses were handed over to beneficiaries in 2016-17, she said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/204-beneficiaries-to-get-houses-in-hoshiarpur-deputy-commissioner-124121
09-08-2020||---||Kapurthala district first to launch drug overdose education project||Kapurthala, August 8 Kapurthala has become the first district in the state to launch the Drug Overdose Education and Management project (DOVE) to save the lives of drug addicts by educating them through ASHA workers, ANMs, Civil Hospital, PHC and CHCs. Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said it was observed during the lockdown that as the supply line of drugs was broken, the registration at Out Patient Opioid Assisted Treatment (OOAT) clinics increased sharply. She said under ‘Dove’, it was decided to start awareness about addiction and its harms, increasing the availability of opioid dependence treatment, reducing irrational or inappropriate opioid prescription, monitoring opioid prescribing and dispensing and limiting availability over the counter sales of opioids. She said in all 10 Civil Hospitals, PHCs and CHCs, specialist doctors have been asked to educate addicts enrolled with the OOAT clinics. During the lockdown period, the registration at OOAT clinics increased to 8,500, as more than 2,000 persons made new registration. Nodal officer of this project Dr Sandeep Bhola said the areas or persons who are at high risk, have been identified, which mainly include people who inject opioids and people who have used opioids and have medical conditions such as HIV, liver or lung disease and suffer from depression. He said ASHA workers, ANMs have also been asked to raise awareness among people about the harmful effects of drug overdose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-district-first-to-launch-drug-overdose-education-project-124122
09-08-2020||Komal Rana (28)||‘Everybody made us feel like an outcast’||“It was on July 10, Friday, when I contracted the disease. Moments after testing positive, my road to recovery began. Though, I don't know the exact chain, I think I contracted it from my mother, who had started showing symptoms from July 7 onwards. The beginning ones were mild fever accompanied by body shivers and frequent headaches. I had gone to visit my maternal family due to some family function. My father and brother had also tested positive after my mother. We didn't know the exact source, but we thought my mother got it after visiting a market or through my father who's a shopkeeper," she shares.“Whereas, until their reports came, I had come back to my house (in-laws), after knowing that my mother was a victim of the virus. I masked and gloved myself. Although, I didn't know if I had the virus, I didn't want to be a carrier in my house,” Komal of course didn't want her 3-year-old daughter and elderly father-in-law and mother-in-law to be infected. “But things changed, I felt like as if I had lost my sense of smell and taste,” she adds.Her reports had come positive. “But my family remained safe and didn't show any symptoms. Before, I could think of anything, an ambulance reached our home and took me to a quarantine centre. After a few hours of stay there, doctors allowed me for home isolation, as I was asymptomatic with no co-morbidities,” she tells.“My whole family, especially my husband, remained supportive throughout my recovery period of 14 days. Away from other members, I was isolated in a room on the second floor of our house where nobody lives. I was given a thermometer to monitor my temperature everyday, reports of which were sent to ASHA workers,” Komal narrates.The initial days were really hard to cope with as she was being socially avoided. “...as everybody around us saw us differently and made us feel outcast. Luckily, my family members, who were also in home isolation supported me and took care of my needs. My husband would keep the food and other essentials outside my room and I would dispose off all the items used by me in a separate dustbin,” she says.Meanwhile, to deal with the mental torture, she would meditate daily, do breathing exercises and spoke to her friends over the phone to keep her positivity levels up. “Subsequently, after 15 days’ isolation, I had fully recovered and my reports were negative. But I don't forget to take the precautions even now. As part of my initial journey, I still drink herbal tea, turmeric milk, hot water and wash my hands frequently,” she explains.She suggests that kadha mixed with ashwagandha, ginger, tulsi and honey in lukewarm water refrains the possibility of any other symptoms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/everybody-made-us-feel-like-an-outcast-124123
09-08-2020||---||Sanskrit Day celebrated||Jalandhar, August 8The Sanskrit department of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya celebrated ‘Sanskrit Day’ to aware the students about the importance of Sanskrit language. An inter-class essay writing competition was organised on the occasion, with the topic ‘The importance of Sanskrit in the Modern Era’ and ‘Veda- the basis of morality’. Students of other languages also participated in the competition. ‘Rishis’ (Monks) are the source of Sanskrit literature. ‘Sawan Purnima’ is being celebrated as the ‘Rishi Parv’ and the ‘Sanskrit Diwas’. Principal prof Ajay Sareen said: “Sanskrit is our heritage and its importance should be known to the young generation. “We get knowledgeable material from Vedic Sanskrit studies. In the present era, for computer programming, the Sanskrit is known as the best language”. She congratulated the Sanskrit department and the winners of the competition. She also encouraged the students to take part in such competition. Khushi, of Sem IV got the first prize, Aditi Rana of BCom Sem IV bagged the IInd prize and Simmi Aggarwal of BCom Sem V got thethird prize. In collegiate wing, Softy Kashyap bagged the first prize, Gurpreet Kaur bagged the second prize and Sakshi Badola got the third prize. Dean Vedic Adhyyan Society Mamta, Coordinator HMV Collegiate School Meenakshi Sayal and Head of Sanskrit department Meenu Talwar congratulated the winners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sanskrit-day-celebrated-124126
