09-12-2020||---||Bharat Bandh: When all roads lead to hope…||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 8The call for Bharat Bandh given by farmers protesting at the Delhi border over the demand for repealing three farm laws received full support in the entire Doaba region on Tuesday.All markets, food courts, hotels and government offices remained shut for the first half of the day. All sabzi mandis of the city also remained closed with barricading done by arhtiyas supporting farmers. The highways remained completely blocked.The movement of vehicles within the city also remained limited.Even as schools, colleges and universities were shut, most educational institutes did not even hold online classes.The members of Joint Association of Colleges (JAC) had asked all 1,650 colleges of Punjab to keep studies suspended for a day as a mark of protest in support offarmers. Announcements were made from several religious places on Monday urging communities to show solidarity with the ‘annadatas’ (farmers). Slogans and hoardings displaying messages such as ‘No farmers, no food’ and ‘We support farmers’ were put up all across the city.Even as there were a dozen odd demonstrations held in the city, the biggest show was held at PAP Chowk, which was jammed by farmers’ associations. At the dharna site, farmers honoured Aam Aadmi Party leader Dr Sanjiv Sharma, who had organised a free medical camp for them at the Singhu border a few days ago.At BMC Chowk, a demonstration was held organised by the members of the District Bar Association. The members announced to give all kind of legal support to farmers. The District Congress Committee led by DCC chief Baldev Singh Dev held a protest outside the District Administrative Complex, where they burnt the effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. District Congress women chief Jasleen Sethi, too, joined the protest with activists of the women wing. Congress MLA Sushil Rinku led a protest at Baba Budha Ji bridge in his Jalandhar West constituency and flayed the Centre for bringing in farm laws for the benefit of big corporates in the country.Aam Aadmi Party leaders, too, held protest wherein district chief Rajwinder Kaur said the attempt of the Modi government to linger on farmers’ protest would have very serious repercussions. She demanded that the state government immediately revoke the three farm laws and give a written assurance to farmers on retaining the MSP.In Phagwara, Congress MLA BS Dhaliwal thanked the market associations and general public for maintaining a peaceful bandh in support of protesting farmers. In Kartarpur, the members of Bhartiya Kisan Union and Pendu Mazdur Union blocked the Jalandhar-Amritsar highway.Slogans tailor-made for a cause‘Shehar vaale vi jaag jaao, kisan de sangharsh vich aao’ (city residents wake up and participate in farmers’ struggle), this is how Ashish Julaha, of Contractual Employees’ Union, motivated residents to come out of their homes and support farmers on Tuesday. Julaha said: “I want to sensitise urban people that whatever they eat, comes from farmers.” Other slogans that he prepared include ‘Kisan te kisani sada gehna, ede bina Punjab nahee rehna’ (farmers and their occupation is our ornament, we can’t do without it), ‘Roti khanda har ek insan, is layi zaruri hai saade kisan’ (farmers are important to sustain every person’s life as we all need food for existence), ‘Ugaave kanak, chawal te makka, kisan naal saada saath hai pakka’ (he who grows wheat, rice and maize has our full support). Already fighting for the regularisation of contractual employees for long, Julaha decided to gather support for farmers’ cause at BMC Chowk on Tuesday. Several residents came out in support of farmers. Although they did not go to Delhi, they lent support from the city by observing Bharat Bandh. Other members of Contractual Employees’ Union also protested in support of farmers by wearing masks prepared specially for the occasion. Julaha’s 7-year-old daughter, though completely unaware of what exactly is happening, too, drew a placard in support of farmers insisting people to join the movement. — Aakanksha N BhardwajSchoolchildren join in...Even as the youth wings of political parties and college-goers are organising demonstrations in favour of farmers, school-going children along with their parents also came out to protest at PPR Market. Most of the participants included wards of local leaders of Shiromani Akali Dal. Seemingly quite aware of the issue, they delivered speeches ridiculing the Centre and the mistreatment being meted out to farmers on the Haryana-Delhi border. They said they were watching the updates on TV as well as social media. Many of them said they prepared posters at home last night to join their parents in their demonstrations.D-Mart forced shutAs the entire market areas remained shut in view of Bharat Bandh call, D-Mart, a supermarket at Guru Nanak Mission Chowk, remained open on Tuesday. Youth activists aligned with farmer organisations reached the supermarket and forced them to close it. At the time, several families were busy shopping inside the mall. They were given little time to get the billing done with whatever they had picked from the counters. After everyone came out, farmers asked managers to lock the shutters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bharat-bandh-when-all-roads-lead-to-hope%E2%80%A6-181873
09-12-2020||---||Full steam to peasant struggle in Hoshiarpur||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, December 8The Bharat Bandh call by farmers received full support in Hoshiarpur district. Markets remained closed throughout the day and roads wore a deserted look. Farmers’ organisations blocked all roads to and from the city. During this time, various employee organisations, social organisations, political parties, business organisations and lawyers also gave full support to the Bharat Bandh. Protest demonstrations were held at various places and rallies were also taken out in support of the peasant struggle. The bandh received full support from people in Garhshankar, Dasuya, Mukerian, Tanda and Talwara and markets remained closed throughout the day.The District Bar Association, Christian, Dalit, Sikh, Muslim common fronts, Dana Mandi Arthiya Association, Nai Sabzi Mandi Arthiya Association, shopkeepers’ associations, all organisations of the Roadways, Punbus employees, Left parties and activists of various political parties gave full support opposing the anti-farmer laws. Only emergency services were exempted. Slogans were raised against the Modi government during the dharnas organised at various places, effigies of corporate houses Ambani and Adani were also burnt. Hundreds of people from area’s villages and various political parties gathered in support of Bharat Bandh at Lachowal toll plaza on the 59th day.The employees, led by the Punjab Subordinate Service Federation and Municipal Employees’ Union, took a collective leave and staged a protest against the Central Government at the old town hall in Committee Bazaar. Leaders announced that on December 9, a large convoy of employees led by the Pensioners’ United Front will march from Shambhu Barrier to Delhi at 8 am in support of farmers. After the rally, employees marched from Committee Bazaar, Ghanta Ghar, Kashmiri Bazaar, Purani Dana Mandi, Sabzi Mandi and Gaushala Bazaar to Naloyian Chowk and joined the protests organised by farmers’ organisations at Naloiyan Chowk.Congressmen, led by District Congress Committee president Dr Kuldeep Nanda, staged a sit-in at the district office and attacked the anti-farmer policies of the Modi government. Advocate Rakesh Marwaha, chairman of the Improvement Trust, said former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri gave the slogan of ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’, but the Modi government at the Centre changed it to ‘Die Jawan, Die Farmer’, for which the country would never forgive him.Shiv Sena’s Punjab Chief Ranjit Rana led the agitation by party workers from Kotwali Bazaar to Ghantaghar, Jalandhar Road, Vegetable Market Khanpuri Gate and different markets.SSP keeps a check on arrangementsSSP Navjot Singh Mahal visited the dharna sites in the city and nearby areas on Tuesday and took stock of the situation and appealed to everyone to remain peaceful. After giving necessary guidelines in view of the call for Bharat Bandh to police officers and employees outside the District Administrative Complex, the SSP visited the Chandigarh bypass, Tanda bypass, Phagwara bypass, Prabhat Chowk, Jalandhar bypass, Dasuya bypass, etc. Along with SP (D) Ravinderpal Singh Sandhu, the SSP reached various places and interacted with protesting farmers. He appealed to farmers to protest in a peaceful manner and emphasised that the situation of peace and law should be maintained.Phagwara bypass blockedAzad Kisan Doaba Sangharsh Samiti and various other peasant organisations raised slogans against the Modi government by blocking the local Phagwara bypass road. Farmer leader Harbans Singh Sangha said Tuesday’s bandh proved that the entire country has stood up for farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/full-steam-to-peasant-struggle-in-hoshiarpur-181874
09-12-2020||Jalandhar||Industrialists halt operations||Young brigade to protest todayCity youths will also hold a protest at Model Town on Wednesday in support of farmers. Balraj Singh Khehra, an artist, and a trained fitness trainer having a team called Fitness Freaks has been supporting the youth. Khehra said: “The protest is not limited to farmers only now, it is for everyone. If farmers suffer, we all will,” he said, adding that on December 9, a huge gathering will be witnessed, where a large number of youngsters will be participating. Khehra didn’t hold any workout session supporting the movement. “It was a call for Bharat Bandh, there was no way I could have continued with the session,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/industrialists-halt-operations-181875
09-12-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Out with washing machines to solve farmers’ laundry issues||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 8People from Punjab have been thinking beyond unthinkable to ensure that the farmers putting up on the Delhi-Haryana border do not feel inconvenienced.The kabaddi players of the region, with the help of a group of NRIs from Shahkot Tehsil here, have bought two new washing machines and set up a laundry service for farmers staying put at the Singhu border. The farmers had left from their places on November 25 with a limited set of clothes. Sensing their need for clean clothes at the dharna site, the volunteers rose to the occasion.Harnek Singh, a farmer from Malupur village of Jalandhar, said, “When we came here and spent about a week, we checked on every small problem that farmers were facing. Their daily dilemma was how to manage with dirty clothes. They had only one option — to dispose these and buy new ones. But this was not easy and could not go on long for all of them. So, we discussed this and found a solution. We came back and bought two washing machines from here and started this laundry service.”Young boys, majorly kabaddi players from Seechewal, Bagga and Rurkan Kalan villages, have been catering to the washing and drying facility for protesting farmers. Mangi, a youth from Bagga village, said, “We are using the open verandah of an eatery here. The owner has provided us with a motor connection for water supply. He has also allowed us to use his lights in the evening and early hours. He even permitted us to use his power connection for charging our phones. So, we collected about 40 different sets of extra chargers from our homes and got them here.”Tony, another youth from Rurkan Kalan village, said, “We realised that the farmers required undergarments, towels, toothpastes, brushes and toiletries and we brought each of these items in abundance. We have also got extra pair of slippers for farmers. A donor from Muggowal village of Hoshiarpur left some blankets and shawls with us to hand it over to farmers who require it to keep themselves warm.”Other kabaddi players, including Sukh from Bhangal village, Manjinder from Seechewal village and Kanta from Pasla village, said they, too, had joined their friends to set up three counters of langar daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/out-with-washing-machines-to-solve-farmers-laundry-issues-181876
09-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||Khalsa Aid erects temporary shelter homes for farmers at Singhu border||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 8Continuing with their efforts to bring comfort to the protesting farmers at the Delhi-Haryana border, the teams of Khalsa Aid, have erected temporary shelter homes for farmers of the Singhu border. The farmers of Punjab and Haryana have been braving the elements for long now, protesting against the three agri laws enacted by the Centre.While the peasants assembled in large numbers on the outskirts of Delhi are least bothered about peaceful sleep, Khalsa Aid, a UK-based global Sikh charity body, is leaving no stone unturned in providing homely atmosphere to them at the protesting site.Considering the hardships faced by the agitators, especially women and children, the charitable organisation has erected two 300 bed capacity tents for them. Apart from comfortable mattresses and blankets, the tents are waterproof to keep farmers warm amid cold weather.Tejinder Pal Singh, a city-based Khalsa Aid member, who has been at the site for the past few days, said, “Amid limited supplies and unavailability of proper beds, we thought of creating temporary homes for farmers. For security, CCTV cameras have also been installed inside the tents for round the clock surveillance. In addition, special guards have been deployed to ensure safety of farmers. In view of the prevailing pandemic, the tents have been sprayed with disinfectants and hand sanitisers have been kept at the entrance to contain the spread.” It’s pertinent to mention here that the non-profit organisation has been with the farming fraternity from Day 1. Its volunteers arrange for tea and breakfast every day to keep the farmers proactive. They regularly prepare meals throughout the day. Since women had to struggle in the beginning, Khalsa Aid ordered 50 portable washrooms for their convenience. Tejinder elaborates on conveniences in the nipping weather.“Washing machines and warm water taps have also been installed for the safe hygiene of the farmers at the site so that the farmers do not face any problem,” he said.Farmers from about 35 farm organisations, mostly from Punjab, are staying put and protesting at Delhi borders since November 27 seeking repeal of the ‘Draconian' Bills which were passed hastily by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/khalsa-aid-erects-temporary-shelter-homes-for-farmers-at-singhu-border-181877
09-12-2020||---||IMA doctors oppose ‘mixopathy’||Jalandhar, December 8Deciding to resist the alleged attempt of the Centre to legitimise ‘mixopathy’, a meeting was held at the Indian Medical Association (IMA) House, New Vijay Nagar.The meeting was jointly attended by members and office-bearers of the IMA, Jalandhar, and Indian Dental Association (IDA), Jalandhar branch, to support the call by respective national bodies for complete withdrawal of OPD and non-emergency services all over India. A partial withdrawal of services was also planned to protest against ‘mixopathy’ introduced in the medical system of the country by the government.The members said, “The Centre has hastily passed a bill in the Parliament giving permission to Ayurvedic specialists to conduct specialised surgical procedures which fall under the purview of modern system of medicine. These various surgical procedures are under the domain of multiple disciplines of modern system of medicine such as general surgery, ophthalmology and ENT etc and also dentistry.”The meeting was attended by over 50 doctors from IMA and IDA. On the dais were IMA Jalandhar president Dr Pankaj Paul, IMA Punjab President Dr Navjot Dahiya, IDA Jalandhar president Dr Sunil Malhan, IDA Punjab state secretary and member Dental Council of India Dr Sachin Dev Mehta, IMA Jalandhar Secretary Dr Ashmeet Singh, Finance secretary Dr Munish Singhal, IMA Jalandhar vice president Dr Deepak Chawla, IDA Jalandhar secretary Dr Manmohit Singh.Senior IMA Jalandhar members, including President of Nursing Home Association Jalandhar Dr Rakesh Vig, Past president IMA Punjab Dr Yogeshwar Sood, Dr Ravi Paul, Dr VK Vasudeva, Dr TS Randhawa alongwith many members from IDA Jalandhar like past president Dr Bhupinder S Parhar, Dr Manish Kaushal, Dr Harpreet Parhar, Dr Nitin Jain, and others were also present. All dignitaries present on the occasion condemned the way the government had forced the bill on the doctor fraternity of the country, encouraging ‘mixopathy’.Why are the doctors protesting?The Centre has hastily passed a bill in the Parliament giving permission to Ayurvedic specialists to conduct specialised surgical procedures which fall under the purview of modern system of medicine. These various surgical procedures are under the domain of multiple disciplines of modern system of medicine such as general surgery, ophthalmology, ENT, etc and also dentistry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ima-doctors-oppose-mixopathy-181881
09-12-2020||---||4 succumb, 25 test +ve in Hoshiarpur||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, December 8Out of the reports of 926 samples received in Hoshiarpur district on Tuesday, 25 new Covid patients took the tally to 7,226, while 4 deaths were also reported increasing the toll to 272.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said the number of samples taken in the district has reached 2,06,196 so far with 891 new samples taken from the people with suspected flu-like symptoms. As per the reports received from the lab, 1,98,304 were negative, while 2,082 reports are still awaited and 149 were invalid. The number of active cases is 226, while the number of recovered patients is 6,728. Of the 25 new positive cases, 16 are from Hoshiarpur city, while the remaining 10 patients are from other health blocks in the district. Four deaths were reported, in which a 63-year-old woman of Talwara died at a private hospital in Ludhiana, while a 59-year-old resident of Bichhohi village died at a private hospital in Hoshiarpur.Apart from this, a 68-year-old woman died at Amritsar Medical College and a 70-year-old resident of Hardokhanpur died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-succumb-25-test-ve-in-hoshiarpur-181882
09-12-2020||Post reopening of schools after a gap of nearly seven months||‘For overall development, digitisation can’t play protagonist’||As schools have reopened, what is the response of students?Even as schools have been opened only for Classes XI-XII students, the footfall is still scarce. Most students told their teachers that their parents were unwilling to attend school due to Covid threat. However, those who are attending prefer offline classes over online sessions. They said, many concepts remain unclear in the digital classes. Presently, less than 50 per cent students are coming to school.How has your school been dealing with the challenges posed by Covid-19?In the month of October we were anticipating that the situation has normalised considering the downfall in Covid infections, but with the advent of second wave, the situation is again brewing panic. Whole online education concept came as a challenge for us. In fact, schools all around the country were not ready for online classes and the lack of technical support made it much tougher. Though it was troublesome for the teachers to understand the whole concept of digital education and focus individually on every student, they managed to adapt themselves to the online education.What psychological changes you have observed among teachers and students?The pandemic came as a big shock. Not only are the teachers overburdened but also the children. It has adversely affected the mental state as well as health of both. The concept of six-seven hours of teaching and learning has unexpectedly changed to a full day course and teachers are feeling the heat. After resumption, the teachers not only have to take classes in the school but also digitally. Likewise, the timings of lectures as per different schedules affect students. The teachers sometimes feel that due to online education, the teachers have lost that 'discipline command' they wield over students. Parents also complain about eye problems their children are suffering due to increased exposure to screens.Are online examinations equally beneficial as physical ones?Undeniably, conducting examinations in schools is more credible than the online exams. Though, the teachers diligently frame question papers students remained a worried lot. The winters are generally used as a golden time for revision of board classes. And the subsequent pre-board exams help them to understand the pattern. However, this is out of picture this year for the students. Online classes are only beneficial when individual attention is paid to all the students.What will be your concern once the classroom teaching begins?Apart from completing the syllabus of the students, we will have to ensure that there won't be any psychological change among the students. The pandemic has changed their habits and school discipline has completely taken a back seat. So, making students adjust to the new normal could be a task in itself.What infrastructural changes have been made for the digital sessions?We have installed internet devices with better bandwidth in the school. Besides, we already have smart classes and technical labs in the schools so only fewer changes were made.Do you think the digital shift in education is here to stay?As far as the shift is concerned, the country as a whole isn't ready for this. But more technical shift is required, which is currently unavailable. However, for the official tasks, digitalisation has already replaced the traditional methods of working in schools. Besides for the overall personality development of children virtual education can't be a good option.How was the response to admissions this year?The admissions have been stable this year. Neither there were newcomers, nor did the existing students left the school. As most of the students here are wards of the Army men, the postings of their respective fathers were cancelled due to the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/for-overall-development-digitisation-cant-play-protagonist-181885
09-12-2020||---||Inter-school virtual contest organised||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 8Prativaad, an inter-school contest, was organised by GNA University digitally for two days recently. The event bagged wonderful response from various schools from all over Punjab who participated in different competitions like 'Blossom Buds, Character Design, Photography, Design ''O'' Pedia, AD-Mad Show, Gam Jam, Codifica, Tech Jugaad, Voice of Doaba, Dance Star of Doaba, Blog Post, Develop Your Own Vehicle, Young Chef, Business Quiz and Play with Spreadsheet'.Gurdeep Singh Sihra, the pro-chancellor, GNA University, appreciated the efforts of the students who participated in the gala of cultural and academic events at one platform, despite the unprecedented times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/inter-school-virtual-contest-organised-181886
09-12-2020||Jalandhar||E-workshop at HMV||Online GK quiz heldPhagwara: To appraise the general knowledge of students of Classes VI-VIII, Cambridge International School, organised an online ‘’GK prize test’’ spread over two rounds. The test was conducted in a worksheet format and topics ranged from current affairs, national to global interests, from science to games, from architectural marvel to rocks and minerals. School management and Principal Jorawar Singh congratulated the students and said that during these difficult times such events are possible only due to the efforts of teachers and support from the parents.Naval Day celebrationJalandhar: Navy Day was observed at Shiv Jyoti Public School. A PPT presentation was shown to the students of Classes XI to XII. Co-associate teachers of Jagriti House Savita Sharma and Ritu Devgon made students aware about this day through the medium of PPT. Students and teachers participated in the activity with full enthusiasm. Principal Neeru Nayyar told students about the importance of this day. The activity was performed under the supervision of Parminder Vasran, House Master of Jagriti House. Vice-Principal Parveen Saili appreciated the efforts put in by the students and teachers and acknowledged the initiative taken by House Master and concerned teachers of Jagriti House.Academic council meeting at KMVJalandhar: Kanya Maha Vidyalaya organised the sixth meeting of academic council online via Zoom. The meeting was chaired by Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi, Principal KMV, and was attended by acclaimed luminaries as members. Renu Bharadwaj, Department of Botanical and Environmental Sciences, Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar, Dr Hardeep Singh Gujral, Department of Food Science and Technology, GNDU, Dr Bikramjit Singh Hundal, Department of University Business School, GNDU, Dr Nikhil Kumar, Education Officer, University Grants Commission, New Delhi, Dr Karamjit Singh, Professor, University Business School, Panjab University, Chandigarh, Dr Jagrup Singh Sekhon, Professor (retd), Department of Political Science, GNDU, Dr NS Tung, Professor (retd), Department of Psychology, GNDU, along with the deans and heads of departments of KMV provided valuable inputs as members of academic council.Fit India event heldJalandhar: The NSS Wing of Apeejay College of Fine Arts organised a Prabhat Pheri under the movement ‘Fit India’ launched by government with the motive to make India fit. Nearly 40 NSS volunteers along with their teachers participated maintaining social distancing and taking necessary precautions amid the pandemic. They discussed in length about the benefits of the movement and how exercising even for half an hour a day can make us fit and healthy. With the help of plank cards and charts, they spread the awareness about the necessity of being fit. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra appreciated the enthusiasm of the students and motivated them to inculcate yoga, exercise, jogging, etc as part of their routine and do it religiously. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/e-workshop-at-hmv-181888
