09-11-2020||Hoshiarpur||Two killed in road accidents||Workers seek regular jobsJalandhar: Theka Mulazim Sangharsh Morcha held a state-level convention at the Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall on Sunday asking the government to regularise contractual employees in every department. They said on the one hand, the government was making several promises to provide ‘Ghar Ghar Naukri’, while on the other, they haven’t regularised any contractual employee. “The protest will be intensified in the coming days,” the members said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-killed-in-road-accidents-168293
09-11-2020||Ajay Joshi||2nd wave imminent but where’s Mission Fateh?||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 8Even as the Covid-19 cases and its fatalities are witnessing a fall, compared to its ‘peak period’ over a month ago, infection threat still looms large and any complacency can prove detrimental. While people are still testing positive and succumbing to the virus on a daily basis, though the frequency is less, they are openly seen flouting norms with impunity.Considering the speculated coronavirus second wave in the worst-affected countries, experts believe that every Covid-19 affected region needs to be extra cautious.Apparently, with the decline in cases, cops have also stopped taking action against violators under ‘Mission Fateh’. The police apparently issued challans on October 11 last, when nearly 132 people were fined for not wearing masks.Following the directions of the Chief Minister, the intensified drive to issue challans against those who do not wear masks or violate Covid norms was started in June, after the launch of Mission Fateh. As per the official data, as many as 47,496 people have been fined (Rs2.30 crore) so far for not wearing masks since the lockdown was imposed. Though, the city police had started lodging FIRs against offenders since March, but post ease in the lockdown, particularly for private events, people started avoiding wearing masks in public areas as well. Surprisingly, violators shunned safety guidelines in front of the police as well.Challan rate on the declineAlthough positive cases continued to pile up between June and September, the challan rate started decreasing since July. In July, the total number of challans issued were 12,291, followed by August with 11,055, September 8,849 and October 2, 372.Prior to the intensified drive, police action against violators has become dismally low. While in March around two people were held for not wearing masks, In April, it increased to 110 and later on 2,156 in May and 10,603 in June. At times, a large numbers of offenders were held on a single day. On July 31, nearly 271 people were fined Rs1,35,000 for not wearing masks. Cops said Rs500 was charged from each offender.No masks, distancing at social gatheringsApart from issuing challans for not wearing masks, cases against those flouting social distancing norms and breaking quarantine norms have also reduced drastically, despite increase in the number of social events. On Sunday also, residents, who participated in the wellness programme of the CT Group of Institutions, not only avoided social distancing, but also greeted everyone without wearing masks.2 die, 39 positiveTwo people succumbed to the virus, while 39 people tested positive on Sunday. Similarly, 79 people tested positive on Saturday with one casualtyAbout the MissionThe state government had launched Mission Fateh in June to motivate people to abide by the novel coronavirus safety rules and stop its spread. Discipline, cooperation and compassion were its three main themes. Discipline in observing all precautions, cooperation with the state government by faithfully abiding by the lockdown restrictions and compassion towards the poor by helping them and giving them aid. Later, cops were directed to issue fines against those not complying with the Covid-19 guidelines. Hefty fines were issued to locals in the drive launched by the city police against such offenders.ExpertspeakIt’s horrifying to see people giving two hoots to Covid norms as the situation hasn’t normalised yet. When there is a possibility of second wave of the coronavirus, people shouldn’t take the risk of removing masks. Social distancing, sanitisation and masks are the key essentials to keep the virus at bay. Even asymptomatic patients could be carriers of the virus in public areas. —Dr Kashmiri Lal, SMO (Medical) Civil HospitalMasks not only cut the risk of Covid transmission, but also reduce the amount of virus that reaches a person, potentially leading to less severe illness if you get infected. In fact, wearing a mask could be the reason why we have seen so many cases of mild and asymptomatic illness. —Dr Abhishek Sacchar, Civil HospitalOfficialspeakCertainly the challan rate has declined and considering festivities, not a large number of people are being challaned. However, we will resume the drive shortly, as wearing a mask is mandatory. —Vatsal Gupta, ADCP City-1||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2nd-wave-imminent-but-wheres-mission-fateh-168050
09-11-2020||---||Engineer dies in road accident||Jalandhar, November 8A 33-year-old chemical engineer was killed in a road accident here on Sunday.The accident took place at Pathankot Chowk after a speeding truck hit his bike. His sister and wife, who were also sitting on the bike, suffered serious injuries. The deceased has been identified as Anurag Kumar Sharma, a resident of Punjabi Bagh. SHO police division-8 stated that the accident was reported around 1.15 pm, when Anurag was heading to the city bus stand with his wife and sister. Meanwhile, when he reached Pathankot Chowk, a truck coming from Pathankot hit his bike. Anurag lost control and fell down. He received injuries on the upper part of his body. Passersby rushed him to a hospital where he was declared brought dead. A case under Sections 289, 337,338,427 and 304-A of the IPC has been registered against the truck driver who was handed over to the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/engineer-dies-in-road-accident-168051
09-11-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||This 47-yr-old is relentless in his efforts to make dist clean||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 8Harjinder Hargharia, a man roaming around in Hoshiarpur district holding a flex, is almost a known face for a majority of the residents of the district now. A postgraduate in history, this 47-year-old has been on a mission to make the district clean for the last 653 days.Not even a single day passes when he does not step out of his home to sensitise people to keep their surroundings clean. Hailing from Hargarh village in Hoshiarpur, Harjinder had started the mission on January 26 last year. Nearly two years have passed and Harjit has started witnessing the results of his efforts. But the journey has not been easy for him.Harjinder still remembers his first day. “I made a flex which reads ‘Aao Hoshiarpur nu banaye duniya da sabto sohna sthan, jiste hove desh nu maan’ and started my journey towards cleanliness,” he shared. On the first day, he sat on the stairs of a sports stadium holding a flex above his head. “That day everyone stared at me in shock. They were looking at me in a strange manner, but nobody came to me and asked about my mission. They must have found me a little unusual, but now after two years, people come and meet me, tell me that I am doing a good job,” he says proudly.I made a flex which reads Aao Hoshiarpur nu banaye duniya da sabto sohna sthan, jiste hove desh nu maan and started my journey towards cleanliness. On the first day, I sat on the stairs of a sports stadium holding a flex above my head. That day everyone stared at me in shock. They were looking at me in a strange manner, but nobody came and asked about my mission. They must have found me a little unusual, but now, after two years, people come and meet me, and tell me that I am doing a good job. —Harjinder HarghariaHe said he would often hear from his friends living abroad that one of the most important and attractive things on foreign land was cleanliness. “That was the time when it hit me that we must also do something for the district so that other people could give examples of Hoshiarpur too,” Harjinder stated.While giving an example of the change he witnessed after he started the movement, he shared that Ghanta Ghar in Hoshiarpur was a place where one would often see piles of garbage, but now people have started planting saplings there. “It feels great to see a positive change like this,” he said.Besides, Harjinder has also been donating blood for the last several years. He is also into writing and recently a collection of his poetry titled “Tere mithe bol” was released. His articles also appear in various vernacular dailies.Apart from this, to encourage the youth towards sports and culture, he keeps on organising various tournaments. I have also helped more than 50 needy families in marrying off their daughters. And I would not stop this no matter what the social worker shared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-47-yr-old-is-relentless-in-his-efforts-to-make-dist-clean-168052
09-11-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Festive season has no meaning for us, say farmers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 8Davinder Singh, a farmer from Nawanshahr, always bought sweets and clothes for his 10-year-old son during the festive season. However, this time, he had been protesting against the farm laws implemented by the Centre and fighting for his rights at Behram toll plaza for the last one month.Dashera has passed and Diwali is around the corner, but Davinder hasn’t purchased anything for his family. He said even his child has not sought any gift.“Children of his age ask for gifts. He must have understood by now that his father is busy somewhere. I reach home when he falls asleep,” he said.Numerous farmers like him who had been agitating against the move of the Centre said festivities had no meaning for them.While everyone else is enjoying festivals, everything is bland for famers who have no time to think and take care of their families. Festivals are celebrated with happy hearts, not when one is suffering. —Major Singh, A farmer from Phillaur“Saddi Diwali road te hi manegi,” said farmers, adding that there was nothing to celebrate and they had been left to be on roads to hold dharnas. Satnam Sahni, spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba), who attended a meeting at Kisan Bhawan, Chandigarh, said, “Saade vaaste kehdi Diwali? Every festival has passed without bringing any joy to us. We strategise for next move daily. Our only motive is to ensure that the Centre should listen to us.”Another farmer, Major Singh from Phillaur, said they had been protesting against the Central Government 24X7. “While everyone else is enjoying festivals, everything is bland for famers who have no time to think and take care of their families,” he said. “Festivals are celebrated with happy hearts, not when one is suffering,” said Major.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/festive-season-has-no-meaning-for-us-say-farmers-168053
09-11-2020||Jalandhar||‘Demonetisation destroyed Indian economy’||Hitting out at the Modi Government on the completion of four years of demonetisation, MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary today said the draconian move had destroyed India’s economy and completely failed to meet the stated objectives.The decision was taken without any planning and research and its cruel ramifications are being felt years later, he stated. MP Chaudhary said the Central government withdrew old Rs 500 and 1,000 notes in the name of controlling black money, reducing terrorism, tackling the issue of fake currency notes and creating a cashless economy, but none of the objectives were achieved. Instead, he said, the sudden decision destroyed small businesses, rural economy and led to hundreds of people taking their lives. “As we saw, more than 99 per cent of the demonetised notes came back in banks, lakhs of fake currency notes are still being seized every year, and the currency in circulation has increased significantly more than pre-demonetisation levels. It proves that the decision was a failure,” he added.MP Chaudhary said Modi didn’t stop with demonetisation but went ahead with an unplanned GST move and sudden lockdown. He added that the ‘Modinomics’ led to a fall in the economy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/demonetisation-destroyed-indian-economy-168054
09-11-2020||---||Now, KMV students will sell their products on Amazon||Jalandhar, November 8Kanya Maha Vidyalaya inaugurated ‘KMV Marvels Diwali Bonanza’, an online Amazon sale under the aegis of KMV in creations, an initiative of entrepreneurs of KMV. It was inaugurated by Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi. KMV took this initiative to develop entrepreneurial skills among its students.Under this initiative, budding entrepreneurs of KMV will now be able to sell their creations on the Amazon website so that their creations could reach to the audience.It was an enterprise aimed at achieving the ‘Earn while you learn’ theme which is the hallmark feature of academics related to skill development at KMV. Many of the products which will be sold on the Amazon were hand-made by students themselves.The budding entrepreneurs exhibited a wide variety of fancy diyas, gift-packings, jewellery, suits, sarees, kurtis, bed-sheets, cushion covers, towels-set, masks, file folders, wall-hangings, paintings, handmade chocolates, makeup accessories, healthy snacks, wax & gel candles etc. It was like a Diwali-bazaar come alive under one roof.The initiative was a collective effort of the PG Department of Fashion Designing, PG Department of Fine Arts, Department of Home Science, PG Department of Cosmetology and Department of Retail Management. Dwivedi averred that this type of initiative motivates students to enhance their entrepreneurial skills and provide them a platform to display their talent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-kmv-students-will-sell-their-products-on-amazon-168055
09-11-2020||Hoshiarpur||2 succumb in Hoshiarpur||Out of the 1,258 samples received today, 34 new cases of Covid-19 have been traced in the district, taking the total number of patients so far to 6,391. With the death of 2 more Covid-19 patients, the death toll in the district has also risen to 220.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said today, 730 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms have been taken, raising the total number of samples taken till date to 1,67,372. According to the reports received from the lab, 1,60,831 samples are negative, while the reports of 1,303 samples are awaited and 133 are invalid. The number of active cases in the district is 170, while the number of patients who have recovered is 6,001. Out of 34 positive cases found today, 10 cases are related to the city, while the remaining are from various blocks of the district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-succumb-in-hoshiarpur-168056
09-11-2020||Open House||Polluted air will spell trouble, make situation worse||The onus is on Pollution boardAs the world is fighting with the spread of coronavirus, it is important to consider the human health because of poor air quality which is due to agricultural fire. With the burning of parali, the pollutants disperse in the air and make it unhealthy for humans. Those who are already a victim of asthama suffer a lot because of thick smog. Delhi NCR is choking and is worst affected. The Supreme Court has ordered the Centre to prepare a scheme to help farmers to do away with stubble burning. Making schemes will not help, we need to recognise root of problem and find a way. Now, the situation will be more aggravated because of festivals, there should be a total ban on firecrackers and instead of burning candles and oil diyas, eco-friendly electrical diyas should be lit. The Central Pollution Control Board should look into matter. People should keep themselves safe by wearing a mask as it also keeps dust particles and germs out apart from the virus.Shashi KiranDisplay political will to lower AQIThough the rapidly deteriorating air quality is a serious, persistent and complicated pan-India problem, the Delhi-NRC, Punjab and Haryana have borne the maximum brunt of its adverse impact on public health, economy and environment over the years. The major contributory factors are industrial smoke, vehicular traffic, coal-fired power plants, demolition and construction activities, fuel wood and biomass burning for cooking and heating, and faulty waste management practices. Together with damaged roads, growing garbage heaps and lack of sanitation, the conundrum of air pollution is further compounded, albeit to a lesser degree, by seasonal crop residue burning. Concerned at this appalling situation, the Union and state governments have undertaken various initiatives, regulatory measures and stringent laws to control this scourge but have not yet yielded any tangible results. Switching to renewable energy, adequate transport infrastructure and planting more trees are the lasting solutions. While still reeling under the onslaught of covid-19, the Punjab government should display strong political will to keep the severe Air Quality Index (AQI) levels under control during winter and festival months. The administration should update its monitoring, measurement and compliance mechanism; sensitise farmers about the hazards of stubble burning and give economic incentives to desist them from this unhealthy practice or provide more machines at subsidised rates through village panchayats and co-operative societies, take strict action against unauthorised crackers manufacturing units and shopkeepers for selling them without licences, and fix time schedule and demarcate special places for bursting firecrackers as in foreign countries. The private sector should liberally buy paddy straw for electricity generation, making paper and cardboard and for other purposes, and follow sustainable business practices. Concerted comprehensive and collaborative efforts of different stakeholders will certainly protect the present degrading ecological scenario.DS KangStringent measures from govt requiredThe issue of stubble burning in the context of constant deterioration of air quality has snowballed into a national catastrophe and the Centre and Supreme Court seem to be grappling with the problem without any tangible solution so far. However, all stakeholders need to take precautions to minimise the pollution levels being caused by other factors till some acceptable solution to stubbing burning is found. The experts opine that to check the spread of virus in particular and for general well-being of public health, maintaining good air quality is very vital. In view of this, and ensuing Diwali, the administration has no other alternative except to exert total ban on firecrackers and minimisation of non-electrical lighting followed by strict implementation of the order. Besides this, those found indulging in garbage burning and unauthorised cutting of trees must be punished without any discrimination. The traffic police have to ensure that vehicular carbon emissions are strictly regulated as per existing norms. The general public needs to be sensitised about the disastrous effects of air pollution and how to minimise and control it through campaigns on social, print and electronic media.Jagdish ChanderAdministration will have to act strictlyAir pollution is the bane of the Punjab and neighbouring states for long, more so during stubble burning and festival season. Many steps to check the stubble burning have gone in vain. Modern machineries like 'happy seeders' have been encouraged but farmers can't afford such costly contrivances. Transports like diesel vehicles and firecrackers during festivals are another source of pollution. Most farmers have small landholdings between 2 and 5 acres. They can't afford costly machinery. Even the Supreme Court had asked the government to provide subsidy of Rs100 per acre to desist farmers, but to no effect. Air pollution also causes large number of morbidly and mortality, particularly people with chronic bronchitis and bronchial asthma. To check air pollution, the farmers' co-operatives should be encouraged so that they can afford the modern machinery to manage the stubble burning -- which can be used as source of energy for other purposes. Solar energy should also be encouraged to lessen the pollution. People in large cities like Ludhiana, Amritsar and Jalandhar should be encouraged to practice carpooling and more should be coaxed to use cycling as a mode of transport as much as possible. Firecrackers must be totally banned as being done by Rajasthan government. They not only cause pollution but can also cause serious injuries.Dr JS WadhwaSay yes to green Diwali, no to crackersWe Indians are always excited about our festivals. But, it's very saddening that we all have lost our concern about the pollution levels. So, following are the ways keep a check during Diwali because a majority of pollution is caused during the Diwali…say yes to green Diwali: Don't burn crackers this year. Instead, you can buy some diyas from locals. Government's role: It has an important role in minimising the pollution levels. Suppose if there is too much tax on crackers then who will buy it? Light someone's home: Take a pledge this year that you are going to help at least one needy. Carpooling: As Diwali is a festival celebrated among relatives, so visiting our relatives is common. If you are planning to, then you can take public transportation or by carpooling. Let us not forget, festivals are meant to bring happiness.Priksha SharmaMaintain distance from firecrackersI would suggest people not to burst firecrackers this festive season as its smoke affects our respiratory system. We will all be more prone to catching the virus and it will affect strongly affect the breathing then. So, the best prevention is to distance from crackers. People should avoid smoking as well.Amritjot Kaur QUESTIONThe non-resumption of goods trains may cause power crisis in the state and problems for the industry. Do you think the situation is the outcome of dirty state vs Centre politics?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (November 12).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/polluted-air-will-spell-trouble-make-situation-worse-168060
