09-10-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Cheating rampant in mid-term online exams||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 8A science teacher of a local private school was checking the attempts of Class VII students for mid-term examination. The teacher was completely baffled. While only a handful of students used to score anything between 38 and 40 out of 40, this time almost everyone fell in this range.The teacher discussed the unexpected performance of students with his fellow colleagues. The same trend was prevalent for other classes and in other subjects, too! While some below average students had secured full marks, those who have had a record of highest score trailed behind them by 2 to 3 marks. For any teacher, seeing such a trend is surely disturbing, but almost all of them have now got adjusted to the fact that these were pandemic days and such fluctuations and trends would have to be tolerated, especially since they were universal and not in control.Jatinder Singh, Principal, MGN Public School, Urban Estate says: “We have completed the examination and shared the result of Board classes with parents already. We took several measures such as giving them a limited time to attempt the subjective paper and send scanned copies of sheets to their respective teachers. Of course, many below-average students have indulged in cheating though most toppers seemed to have taken the examination genuinely. Since they are taking examination from home, we cannot rule that out.”He said: “I am also of the opinion that our online teaching concept has gone fairly well and children have managed to save a lot of time for studies that earlier got lost in commuting and getting ready. Even that is helping many students to perform better.”Having conducted the JEE as the nodal officer of CBSE in Jalandhar, Principal of Police DAV Public School Rashmi Vij said: “The experience has helped me gain confidence in conducting offline examination even during the pandemic. We can try that out at least for the Board classes sometime soon after doing proper sanitisation and following government SOPs.”Asked about the response of parents of Classes IX to XII on giving consent to children to go to campus for clearing doubts with teachers, both principals said only 30 per cent of the parents had filled up the online forms sent to them. Vij said: “We have held a session and teachers told me that on an average, 25 per cent students from each class turned up.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cheating-rampant-in-mid-term-online-exams-153205
09-10-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Two degrees at a time to realise foreign dreams!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 8As the trend of online education has picked up in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, numerous students are simultaneously doing two academic programmes – during the day at a local college and in the evening from a Canadian-based college.Though double load has proved too taxing and disturbed their sleeping cycle, but foreign-savvy students said they were ready to take any load as they want to move to Canada. Dr Sucharita, Principal, Apeejay College of Fine Arts, said, “This trend has become common among final semester students. They have a degree programme, which will conclude next year and Canada is allowing students to study online due to the pandemic. Students do not want to miss the golden chance.”Manbir Singh, Managing Director, CT Institutes, said, “It has definitely become a trend among students and take two degrees simultaneously from India and abroad. Students are in a hurry to move to Canada, where they can get a job only on the basis of Canadian education. While students continue to be enrolled with us, they have also taken admission in a Canadian college.”Nisha Kumari, who is pursuing BCom (final year) from a local college, said she had got enrolled for a course in digital marketing in Vancouver.“I take online classes from my college during the day, but I have to remain awake in the night for my Canadian course. As a result, my sleeping schedule has changed drastically. It gets extremely tough when time-bound assignments come from both the colleges, but somehow I am managing it for a bigger dream. I do not want to leave BCom midway as it will waste two years of my effort. Thankfully, my college teachers are cooperating whenever required.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-degrees-at-a-time-to-realise-foreign-dreams-153206
09-10-2020||Ajay Joshi||Phillaur farmers’ mini-fire tender is deft in saving crops from raging fire||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 8Troubled with frequent fires in fields causing huge losses, a group of farmers in Phillaur block have come up with a smaller version of a fire tender.Awarded by DC, Agri DepartmentFarmers, who are educated and are involved in farming for the past 10-15 years, were of the view that instead of sitting and waiting for the government’s help to eradicate the problem, they should use their resources to find a solution on their own.Subsequently, the idea of mini-fire tender occurred to them as during any fire incident, their first call goes to the Fire Department only.Navdeep Singh, a farmer, said: “Fire extinguisher is the basic need of our village. Most of the times our crops catch fire due to short-circuit or some other reason thereby damaging a good proportion of the field. After doing some research, we created one for our use. Due to its small size, it can enter any narrow street of the village and with a capacity of 5,000 litre water, the flames can be doused within a few minutes. The water tank attached to it with around 100-ft pipe is carried through a tractor. Until now, there wasn’’t any fire tender in our village and it takes a lot of time for the fire tenders to reach here from other blocks. Before they can do anything, much of the damage is already done. So, this was the only reason to push us to develop a mini-fire tender. Even the Phagwara Fire Department has appreciated us for our effort after they saw the machine. They said it was equally efficient like any fire tender.”As per farmers, fire tenders used to arrive from Phagwara and Jalandhar and it takes roughly around half an hour for fire extinguishers to reach Phillaur from Phagwara and around an hour from Jalandhar. Apart from Navdeep, farmers involved in the project include Jasvir Singh, Kuljinder Singh, Kamaldeep Singh and Sukhjinder Singh among others.The mini-fire tender was designed with the contribution of every farmer for Rs1.65 lakh and it’’s been nearly two years, since they have been using it. They also help farmers in other villages with this little invention of theirs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phillaur-farmers-mini-fire-tender-is-deft-in-saving-crops-from-raging-fire-153207
09-10-2020||---||3 fall prey to virus, 111 test +ve in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 8With 111 more people testing positive for Covid, the tally reached 13,791 in the district on Thursday. With three more deaths, the toll also reached 425.As many as 12,283 people have been discharged so far, while 1,083 were active cases and 845 people were under home isolation in Jalandhar.Meanwhile, 35 people tested positive for Covid in Kapurthala on Thursday. Two deaths were reported in the district. The deceased include a 65-year-old man from Mohalla Sant Pura, who died at Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar; and a 66-year-old man from Sardulapur village in Sultanpur Lodhi, who died at GMC, Amritsar.Hoshiarpur district reports 38 fresh infectionsThe number of Covid patients increased to 4,931 with 38 new cases coming up in Hoshiarpur district on Thursday.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh said total 1,19,141 samples have been taken in the district so far. According to reports received from the lab, 1,03,080 were negative, while 1,604 reports were still awaited and 127 were invalid. The number of active cases in the district is 527 and 4,227 patients have been cured. The district death toll is 177 so far. Today, out of 38 positive cases detected in the district, Hoshiarpur city has 12 cases, while the remaining 26 cases are related to other health blocks. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-fall-prey-to-virus-111-test-ve-in-jalandhar-153208
09-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Industry gears up for restart in post-Covid era||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 8The pandemic has proved to be a double whammy for the medium and small-scale industries. There are no orders, and the manufacturers aren’t getting their due payments too. The rubber industry manufacturers in the district have been writing to every minister and officials of the Industry Department at local, state and central level apart from MPs and ministers, seeking financial help. But they are left with no choice but to continue the manufacturing process in the hope that everything will become normal gradually.Sanitising the whole production unit every day before starting the work has proved to be extra burden for the unit manufacturers and traders.When the lockdown was imposed, the industrialists suffered a lot when the migrant labourers started moving back to their native places. They had to adopt various means. They paid extra to their workers to make them stay back.Rubber Footwear Manufacturers Association president Neeraj Arora said the rubber industry was already facing crisis but due to the pandemic, the survival had become difficult due to lack of payments.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the association has demanded help for their industry. The letter reads, “Even during the pandemic, when there is no work, we are forced to pay electricity bills besides every other bill that we are paying to run our units. Most of our units are working on loan amounts from the bank and our entire business set-up is blocked.” The letter further states, “If the government will not take any initiative on a priority basis, then the entire system will be jeopardised and the work will also be hampered.’Rubber footwear industry, which was already grappling with various issues, had faced a major setback with the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST). Also, they have been facing issues in getting GST refunds.A major problem associated with the GST for the manufacturers is the difference between the rate of the GST on various raw materials and the finished goods.This difference of rates in the GST on raw material and finished goods is troubling the manufacturers and drying up their working capital, thus making it almost impossible for them to continue manufacturing.The GST on raw materials such as raw rubber is 5 percent, on strap and soles, it is 18 per cent and on chemicals 18 per cent, but on finished goods such as rubber footwear, it is only 5 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/industry-gears-up-for-restart-in-post-covid-era-153209
09-10-2020||---||Woman crushed under truck, dies||Our CorrespondentDasuya, October 8An ex-serviceman was badly injured in a road accident that occurred at the Hajipur Chowk last evening, while his wife died after being run over by a truck. According to the information, ex-serviceman Puran Singh (60), a resident of Malikpur, Phagwara, had come to Kheda Sahib Gurdwara with his wife Paramjit Kaur (54).After service (sewa) at gurdwara, he was returning to Phagwara on his motorcycle, when a truck coming from behind hit their motorcycle.After the collision, both of them fell on the road and the truck ran over Paramjit Kaur. Being badly crushed under the truck, she died on the spot, while Puran Singh was brought to Dasuya Civil Hospital. He was referred to Jalandhar due to a serious head injury. The truck driver has been arrested.According to eyewitnesses, shortly before the accident, the Dasuya police had put up a check point at the said place, for which traffic was diverted by placing a barricade on the route.Leaving the barricade, the police party went to have lunch and the same barricade caused the accident as the trailer collided with the motorcycle after taking a sharp turn from the barricade and a small negligence proved fatal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-crushed-under-truck-dies-153212
09-10-2020||---||In protest mode: SSA union to give their degrees to Edu Minister||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 8Members of the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan Daftari Mulazim Union are protesting against the government for long and demanding regularisation.On Thursday, the members announced that if the Education Minister feels that they were not important enough to get regularised, then they will submit their degrees to him on October 11.Ashish Julaha, one of the active members of the union, said teachers appointed under the SSA in 2018 were regularised by the government, but the non-teaching staff that was appointed much earlier was still working on contractual basis, which was not right on the part of the government.They have been demanding regularisation for long. They said nearly a 1,000 employees in Punjab had been working on contractual basis and were getting meagre salaries.The members said not regularising them was a clear indication that the department doesn’t take them seriously which is why they would collect degrees from every employee and give these to the minister.The protesters said most of the employees were getting wages ranging from Rs4,000 to Rs15,000, which was not acceptable. “Is it even possible to run families with such meagre income?” they asked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-protest-mode-ssa-union-to-give-their-degrees-to-edu-minister-153214
09-10-2020||After taking control of Amritsar in 1805 Maharaja Ranjit Singh||Gates  to the grand past||Maharaja’s 12 gatesThere were twelve strong gates in the city. Some of them were surrounded by defences with two or three brass guns. The Lahori Darwaza served as the main entrance on the road from Lahore. Moving in anti-clockwise direction, one is confronted by other gates of the city: Khazana, Hakeema, Rangar Nangalia Gilwali, Ramgarhia, Doburji, Ahluwalia, Deori Kalan, Rambagh Deori Shahzada and Lohgarh. The names of a few have changed since mid-19th Century.The WallA massive double wall of unbaked bricks, with a double moat was constructed by the Maharaja. Gurbaz Singh, in his work Tarikh-i-Punjab (Punjabi translation of the portion dealing with Punjab in Ahmad Shah’s Tarikh-i-Hind) writes that the fortification was 25 yards broad and 7 yards high. The circumference of the walled city was around 5 miles. The British had the moats filled and built a few police chowkis. The old wall was demolished and a new one rose. However, it, too, has perished and its later versions, renovated and reconstructed, are available at a few spots.Hall GateIt is the 13th gate built by the British in addition to the 12 erected during the Maharaja’s era. It is named after then Deputy Commissioner CH Hall. It was named Gandhi Darwaza after Partition, but only for a short period of time. The original name remains. There used to be a prison at the place which was shifted to Gumtala after the construction began. Hathi Darwaza (Darwaza Sehzada) This gate used to have many baghs outside it. A prominent citizen of the time, Lala Sant Ram Sapra, also lived in the area. It is said to have acquired its name from the stable of elephants resting close by. Chattiwind Gate (Ramgarhia Darwaza)A road from the gate leads to Tarn Taran. It is rather young as it was recently built by the Ramgarhia community. In the old days, a ‘talab’, ‘sarai’ and ‘thakur dwara’ built by Mahesh Ram Khatri was a prominent attraction of the area. Sultanwind Gate or Delhi Darwaza (Doburji)The gate connected the city to Sultanwind, Verka and Doburji villages further connecting to the main road for Jandiala. Khazana Gate (Darwaza Khazana) Many believe that gate is named after the Maharaja’s treasury, when in fact, it is named after a servant named Khazana, who owned the land on this side of the city. Going with the popular belief, the government around three decades ago got a ‘sandook’ built in the nearby chowk to depict treasure. A road from here also connected the city to Kasur (now in Pakistan). Lahori GateWith Lahore as the capital, the gate was most prominent among all the others built by Maharaja Ranjit Singh. A prominent place outside it used to be Bagicha Hakeem Gulab Rai, which, too, has been the victim of time. Gate Hakeema (Darwaza Hakeema Wala) The gate was built under the supervision of two hakeems — Noor-ud-Din and Chirag-ud-Din. As a route from here led to Patti, it was also known as ‘Majhe Wala Darwaza’. This also led to villages — Bharariwal and Fatehpur. Darwaza RambaghOne of the most prominent of 12 gates, it was en route Maharaja’s Summer Palace, Ram Bagh to Darbar Sahib. It was through this gate that the Maharaja, during his stay in the city, would go to pay obeisance at Darbar Sahib. The Ram Bagh Deori, in close vicinity to the gate, was recently renovated by the government under heritage project. Lohgarh GateA road starting from Lohgarh Gate had side shootings leading to the nearby towns, Majitha and Fatehgarh Churian. Qila Gobindgarh was the only strong establishment outside the walled city in that period. It links city to Gujranwala and Sialkot. Gate Bhagatawala (Darwaza Rangar Nangalia)Presently, no gate exists at the place. A railway station outside the gate was built in 1908, which was called Bhagatawala station. Darwaza Gheo Mandi (Ahluwalia Darwaza) Lost in the mists of time, it is still named Gheo Mandi Darwaza. During the Maharaja’s reign, the gate was known as Ahluwalia Darwaza after Ahluwalia sardars. Gilwali GateNo gate is seen at the site today. This used to lead to Harike Pattan and connected city to Gilwali village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gates-to-the-grand-past-153234
09-10-2020||Jalandhar||Nakodar's Bir Pind offers ‘powerful’ solution to straw menace||To all those farmers not convinced with the idea of in situ techniques of handling paddy straw, Bir Pind residents in Nakodar have a message: Give us the paddy straw and we will readily pay you Rs 1,350 per tonne for it.The village panchayat has been using stubble for power generation for the past few years. Using 250 tonnes of stubble to produce 6 MW daily, the panchayat says it needs more stubble to the keep the plant running round the year. Kewal Singh, who manages the plant, says: “We need 75,000 tonnes of stubble to run the plant throughout the year. But we do not get more than 30,000 tonnes of stubble.”Kewal Singh says he has even made videos to appeal to the farmers across the state to use balers in their fields, get bundles of the straw made and get the stubble dropped near their plant. “Even our district has 32 balers. While 20 baler machines were already there, 12 more have been bought by farmers under the 50 per cent subsidy scheme. This machine bales 20 to 25 acres of paddy straw in a day and one acre brings out 25 to 30 quintals of straw,” he says.Mandeep Singh, a Kangna village farmer, says he has been selling around 20,000 quintal paddy straw to the electricity generation plant at Bir village and getting Rs 135 per quintal after making bales of the straws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nakodars-bir-pind-offers-powerful-solution-to-straw-menace-152975
