10-07-2020||---||Cops get tough on speed limit violators||Jalandhar, July 9The city traffic police are keeping a close watch on speed limit violators with the help of speedometers. Besides, challans are also being issued to those not wearing masks or seat belts.Special checkpoints have been set up at several points including PAP, Pathankot Bypass, Suranussi and others. ASI Kamaljit Singh, who supervises the speedometer operations, said high-resolution images of vehicles not abiding by rules appear on the screen of the speedometer and the vehicle numbers are captured. In the past two days, around 15 challans have been issued for several offences, including violation of speed limit (7) and for not wearing face masks and seat belts, said Kamaljit.The technical operator of the machine said if a vehicle breaches the speed limit, the system automatically clicks its photograph as evidence. “Earlier, in the absence of proper and effective speed radars, violators were getting away from the punishment,” the operator said.After a long wait, two well-equipped speed radars were received by the city traffic police in July last year. As per information, the district traffic authorities earlier used to get radars for short intervals. However, those were also not effective in checking speed limit violations. Kamaljit said: “The functioning of speedometers sometimes gets interrupted due to technical faults. Recently, we got it repaired from a Delhi-based company.”As per the traffic police, the speed limit for cars has been fixed at 90 km/h, for two-wheelers at 60 km/h and for heavy commercial vehicles at 65 km/h.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cops-get-tough-on-speed-limit-violators-110896
10-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||SSP tests +ve, had attended high-profile wedding||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 9Top-rung members of the bureaucracy are among the most hit during this pandemic, it seems.In Jalandhar, SDM Shahkot and SSP Rural were among the 32 persons, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The district tally has now risen to 1,042.The SSP tested positive a day after he attended the wedding of senior Congress leader Avtar Henry's daughter. The event was attended by MLAs, bureaucrats and many eminent officials of the district.Notably, the wedding saw almost all senior functionaries of the town. Bawa Henry, Avtar Henry's son, is Jalandhar North MLA and brother of the bride. In attendance were also Jalandhar MP Santokh Chaudhary, Mayor Jagdish Raja, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, MLAs Sushil Rinku, Pargat Singh, Rajinder Beri, Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia, Jagbir Brar, among others.Divisional Commissioner Rajkamal Chaudhary and MC Commssioner Karnesh Sharma were also present at the wedding. In the photographs of the event, key guests are seen posing with masks slid down.In a photograph of the event, MLAs Pargat Singh and Sushil Rinku as well as Commissioner of Police are seen posing with masks slid down, while industrialist Sheetal Vij and MLA Sherowalia are seen without masks. A picture of the SSP shaking hands with the MLA also went viral. Sources, however, said the photographs were from an earlier event and not from the same wedding. The SSP also denied shaking hands.Speaking to The Tribune, SSP Rural said: "I didn't shake hands with Avtar Henry. I was at the event for a very short time and left soon afterwards. Everyone was taking necessary precautions."Slightly symptomatic, the SSP has fever. While the SSP stays with his wife, daughter and mother, his family members are yet to be tested for Covid.MLA Bawa Henry could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.Sample wasn’t taken at the time of weddingHealth officials said the SSP was tested for Covid on Thursday, a day after the wedding, by the Health Department. His sample wasn't taken for testing at the time of the wedding. He was tested by the True Nat machine on Thursday.While the Health Department confirmed positive results of the SSP on late Thursday evening, all key bureaucracy of the district might have to be placed under mandatory quarantine depending on the contact tracing of SSP Jalandhar.Nodal Officer Jalandhar Dr TP Singh said: "Currently, only the positive tests of some persons have been confirmed though we can't identify them yet. We are in the process of tracing their contact history. After contact tracing, all key people attending any congregation attended by a person who tests positive will be placed under quarantine. We will, however, be testing them after five to six days because there is a tendency of false Covid reports initially."MLA Sushil Rinku, when contacted, said: "I did attend the wedding, but didn't see any particular official, as I went a bit late. At present, we have no quarantine instructions from the Health Department."One succumbs to virus, 32 test positiveJalandhar: A 54-year-old man from Kapurthala died in the district on Thursday. The district also reported 32 new Covid cases. A Senior Superintendent of Police and Shahkot SDM were among those who tested positive. Of the new cases, eight were from Basti Bawa Khel and two from Makhdoompura. Other areas that reported new cases included Bhagat Singh Nagar, Qazi Mohalla, Dahsmesh Nagar, New Baradari (Shahkot), Hargobind Nagar, Bashirpura and Naagra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ssp-tests-ve-had-attended-high-profile-wedding-110897
10-07-2020||Our Correspondent||15-year-old boy from Bihar tests positive||Hoshiarpur, July 9A 15-year-old boy, who was returning from Bihar, turned out to be positive on Thursday, increasing the number of patients affected by the coronavirus in the district to 194. He was staying at a residential colony on Phagwara Road outside the city.Civil Commissioner Dr Jasvir Singh said 551 new samples of people with suspected symptoms flu-like symptoms have been taken. He said total 16,154 samples have been taken so far in the district, of which 15,105 have been found to be negative, while the reports of 454 samples are awaited. Dr Singh said the number of positive cases in the district has reached 194, while 30 samples were invalid.He said people should maintain distance and cover their mouth and nose with a mask at the time of getting out of their homes. Advising pregnant women and children up to 10 years to stay at home, he urged people in general for their help in preventing community spread of the disease. The Civil Surgeon’s Office was also sanitised by the employees of the anti-larva wing.MC, SDM office to remain closed todayThe offices of Hoshiarpur SDM, Tehsildar and Municipal Corporation remained shut after the Covid report of SDM Amit Mahajan and Municipal Corporation Commissioner Balbir Raj Singh came positive on Wednesday. There were no public dealings at the Deputy Commissioner’s office as well. The said offices will remain closed on Friday as well. The samples of the staff of SDM office and MC office were taken on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/15-year-old-boy-from-bihar-tests-positive-110899
10-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||MP reviews progress of Jalandhar Smart City project work||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 9Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary on Thursday reviewed the progress of ongoing development works under the Smart City Mission in a meeting held at his residence and said few big works like Burlton Park project had slowed down because of hindrance in tender process due to the pandemic.The MP said the CEOs of the smart city projects were changed in recent times, and now that the MC Commissioner is the new CEO, he would be looking after the projects. “That’s why I had called the meeting,” he said.The meeting was attended by MLA Rajinder Beri, Improvement Trust Chairman Daljeet Singh Ahluwalia, Mayor Jagdish Raja, Municipal Corporation Commissioner and Smart City CEO Karnesh Sharma and other officials.During the discussions, MP Santokh Chaudhary undertook an appraisal of various projects including installation of LED lights, stormwater drainage, smart e-classrooms in primary and middle government schools, facelifting of railway station and installation of rooftop solar panels.The senior Congress leader informed that the majority of the works were at tender stage and their execution would begin soon. He stated that projects with an estimated cost of Rs 82.29 crore were under execution and tenders have been issued for projects worth Rs 894.39 crore.He said installation of LED streetlights with an estimated cost of Rs 43.84 crore was expected to begin from next month. Another project going under execution is storm water drainage in ABD area with a cost of Rs 20.99 crore.Speaking about the facelifting of Jalandhar city railway station, the Lok Sabha MP informed that Rs 6.26 crore would be spent on installing escalators, construction of a foot overbridge and other works, which would begin soon.He further informed that 141 primary and middle government schools had been equipped with smart classrooms and solar panels had been fixed on all the selected 17 government buildings under the Smart City Mission.MP Chaudhary said the government was working for overall development of the city and these steps would improve infrastructure of Jalandhar significantly.Meeting highlightsDuring the discussions, MP Santokh Chaudhary undertook an appraisal of various projects including installation of LED lights, stormwater drainage, smart e-classrooms in primary and middle government schools, facelifting of railway station and installation of rooftop solar panels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-reviews-progress-of-jalandhar-smart-city-project-work-110901
10-07-2020||---||Amid shortage of labour, potato, sugarcane farmers a worried lot||Jalandhar, July 9The farming community has been facing several issues amid the crisis induced by Covid-19. Shortage of farm hands is one of them. Though some labourers have returned, others are still at home in their native states.Farmers first faced problems in sowing wheat, then in transplanting paddy. Over the next few months, they would sow potato and sugarcane crops and this is making them worried.Sukhwant Singh, a farmer from Nakodar, said it seemed that farmers would not get rid of the problem of labour shortage. “Sowing season of potato and sugarcane is here and we are short of labourers. We have no idea how we will manage,” he said.Kirpal Singh from Shahkot area said farmers were now mulling over not sowing the labour-intensive crops. “It is important that farmers wake up now and switch to crops that aren’t labour intensive. I have already done it,” he said.Notably, amid the labour shortage because of the lockdown-induced migration, farmers in the district have already been adopting various means to bring back farm hands, but those who cannot bring the labourers back are in a state of worry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-shortage-of-labour-potato-sugarcane-farmers-a-worried-lot-110902
10-07-2020||Jalandhar||ASHA workers protest over meagre allowance||Members of the ASHA Workers and Facilitators Union on Thursday started a protest against the non-provision of adequate wages to them by the state government. Deciding to suspend work from June 9 to 19, they began their three-day protest at sub-centres in Jalandhar. Holding house to house surveys, ASHA workers were being paid only Rs 4 per patient. The workers demanded Rs 12 per patient allowance until Covid work was on in the state and due compensation for deceased ASHA workers. They also sought reduction of work load on them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/asha-workers-protest-over-meagre-allowance-110903
10-07-2020||---||SBI provides 3 ventilators at hospital||Jalandhar, July 9  The State Bank of India (SBI) Jalandhar on Thursday provided three ventilators at the Civil Hospital to cater to the needs of the coronavirus patients of the city and conveyed their well-wishes for the quick recovery of all patients. Kaushal Kishore Singh, deputy general manager of SBI, said that the organisation understands its social responsibility well and stands for the country and society at every step. In this episode, this small contribution was made for the needs of patients of Jalandhar city.   The programme was attended by civil surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla, Dr Harinder Pal Singh, medical superintendent, Dr Chiranjeev Singh, senior medical officer, Dr Harish Bhardwaj and Dr Gagandeep Singh on behalf of the Civil Hospital. Meanwhile from SBI, regional manager Vipin Kumar, Pradeep Kumar, regional manager, Jalandhar, deputy general manager of main branch Civil Lines Deepak Kumar and chief manager Jitender Kalia among others were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sbi-provides-3-ventilators-at-hospital-110904
10-07-2020||Jalandhar||9,000 ml illicit liquor seized||PCM protests over inflationJalandhar: Members of the Punjab Christian Movement (PCM) held a protest against the continuous hike being witnessed in the fuel prices, inflation and unemployment. Submitting a memorandum to the DC, Hamid Masih, president of the movement, said, “The soaring prices of petrol and diesel have become a huge burden on the common man, who is already suffering financially during the time of pandemic.” They demanded a rollback of soaring prices and requested reforms for other problems including unemployment. TNSWorkshop on radio productionJalandhar: Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised a live workshop on ‘Radio production techniques’ through Facebook live under digital counselling. Around 350 participants were registered for the workshop. Moderator Dr Anjana Bhatia welcomed all participants and told them about the college. Jyoti Sehgal, assistant professor, told the participants about radio production techniques. She gave information about script writing, research and programme formats. The workshop was appreciated by the participants. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/9-000-ml-illicit-liquor-seized-110906
10-07-2020||Ajay Joshi||Couples’ ‘big day’ paints a bittersweet picture of lockdown weddings||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 9Gone are the days when the ‘Big Fat Punjabi Weddings’ were the talk of the town. The times have changed drastically post-pandemic. For those couples who have tied nupial knots during the lockdown know that the only memories they have gathered all along during the ‘big day’ of their lives are that of frequent sanitisation, donning fancy masks and the ceremonies being conducted in their living rooms.Though the nationwide lockdown spurred wedding cancellations across the country, many couples determined to get married swapped traditional customs with the online weddings and socially-distanced functions. Smaller gathering, more intimate affair, an emphasis on top-notch hygiene standards, subdued celebrations on Zoom links and contactless services are among the new normal of the lockdown weddings.Amrita Kapoor (26), who got married last month, says, "I always wanted to have a grand wedding with everything special and different. After having a well celebrated engagement function in the month of March, I was excited to see how my marriage would be. However, everything turned upside down when curfew was announced, we had even shifted the wedding date from April to May but the lockdown kept on extending. Eventually, we thought of postponing my marriage to late 2020 months, but once we got the curfew passes for conducting the marriage in June, my husband's family got convinced and further decided to carry out the function this way only. The suggestions given by our priest also convinced my parents.”However, her marriage didn’t lose the special factor. “My mother's sari that she wore on her wedding became my special outfit on my special day complemented with my grandmother's traditional jewellery. Though it was a homely affair, we had fun. My cousins turned photographers on my wedding, who were before the lockdown, worried about how it would pan out with so many guests to attend. The photographs have now been printed and I'm never going forget my 'lockdown wedding'," she quips.Apart fom the couples who tied the knot recently, their parents also had some bittersweet moments to remember. The folks were confounded as to who should be invited and who should be left behind.Jagwant Kaur, a parent, is one of those with mixed feelings. She says: “I prepared the special marriage feast on my own after my daughter's marriage. It was good that there was no crazy loud music, booze and unnecessary food menu that always leave a few guests disappointed!”The new norms can also be witnessed at the marriage registration offices where the couples are now first welcomed with sanitisers and are not asked for sweets. Also, one witness is enough to get a couple's marriage registered. But the officials say, "The distancing norms have increased the time it takes for one wedding, earlier in a fixed hour we used to register 6-8 weddings, while now registering a wedding it takes around 20-25 minutes.”Amrit Kaur Bedi, Wedding Planner;Marriages are now restricted to limited guests. For the safety of our clients and their families, we now have to install gates with disinfectant sprays. N95 masks are must for all the guests and sitting arrangements are planned in such a way that there would be six-feet distance among the guests. Even the groom and bride are made to sit at a distance during the ceremonies. The marriages, presently, are being organised at clients’ homes. We have conducted seven lockdown marriages so far.Jaipaul Kalia, Wedding Photographer;Before the lockdown was announced my dates were booked and no slot was empty, however, with the Covid outbreak, the bookings either got cancelled or delayed. Currently, no pre or post wedding photoshoots are in demand and to stick to the limited guest list people prefer to capture their celebrations and functions on their own.Palak Sethi, a newly-wed girlApart from a few family members and friends my marriage function remained a decent affair. There was nothing like that we missed out on anything, everything went well and most importantly my parents and brothers didn't have to panic. All the functions and ceremonies were conducted smoothly. Friends who could join the functions gave virtual hugs and blessings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/couples-big-day-paints-a-bittersweet-picture-of-lockdown-weddings-110909
10-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||Lamp-less alleys, stray dog menace keep Nijatam Nagar residents on tenterhooks||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 9One is scared to venture out after 8 pm in Nijatam Nagar’s street number 6 and 7.Reason: Non-functional streetlights, growing stray dog menace and a bad patch of road have added to the woes of residents, which create vicious set of challenges for them.A majority of the pandemic months have been spent without proper lighting in streets even as Nijatam Nagar was once the Covid hotspot. While the approach to street number 7 is through street number 6, the road is so uneven and unkempt that residents find it difficult to navigate the stretch late at night.Additionally, non-functional street lights have aggravated the scare of stray dogs so much that the area wears an eerie silence after 7 or 8 pm.Professor Rohit Chatrath, a resident of the area, says: “The problem began in May and June, when the street lights remained off for a really long time. For months, residents were scared to step out of their homes. There were also several incidents of mobile phone snatchings. Additionally, stray dogs posed a big problem, especially when street lights were not working. They go after those on foot and chase those driving vehicles. Additionally, the uneven road from street number 6 onwards made things worse.”Prof Chatrath said: “Street lights were repaired about a month ago, but the work was so temporary, that things went back to square one after a storm. After a windy night, the lights came off again and haven’t worked ever since. One or two stray lights may be working, but the rest of the area is steeped in darkness.”LC Mittu, a retired bank manager, who lives in the area, says: “The entire Nijatam Nagar area has a problem of non-functional or dysfunctional street lights. It’s a lamp-less alley, through which we approach our homes. The approach road from Basti Nau to Nijatam Nagar was fixed and looks fine now. However, street number 6 and 7 road is in a bad shape and that patch causes trouble, especially for two-wheelers. We have made countless complaints to the MC. Earlier, they didn’t send people due to the lockdown. One day the street lights were fixed, but these again stopped working after a storm. At least a 100 people live in the two streets. For the safety and security of residents, street lights need to be fixed at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lamp-less-alleys-stray-dog-menace-keep-nijatam-nagar-residents-on-tenterhooks-110910
