10-04-2020||Jalandhar||Coronavirus cripples Rs 2,000-crore Jalandhar sports industry||With COVID-19 lockdown resulting in a complete halt of trading activities, barring some essential commodities, the over Rs 2,000-crore sports industry of Jalandhar is having a harrowing time as the current situation has forced sport goods manufacturers to defer orders.With the nationwide lockdown enforced to contain the spread of novel coronavirus, the manufacturers of sports items here are apprehensive about their future going ahead amid indications that the government might decide to further extend the lockdown in view of rising virus cases in several parts of the country.A sports goods manufacturing hub, Jalandhar produces nearly 70 per cent of total India's sports goods and is a leading name in national and international brands of cricket, hockey, football, rugby and fitness range.In terms of the international market, the industry exports material to the UK, Australia, South Africa, Germany, France, Netherlands, New Zealand and others.Alarmed over the situation, the industrialists while supporting the government's move of lockdown said that losses were imminent and the industry would be hit hard.Atul Madan, the owner of century-old Sarve Prakash and Company, Jalandhar, a leading name in Rugby Export in India, said that in the wake of COVID-19, all national and international borders were sealed and it was complete slowdown now."Our export material including footballs, bats, sports accessories for New Zealand and South Africa were lying stuck at Delhi and Bombay Ports. Similarly, not just international sports events like soccer leagues, IPL, other tournaments but those in educational institutions across the country were also staring at an uncertain future as of now," he said, adding that post-COVID-19, the government should provide comfortable liquidity and package to sustain the industry operations.Nitin Mahajan, the owner of AVM Sports and the general secretary of Sports and Toys Exporters Association, said a letter has been written to Principal Secretary to PM PK Mishra and Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal to sanction GST refunds on priority and increase the percentage of Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS) licences at least for this year and provide free Export Credit Guarantee Cooperation of India (ECGC) support for import and export to keep business afloat.The association also shared concerns that because sports goods do not come under 'essential items', this particular industry is facing lots of problems."Lack of payment to dealers, distributors, corporates would affect the ability of manufacturers to pay dues to the employees. We have requested that the payments to the manufacturers related to government tenders, orders should be expedited once lockdown ends," Mahajan, whose AVM Sports is famous for cricket bats, cricket equipment and baseballs in India, shared.He also pointed out that schools, colleges, universities have been closed and stadiums might be taken over by the government for makeshift hospitals."As the sports industry is labour oriented, we would want the state government to save local employment and industry. Waiving or deferment of local taxes and minimum electricity charges for a period till the operations start is must," he said.The traders also mentioned that the sports industry was facing around Rs 2 to 3 crore loss in business every day.However, the total loss would be ascertained after the lockdown ends, it said.Rajesh Kharbanda, the managing director of Nivia Sports under the banner of Freewill Sports, said that other than the current crisis, manufacturers were concerned about the welfare of labourers too whom they paid salaries 10-days in advance.Apart from this, he hinted at the possible changes in sports business in terms of consumer behaviour."Community sports like tournaments, gyms, marathons would witness a change because of social distancing. There was a big possibility that now people would prefer individual gym range and sports equipment in their houses like basketball and badminton courts abroad instead of going out. Even face masks would become compulsory to wear in the times to come," he said.Rajan Kohli, the managing director of TK Sports, renowned for Hockey, IPL jerseys for Kings XI Punjab, T-20 matches and Shrey Helmets for Cricket, said that no doubt business would go down but as of now, the concern is that COVID-19 comes under control."The central government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was taking the best decisions to counter the pandemic. The business will come and go but right now we should support our country,” he said.Meanwhile, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has said the ongoing lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus should continue while noting that predictions by health experts about the spread of the pandemic are "horrendous and frightening". PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/coronavirus-cripples-rs-2-000-crore-jalandhar-sports-industry-69282
10-04-2020||Jalandhar||60 booked for opposing coronavirus victim’s cremation||An FIR was lodged against 60 unidentified residents of Harnamdsapura after they stalled the cremation of the city’s first Covid-19 deceased here today. The victim, a 59-year-old chemist, had died early this morning.The FIR has been lodged under Sections 188, 269, 270, 271, 353, 186, 149 of the IPC, Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act 1996.The cremation eventually took place at the same cremation ground after a delay of two hours. Apprehensive of the spread of infection in the area due to the cremation, area residents had locked the gate of the crematorium.They obstructed the entry of vehicles. It took the administrative officials two hours to convince the people.Senior officers, including Commissioner of Police, Jalandhar, SDM, and local councillors, were present on the occasion. A team of health officials cremated the body following the guidelines. Commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said those who opposed the cremation were being identified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/60-booked-for-opposing-coronavirus-victims-cremation-68976
10-04-2020||---||Community spread scare in Jalandhar||Chandigarh, April 9The last 24 hours have once again proved worrisome for the state with 24 new cases being reported, taking the tally to 130. In all, 20 cases were reported yesterday, which means of the total cases so far, around 35 per cent have surfaced in the last two days in the state.Besides, one death was reported from Barnala. As per the state’s media bulletin, seven cases have been reported from SAS Nagar, six from Mansa, four each from Ludhiana and Jalandhar and one each from Muktsar, Barnala and Sangrur.Mansa district, from where the first case of Covid-19 was reported recently, today reported six more confirmed cases thereby taking the total count of infected patients to 11 in the district. All new cases were in contact of the five already tested positive persons in the district. The district police have sealed the residential areas where the positive cases were found.Apart from this, three fresh cases were reported in Jalandhar district. The bigger worry for the district is that at least four of the total five new cases in the past 48 hours are totally unconnected to each other, indicating community spread in the district. With health authorities confirming there was neither any travel history nor any positive contact of these new cases as yet, this might be an indication of community breakout in the city.The three new patients reported today are a 65-year-old woman, a resident of Bhairon Bazar, a 42-year-old woman, a resident of Purani Sabzi Mandi and a 53-year-old man from Maqsudan. The man from Maqsudan was serving as a technician at Sacred Hospital in Jalandhar. A containment plan has been implemented at the hospital.Meanwhile, four new cases tested positive in Ludhiana district today. It includes the son of a deceased patient, who was the first to die in Ludhiana due to Covid-19. Meanwhile, another 24-year-old man, who was involved in a theft case, tested positive. The third positive case is of a 15-year-old nephew of a positive patient who took part in the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi. The fourth positive case is from Ramgarh village, Jagraon, who also took part in the Tablighi Jamaat gathering.In Sangrur, the first case was reported as a 65-year-old resident of Gagadpur village has tested positive. The patient had travelled by air from New Delhi on March 24. He was asymptomatic, but his report has come positive. He had been under quarantine at his house. Besides, a 52-year-old woman from a village in Barnala district who was admitted at Fortis Hospital, Ludhiana, and later died yesterday, was also Covid-19 positive.As per the department, so far, samples of 3,192 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of them, 2,777 samples were found negative and reports of 285 were awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/community-spread-scare-in-jalandhar-68972
10-04-2020||Jalandhar||Congress leaders in quarantine after death of activist’s father||Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry and his father senior Congress leader Avtar Henry today placed themselves in a 14-day self-quarantine after the 59-year-old Ayurvedic chemist tested positive last night and died today.The son of the chemist, Deepak Kumar, is a block president of the Congress. The father-son duo had been active in ration distribution in various areas of the city during which Deepak came in contact with many other leaders. Both Avtar Henry and his family, as well as over six other Congress functionaries placed themselves under precautionary quarantine after they received the news.Bawa said the step was taken to set an example of social responsibility.Deepak had met Bawa on March 30 concerning an issue regarding ration disbursal.Bawa said, “I had met the son of the person who tested positive on March 30. Though there was no direct contact with his father, we have placed ourselves in self-quarantine. At least four or five Congress councillors as well as party workers have also placed themselves under quarantine.”Bawa said, “Deepak had been very active in ration disbursal for Covid-affected and needy. He was doing this in his personal capacity for which he had our support.”He said, “Community transmission seems inevitable in the country as positive cases today show that it has begun.”Councillors who have placed themselves in quarantine include Deepak Sharda, Om Parkash, Mike Khosla among others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/congress-leaders-in-quarantine-after-death-of-activists-father-68964
10-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Centre flayed for suspending MPLAD funds||Phillaur, April 9Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary and Assembly in-charge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary distributed ration bags among families at Mau Sahib village here yesterday.The bags containing 10 kg of wheat, 2 kg of dal and 2 kg of sugar were delivered to every family at their homes amid the curfew. Chaudhary Santokh Singh said as people could not go out due to the curfew, the ration was being delivered to them on their doorstep.He said the mandated physical distance between people was also being maintained during the drive. MP Chaudhary also criticised the Modi government’s decision to suspend MPLAD funds for two years and urged the government to reconsider it.He said he welcomed the cut in salaries of MPs, but the fund belonged to people of the constituency and taking it away was  injustice to them.“It is our solemn duty to contribute to the fight against the pandemic and we stand united during this time of crisis, but this decision has turned the health emergency into an undeclared financial emergency,” the MP said, adding that the money would go into the Consolidated Fund of India, hence, there was no certainty that it would be used to deal with the coronavirus crisis only.Assembly Incharge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary lauded the efforts of the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in the state for standing with people during this time of crisis. He also praised people for cooperating with the administration in its efforts to stop the spread of the disease.Tehsildar Tapan Bhanot, naib tehsildar Jaswinder Singh, DSP Davinder Attri, Phillaur SHO Mukhtiar Singh, Food and Supplies Inspector Amandeep Singh, Sarpanch Gurdial Singh and Panchayat Secretary Dharampal were among those others present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/centre-flayed-for-suspending-mplad-funds-69059
10-04-2020||Our Correspondent||ROB officials spread Covid-19 awareness through social media||Jalandhar, April 9Officials of the Regional Outreach Bureau (ROB) under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting have started making use of social media platforms to aware masses about coronavirus while working from home.The officials have been posting messages on dos and don’ts and government guidelines on how to contain the pandemic in various groups among their contacts and on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter with a request to post them further for awareness of all."It’s our duty to serve society in this hour by making residents aware of what precautions to be taken to stay away from catching the virus. We are posting video, images and written messages of the Central Government as well as the state government on several social media platforms which are reaching thousands of people across the region with the help of family and friends,” said Rajesh Bali, Field Publicity Officer posted at Jalandhar.He said many NCC cadets and NSS volunteers in the state and former cadets across the country were in his touch through their officers concerned who were doing a good job in spreading awareness.Besides, the ROB was also posting video messages of famous personalities in the fields of sports, Punjabi singing, environment on its twitter handle @ROBChandigarh as well as Facebook page Regional Outreach Bureau Chandigarh in which these personalities are making people aware about the virus in their own style.He said the team of officers of the bureau in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh under the guidelines of Additioanl Director General Devpreet Singh and Director Ashish Goel had been continuously sharing messages through various social media platforms. The bureau was also making people aware of some fake messages circulating in social media and informing them as well that how to check the authenticity of such messages.He said the Press Information Bureau had started a ''fact check service'' for the public through which people could check the legitimacy of the Central Government-related fake news by emailing their concerns at pibfactcheck@gmail.com as well as by following Twitter handle @PIBFactCheck or by sending doubtful messages to 87997-11259 (WhatsApp number).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rob-officials-spread-covid-19-awareness-through-social-media-69057
10-04-2020||Hoshiarpur||Leopard spotted in  village||210 litres of lahan seizedNakodar: The Mehatpur police have booked unidentified persons on the charge of brewing illicit liquor on Wednesday. The police said they received information that some persons were brewing illicit liquor inside a Dhussi Bandh breach near the Raipur Gujjran toll plaza. The police reached the spot and seized 210 litres of lahan and utensils that were used for brewing the liquor. The suspects managed to flee the spot. A case under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act has been registered. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/leopard-spotted-in-village-69056
10-04-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||10-year-old expresses feelings through paintings||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 9For 10-year-old Lakshit Jindal of Baba Makhan Shah Lubana Nagar, the best way to find some respite from boredom during the lockdown is to express his feeling through paintings.Having taken coaching to sharpen his skills in drawing and painting at home for the past six years, he is already good at handling water paints. Though this coaching class is taking place since the lockdown, the Class VI student of Cambridge Co-ed International School has made three paintings on his own, which are related to the impact of coronavirus.Among three paintings, his favourite is the one in which humans are caged and birds and animals are moving freely in the open. He has even written, “Men are caged and birds are free. Nature is great and we should agree,” to express his idea that originated from the recent videos of leopards and antelope roaming in cities.His second painting is on the use of sanitisers and importance of masks. The son of Jalandhar-based lawyer Manu Jindal, Lakshit said he had been doing several other things to keep himself busy. “For two hours a day, I remain occupied with my online school classes. On Thursday, it was my fourth day of attending an online grooming session for kids by Art of Living. Besides, I have also been taking online tutorials in English grammar,” he added.His father said, “Since Lakshit is our only child and he has no company at home now, keeping him engrossed in something worthwhile is a big challenge these days. Since his art tutor Ashwini has not been coming these days, his mother ensures that he continues to engage in his hobby.”On being asked how he is utilising his time, Manu said, “I have been studying the law of other countries such as Canada and the UK. It has been helping me widen horizon on how other countries are dealing with similar crime incidents. Since my wife Meeta Jindal is running an immigration and visa consultancy service, the knowledge about foreign law can help us in our future prospects.”‘Men are caged and birds are free’Among three paintings that Lakshit Jindal has drawn on his own, on Covid, his favourite is the one in which humans are caged and birds and animals are moving freely in the open. He has even written: “Men are caged and birds are free. Nature is great and we should agree,” to express his idea that originated from recent videos of leopards and antelope roaming in cities. His second painting is on the use of sanitisers and the importance of face masks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-year-old-expresses-feelings-through-paintings-69048
10-04-2020||Jalandhar||Industrialist develops ventilators||Considering the dire need of ventilators amid Covid-19 scare, a Kapurthala-based industrialist has come up with a low-cost prototype.The newly developed breathing apparatus will also serve the purpose of coping up with the unavailability or shortage of ventilators at various government hospitals and community centres. If successful, around 150 such ventilators would be distributed for free at hospitals facing shortage.Pritpal Singh, along with his brother Davinder Singh, owners of Hanspal Traders, started designing the ventilator around a week ago. Designed with ‘Server Motion Technology’, the life-saving device would be put to use in the next few days.Pritpal Singh said the idea to prepare ventilators struck after local MLA Rana Gurjit Singh asked them if they could prepare ventilators. Subsequently, after taking the help of their industrialist friend Harmeet Singh, Pritpal and his brother got access to ‘Computer Numerical Control’ (CNC), using which they tested their first ventilation machine fitted with AMBU bags. Following a few successful testings of the pressure-generating bags, they started assembling other parts of the device. Briefing about the ventilator developed by them, Davinder said their device was equipped with control system, touch panel and adjustable buttons for breathing and pressure. In addition, working on the next step, Pritpal said they were now working on automatic pressure generation system, so that breathing could be controlled according to patient’s need.Dr Nirvair Singh, anaesthetist at Kapurthala Civil Hospital, said: “We have verified the ventilator developed by the industrialist brothers and concluded that they are working properly, similar to other ventilators at the hospitals. Around 90 per cent work is done and now, we are only focusing on simplifying its life-saving mode, so that it can be priced low.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/industrialist-develops-ventilators-69046
10-04-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Harnamdass Pura residents protest cremation of patient||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 9An unruly scene was witnessed at Harnamdass Pura where the first Covid victim, Parveen Sharma of Mitha Bazaar, who passed away early this morning, was to be cremated at the cremation ground here this afternoon.Also read: Punjab ministers dispel fear, attend funeral of Covid-19 victimAs the administration began to make preparations, residents of the colony, who have houses just adjoining the cremation ground, came out to lodge a protest. The protestors included women in large numbers, who came up with a baseless belief that their lives could be at risk if the cremation would be held there.Deputy Commissioner of Police Gurmeet Singh and ADC (D) Vishesh Sarangal reached the spot and pacified the protestors. The residents were explained that since the body was packed properly and it would not be opened, it posed no risk to anyone. They were also made aware that as per ICMR studies the ashes of the victim were completely free from any risks and hence they should not worry at all. Eyewitnesses said the residents were also warned of strict action after they continued to object to the cremation. The police later chose to lodge an FIR against unidentified persons so that it acted as a deterrent.Since the family of the victim, including his son who is Congress block president Deepak Sharma, could not attend the last rites as he had been quarantined, the nephew of the victim lit the pyre. The nephew, another relative and two personnel of the Health Department were given PPE kits to hold the cremation.Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Varinder K Sharma on Thursday issued orders empowering an Executive Magistrate to break open the locks of the crematorium if the residents objected to performing the last rites. “Even a dead person has the right to be laid to rest respectfully and we cannot deny this right to someone even if he died of the coronavirus. I have formed committees, including area SHOs and local magistrate, who will perform the last rites and ensure that there is no such disruption in future,” he said.District officials traced all those who came in contact with Parveen Sharma and quarantined them. These included the victim’s family members, maid, milkman and other persons. “As the Mitha Bazaar, where he resided, has a high density of population, we will try to be more vigilant and seal all houses in the vicinity,” said ADC Vishesh Sarangal. Parveen Sharma, who was an ayurvedic chemist, is learnt to have suspended his practice since the lockdown but used to sit out his house to talk to passersby. As his son had met area MLA Bawa Henry 10 days ago, the latter too has gone into self-quarantine.60 booked for obstructing cremationThe Police Commissionerate have booked 60 unidentified persons for obstructing the administration in performing the last rites of the Covid patient in Harnamdass Pura locality. Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the miscreants had been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/harnamdass-pura-residents-protest-cremation-of-patient-69045
10-04-2020||Phillaur||83 arrested for violating curfew norms||To tighten the noose around curfew violators, the police have arrested 83 persons, including 24 persons in Phillaur, 15 in Goraya and 44 in Bilga from March 23 to April 8.   Phillaur DSP Davinder Singh Attri said apart from setting up check posts, the police had been keeping a watch on the violators.   He said since the curfew was imposed, as many as 52 FIRs, including 18 in Phillaur,13 in Goraya and 21 in Bilga had been registered in the Phillaur sub-division. He said 504 challans, including 150 in Phillaur,144 in Goraya and 210 in Bilga had been issued and 46 vehicles, including 30 in Phillaur, 2 in Goraya and 14 in Bilga had been impounded. —  OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/83-arrested-for-violating-curfew-norms-69044
10-04-2020||---||Farmers told to sanitise combines||Jalandhar, April 9The Agriculture Department has released instructions to farmers to take proper precautions during harvesting of crops.In the instructions, farmers have been asked to sanitise combines that would be used for harvesting. They have been advised that since the workers will move from village to village during harvesting, they must be allowed to rest in an outer area. It has also been asked that if any worker is suffering from cough, cold or fever or is not feeling well, he should not be asked to work at any condition.The department has asked farmers to make sure that precautions against Covid-19 are followed properly. “While carrying out the work, proper distance should be maintained in the coming days,” reads the advisory released by Dr Surinder Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer.Notably, farmers are ensuring every help to labourers. Be it providing extra ration to workers, calling them up repeatedly or asking for their well-being and stocking up medicines, they are doing everything they can. They are even visiting chemist shops with labourers to get them medicines and other essentials items.All this is being done to ensure that farm labourers don’t return to their native places, especially when harvesting season is around the corner.“Before the lockdown was announced, at least 10 of my workers came from Bihar. Since then, I have been giving them food. Since they came by train, I asked them to quarantine themselves for 14 days. But I am providing them with every essential item,” a farmer from Moosapur village said.The instructionsIn the instructions, farmers have been asked to sanitise combines that will be used for harvesting. The growers have been advised that since the workers will move from village to village during harvesting, they must be allowed to rest in an outer area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-told-to-sanitise-combines-69043
10-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||6 Gujjar families stuck on Himachal Pradesh border||Hoshiarpur, April 9 Six Gujjar families are stuck on the Himachal Pradesh (HP) border. They were not allowed to enter since the HP border has been sealed owing to Covid-19 threat. While the spring season is on, they were on their way to Himachal from Mukerian villages. Around 30 members of these six families, including women and children, are at present staying on the banks of Swan rivulet in the Talwara block. Since they were facing shortage of food, the district administration and voluntary organisations have extended help to them. Necessary arrangements have been made for them apart from providing food daily. While food packets containing dry ration have been provided by the district administration, food is also being provided to them daily by the Radha Soami Satsang Ghar, Talwara.  SDM Mukerian Ashok Kumar said the condition of these Gujjar families is being reviewed, so that they do not face any problem. Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said efforts were being made by the district administration to help the needy. She instructed the SDM Mukerian to make sure these Gujjars do not face any problem and to take stock of situation from time to time. While adequate arrangements have been made by the district administration to provide facilities to migrant labourers, special arrangements have also been made for 107 Jammu and Kashmir residents with the help of Radha Soami Satsang Beas. Of them, 56 persons have been accommodated at Radha Soami Satsang Beas, Tanda, while 51 persons at Radha Soami Satsang Beas dera at Palaki village in Mukerian.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-gujjar-families-stuck-on-himachal-pradesh-border-69042
10-04-2020||---||Anganwadi workers in the forefront||Jalandhar, April 9Anganwadi workers have been working at the forefront to help people amid the Covid crisis. They have been providing ration among people. Besides, they ensure that nobody suffers at this difficult time. The anganwadi workers said it was their duty to look after pregnant women and needy persons.They have been visiting homes and ensuring that everyone gets ration. Besides, they have also been giving information of NRIs in their areas to the administration.Gurpreet Kaur, an anganwari worker from Kartarpur, distributed ration among people on Wednesday. She said, “When everyone is facing a difficult time due to the coronavirus pandemic, I felt that it is my duty to contribute a bit. It feels satisfying when we help others. No matter what, we will keep on doing our work with every precaution,” she said, adding that they have to face some problems as well because sometimes people ask them to give extra ration or food, but they don’t understand that they provide everything according to the guidelines.Krishna, another worker from Nurmahal, said they had been also ensuring that the newborn get proper vaccination at this time.“We have been looking after pregnant women. At our own level, I visited some of the migrant workers and helped them. On humanitarian grounds, I have been ensuring that nobody suffers,” she added. Earlier, Nirlep Kaur from Phillaur had prepared some masks for those who could not afford the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/anganwadi-workers-in-the-forefront-69041
