10-06-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar woman jumps off roof after stabbing six-year-old son for 'loving his grandmother more'||In a tragic incident, a 30-year-old woman stabbed her six-year-old, before she jumped off the roof of her house in Shahkot, Jalandhar.The much-loved child was a 1st standard student at a local school. The innocent life was claimed by his mother's angst over her son's love for his grandmother, as per the police report.The 30-year-old woman, Kulwinder Kaur, stabbed her six-year-old son, Arshpreet Singh, with a vegetable knife. As per the child's grandfather's statement, his daughter-in-law was "angst-ridden at her son for loving his grandmother more."Around 9:30 pm on Monday night, the woman's father-in-law, Avtar Singh and mother-in-law Charanjit Kaur, were chatting in the living room, when they heard the six-year-old screaming and crying. When they reached, they saw the boy bludgeoned with a knife on the abdomen, and the mother was holding the vegetable knife. The mother said that "she had murdered the child". Holding the knife, the mother went up to the roof of the house and jumped.While the child's grandfather took him to a local hospital at Nakodar, the child could not survive the injuries inflicted by his mother and died on the way.As per the grandfather, Avtar Singh’s statement's to the police, Kulwinder Kaur and Charanjit Kaur had constantly been fighting at home on several issues. He said Kulwinder was also angry because the child liked his grandmother and regularly insisted on going to her.Kulwinder married Avtar Singh’s son Surjit Singh seven-years-ago. Surjit—who is settled in Italy for several years—came back to India six months ago.Arrested by the police, Kulwinder is under treatment at a private hospital in Jalandhar. She is receiving treatment for her injuries including, a cracked nose-bone.An FIR under section 302 of the IPC has been lodged against her.Images of the innocent child —who appears to be sleeping with two knife wounds on his abdomen—were released by the Shahkot police.SHO Shahkot police station, Surinder Kumar said: “There was a constant fight at home and the woman’s husband was also in Italy. The child was much loved by everyone at home and was a constant source of cheer among the grandparents and relatives. As per the child’s grandfather, his mother couldn’t bear his constant demand to go to his grandmother and in a fit of angst murdered her only child brutally.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-woman-jumps-off-roof-after-stabbing-six-year-old-son-for-loving-his-grandmother-more-97279
10-06-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar records 10th coronavirus death||Jalandhar recorded its 10 death from coronavirus on Wednesday, officials said---a development that comes at a time when the district continues to report COVID-19 cases.The latest fatality was an 86-year-old man who had tested positive for COVID-19. Doctors said he had pre-existing health conditions. He was being treated at a private hospital where he tested positive. He died on his way to IMA facility in Shahkot, doctors said.(READ: Punjab reports 86 new COVID-19 cases)     Dr. TP Singh, the nodal officer for COVID-19 in Jalandhar, said: “So far no previous contact of the deceased has been established, but district authorities are tracking down and testing the rest of the family. He was 86 years of age and also had co-morbidities. He died on his way to the IMA facility and authorities there declared him brought dead.”Jalandhar had previously reported a COVID-19 fatality on June 3.Meanwhile, Jalandhar reported one positive case on Wednesday, Punjab health department's COVID tally said. The bulletin categorised this as a new case.District authorities put the number of coronavirus cases in Jalandhar at 317, but Punjab's COVID tally put the number at 312 on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-records-10th-coronavirus-death-97276
10-06-2020||Jalandhar||Revision of collector rates on the cards in Jalandhar||Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma today asked SDMs and revenue officials to submit their detailed proposals for revision in the collector rates, if any, for the registration of land deeds in the district.Chairing a meeting with the officials, the Deputy Commissioner said the review in the collector rates had been pending since long and any such decision had to be taken after a thorough brainstorming. He said the officials must get a proper feedback from all stakeholders and submit their report to him by this week.The DC said after getting the report from all SDMs and revenue officials, the district administration would compile the same and send it to the state government for necessary action. He said this was a preliminary meeting and the compilation of the report would take place after minute deliberations with the officials of the district administration.Additional Deputy Commissioner Jasbir Singh, SDMs Rahul Sindhu, Gautam Jain, Dr Sanjeev Sharma, Dr Jai Inder Singh and Dr Vineet Kumar, District Revenue Officer Jashanjit Singh and others were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/revision-of-collector-rates-on-the-cards-in-jalandhar-96845
10-06-2020||Nakodar||Lockdown: Two arrested for violating orders||The Lohian Khas police on Tuesday arrested two persons on the charges of violating the lockdown restrictions. The police said the suspects had been identified as Jagdip Singh, a resident of Dumanna village, and Amandip Singh of Manguwal village, who were loitering on a scooter in the night without any pass.A case under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 51 (b) of the (Disaster Management Act) has been registered against the suspects. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lockdown-two-arrested-for-violating-orders-96846
10-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||‘Illegal’ gates a cause for concern for Jalandhar residents||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 9Illegal barriers placed at the entrance of most of the residential areas here have put residents at the receiving end.Many, in unison, have demanded demolition of these gates that have been erected illegally at public spaces. Residents of Vasant Vihar Mandir Colony, Urban Estate Phase-2, approached the Municipal Corporation and PUDA authorities on Tuesday against the newly built gates in their colonies. They claimed that unauthorised encroachment over the public property was hindering smooth movement.“We are permanent residents of Urban Estate Phase-Il, Jalandhar. We frequently use the inter-connecting public roads leading to Vasant Vihar Mandir Colony located on the main road in front of the main market plaza and road leading to Andh Vidyalaya to Cambridge School. The route is also used to go to a nearby temple and a public park. However, due to the placement of gates, our movement has been restricted and we are not able to exit or enter the colony whenever we want to. The gates are closed most of the times and we have to look for guards to open these even during emergency,” said KS Randhawa, a resident.Appealing to the MC authorities to take immediate action, residents said the gates were jointly constructed by some residents during the lockdown. The consent for erecting the gates was not sought from all residents. Huge ramps from both sides of the gates have also been carved out, thereby limiting the entry of vehicles.Another Vasant Vihar resident said, similar gates were placed at the entrance of the colony in 2014. However, after several protests, the gates were eventually pulled off. People taking short cut to avoid traffic have also been hit hard due to these gates at the entry and exit points.“Residents were misusing the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act by preventing the entry of outsiders into the public domain. Many complaints were also registered, but no action was taken by the department. Rather than violating laws, more CCTV cameras and security guards should deployed,” said Joginder Singh, another resident.Meanwhile, Navneet Kaur Bal, Estate Officer, Jalandhar Development Authority (JDA), said: “PUDA will intervene into the matter and verify if the gates are causing any hindrance or not. Considering safety and security, residents in any closed colonies are allowed to carry out construction as per their convenience, but the consent of all residents is a must.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/illegal-gates-a-cause-for-concern-for-jalandhar-residents-96842
10-06-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Migration of workers spells tough time for industries||Hoshiarpur, June 9After being allowed to fully run industries during unlock 1.0, the industrialists have been facing problems in restarting their factories due to return of migrant labourers to their states during lockdown.Facing shortage of labourers, many industries have been able to function with just half or one-third of the capacity. While the industrialists are having trouble running factories, the migrant labourers are also upset. They are calling their factory owners requesting them to make arrangements to bring them back. Industrialists have demanded that as arrangements were made to repatriate the migrant labourers back to their states, labourers desirous of returning should also be provided facility so that they can come back to work and run the industries properly.Mukesh GoyalOwner of the Savitri Plywoods Factory in Hoshiarpur’s Bhikhowal village, has sent a bus to Kishanganj in Bihar to bring back 32 labourers from the border areas of Bihar and Bengal, at his own expense. Talking to The Tribune he said workers were the backbone of industry.“I need about 150 skilled workers to make my three factories operational. For this, I have resent the bus, which will run continuously to bring the workers here from Bihar,” he said.Brahm Shankar JimpaOwner of activated carbon factory in Patiarian village, said, “Labourers working with us for years are a part of our family and they have been asking us to bring them back with great hope. I am trying to bring them back, but small scale industries do not have enough resources to afford buses or other vehicles. I am getting train tickets booked for the workers and their families. I hope that the running of trains would solve the problem”.Satish GuptaOwner of Jai Mata Plywood Factory in Khakhli village, said the workers had been constantly contacting them over the phone asking to bring them back.“The workers, who had returned to their native states, are upset, but as there are no trains, it is difficult to return. So we are going to send a bus at our own expense to bring them back from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, for which we are contacting the administration for necessary documentation”.Sundar Sham AroraIndustries’ Minister said the government was co-ordinating with industries for the return of workers. “In every district, the General Manager of the Department of Industries and Deputy Commissioner are in constant touch regarding the problems of the industries and the need of the workers.Efforts are being made to provide the workers according to the needs of the industries as well as getting the work for the workers returning to Punjab,” said Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/migration-of-workers-spells-tough-time-for-industries-96843
10-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||To cut expenses, firms vacate office space in shopping complexes||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 9The lockdown has hit the realty business hard, especially owners of commercial building likes shopping complexes and malls.Several companies that had taken office spaces on rent in malls have started vacating them so as to cut on their rental, power and overhead expenditures. While most malls of the city are already hit hard by a slump in the market, now they are being vacated by companies.Sukhdev Singh, owner of realty firm AGI Infra, says, “We were in the process of signing agreements with some companies for handing over space when the lockdown happened. Some of them were international brands. Now, these companies are in wait and watch mode. Even we are enquiring about the performance and financial status of these companies before going ahead with the agreement. Some MNC companies which have taken office spaces on rent too are demanding that the charges be reduced.”Major Singh, who owns a shopping complex in the city, said there was an increased demand for a cut in rent. “Several tenants have given it in writing seeking reduction in rent by 50 per cent. They have said that they will not be able to sustain their businesses at such expenses as their income has completely fallen very much. So, we are in a fix.”Anil Chopra, Chairman, Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations, too says, “This is the worst scenario for the real estate business. The companies are increasingly vacating offices. Owing to the stringent guidelines for malls issued by the government for the safety of residents from pandemic, the sales will not pick up in the coming days. People are still afraid of visiting such places.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/to-cut-expenses-firms-vacate-office-space-in-shopping-complexes-96844
10-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||This roadside vendor struggles to retain livelihood post relaxations||Jalandhar, June 9The nationwide lockdown has adversely affected roadside vendors, who are struggling hard to make both ends meet. Ramesh (45) says every day, he puts up his canopy on the road opposite the Maqsudan sabzi mandi and displays his stock, which includes portable kids' swimming pools that sell like hot cakes during summers and soft toys, hoping that today he might find a customer and return home with some money.I started this work on May 17 when the district administration gave a green signal to shopkeepers to start their works. Since then, I have sold only two medium-sized pools costing Rs 600 and earned Rs 150 as profit. This Covid-19 outbreak has taken away our livelihood and I do not know when things will be back on track. — Ramesh, vendorHe said every year in summers, he sells these swimming pools and earn a good profit, while the rest of the year he engages himself in selling glass crockery."I have a family of eight. My two sons are also engaged in the same work. I sell items by the roadside, while they go door-to-door in colonies to sell the stock. But these days, they are working with me only as entry to various streets have been blocked by the police,” he said.He said amid the scorching heat, they wait for customers and return home with meagre earnings or most of the time no earnings.“I started this work on May 17 when the administration gave a green signal to shopkeepers to start their works. Since then, I have sold only two medium-sized pools costing Rs 600 and earned Rs 150 as profit. This Covid-19 outbreak has taken away our livelihood and I do not know when things will be back on track,” he said.Recalling the previous summer season, he said after working for almost 12 hours, he used to make a per day sale of Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 and his profit used to be Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,200.Now, after working for a similar duration, he is hardly earning a little over Rs 100, which is suffice only for a day's tea and milk expenses.When asked how he managed his lockdown days, Ramesh said NGOs and people from gurdwara were kind enough and gave him dry ration as well as cooked meals many times.“I also once received the ration distributed by the administration but it lasted only for a week and after that none from the administration came to us. Those were tough days but the situation is no better even now. Now, I have to earn to sustain my family but without customers, it has become a cumbersome task,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-roadside-vendor-struggles-to-retain-livelihood-post-relaxations-96858
10-06-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Our realty business badly hit as tenants not ready to pay rent’||HAVING its businesses spread in Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur, the Vasal group has carved a niche for itself especially in the realty and education sectors. In an interview with Deepkamal Kaur, Sanjeev Kumar Vasal, chairman of the company, shares the problems that his group has been facing in the ongoing lockdown period. Excerpts:How are you businesses running since the lockdown?We are into hotel industry, education, medicare, brick-kilns, construction and realty. Every business is partly hit. Our verticals — realty and hotels — have been the biggest sufferers. Schools are manageable. Our brick-kilns and construction works are running fine. Our group also owns two hospitals.Realty business is in a completely grim situation. Most of our tenants which are big companies have exploited us badly. No one including some big international brands are ready to pay us their rent for the lockdown period. Most of them have sought reduction of rental charges by 30 to 50 per cent, which is not feasible. — Sanjeev Kumar Vasal, Chairman of Vasal GroupHave you opened the hotel?We have opened Hotel Sarovar Portico but only partially. Owing to restrictions, we cannot allow anyone to dine. Banqueting is not permissible. We have 45 rooms but the occupancy was only for two rooms yesterday. It may still take six months for this business to come back on track.How are you managing your schools?We have six schools -- two each in Jalandhar and Phagwara and one each in Hoshiarpur and Dasuya. Our biggest attempt in running the schools so far is ensuring proper online education to the students, which we have done. We have been taking their daily attendance on ERP software and even seeking their feedback, which has so far been very positive. Our senior teachers have started coming to school and are relaying classes in a very fine manner, especially to the students of board classes. Our biggest achievement on the schools front so far has been maintaining a good bonding with the teachers as well as the parents. We have cared well for our teachers and they are reciprocating in the same way. Some parents who approached us for seeking grace time for making fee payment were allowed a month or so. There were about 5 per cent parents who said that they had more constraints. So, we told them that they could pay us fee any time in the next five to six months. So far, we have paid full salaries to our staff of 1,500 teachers. But we have told our teachers that if there will be any problem in collection of fee in the next months, we too might have to impose some cuts.How many brick-kilns do you own? What is the status of labour there?We have 10-11 brick-kilns. There are about 100 migrant families working in each kiln. So, in all we have about 1,100 labour families working for us in this sector. But the best part for us in the lockdown was that we managed to keep our entire flock with us. We cared for these families in the best possible manner and gave them all assurances. They agreed that they won't go back and are still with us and working happily.What is the scenario on realty front?Realty business is in a completely grim situation. Most of our tenants which are big companies have exploited us badly. No one including some big international brands are ready to pay us their rent for the lockdown period. Most of them have sought reduction of rental charges by 30 to 50 per cent, which is not feasible. We told them that we raised these buildings taking loans and our bank EMIs are yet to be paid. Since we are not getting any moratorium, it is not possible for us to allow them any relaxation. Some companies whose share prices have increased recently too have been shedding crocodile tears. A group that was paying us Rs 3 lakh as monthly rental has paid just Rs 90,000 rent for the last month, expressing helplessness. So, we really are in a fix on this front.What is the big message that you want to give to everyone at this time?My message to everyone is to keep patience. Be supportive as far as possible. This is the first of its kind experience for each one of us. If we help each other in this difficult time, we will all be able to sail through.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/our-realty-business-badly-hit-as-tenants-not-ready-to-pay-rent-96860
10-06-2020||Our Correspondent||To motivate colleagues, head constable dons singer’s hat||Jalandhar, June 9Appreciating the efforts of all those cops who have been working day and night during the Covid-19 crisis, a head constable of the Punjab Police has come up with a motivational song for his colleagues.Talking to The Tribune, Major Singh said his song ‘Punj aab ne Punjabi daler hunde ne, Punjab Police wale Punjabi sher hunde ne’ was solely dedicated to the Punjab Police personnel, who were rendering services religiously to keep people safe.He said despite giving their best, a section of society always criticises on-duty officers for one reason or the other, but there are a few, who understand their courage, hardships and sacrifices and appreciate their efforts. “I, through this song, just want to congratulate my brave police colleagues and friends for their efforts to make the fight against coronavirus a success.”Giving the example of the Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) of the Punjab Police whose hand was chopped off in a clash by ‘Nihangs’ in Patiala in April, he said this was the reason why he referred them as ‘sher’ in the song, which has gone viral on social media.“I haven’t released the song officially anywhere. My friends made a video while singing and the same has been shared via WhatsApp to many contacts and groups. My colleagues thanked me for motivating them through this song. I have also received a great response from the city residents, who listened to it,” he said.Major Singh said he was passionate about singing since his college days. “I have written several religious songs, inspirational songs and now, this pandemic forced me to write something for the frontline warriors. Together we can win this fight and I appeal to all residents to cooperate and follow the guidelines,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/to-motivate-colleagues-head-constable-dons-singers-hat-96861
10-06-2020||Jalandhar||2 held with stolen bike||Five injured in roof collapseDasuya: Five persons, including four members of a labourer’s family, were injured when the roof of a house collapsed in Dugri village of the Dasuya subdivision here. The family members were present in the house when the incident occurred. A woman staying in the neighbourhood was also present in the house. Owner of the house Roop Lal is a daily wage labourer. In the incident, Roop Lal, his wife Gurdev Kaur (55), daughter Banta Devi (25), one-and-a-half-year-old granddaughter Lovpreet Kaur and a woman, Seema Rani (35), were injured. Residents living near their house heard the sound of the roof collapse and reached the spot. They took the injured to the Civil Hospital, Dasuya. All injured are undergoing treatment at the hospital. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-held-with-stolen-bike-96862
10-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||‘Thali Bajao, Sarkaar Jagao’ protest by gym owners in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 9Members of the Jalandhar Gym Owners’ Welfare Society were seen protesting outside the District Administrative Complex on Tuesday.They said they were struggling to pay the rent and salaries of their employees, as they were unable to do any business in the last over two months.Similar to the Prime Minister’s initiative of beating thalis to acknowledge Covid warriors, gym owners and their staff members, in order to grab the attention of the administration, launched a protest naming it ‘Thali Bajao, Sarkaar Jagao’.Through the placards they were holding, they asked: ‘Kahn Gaya Fit India Movement?’; ‘How to Pay Rent?’; ‘Save Fitness Industry’; and ‘Save Gym, Save Trainers’.Jimmy Bhambra, president of the gym owners’ welfare society, and the owner of ‘Bulls The Gym’, said: “The fitness industry will soon be under debt. Gyms are the only source of income for trainers and we have been out of business for around 75 days now. The government has allowed markets, restaurants, malls and various other sectors to operate, where the fear of Covid is much higher. However, gyms, where people can remain healthy by improving their immunity, are still closed. Gyms and fitness studios run on real-time cash flows and have been massively hit. But on the contrary, we are being pressurised by our landowners to pay hefty rents.” He said he had employed around 15 people, including trainers, housekeeping staff and receptionists. There are around 400-500 gyms in the city and hundreds of staff members are unemployed post the lockdown. Manpreet, a gym trainer, said: “We are finding it difficult to make ends meet. The owners are not able to pay full salaries, as there is no business. We urge the government to allow gyms to operate at the earliest. Besides, bodybuilders are unable to prepare for different championships.”Himanshu Chaddha, who owns three branches of Neo Fitness gym, said: “We have to pay rent, bills, bank EMIs and other expenses, which is not possible right now. Due to the pressure from landlords, we have been forced to take more loans. Our clients are also demanding refund of their fee in the absence of services. Therefore, we demand that the government should either allow gyms to open or their building rents should be waived off.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/thali-bajao-sarkaar-jagao-protest-by-gym-owners-in-jalandhar-96840
10-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Covid-19 effect: Dentists see dip in number of patients||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 9As dentists face highest risks from Covid-19, among other medical specialists, most of them are still asking their patients to follow telemedicine service or avoid coming to their clinics till there is a need of immediate intervention.From taking patient history to ascertain there is no contact with a Covid case to wearing PPE kits, face shields, masks, repeated sanitisation of dental chairs and multiple processes for sterlisation of instruments, dentists say that their working has become longer, hectic and more costly.The doctors have said while 50 per cent patients were still avoiding to take treatment, they were not telling 25 per cent of the remaining patients to put off their treatment for the time being as there seemed no emergency. As a result, they were attending to only 25 per cent patients than previous numbers. Also, most dentists have been taking only one session in the morning and not attending to patients in the evening.Dr Jagdeep Goyal, a Jalandhar-based dentist, says: “Though we opened up in May, we were only handling emergency cases and just sort of giving them first aid. Even now, most of us are taking cases only in the first half of the day as we need to sanitise the clinic completely which takes a lot of time. Even between two cases, we need to sanitise the dental chair and all gadgets. We also have to maintain a big time gap between two appointments. Also, we need to take patient history about his travel, any cases in family and neighbourhood to be doubly sure, etc. Hence, clearly we can attend to a few patients in the such conditions.”Dr Gurpal Singh, president of the Nawanshahr unit of the Indian Dental Association, says: “As per the protocol of the Dental Council of India, we have to follow a long list of precautionary measures to keep ourselves as well as our patients safe. As of now, we are not doing some procedures, including scaling and tooth filling. We are avoiding RCTs and doing it only on patients who are not getting relief by analgesics and antibiotics. All such procedures generate aerosols, which as per the guidelines have to be avoided. Since I and my assistants wear PPE kits, we are attending to patients in one longer session only. Other than thermal screening, we are also checking the oxygen saturation level of all patients entering our clinics. Even in the clinic, we have to ensure proper cross-ventilation. Our instruments have to be sterlised by chemical methods, in ultrasonic cleaners, autoclaves and UV chambers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-effect-dentists-see-dip-in-number-of-patients-96841
10-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Father’s motivation guides sons to become YouTubers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 9It was businessman Pawan Luther’s motivation, which pushed his sons Paras Luther (15) and Vansh Luther (11) to start their own YouTube channel ‘Apna Magic’ last month.Students of Innocent Hearts School, Paras and Vansh use the channel to read out news and updates to their subscribers. The boys have also been using the channel to share tips with their subscribers on improving cricketing skills, while remaining indoors these days.Pawan Luther says, “Since lockdown, children were not going out and had started indulging in online games too much. So, I suggested them to do something creative. I told them to use technology, but in a way that it contributes towards their grooming and enhancing their skills. It was then that in consultation with their paternal uncle, who is a photographer, they launched their YouTube channel, began making some videos, edited them and posted them.”Asked about the source of the news, the boys shared, “We scan the newspapers every day, surf web portals and watch TV news. We do this exercise for about 45 minutes. Then, we make the content including headlines and small details, rehearse it and recording it on a video camera.”Paras showed a crafty idea that they had conceived for handling mobile phone while making videos. “We found that when mobile phone is held in the hand, the video becomes a bit shaky, however firmly we hold it. So, we thought we need something to fix it. We went around the house and found that a non-mechanical juicer could be used for the required grip and it has worked out well”, he shared.Asked what they aspired to be, both had the same answer, “Though we really do not know what is in our fate, but we may go in for journalism, anchoring, photography or videography. We are still trying out things. We will finally pick the profession where we fit the most and find our interest”. haring his experience on becoming a YouTuber, Paras says, “I feel that I have become more confident. The whole exercise is helping me brush my skills in video editing and learn its finer nuances, the knowledge of which is a must these days.”Vansh had a different answer, “I have learnt that it is not good to waste time on phone. There are a lot of creative things that we can do during lockdown and we must utilise this time well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fathers-motivation-guides-sons-to-become-youtubers-96852
10-06-2020||Aparna Banerji ||PIMS infrastructure remains unutilised||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, June 9 The Jalandhar Civil Hospital is providing treatment to over 200 patients at one point of time and a number of private hospitals are also referring Covid suspects coming to them to other establishments, however, not a single Covid case has been referred to the Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS), Jalandhar, so far.Of the 311 positive cases reported in Jalandhar so far, none was reported from or referred to the PIMS. A majority of Covid cases are with the Civil Hospital and many others are being referred to DMC, CMC, PGI, and the IMA facility at Shahkot.Sources said one of the primary reservations among the authorities at PIMS was of housing Covid patients, as all wards in the hospital were housed in one building and medical facilities were all interlinked. Besides, at present, the medical college had only five ventilators, of which only two could be used for Covid patients. Sources said PIMS had sought additional ventilators from the state government, but didn’t receive any response.Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla said, “At present, PIMS is not taking any Covid cases. We aren’t referring any of our patients there, as in the past PIMS has refused to us on multiple occasions.”Anurag Aggarwal, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said, “There are enough beds at the civil hospital. We are planning to resume operations at the civil hospital, where the de-addiction centre would serve as a Covid unit.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pims-infrastructure-remains-unutilised-97018
