10-08-2020||Avneet Kaur||Air Vice-Marshal (retd) remembers Capt Sathe||Jalandhar, August 9Wing Commander Deepak Vasant Sathe, who was the pilot of the ill-fated Air India Express plane that crashed in Kerala on August 7, was an exceptionally bright and high on life person, remembered his commanding pilot and retired Air Vice-Marshal from Jalandhar Sarvjit Hothi.He said Air India Express Boeing 737-800, which was involved in the accident, had flown nearly 20 flights of it mainly in the Gulf sector. He said he had flown four sectors — from Dubai to Lucknow and back and Dubai to Amritsar and back — with Capt Deepak Sathe in May 2010, who was then his co-pilot. He also explained every single precautionary measure and associated challenges that pilots go through before landing.“Only when we were expecting that 2020 could not be worse, this tragic accident of Air India Express flight shook the nation. I have fond memories with my colleague Capt Sathe. He fought for the country during Kargil war and commanded a Mobile Air Defence missile unit before he hung up his boots in 2003,” shared Sarvjit Hothi.Hothi said: “After getting relieved from the Indian Air Force (IAF) in October 2007, I joined Air India as a pilot and it was in 2010, that I made sorties to Dubai and back with Deepak Sathe. I have flown a lot in all these four coastal International Airports — Cochin, Kozhikode, Trivandrum and Manglore — all functional and adequately equipped to international standards having very safe runways, yet, these have their own challenges.”He said when it comes to landing, weather, even though within permissible limits, can go beyond a pilot’s handling limitation. However, aquaplaning, water-logging, crosswinds, dark night conditions, similar weather in diversionary airfields, low-fuel state add to the odds that make a pilot’s decision-making challenging. Hothi said Deepak had many skills and great experience, as it was possible for any pilot to have. He was an asset to both IAF as well Air India, he said.Sharing some technical aspects of the accident, Hothi said: “What I learnt from the reports being telecasted on TV is that Deepak landed around 3,000 ft up the runway. And, I strongly feel that is what was required. Landing at 3,000 ft was perfectly normal and legal. Enough safety margins are available to stop the aircraft. But if the last 3,000 ft of the runway is contaminated with rubber deposits, it can well behave like a glass sheet.”“Moreover, before landing, pilots always do calculations using an on-board computer to calculate using all these parameters such as wind, aircraft weight, outside temperature, how high the airfield is from the sea level and the condition of the runway,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/air-vice-marshal-retd-remembers-capt-sathe-124448
10-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||Working at the forefront, scribes wish to be deemed warriors||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 9There is a journalist in the district who has attended 50 funerals of Covid victims. Then, there are photojournalists getting shots of people undergoing swab tests inside the Covid test centres even during the lockdown. They are vulnerable all along.Recently, a 70-year-old photojournalist recently lost his life to the virus a few days ago. His nephew, also a photojournalist, tested positive. Meanwhile, after another media professional’s wife succumbed, he was hounded in the name of isolation protocol.Frontliners: This word says enough for itself nowadays. But after all, it is the actions what gives the word the essence. And journalists here have ticked all the boxes requisite of being considered among the likes of healthcare workers, police personnel, sanitation staff etc. Amid all the lashing of praise, the one community which has constantly been on the ground bringing the Covid updates in the district to the populace from the very first day has been desperately feeling excluded.Positive persons looked upon as culpritsThe mediapersons, like others, have suffered from the beginning. While it was in April that the first positive case surfaced, since then there has been a spate of cases among the group across various major publications. An organisation, which didn’t wish to be named, revealed that a considerable number of employees were recorded positive. Following which, the main office of the said organisation remained closed for three weeks.Allegations that biometric attendance was being held even during the pandemic have been denied by the organisation claiming it was unduly targeted. On the flip side, many of the hospitals, whose staff had tested positive, continued operations without facing sealing or suspension of work.Refusing to be named, the authorities of a vernacular media organisation while speaking with The Tribune, said: “We were stigmatised by the media itself and many put out articles ascribing things which didn’t happen at the organisation. We were the prime target and at one point of time the coverage made it look as if we were responsible for the spread in Jalandhar. We had stopped biometric attendance well in time and employees were marking attendance with magnetic cards.”The contemporaries too weren’t spared. Following the lifting of curbs, police personnel, the DAC complex, health staff, ITBP and various other establishments and communities have taken turns emerging as the Covid hotspots.Press-ing conferences?Even during the thick of the lockdown, the tradition of press conferences and press meets never ceased in the district. The newspersons were exposed to the risk every time covering such meets. The declaration of the lockdown was announced by the then Jalandhar DC itself at a press meet, and was heavily attended by journalists. All political parties have also regularly been holding press meets. The threat looms large even as they indulge in covering events sporting masks, visiting high risk zones in face shields complimented with sanitisers.Migrant crisis managementThe lockdown affected the day-to-day life of the populace giving way to a huge migrant crisis and their long, taxing walk back home across the country being documented all the while. Jalandhar was no different.The district also saw a huge migrant exodus with lakhs of factory and farm workers travelling back home to safety and food. And the journalists led from the front bringing to light their plights. Some even chased migrants on foot in the sweltering conditions and documented their overwhelming stories.The numbers that one sees in the newspapers is not easily received. It is easier said than done. The district Health Department continues to share the daily round-up. However, neither the Health Department nor the public relations department ever reveal information about VIPs or prominent figures testing positive. This is usually leaked or received through sources. To add to work, consistent unresponsive numbers of some of key health officials proves another spring of consternation for the journalists.“In Jalandhar, the information mechanism also demands more work from us. Since all the health and administrational PR facilities close at 5 pm, journalists often have to scurry for information. The PR department isn’t responsibly disseminating late night updates and information. It is their responsibility to do their job as we do ours,” said Surinder Pal, president Print and Electronic Media Association Jalandhar, who himself tested positive and came out of isolation period on Thursday.The information flowThe numbers that one sees in the newspapers is not easily received. The district Health Department continues to share the daily round-up. However, neither the Health Department nor the public relations department ever reveal information about VIPs or prominent figures testing positive. This is usually leaked or received through sources. To add to work, consistent unresponsive numbers of some of key health officials proves another spring of consternationUnheard voicesAfter a recent death, it was claimed that a delay of seven days in results stalled the treatment of a deceased mediaperson. Another claim was that after his wife’s death at a private hospital, it didn’t allow her sample to be tested from a different lab. While risking their lives to bring truth to the public, some journalists faced social stigma when they themselves tested positive.Kudos to portalsApart from newspapers and journals, a steady stream of online portals kept the information flowing. The portals are often the first ones to anticipate the major breaks. These news are lapped up by citizens and also act as a source of information before newspapers hit the stands, Many of the employees, who quit various publications, opened their own portals. The online access of news through these plethora of online portals have also been the key source of information amid the lockdown when most of the people discontinued newspapers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/working-at-the-forefront-scribes-wish-to-be-deemed-warriors-124449
10-08-2020||---||14-day quarantine must for international flyers||Jalandhar, August 9Contact hereNodal Officer Darbara Singh said all international passengers should contact on phone numbers 0181-2224417, 2224424 or 2223426 for their passports after 15 days of arrival.He said they could collect their passports at the office address — Deputy Director, Urban Local Government, 227-228, Master Tara Singh Nagar near Hotel Kamal, Palace Chowk.Pursuant to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for Non-Residents Indians (NRIs) and foreign travellers, the district administration on Sunday declared that such travellers would have to submit a self-declaration form on the portal, www.newdelhiairport.in, before 72 hours of the travel. They would have to submit an undertaking for undergoing a mandatory 14-day quarantine (comprising seven-day institutional quarantine and seven-day home isolation).DC Ghanshyam Thori said exemptions would be given in cases of emergency or health conditions, including pregnancy, death in family, serious illness and parents with children below 10 years of age.Travellers can also be exempted from institutional quarantine by submitting a negative RT-PCR test report on arrival. However, the test must have been conducted within 96 hours before the journey and the test report uploaded on the portal for consideration.DC Thori said only asymptomatic travellers would be allowed to board after thermal screening. Those reaching through land borders would also have to follow the same protocol. “The Covid safety protocols, including wearing of masks, environmental hygiene, respiratory hygiene, hand hygiene and others, are to be observed by airline staff and passengers. Thermal screening of all passengers will be carried by health teams. The self-declaration form filled online must be shown (or a copy of the physical self-declaration form to be submitted) to the health teams at the airport. Those found symptomatic during screening will be immediately isolated and taken to the medical facility. Those who would be exempted from institutional quarantine must show the same to the officials before being allowed home quarantine for 14 days,” said the DC.He said the remaining passengers would be taken to suitable institutional quarantine facilities for a week. They would be tested as per the ICMR protocol and if tested positive, they would be examined by health teams. After seven days, if they are assessed as asymptomatic, they would be allowed home isolation or isolated at a Covid care centre, he said. People showing severe symptoms would be admitted to Covid health facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/14-day-quarantine-must-for-international-flyers-124450
10-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar's Patel Hospital found charging more than capped amount||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 9A formal inquiry conducted by the administration has found Jalandhar-based Patel Hospital violating government norms and overcharging for the RT-PCR Covid-19 test.Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori has written to the Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, seeking “requisite action as per law” against the hospital for violating government orders and charging Rs3,100 extra (more than the capped price) from a patient for Covid-19 test.The move comes in the wake of an audit already ordered against Patel Hospital by Special Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, who wrote to the Director, PGIMER, to look into the unusually high positivity among Covid patients at the hospital.The investigation report by the Assistant Commissioner (Grievances), Jalandhar, which has also been forwarded by the DC to the Additional Chief Secretary, concludes: “Patel Hospital has erroneously or wilfully charged more than directed by government for Covid-19 test and is liable for appropriate action for violating the orders of the Department of Health and Family Welfare, dated 18/7/2020.”In his complaint to the DC, submitted on July 22, Rajiv Makol had stated that he had been charged Rs5,500 for the Covid-19 test by the Patel Hospital, for which the rate has been capped by the state government at Rs2,400. The inquiry report on the issue (marked by DC to Assistant Commissioner Grievances) stated that the hospital had levied extra charges of Rs3,100 for “PPE kit, doctor fee etc.” in violation of the government order.Probe report by Asst Commissioner (G)...Patel Hospital has rightly charged Rs2,400 for Covid-19 test, but another Rs3,100 has been charged under PPE kit, doctor fee etc. As such, the hospital was well aware of the order of the government. The proposition put forward by Dr Swapan Sood (from Patel Hospital) said the amount of Rs2,400 does not include the charges for personal protective equipment required to protect the healthcare workers from the high risk of infection and doctor charges for sample collection holds no ground in the face of the government order, where it is expressly said that all testing protocol of ICMR and Government of India will be followed by private laboratory.79 test +ve in district A total of 79 persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the tally to 3,956. With two more deaths, the toll increased to 77 in Jalandhar district. One of the deceased is a 58-year-old woman from Dhilwan, Kapurthala, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar. Meanwhile, nine persons tested positive in Kapurthala district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhars-patel-hospital-found-charging-more-than-capped-amount-124451
10-08-2020||Our Correspondent---||SAD responsible for sacrilege acts, alleges Sukhdev Dhindsa||Hoshiarpur, August 9 The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has not shown any remorse for the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib and the disappearance of 267 holy relics. Efforts are being made by them to hush up the matter in the garb of a fake investigation. This was expressed by Rajya Sabha MP and president of Shiromani Akali Dal (D) Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, while addressing a ‘Pashchatap Smagam’(penance function) after the bhog of Akhand Path at gurdwara Sahibzada Ajit Singh in Hoshiarpur on Saturday. He alleged the Badal family was fully responsible for the desecration and disappearance of the sacred ‘swaroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib. He said the Badal family had eroded the Sikh traditions by arranging pardon for Ram Rahim from Akal Takht. He said the Shiromani Akali Dal (D) was getting overwhelming response in the state.   On the occasion, Parminder Singh Dhindsa, former finance minister said the Shiromani Akali Dal, which came into existence in 1920, was destroyed by Sukhbir Singh Badal and today it was confined to Badal family. Former union minister Balwant Singh Ramoowalia lashed out at the Badal family. He alleged Parkash Singh Badal and his family were directly responsible for desecration. He said even the mughals had not caused such loss to the Sikh community as had been done by the SAD. Ranjit Singh, former jathedar of Akal Takht, Ranjit Singh Talwandi, Desh Raj Singh Dhugga, former chief parliamentary secretary, jathedar Baba Gurdev Singh, Avtar Singh Johal, Satwinderpal Singh Ramdaspur, Kulwinder Singh Janda and Parminder Singh Pannu were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sad-responsible-for-sacrilege-acts-alleges-sukhdev-dhindsa-124453
10-08-2020||---||Punjab Roadways contractual workers resent 25% salary cut||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 9Soon after the State Transport Department announced to deduct 25 per cent salaries of the contractual Punjab Roadways workers as part of the special deductions due to the Covid-19 pandemic, a feeling of resentment is there among conductors and drivers who have been inducted into the department on contract basis.The workers in unison stated that not only it’s unjust but also unacceptable for them as they carried out their duties even during the Covid outbreak. Harinder Singh Cheema, district president of the Roadways Depot No.1 and the Punjab Government Transport Workers Union (AITUC), said,” The deduction in the salaries of the employees is unreasonable as the workers had performed their duties even during the strict lockdown phase. Without any health insurance or safety measures they worked as frontline workers. From bringing back devotees stuck in Nanded Sahib and Jaipur to safely here, the roadways drivers were available on every duty call. They even worked at the Civil Hospital as ambulance drivers and attendants to bring Covid patients from their homes to the hospital. Hence, it was not acceptable to receive salary deduction as part of the reward”.A driver, who has been working in the roadways from the past few years, said though the roadways services were suspended in the state we were still performing our duties without any hesitation. Moreover, when there was no cut in the salaries of the permanent employees then why were we subjected to this harassment, asked the driver?Notably, it’s been over a month since the Chief Minister ordered the roadways buses to ply with full passenger capacity.Jagdish Singh Chahal and Avtar Singh, other members of the union, demanded that the deductions made to the allowances of the workers should also be revised. “Regularisation of the contractual workers should be done,” Chahal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-roadways-contractual-workers-resent-25-salary-cut-124454
10-08-2020||---||Rain leaves residents of Preet Nagar on the edge||Jalandhar, August 9Come rain and the road near the Sodal Mandir turns into a swimming pool! Even when there is light drizzling, city residents develop a cold feet while going towards Preet Nagar. The problem has been persisting for decades. Sometimes it even extends up to Doaba Chowk.Residents living in the area suffer a lot during monsoon. A resident of Preet Nagar said, “Such is the condition that sometimes we feel that we need a boat to venture out during rains,”Many unfortunate incidents have taken place in the past. This issue has taken a toll on the normal lives of the residents residing in the area. The area is covered under Ward No. 61 and 62. The foundation stone of the ambitious storm water drainage project worth Rs 5.12 crore at Sodal Chowk here was laid in the month of January.It is said the project would solve chronic and decade-old issue of waterlogging in Sodal, Preet Nagar, Doaba Chowk and adjoining areas, falling in the Jalandhar North constituency.The whole project includes a 2.50-km long sewer line (sewage pipes ranging from 12 inch to 40 inch) and a pumping station which will range from the industrial area to Bhagat Singh Colony and would carry water from Doaba Chowk upto the Kala Sanghian drain. The project is still under progress.A local fruit vendor said, “In all these years, I have not seen even a single monsoon season, when people have not cursed the government for not doing anything,” he said.Sahil Kumar, a businessman living in the area said, “We have been asking our area leader to get this issue resolved. Now that the project has finally started, I hope that the issue would get resolved.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rain-leaves-residents-of-preet-nagar-on-the-edge-124458
10-08-2020||Our Correspondent ||Man attacked with weapons, dies||Dasuya, August 9Unknown persons, armed with sharp weapons, attacked a resident of Raghuwal village in Dasuya subdivision. He was rushed to the Dasuya Civil Hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.  According to information, Buta Singh of Raghwal village said his brother Angrej Singh, alias Jaiju, was going to his house. When he reached near Tihada kiln, some unknown persons attacked Angrej Singh with sharp weapons. The suspects escaped after injuring him badly. The victim with the help of passersby was taken to the Civil Hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Family members of the victim alleged the reason behind the attack might have been an ongoing court case. The police have registered a case against unknown persons and started investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-attacked-with-weapons-dies-124459
10-08-2020||Open House||NEP 2020 will build India as knowledge hub||If implemented well, can go a long wayThe National Educational Policy (NEP) is definitely praiseworthy decision, a big leap for all the Indian students. Here is a policy that aims to spur innovative side of a student instead of traditional factual learning, examination oriented education. The policy makes it all easier for a child entering higher secondary — whether to choose science, commerce or humanities. Now, one can study physics along with geography or maths along with history, without worrying about the subjects one will choose for graduation. For the present and previous generations, this breathing space to choose between subjects was totally unthinkable. Removing the all-encompassing demeanour of the class XII board exams, it now proposes eight semesters beginning from class XI onwards, wiping out the notion that ‘’one exam will decide your future’’. But, the harm lies in implementation. We all see how RTE is falling short of giving free education to all. Not even the 25% seats reserved for RTE students in private schools are filled despite the fact that millions are still out of education system and this is where the initiative lacks substance. For our country to achieve the much-hyped great power status, the key will be implementing NEP 2020.Gurkanwal SinghGovt only befooling massesThe New Education Policy rolled out by government is not wholesome and beneficial for the students. The first was drafted by Kothari Commission in1968, the next in 1986 under Rajiv Gandhi-led government, and was tweaked in 1992 under Narasinha’s rule. After a gap of 34 years, it has been modified now. Previous policy was 10+2 and this one is 5+3+3+4. This will not help in reforming the education system. The strong point is the primary education in mother tongue and the introduction of humanities subjects like history, literature, ethics etc in graduate courses of all students before specialising in medicine or engineering. This would result in all round development of doctors, engineers and MBAs. Unfortunately, there was no such discussion in the parliament about it, the academia wasn’t consulted nor the education ministers of the states. The education is a concurrent subject in which both Central and state governments can enact laws unlike railways, post and telecommunications, foreign affairs and currency which fall under the Centre. Current rulers have only diversionary tactics like that of Karl Marx’s famous quote ‘Religion is the opium of masses’, and this can be seen in use to the utmost potential. The economy is in shambles, businesses are down and people have no money – while they are hell bent on construction of Ram Temple. There is no provision for reservations for SC students and no scholarships either. Foreign universities are being invited to set-up establishments here only leading to a never-ending exploit. All in all, it’s not a good move. It is only a draft and has no legal status and implementation may take years.Dr JS WadhwaNEP implementation a Herculean taskPost-Independence, the higher education system in the country has faced multiple problems due to structural flaws in the policy framework, lack of political will and misgovernance. Unlike in the West, successive governments have evaded their responsibility of providing quality education and allowed unchecked private investment vis-a-vis public funding in the education sector. Consequently, education as a public good has failed to contribute to the holistic national development and creation of a humane, egalitarian society. The new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 has elicited varied responses from political parties, educationists and stakeholders. While some have lauded its visionary ideas and bold innovative proposals for sweeping transformative reforms aimed at overhauling the present distorted anachronistic system to meet the needs of 21st century India, others fear that it will promote excessive privatisation, commercialisation, politicisation, centralisation and saffronisation, and hamper the fundamental goal of human development and expansion of knowledge. Undoubtedly, the focus on early childhood education; multi-disciplinary system; vocationalisation and developing cognitive capabilities; revamping governance structure; selective entry of high-quality foreign universities; increasing public investment to 6 per cent; providing higher education free to 50 per cent of students, increasing gross enrolment ratio to 50 per cent by 2035 is praiseworthy. But conducting exams for Class III students, mandatory entrance tests for college and university admissions, accurate assessment of student skills, regulating the fee structure of private institutions, etc. are Herculean tasks. Proper and timely implementation of these reforms is a formidable challenge. The Centre should seek support from the Opposition, the state governments and the entire higher academia for its success. Otherwise, the revised NEP will be a futile exercise undermining our cherished democratic ideals.D S KangParadigm shift in education policyThe decision of the Central Government to bring new NEP into effect is a bold step, which the other successive regimes could not even think. After a long period of three decades, the domain of education has received so much attention from all stakeholders who toiled hard to bring the sweeping changes. As far as the outcomes are concerned, it is wait and watch process. Obviously, nothing succeeds unless it is tested by fire. Yes, the importance given to coding, art and literature and multiple other vocational courses will definitely help the learners carve out a niche for them in the fields of their choice. At the same time, it will also generate considerable employment as well-qualified resource persons have to be recruited and of course paid handsome remuneration. The other notable adoption is to allow students to exit their four year degree programme anytime with a certificate for one year, diploma for two years and so on. One more thing which is extraordinary is offering the school students to opt for the subjects of their interest. It means even a science student can study literature or art or music depending upon his passion. So in nut shell, it is going to bring a paradigm shift in the country if implemented in letter and spirit and in principle. So let us hope for a brighter future .Simranjeet Singh SainiDiscouraging English is a retrograde stepThe NEP is an ambitious and futuristic move but much of its success will depend on how it is executed. The new NEP will introduce a large number of changes and scrapping the 10+2 structure for a 5+3+3+4 structure in school education. But the matter of concern is if a child has studied until Class V in regional language, how will he adjust if he gets transferred to some other state? For instance, you live in Kerala and your child has studied until Class IV in Kerala. Thereupon, if you shift to Punjab, where most of the schools teach in Punjabi, the child will not be able to adjust. In my opinion, it is important to give priority to English because today it has become a global language of communication worldwide. And this would be an advantage for India in comparison to China and rest of South East Asian countries because there people are not well-versed with English to this extent. Since people in India speak English, it is easier for them to compete in western countries.Saahil HansLanguage formula needs to be revised?The NEP is a commendable policy announced by the government as it aims at making the education system holistic, flexible and multidisciplinary. The new NEP will introduce a large number of changes such as ensuring free education for all till the age of 18, which is commendable. Being a teacher, I would emphasise on the importance of focusing on the mother tongue as a medium of instruction till Class V. Does it really work? Studying in regional language will have no issues with the state schools. But the CBSE should review it for metros, where kids from all over the country study together. They will need to find a way out.Shailja ThakurEmphasis on promoting creativity in studentsThe Centre has announced a New Education Policy after a lapse of 34 years with the objective of heralding major reforms in all streams of education. Whether it will help transforming our education system as envisioned or will lose its momentum due to various bottlenecks in way of implementing any progressives initiative, is a debatable subject. Education being a concurrent subject, any conflict with any state on any policy matter can impede an effective and uniform implementation. The possibilities of amending the list for bringing education into the central realm can be explored. However, looking at major positive points, the approach towards languages with emphasis on mother tongue at primary level is laudable. The vision of lessening bag’s burden on the back of primary students and making their learning playful and enjoyable is praiseworthy. Providing scope of vocational training during schooling only is also a laudable step. Emphasis on scientific research and promoting creativity with divergent choices of subjects and flexibility thereof at various stages are highlights of NEP. We need to tread cautiously with renewed optimism.JAGDISH CHANDERQUESTIONThe police and the Excise Department recently seized 2.5 lakh litres of lahan during raids conducted in Ludhiana villages. The Excise Department ‘destroyed’ the lahan by throwing it into the Sutlej thereby ‘endangering’ aquatic life. Shouldn’t the lahan, seized in large quantities, be disposed of in a scientific manner? What guidelines the government needs to come up with in order to ensure its proper disposal?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (August 13).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nep-2020-will-build-india-as-knowledge-hub-124460
10-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||Bodies of two brothers swapped at Nakodar hospital, SMO orders probe||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 9The bodies of two brothers were swapped with those of migrant labourers at Nakodar Civil Hospital on Saturday. An inquiry has been ordered by the SMO, Nakodar Civil Hospital, into the incident.Phumman Singh (35) and Pala Singh (50) had died after inhaling toxic gas while cleaning a tank at the Kisan Mentha Plant at Lohian on Friday. The bodies were sent for a post-mortem examination at the Civil Hospital where these were swapped with bodies of two other labourers.‘Serious lapse on part of staff’Despite the relatives claiming it was their mistake, we believe that it was a serious lapse on the part of the hospital. A three-member committee comprising a pharmacy officer and two medical officers, is looking into the incident. —Dr Bhupinder Kaur, Nakodar SMORelatives came to know about the swapping when the bodies were brought to Mundi Chohlian village for cremation. The brothers’ bodies were finally brought back late on Saturday evening. The cremation, initially scheduled for 2 pm, took place at 7 pm.Both the brothers were daily wagers. The wife of Pala and three children of the two brothers are now the only surviving members of the family. Phumman’s wife died a month ago.Lohian SHO Sukhdev Singh said proceedings under Section 174, CrPC, had been initiated.Nakodar SMO Dr Bhupinder Kaur said, “Despite the relatives claiming it was their mistake, we believe it was a serious lapse on the part of the hospital. Wrong bodies shouldn’t have been given. A three-member committeecomprising a pharmacy officer and two medical officers, is looking into the incident.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bodies-of-two-brothers-swapped-at-nakodar-hospital-smo-orders-probe-124378
