10-12-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Too much weight of the world||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 9A mother’s love for her children knows no limits. It is deeper than any ocean and vaster than sky. Balwinder Kaur’s kids are wheelchair-bound, suffering from cerebral palsy and intellectual disability, and she has been taking care of them with the same determination for many years now.The tale of the 57-year-old, a symbol of strength, unconditional love and positivity, is extremely heart-piercing. Her elder son is 32 and her younger daughter is 21. From their bathing, eating, to making their night comfortable, Kaur manages all on own. Although, she sometimes takes help from the caretaker, but prefers to attend to them personally. Her son has been under the knife six times. Recently, because of a clot in the brain, her daughter remained in coma and now she is completely bedridden and just to make sure that she doesn’t develop bedsores, Kaur’s whole night drifts by keeping a check on her. Her husband, the agony of the prevailing circumstances seems to have trampled him, as he is suffering from depression.Kaur can feel the weight of the world growing heavier with each day passing. However, she rises early morning, goes to gurdwara – the place where her hope is rejuvenated and faith takes flight – and prays for her children’s health. She has to be strong for her family and love is what keeps her going. “There is nothing that I haven’t done for my children. I have made them go through multiple therapies and training which have helped them a little but not wholly. I used to go to Mumbai with them for their treatments,” she shares. The mother has visited every place where there she could see a glimmer of light for her kids.Ask her what gives her so much strength, she replies, ‘bhagwaan pe vishwas’ (faith in the God). “I have reached here with both my children just because of the Almighty. Their condition for sure has affected me in life, but it was only my belief in God and my love for them that kept me positive.” She makes them listen to ‘Shabad’ all the time to give them strength as well.But the shadows of past threaten to eclipse the times ahead for her children. “I often think about what will happen in future. Who will take care of them, but then I pray and remain optimistic agar yahan takk laaye hain bhagwan, aage bhi sab theek krenge,” a sound Kaur says, as if feeling the presence of the Almighty beside her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/too-much-weight-of-the-world-182101
10-12-2020||---||Get disability ID cards at Sewa Kendras now||Jalandhar, December 9Specially-abled persons can apply for the Unique Disability Identity Card (UDID) at the Sewa Kendras or at the government hospitals at the district/block/ tehsil level or online personally, said Deputy Commissioner Ghanshaym Thori.The DC said in a major reprieve to the specially-abled persons, the government has decided to issue UDID to them and to get themselves enrolled for the card, the specially-abled people can apply themselves, through Sewa Kendras or government hospitals, by bringing their Aadhaar Card, Voter Card or any proof of age and passport size photograph.He said for the medical examination, special camps are being organised at the Civil Hospital on Tuesdays and Thursdays and applicants can visit the hospital, where orthopaedics, ENT specialists, psychiatrists, paediatrics and others will physically examine them before issuing the disability certificate.He said the cards were being issued not only to encourage transparency, efficiency and ease of delivering government benefits to the person with disabilities, but to ensure uniformity.The DC said cards would also help in streamlining the tracking of physical and financial progress of beneficiary at all levels of hierarchy of implementation – from village level, block level, district level, state level and national level. He said this would be a huge reprieve to the specially-abled persons, as they would not have to visit hospitals again and again to get a medical certificate.Likewise, he said the UDID would be the only document to extend the benefits of government schemes to specially-abled persons. Nodal officer, UDID scheme, Dr Anu said: “The UDID will have a QR code that will be helpful in ascertaining the credentials of specially-abled persons. It will help in ensuring free travel to visually challenged persons in government buses besides providing 50 per cent concession to other specially-abled persons.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/get-disability-id-cards-at-sewa-kendras-now-182102
10-12-2020||---||6 more succumb to contagion, 70 +ve in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, December 9As many as 70 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday taking the tally to 18,678 in the district. Six deaths were also reported in Jalandhar taking the toll to 591. There are 894 active cases in the district so far and 17,129 people have been discharged, while 578 people were under home isolation in Jalandhar. Meanwhile in Kapurthala, six people tested positive for the virus.35 new infections in Hoshiarpur districtOf the reports of 1,770 samples received in the district on Wednesday, 35 new positive patients took the tally to 7,261. The number of deaths remain at 272.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 1,538 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms were obtained on Wednesday, taking the total number of samples taken so far in the district to 2,07,734. According to reports received from the laboratory, 2,00,048 are negative, while 1,851 reports were still awaited and 149 were invalid. The number of active cases is 245, while the number of recovered patients is 6,744. Of today’s 35 new cases, 11 are from the city, while the remaining 24 are from other health blocks in the district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-more-succumb-to-contagion-70-ve-in-jalandhar-182103
10-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||A first, dist Civil Hospital to get oxygen-generation plant||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 9The Jalandhar Civil Hospital will become the first government health facility in the state to have an oxygen-generation plant over the next three months.Tenders worth Rs 88.20 lakh have been allotted to a Jalandhar-based private firm to complete the plant by February next year.With 18,678 persons having tested positive in the district till date and 591 deaths, experts have time and again warned of a severe second wave of infection. The oxygen plant with 700 LPM (litre per minute) capacity will go a long way in tackling any such situation in future.Rs 88 Lakh tenders allottedDeputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said after the commissioning of the plant, the Civil Hospital would not require supply of oxygen cylinders from outside. At present, it needs around 225-230 cylinders. The vendor would then be able to supply these cylinders to various private hospitals to meet their increased need in the wake of Covid pandemic.The uninterrupted supply from the plant would ensure that no life was lost at the hospital due to the non-availability of oxygen. Oxygen supply line had already been installed for 340-beds in the hospital, he added.The DC appealed to the people not to ignore flu-like symptoms and contact nearby health facilities immediately besides getting tested for Covid so that the infection chain could be snapped.Executive Engineer, Punjab Health Systems Corporation, Sukhchain Singh said the company had already started the work and placed an order for importing an oxygen-storage tank. He said a team of officials had been monitoring the work regularly.Anesthetist Dr Paramjit Singh said, “There has been a steady increase in Covid patients recently. Many of them report in very serious condition. At present, around 200 patients are on ventilator support at the Civil Hospital. The setting up of oxygen plant will go a long way in saving the lives of such patients.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-first-dist-civil-hospital-to-get-oxygen-generation-plant-182104
10-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||Support for farmers continues to grow||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 9As farmers remain adamant on their demand for scrapping the new farm laws, support from all corners continues to grow. From social media to residential society, tech-savvy youngsters are also urging people to raise their voices against the controversial farm laws.Along with their family members and relatives, dozens of youth on Wednesday came out on roads to lend their support to the agriculture community.A rally in this regard was carried out in the city from PPR Mall to Gol Market and other areas.Holding placards, protesters demanded that the laws, declared ‘draconian’ by farmers in the state, should be scrapped. Expressing solidarity with farmers, the elderly who were present at the rally also raised slogans such as ‘No Farmer, No Food’, ‘I stand with farmer’, ‘Long Live Farmers’ among others.Youth Congress leader Angad Dutta said: “Despite showing political interest, this is the right time when all political leaders can actually do something for farmers. Welfare of the agriculture community has always been included in the manifesto of all political parties. Therefore, supporting farmers and uniting against the Central Government would only help them in solving the purpose.”“Since Day 1 when farmers moved to Delhi, we were hoping that their issues and demands would be resolved. However, the unwavering attitude of the government is only adding to the miseries of agitators at the Delhi-Haryana border. From virtual platforms to streets, we will keep fueling farmers with strength and courage,” said, Sumit, a youngster in the rally.Slogans and quotes on farming took the centre stage in the protest rally.While tea langar was organised by the CT Group of Institutions, arrangements for tractors were also made by a resident — Gurshant Singh Sandhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/support-for-farmers-continues-to-grow-182105
10-12-2020||---||Pre-primary teacher post applicants want NTT result declared||Jalandhar, December 9Women applicants for the post of pre-primary teachers who have not received results of their mandatory nursery teacher training (NTT) course from Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU), on Wednesday held a protest outside the residence of ex-BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia.The protesting women tried to break the security barricades in a bid to enter the Kalia’s house. Police officials on duty tried to pacify them and arranged a talk with Kalia on phone as he was reportedly not at home at the time of protest.The protesting women said that as many as 8,393 posts had been opened for recruitment by the state government and December 21 was the last date for submission of the forms, which they could not apply till the declaration of the NTT result from IGNOU. They said that they had come to demand from Kalia to intervene in the matter and ask the authorities of the Centre-run university to release their results in a few days so that they can apply for the posts.The agitating women, including Anju Bala and Sumeet, said they had been working as voluntary educators in government schools for the past many years and this was the time to fulfill their dreams to get a regular post but the delay in the result by IGNOU had come as a great hindrance. The applicants said that they would protest again before the residence of Kalia on December 11 if their demand was not conceded by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pre-primary-teacher-post-applicants-want-ntt-result-declared-182107
10-12-2020||---||Law and order has collapsed in state: BJP||Jalandhar, December 9 Punjab BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma on Wednesday said that the law and order situation in Punjab has completely collapsed under the Capt Amarinder Singh government as even police officials, who are supposed to protect the common man, are not safe. He said the incident of snatching the car of a DSP in Amritsar and shooting at the police party in Tarn Taran in the last 24 hours had not only shocked the state but had made people feel more insecure in the state where goons can take law in their hand at will. He said earlier in Jalalabad (Moga) two police officials were attacked while performing  their duty which showed that the unlawful elements were emboldened enough to have any fear of the law and order maintaining agencies. “There is absolutely no fear of police in the state and mafias are enjoying the days,” Sharma added. This was also demonstrated by the manner in which illegal liquor factories were working in Punjab under the nose of the CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/law-and-order-has-collapsed-in-state-bjp-182108
10-12-2020||Jalandhar||Sportsmen again write to President, want to return awards in solidarity with farmers||The contingent of former sportspersons from Punjab, including Padma Shri and Arjuna awardees, who had left for Delhi on Saturday to return their awards in support of the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three agricultural laws, and stopped by the Delhi Police, have again written a letter to the President of India.“When we marched towards Rashtrapati Bhawan on December 7, we were halted in our tracks by the cops, we were not allowed to go there and had to return disappointed. With deep pain and anguish, we the undersigned sportspersons wish to approach showing our solidarity with the farmers of this country, who are there on the roads asking the government to not be harsh on their livelihood. The issue of farm Bills has been in the limelight for almost four months now. The farmers have been protesting in an unprecedented peaceful manner. But unfortunately, the government has been very insensitive to their demands and did not even bother to engage them in any meaningful consultation,” the letter reads. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sportsmen-again-write-to-president-want-to-return-awards-in-solidarity-with-farmers-182109
10-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||Surya Enclave Extn members stage sit-in against JIT||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 9Protests seem to have become the order of the day in the city. Amid several agitations in support of farmers, members of Surya Enclave Extension Welfare Society, too, staged their third symbolic protest against the Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT) here on Wednesday.The sit-in was observed against the negligent attitude of the authorities concerned towards their problems and non-development of the 99.97 acre Surya Enclave Extension Scheme.The scheme was reportedly announced in 2011 and in 2016. However, the members are yet to take the possession of plots despite making full payments.As per the allottees, the Improvement Trust has failed to provide basic amenities such as water, sewerage, electricity connection and construction of roads among other things.Major demands“There is no demarcation of plots and not a single plot possession has been given in Block C and D to the respective plot holders. There are a number of encroachments on the plots of C block on the complex. Also, there is a slaughterhouse on the complex and an illegal kothi (house) in a park, which despite repeated complaints, has not been removed. Feeling cheated by JIT, most of the allottees are senior citizens and they had paid their hard-earned money during allotments. Besides, some of the allottees, who have won the cases at consumer court, have also not got their money back with interest,” said Manohar Lal Sehgal. president of the society.The protesting members in unison said, none of the JIT officials took the responsibility even after various inquiries by the Chief Vigilance Officer.Darshan Ahuja, a member, said: “In 2016, when plots were allotted, the same EO Jatinder Singh, who is presently designated at the Jalandhar Improvement Trust, issued the allotment letters to all plot holders, but when we approached him for possession, he denied having any information about the Surya Enclave Extension Scheme and directed us to meet the JIT Chairman.”Jatinder Mohan Sharma, general secretary of the society, said migrant workers have illegally occupied residential plots that belong to various allottees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surya-enclave-extn-members-stage-sit-in-against-jit-182110
10-12-2020||---||‘Recover dues from colonisers’||Jalandhar, December 9A meeting of the sanction committee was held recently, in which the issue of non-payment of dues by colonisers was raised. The committee members have asked the MC Commissioner, who is chairman of the committee, to recover dues from all colonisers.On Monday, the building and roads ad hoc committee had raised the issue during a meeting. Vicky Kalia, member of the committee said, that the commissioner told them that they would soon recover every amount from the colonisers. "We asked him to first ensure proper measurement of the colonies that got approval. The colonies that were regularized paid only 10 per cent of total amount and the remaining 90 per cent was still pending,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/recover-dues-from-colonisers-182111
10-12-2020||In a special meeting of the District Executive Committee on Punjab Skills Development Mission||Skill courses to be conducted for youth||IMA holds demonstrationThe members of Indian Medical Association held public demonstrations to raise voice against the notification regarding amendment to regulation of postgraduate Ayurveda Education issued by Central Council of Indian System of Medicine (CCIM). Dr Navjot Dahiya and Dr Paramjit Mann, president and secretary, respectively, of IMA, Punjab, while strongly condemning the amendment, demanded its immediate withdrawal. "If such a mixing up of all the systems is allowed, the life of the patients will be at great risk," said the IMA office bearers, while maintaining that the purity of each system of medicine should be maintained and allowed to excel in its own field otherwise such a practice would destroy both the scientifically developed modern healthcare system as well as the greatly respected ancient Indian system. The Ayurveda practitioners should be allowed to excel in their own system and provide people with choice of alternative system of treatment rather than allowing them to practice allopathy by backdoor. 'Moreover, the Ayush Ministry should develop basic infrastructure and rigorous training modules on par with international standards before embarking upon the path of empowering Ayush practitioners to do surgeries," they added.Don’t mistake Covid for normal flu: DCDeputy Commissioner, Nawanshahr, Dr Sheena Aggarwal on Wednesday said that several rumours were doing the rounds that there was no need to be scared of Covid and it was just like normal flu. This is the reason why people have started violating guidelines and shunning precautions which is only making the condition worse, the DC said. "The second wave is only a matter of time and cases will increase, so, this attitude of people towards Covid will affect their health," she said, adding that although the initial symptoms are just like normal flu but a normal flu will end within 10 days, however, Covid reacts aggressively on body. "It becomes difficult for the body to react and within few hours, the condition of the patient worsens," she added.(Contributed by Aakanksha Bhardwaj)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/skill-courses-to-be-conducted-for-youth-182112
10-12-2020||Jalandhar||‘Battle-o-Words’ event organised||Flag Day observedArmed Forces Flag Day was observed in Shiv Jyoti Public School. Presentation in the form of PPT was shown to the students of Classes IX to XII. Co-associate teachers of Samridhi House Shallu and Neeraj made students aware about this day through the medium of PPT. It was technically supervised by Shallu and Tanishq Chaddha of Class X. Principal Neeru Nayyar told the students about the importance of the day. Activities were performed under the supervision of Rekha Joshi, House Master of Samridhi House. Vice-Principal Parveen Saili appreciated the efforts put in by the students and teachers and delivered a message that this day is dedicated to India towards collection of funds from people of India for the welfare of the Indian Armed Forces personnel.Namrata excels in BScStudents of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya bagged top positions in the examination of BSc Non Medical and Computer Science (Sem VI) conducted by Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar. Namarta got the sixth position by securing 2057/2400. Manpriya Dhanju got 16th position by securing 1844/2400 in computer science stream. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the students.Best Fine Arts College awardApeejay College of Fine Arts, Jalandhar, has been felicitated with the honour of being the Best Fine Arts College in North India by Centre of Education Growth and Research at 13th Rashtriya Shiksha Gaurav Puraskar Ceremony. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra expressing her ecstasy over this achievement gave the credit of this success to Dr Sushma Paul Berlia, president, Apeejay Education Society. She mentioned that the students of college are at covetous positions not only in top metro cities, Bollywood but also in foreign countries, making their college proud. She also mentioned the efforts and dedication of Dr Sucharita Sharma, director, Apeejay Education Society, for taking the college to such heights. Principal Dr Dhingra shared that college has achieved the success especially due to the skill development courses and quality research that it advocates and promotes.Online Investiture at KMV CollegiateKMV Collegiate Sr Sec School in collaboration with the department of student welfare organised online investiture ceremony for the office-bearers of collegiate school. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi was the chief guest for the ceremony. She averred that the purpose of selecting the office-bearers is to give them a taste of leadership. These students are the young budding leaders of society and they must develop a thinking of their own so that they can contribute positively to the society. She reinstated that the office-bearers must live up to the hopes of all teachers and the institution. After this, the office-bearers took the oath to always abide by the rules and regulations of institution. Rupali Minhas of (Class XII Arts) was selected as head girl, Manjot Kaur of (Class XII Arts) and Tashu Mehta of Class XII Medical) were selected as vice-head girls. Arshdeep Kaur of (Class XII Arts) and Jaskaran Kaur of (Class XI Commerce) were selected as associate head girls. Harmandeep, Maras, Ekta, Sharda,Veerpal Kaur, Navroop Kaur and Rajdeep Kaur were selected as prefects. The principal lauded the efforts of Veena Deepak, co-ordinator, KMV Collegiate Sr Sec School, Dr Madhumeet, dean, the department of student welfare and Anand Prabha for their efforts.E-conference on nanomaterialsNakodar: Dr Neha Verma, Assistant Prof, department of physics, KRM DAV College, participated in an e-conference on ‘Advance material science and grapheme nanotechnology’ being organised from UK. She has worked on nanomaterials and during the conference elaborated on different techniques to synthesise low-cost metal oxide-based nanomaterials. She also shared how nanomaterial prepared by different techniques which will bring a new insight in the industrial and environmental applications. The highlight of her research was the application of photo-catalytic activity and gas sensing property. This technique can be used to same leakage and detect presence of toxic gas which is harmful to human health. The same technology can also be used to remove dye from water so that it can be used safely for human consumption. Devices made by her can have various applications in the field of physics and biophysics. In the conference, scientist and researchers from 32 countries across the globe presented their research to foster and to discuss innovative theories, tools and applications. Principal Dr Anoop Kumar congratulated the faculty for following the precedents set by her services in the department and wished her a bright future.School gets CBSE affiliationNawanshahr: Chairman of St Soldier Group of Institutions Anil Chopra has announced that St Soldier Divine Public School, Jhingra village, Banga, has received CBSE affiliation. The affiliation has come following inspection of building, computer laboratories, science laboratories, language laboratories, sports grounds and other facilities. Vice Chairperson Sangeeta Chopra said that this was the result of the hard work of staff members and confidence of parents on school. Chairman Anil Chopra assured that all education-related facilities would be provided to the students who are enrolled from pre-nursery to Class IX, while students from weaker section would be admitted under the Master Raj Kanwar Chopra Scholarship Scheme. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/battle-o-words-event-organised-182113
10-12-2020||The world is confronted with unprecedented mental health problems due to Covid-19. The pandemic has sounded the alarm bell for millions of people all over the world. They are grappling with the disastrous consequences of the deadly virus and problems in the field of mental health have seen a phenomenal rise in the past few months.||Let’s reach out & help each other||Many factors are responsible for this. The economic consequences of the disease have struck people badly. Many have lost their jobs, companies have closed down and businesses have failed. The livelihood of people has been threatened. People have less or no money to make both ends meet. The poor are the worst affected.The social support system of people has weakened. They are afraid of meeting friends and relatives. The enforcement of physical isolation and social distances has increased the loneliness of people. Doctors, nurses and healthcare workers are afraid of going to work as they might bring back Covid with them. They are fearful for themselves and their families. Many precious lives have been lost and the dead have been denied a decent burial. For long, people have been huddled together in small apartments or flats which restricts their movement and makes them irritated, angry and intolerant of each other.Due to all these factors, there has been an increase in mental health problems such as depression, anxiety, irritability, anger and frustration. Likewise, the number of suicides has also gone up. They have no way to give vent to their frustrations and take resort to suicide to “end their suffering”.What coping mechanisms are available to people in these difficult times? On top of the list comes meditation and yoga. Spending time in prayers brings solace to the mind. Any kind of physical exercise such as walking, cycling and playing indoor and outdoor games is highly recommended. Listening to soft soothing music also calms the mind. Getting a good sleep is also important. Talking to friends, relatives and loved ones is extremely cathartic and relieves stress. Laughter therapy also helps fight depression.Every individual has to devise his own strategy for overcoming stress and anxiety. However, if one does get into a problem, it should not be hidden or ignored. Let there be no hesitation in seeking professional help. Taking treatment is better than suffering in silence. Post-Covid, there is greater awareness and acceptance of such mental health issues. Film stars, sportsmen and other well-known personalities have openly acknowledged their mental health issues and sought treatment. Therefore, the theme of World Mental Health Day—2020 was “Mental health for all — Greater investment, greater access”.Let us reach out, support and help each other during these difficult times. —Gurminder K. Singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lets-reach-out-help-each-other-182114
10-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||Farmers in Delhi, sanitation union irrigates their fields in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 9“Tusi dilli datte raho, asi Punjab vich tuhadi fasal da khyal rakhange,” (you stay put in Delhi, we will take care of your fields) — says a slogan from the Water Supply and Sanitation Contract Workers’ Union, Punjab.In solidarity with the farm protests, members of the union are providing ‘Pani Sewa’ — watering and tending to the fields of farmers participating in the agitation at Delhi borders. Having declared to extend help to farmers on social media just a few days ago, the union has been flooded with calls from across the state. Some of the volunteers put manure and watered 14 acres of farm land of Darshan Singh at Dhaneth village today. More volunteers shall be heading to Pattran in Patiala.volunteers in every districtAt least 20 of our volunteers are just a call away in every district. The farmers are fighting for us. We deem it our job to tend to their fields in their absence. —Bhupinder Singh Kutbewal, Union MemberDarshan Singh had gone to the protests along with his father, leaving their 14-acre land back home unattended. Worried about the fields, Darshan was considering coming back to water the fields. Another elderly couple from Pattran participating in the farmers’ agitation was clouded with worries about watering their fields back home.Now, they no more have to worry about their crops as over 2,500 volunteers of the union are at their service to take care of the fields. The union also provides medicines, fodder, etc, to animals at farmers’ houses. It is also holding ‘mashaal’ marches in villages to raise awareness.Varinder Singh Momi, president of the Union, said: “Sada suneha hai – nischint hoke dilli jao. Je utthe ho tan datte raho – khet asi sambh lange. (Our message is: You go to Delhi without fear and if you are already there, don’t worry about your fields because we will tend to them.) The union has 2,500 members and messages have been sent to all district heads to keep volunteers ready whenever a call comes. The union members themselves will also head to Delhi on December 10 to participate in the protests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-in-delhi-sanitation-union-irrigates-their-fields-in-jalandhar-182052
