10-10-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Action plan ready, schools still undecided on opening dates||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 9Even though all schools of the city have begun preparing opening of premises for the senior classes, they are yet to decide on the tentative date for the classes’ commencement.The school managements and administrations have begun devising an action plan that the schools and colleges are conceptualising to unlock and reopen campuses using scientific strategies to ensure well-being of the students. This includes use of toilet seat sanitisation, fixed seating system and maintaining distancing at entry, classrooms, corridors etc.Getting readyThe schools are focusing on toilet seat sanitisation, fixed seating system and maintaining distancing at entry, classrooms, corridorsRachna Monga, Principal of Sanskriti KMV School, said, “We are definitely not opening on October 15. We will take a decision only when the government allows us and the parents are ready to send their wards. We are just planning on how we can run the school. Education will certainly be blended – a mix of online and offline modes. Our classrooms can handle only 10-15 students at a time with social distance. We may have only four to five days of classes in a week for the seniors and only two days for the juniors. Students would be called slot-wise. For the rest of the days, we will be giving them projects and assignments to handle.”She added: “The online classes will move to evening time. We will keep sharing PDFs, videos and class work for concept clarity. We wish to have one student-one teacher sessions for scholarly students; also, special sessions for struggling students. Our idea of calling them back to school in crisis will be to impart education in a way that they qualify to be promoted to the next level. We also want children to learn behavioural skills, maintain patience and become obedient – all of which cannot be taught in online classes.”Regarding safety, the Principal said, “We will not have transport facility to begin with. We will ensure proper sanitisation fogging and follow all the SOPs of the government. Earlier, we had nearly 600 students on a floor, now we will not allow more than 100 students. We will keep a watch on their movement using CCTVs. Since we have six washrooms for girls and boys on a floor, we will use only four at a time, while sanitising the other two at any given point of time. Parents’ consent would be taken during the forthcoming PTM. A general inquiry, however, revealed that very few of them were interested in the resumption of classes.”Rajeev Paliwal, Principal, Innocent Hearts School, said, “Though we are gearing up to start campus education, we will wait for some more days for the government to issue proper guidelines. We have already sought the response from the parents and only 50 per cent of them were in favour.”In regard to the plans chalked out, he said, “We may open the school in two shifts. Every child will continue to get online lessons too. We will call only the senior classes and campus education for primary students is a big no for now. We will provide transport facilities only if parents ask for it. All children shall bring their own water bottles so that they need to go to water points only in emergency. We will sanitise the toilets after every single use.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/action-plan-ready-schools-still-undecided-on-opening-dates-153656
10-10-2020||Jalandhar||4 fall prey to virus in Jalandhar||A total of 103 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the district today. The health authorities reported four fatalities in the past 24 hours.With this, the total count of cases in the district reached 13,894 and the death toll touched 429. Of the total 1,054 active cases, 35 patients are admitted at Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, and 837 patients are under home isolation. The remaining patients are taking treatment in private hospitals of the city.2 Covid deaths, 68 new cases in Hoshiarpur distHoshiarpur: With 68 new Covid positive cases in the district on Friday, the number of patients has increased to 4,999.The district on Friday reported two more deaths, taking the death toll to 179.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh informed today that 1,921 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken, with it the total number of samples taken till date has gone up to 1,21,062. As per the reports received from the lab, 1,15,064 samples were found negative, while the report of 1,488 samples is still awaited and 127 samples have been invalid. The number of active cases is 514, while the number of patients who have recovered 4,306. Out of 68 new positive cases in the district, 11 cases are related to the city. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-fall-prey-to-virus-in-jalandhar-153657
10-10-2020||FOR Shammi Mehra and his family||‘It was a 10-day long horrifying experience’||“It was on July 31 that I tested positive for Covid-19. I contracted the virus from my uncle who was also a photojournalist and died due to Covid on August 1. From July 25 to August 10, it was a horrifying experience for me and my family. We are a big joint family and live in the same house. It was my uncle who first fell ill on July 25 and was having Covid-like symptoms. He gave his samples for testing. Being close contacts, even the other family members underwent testing.”“After our reports were out, it was me, my mother, brother, aunt and another uncle who tested positive and we then quarantined ourselves at different places with three persons in the house itself. The other two were quarantined at the Civil Hospital and meritorious school (Covid care center), respectively. I got myself admitted to the meritorious Covid care centre on the evening of July 31 itself and stayed there for at least 8-10 days there. Though, I was asymptomatic and was feeling well, the sudden death of my uncle and not being able to attend his last rites and the health of my family members was constantly bothering me. All I was praying for at that moment was the quick recovery of my family members.”“During my stay at the meritorious school, I followed all the instructions of doctors even though I was feeling well. I took steam twice a day, warm water, amla (Phyllanthus emblica), vitamin-C tablets and among other things. I was in contact with my friends and family via video call and phone calls. I must mention that I did not face discrimination of any sort. My neighbours, friends and all dear ones were quite supportive and offered all the help they could. Finally, in the second week of August, I defeated the virus and went back home. Also, my family members too had recovered by that time. Things have now turned back to normal and we thank God for it. However, we still feel the absence of our uncle.”Besides, I want to give this message to people that contracting Covid isn’t the end of the world. All we have to do is to be positive and deal with the situation wisely. Also, one must adhere to all the precautions as till day, we don’t have a vaccine to combat this disease. It is just the mask, sanitiser and physical distancing that can save us from the deadly virus. (As told to Avneet Kaur)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/it-was-a-10-day-long-horrifying-experience-153658
10-10-2020||Jalandhar||GNDU imposes Rs25K fine for late admission, students fume||The second, third and fourth year students of colleges affiliated with Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), who had not paid admission fee till now, were a disgruntled lot as the university authorities sought late fee of Rs 25,000 from them.The late fee charges would be applicable from today and levied till October 31.The authorities of GNDU affiliated colleges said as many as 10-20 per cent students who had passed first, second and third year had not yet paid fee owing to the pandemic. Many of them were also in confusion as the UGC had announced October 31 as the last day for payment of fee for intermediate classes.The parents said they were completely unaware that the last day came with a rider of huge fine. College principals said the parents had approached them and were furious over fine and were demanding a cut while the GNDU authorities were in a complete denial.Chief of the Principals’ Association and Principal of Lyallpur Khalsa College Prof Gurpinder S Samra said, “While many parents were not in a position to pay fee earlier, others remained in confusion over the UGC orders of starting new session in November. The orders were actually for fresh enrolments. We approached the GNDU regarding high penalty, but so far nothing has been done.”Principals rued that of late the GNDU has started levying heavy fine. A principal of a local women college said a few students of final year who got late in depositing examination fee and other charges had to pay a penalty of Rs1.04 lakh.Controller of Examination GNDU Manoj Kumar said the UGC guidelines for delay in admission were only for the first year students. “There was no reason for other batches to get confused. The students who have been imposed Rs25,000 penalty are those who already have been a part of the system. It is not for the first time that we have imposed this amount of penalty. We gave a sufficient time to intermediate students to pay fee with Rs100 or Rs200 penalty, but they were least bothered. The number of such students who are left behind is very less, may be just 0.1 per cent. They need to respect a deadline.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gndu-imposes-rs25k-fine-for-late-admission-students-fume-153660
10-10-2020||Jalandhar||Online retailing giving fillip to sports biz||With the advent of online retailing, various small and medium sports goods manufacturers have witnessed tremendous growth by selling their products online.Two such sports goods manufacturers — Silversports India and Soccer International, who are based in Jalandhar, have benefitted immensely by retailing their products online via Cloudtail India, one of the key online retailers. Both businesses experienced and have displayed exponential growth through their engagement with online retail network.Jalandhar has traditionally been known as the sporting goods manufacturing capital of India and is estimated to produce nearly 70 per cent of the country’s sports goods. Silversports has been selling their products, which include dumbbells, gym equipment, badminton rackets, shuttlecocks and fitness gears through online retailing for over three years and has witnessed a 150 per cent surge in their business.“Ever since we started using the online retail mode, a whole new window of opportunity has opened up for us. We received tremendous support in promotional activities such as putting our products on Deal of the Day (DOTD) and lightening deals. The retail company’s vendor management team as well as the company representatives assisted us at every step of this journey and transformed the way we do our business. We definitely would continue with online retail as it has helped us reach out to larger customer base,” said Mohit Chugh, director, Silversports India.On the other hand, Soccer International started selling through Cloudtail since four years. Their products include sports equipment, fitness gears, sports shoes and active wear with their leading brand Vector X along with well-known brands such as Spalding for basketballs and Dunlop Sports for tennis and squash. Commenting on this association, Vikas Gupta, CEO, Soccer International, said: “We have experience a 20 per cent to 30 per cent growth in a span of a few years. Our sales have doubled. The company has helped us chalk out a targeted approach through various deals, thereby increasing our product visibility. What makes this relationship more meaningful is that a vendor manager guide is always there to assist us with all processes involved right from on boarding to sale. At the end of the day, what matters is that while sitting in Jalandhar, we can sell our products anywhere in the country and grow our business.”Commenting on the role of Cloudtail in supporting these businesses, Sumit Sahay, MD and CEO, Cloudtail, said: “It is important to provide sellers with the right tools and technology, so that they can improve their businesses thus benefitting the industry as a whole.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-retailing-giving-fillip-to-sports-biz-153661
10-10-2020||Our CorrespondentDasuya||Convene gram sabhas to revoke farm laws: AAP||Bhagwant Mann, Member of Parliament and president of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Punjab, has termed gram panchayats and gram sabhas as the roots of a robust democracy, saying the gram sabhas could be an effective weapon against dictatorial dispensations. Bhagwant Mann and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema were addressing a public meeting at Jhingar Kalan village in Hoshiarpur district on Friday.Mann made a fervent appeal to all sarpanches across Punjab to rise above political and other considerations and immediately convene gram sabhas in their respective villages and pass resolutions against the black laws being implemented with brute force. He said that anyone, who wanted to get any information about how to go about passing a resolution in the gram sabha, he/ she could contact AAP leaders or volunteers who were just a call away.Mann said the Aam Aadmi Party, through its jan sabha programmes being held across the state, was appealing to as many as 12,000 villages gram panchayats in the state to convene gram sabhas in their respective villages immediately so that the Union Government’s move to implement the three anti-farmer agriculture laws by force could be thwarted, thereby saving the ‘annadata’ from ruining.The Leader of Opposition on the occasion said the proposed draconian laws passed by the Modi government at the Centre in collusion with Captain and Badals were out make the farmers dependant on private players, saying they were not mere anti-farmer but anti-people as these laws would ruin, besides the farmer, arhtiyas, book-keepers, transporters and other sections. He alleged the anti-agriculture black laws passed by the government would demolish the farm sector and its best market regime, besides impinging upon the rights of the states, besides guaranteeing no MSP on crops right to sell their crop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/convene-gram-sabhas-to-revoke-farm-laws-aap-153663
10-10-2020||Jalandhar||Minister Rana Gurmit urges  NRIs to invest in Punjab||Sports and NRI Affairs Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi today held a virtual meet with Jalandhar-based Karan Randhawa NRI coordinator; Kripa Shankar Saroj, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of NRI Affairs; DPS Kharbanda, Commissioner-cum-Special Secretary Department of NRI Affairs; and Amardeep Singh Rai ADGP NRI, Punjab Police.Randhawa said the minister appealed non-resident Indians (NRIs) to contribute towards betterment of Punjab.“The minister said Punjab had suffered a lot in the past and issues like farm laws will also impact. Contribution from NRIs is essential to boost economic prospects,” said Randhawa. He told us that the state government was working to woo NRIs and corporate from around the world to invest in Punjab. “The Punjab Government is going to constitute an Investment and Sponsorship Committee comprising NRIs that will work to bring foreign investments and sponsorships,” said Randhawa.Sodhi said NRIs were the face of Punjab and can inspire the rest of the world to invest in the state.“The NRI Affairs Department and Invest Punjab will formulate apolicy and make NRI coordinators aware of the sectors where NRIs and others can invest,” Randhawa said.The minister said the government was working towards digitisation of revenue records to protect properties of NRIs, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/minister-rana-gurmit-urges-nris-to-invest-in-punjab-153664
10-10-2020||Agriculture and Farm Welfare Department||Stubble management exhibition and training||My garbage my responsibilityUnder commissioner Municipal Council, Kapurthala, a Swachta fortnight has been started in the district with which a cleanliness campaign under the pledge "mera kura meri zimmewari" (my garbage my responsibility) has started. The fortnight, being observed from October 2 to October 16, shall see cleanliness drives across different areas of the city. Awareness campaigns are also being held to apprise people of the drive through door to door formula. As per the campaign, public toilets are also being cleaned. Sanitary Inspector Raman Kumar, Swach Bharat Mission in-charge Gursewak Singh and Ranjit Kumar recently were part of such drive.Employment for 2,342 at 6th Mega Employment FairThe sixth Mega Employment Fair concluded at Kapurthala on Tuesday, ensured the provision of employment to 2,342 unemployed youths of the district. Organised by the State to provide, a district-level function was held at the meeting hall of the local district administrative complex, which was presided over by the Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal. She said 3,263 youths participated in the employment fairs held across the area, out of which 2,342 youth got jobs in these fairs. Twelve renowned companies provided jobs, which include maximum annual package by the brain box company. Following the guidelines issued by the Punjab government to prevent the spread of virus, the youth participated in these fairs with great enthusiasm online. Newly-employed youths said they were looking for jobs but due to the lockdown and it was very difficult to find a place in the MNCs. But with such job fairs, they could participate in the process online. ADC (D) SP Angra, district bureau employment officer Neelam Mahey, Amit Kumar and Gaurav Kumar were also present on the occasion. A state-level virtual function was held at Patiala under the chairmanship of CM Capt Amarinder Singh and Congress MP Rahul Gandhi was also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stubble-management-exhibition-and-training-153665
10-10-2020||Our Correspondent||MP Manish Tiwari asks Food Supply Dept to address grievances||Garhshankar, October 9Unhappy with the working of Food and Civil Supplies Department officials, Congressmen erupted in anger on officers and employees of the department in the presence of Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tiwari. Congress workers lashed out at the food supply inspector levelling allegations of making smart cards of rich and not of the deserving poor people. It was alleged that pick and choose formula was adopted in making cards. The MP asked Hoshiarpur DFSC Rajneesh Kaur to address people’’s complaints in 15 days. Tiwari said he would come to Garhshankar at eleven in the morning on October 22, by then all problems should be resolved.Meanwhile, Congress leader Kulbhushan Shourie, sarpanch Rajinder Singh, sarpanch Jatinder Jyoti and state secretary general of All India Jat Mahasabha AS Boparai, along with dozens of Congressmen accused the food supplies department and especially Inspector Sukhwinder Singh of arbitrariness. They alleged that the inspector had deleted the ration cards with his own free will.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-manish-tiwari-asks-food-supply-dept-to-address-grievances-153666
10-10-2020||Jalandhar||Sanitation panel member quits over shortage of safai sewaks||Lack of adequate number of safai karamcharis in the wards has led to the resignation of one of the members of the Health and Sanitation Ad Hoc Committee during the meeting of the committee members with chairman Balraj Thakur today.A month ago, two committee members — ward No. 71 councillor Satinderjeet Kaur and ward No. 78 councillor Jagdish Samrai — had told its chairman Balraj Thakur that if they did not get enough number of safai karamcharis for their own wards, they would resign. They had also given an ultimatum of 10 days. Today, Satinderjeet Kaur resigned, citing that she wasn’t able to work for her ward properly because the ward did not have enough safai karamcharis and there was no adequate cleanliness.In the resignation letter, she wrote that if she couldn’t work for her own ward as a councillor, how she would look after the entire city as a member of the committee.Satinderjeet Kaur said hers was the biggest ward in the city and still she had only 10 safai karamcharis. “Of them, only eight would come to work. I have 37 colonies in my ward and for the last two and a half years, there has been no proper cleanliness in my ward. This is not the way to lead a ward,” she said.She said even before the formation of the committees, she had raised the issue in February 2018 and had approached the MC Commissioner and Health Officer, but nothing happened.The councillor said it wasn’t fair because some of the wards even had more then 40 safai karamcharis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sanitation-panel-member-quits-over-shortage-of-safai-sewaks-153669
10-10-2020||Our CorrespondentNawanshahr||Smartphones to Class XII students distributed||Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh today distributed smartphones to around 59 students of Class XII of Government Senior Secondary School, Nawanshahr, at a ceremony organised at the school itself while adhering to the Covid-19 precautions.While expressing his gratitude towards CM Captain Amarinder Singh for fulfilling the pre-poll promise of providing smartphones, Angad Singh said smartphones had become an indispensable part of the studies as the Education Department had been providing online education due to the closure of schools in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. He advised the students to make proper utilisation of smartphones to avail maximum benefit of the online education.He said due to Covid-19 precautions, only 59 students had been given smartphones today, while the rest of the 445 students of Class XII will receive smartphones through their teachers in a phased manner, he added.Enumerating various projects, Angad Singh said being a young MLA, he had been trying his level best to bring in projects that assure to channelise the energy of the youth towards constructive purposes. He said he had been giving priority to education and sports and is putting in his best efforts to get the grants amounting to Rs 5 released for augmentation and extension of infrastructural facilities at Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Nawanshahr. He said the construction work of classrooms, state-of-the-art laboratories and auditorium would start soon, he added.Meanwhile, others who were present at the occasion include Chairman, Markeet Committee, Chaman Singh Bhanmazara, DEO(Secondary) Sushil Kumar Tuli, Deputy DEO(Secondary), Amrik Singh, Principal , Sarbjit Singh Saini, Spokesperson, Punjab Education Department Parmod Bharti, Nirmal Singh, District Media Coordinator, staff members and parents and among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/smartphones-to-class-xii-students-distributed-153672
10-10-2020||Jalandhar||Conference on industrial, manufacturing systems||Inauguration of International Conference on Industrial and Manufacturing Systems (CIMS-2020) was organised by the Department of Industrial and Production Engineering at IT Park of Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar, on Friday.The conference started with the inaugural ceremony and welcome of chief guest Subhash Chander Ralhan, managing director, Sri Tools Private Limited, Ludhiana, and chairperson of the Board of Governors (BoG) of NIT Jalandhar. In his speech, he emphasised the possible clusters between industry and academia in order to make country more resilient.The chief patron of the event, Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi, Director, Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar, said innovation shall drive growth in future. The guest of honour, Prof Pamita Awasthi, NIT Hamirpur, Prof MK Tiwari, Director NITIE Mumbai, and Prof US Dixit, IIT Guwahati, also stressed on the growth potential of sound fundamentals that India has towards an inherent strength.Prof Awasthi added that the institute has started six new M Tech programmes from this academic session (with total M Tech students 380 per year). Also, the intake has increased to 1133 from 786 for B Tech programmes. “To diversify the capabilities of our students in the changing scenario, the institute has started the concept of ‘minor degree’ at B Tech level, wherein a student will be able to obtain one in another programme by taking 18 credits of that programme,” she said.The main purpose of the conference was to highlight the latest advances, problems and challenges and to present the latest research results in the field of industrial and manufacturing with a link to scientific research and its practical implementation. It was aimed to provide a common platform to researchers, academicians, scientists and industrialists working in the area to share and exchange their views and applications in the context of multi-disciplinary areas. There have been 523 research articles submitted for this conference out of which 300 research papers have been considered for the oral presentation during the technical sessions of the conference.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/conference-on-industrial-manufacturing-systems-153673
10-10-2020||Amritsar||2 arrested in murder case||The police have claimed to solve a blind murder case in which a youth was found dead at a secluded place in New Amritsar on October 3.The accused have been identified as Girish Gupta and Pargat Singh, both residents of Sultanwind road.The deceased, Harjinder Singh, was a resident of Gali Jamun Wali on Tarn Taran road. The accused had also burnt his face to hide his identity. According to police, a monetary dispute between Girish and Harjinder was the reason behind the murder. The police had registered a case under Sections 302 and 201 of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-arrested-in-murder-case-153675
10-10-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Jobs vanish: Rs65k/month to zilch||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 9A science graduate and diploma holder in leather technology with 18 years of work experience is now jobless. Vishal (name changed), who was earning around Rs 65,000 a month, was suddenly asked by his employer to put in papers, saying the firm didn’t have enough work because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Since then, Vishal is in search of a job, but with no luck so far. Having exhausted his savings, he had to sell his car to meet household expenses and discontinue his daughter’s NEET coaching.In the absence of any source of income, he has applied for a blue card so that he could benefit from various government schemes, he said.There are hundreds of others who have lost their jobs ever since the pandemic onslaught.Hoshiarpur-based 38-year-old Sushil (name changed) has done BTech in leather technology. He was working in a Jalandhar firm as an assistant manager at a monthly salary of over Rs 70,000. After 14 years of service, he was also asked by his employer to put in papers. “Now, I am surviving on my parents’ pension. It’s embarrassing,” he says.Tale of 31-year-old Neelesh (name changed) is no different. A graduate in geography, he was also into a job for nine years, but now he has to request money from his brother in UP. “Twelve employees were asked to put in papers by my employer in Jalandhar,” he claimed. He has written a letter to the Union Labour Minister highlighting the problems being faced by educated youths in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.Assistant Labour Commissioner JPS Sohal said, “We do receive such complaints and are dedicated to resolve them. Our effort is to ensure that the employees get their dues and there is no injustice with them. Tricky cases are generally taken to the court of law.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jobs-vanish-rs65k-month-to-zilch-153644
