11-04-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Curfew brings Hans Raj close to music, again||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 10Sufi singer and BJP MP Hans Raj Hans feels that the lockdown has again brought him closer to music, which he was missing after joining politics.Hans Raj Hans, Sufi singer and BJP MPKinna Sohna Eh Jahaan Tu Banaya, Jahaan Tera Vasda Rave, Corona Duniya Te Kehar Bann Aaya, Jahan Tera Vasda Rave. Hath Khade Kr Gaiya Takat Jo Vaddiya, Bande Ne Banaiya Jo Ruk Gaiya Gaddiya, Eh Taan Aapse Hi Samaan Tu Banaya, Samaan Tera Vasda Rave.The singer has composed a prayer during the lockdown. Appreciating the Almighty for his creation and expressing worry over the coronavirus, he has prayed that the world will overcome it. He writes: "Kinna Sohna Eh Jahaan Tu Banaya, Jahaan Tera Vasda Rave, Corona Duniya Te Kehar Bann Aaya, Jahan Tera Vasda Rave". His prayer further says: "Hath Khade Kr Gaiya Takat Jo Vaddiya, Bande Ne Banaiya Jo Ruk Gaiya Gaddiya, Eh Taan Aapse Hi Samaan Tu Banaya, Samaan Tera Vasda Rave".“I was sitting at my terrace and saw the beauty of nature after a long time. It prompted me to write and sing. Thereafter, I composed the prayer,” he said.Talking about his routine these days, this singer-turned-politician added that he starts his day by doing exercise and yoga. Thereafter, he devotes some time to music. "Earlier, I used to go in the field and could not give time to my first love — music. But now, I have ample time and I was missing this life," he said, adding that he had also been reading a lot and have always considered books as his friends for life.The BJP MP said: "I considered the lockdown as a chance to spend time with myself. It is a time to introspect. People don't spend time with themselves. Now, they have got an opportunity to know themselves. We have forgotten ourselves due to busy schedules. Just spend time with yourself."The veteran singer said: "I am not feeling stressed at all. I will say people should look at other aspects what they can do at this time. I am praying every time that the problem ends soon so that everyone remains happy."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/curfew-brings-hans-raj-close-to-music-again-69371
11-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur’s 98 pc villages on self-imposed quarantine||Hoshiarpur, April 10Waging a war against Covid-19, as many as 98 per cent villages of Hoshiarpur district have self-quarantined themselves. As many as 1,403 villages out of total 1,429 villages in the district have self-quarantined themselves for preventing the spread of Covid-19. These include 189 villages of Hoshiarpur block-I, 181 of Bhunga, 155 of Dasuya, 140 of Mukerian, 147 of Mahilpur, 145 of Garhshankar, 120 of Hoshiarpur block-2, 118 of Tanda, 106 of Talwara and 102 of Hajipur block.Taking special initiative, some panchayats of the said villages have also installed CCTV cameras at the entry points of the villagesThe panchayats of these 1,403 villages have barricaded the village entrance points. If any person of the village wants to go outside in an emergency situation, details, including the mobile number, are recorded in a register kept at the 'nakas' put up at the entry/exit points of village roads. It is also recorded as to why he has to go out and to whom he wants to meet.Similar details of outsiders are being noted in the register while entering the village. Taking special initiative, some panchayats of the said villages have also installed CCTV cameras at the entry points of the villages. Villagers are being asked by the panchayat members to stay at home following the government's instructions to prevent the village from Covid-19 spread.Praising the said villages, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said: "The rest of the panchayats should also come forward to keep their villages safe, so that the war against Covid-19 can be won. The civil and police officers are also holding flag marches continuously in villages and cities, during which residents of the district are being made aware to stay at homes."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpurs-98-pc-villages-on-self-imposed-quarantine-69370
11-04-2020||---||Treat for kids: Online literature festival on April 22-23||Jalandhar, April 10After organising two literary festivals in Jammu and Jalandhar, the Yayavar Literary Organisation is set to organise another literary festival but this time for children and that too online. The fest to be held on April 22 and 23 is an endeavour to cultivate reading habit in kids and is specially designed only for students of Classes II to XII.Founder director of Yayavar Nupur Sandhu said: "Though, the reason behind making the festival online is the coronavirus outbreak, this mode had come with an added advantage as now children not just from pan India but also from nations such as Egypt, Russia, Australia and the USA would also be able to attend the event digitally."Sandhu said the opening ceremony would be marked by Bharatanatyam dance by Sophie Khurana, a Class VI student, and the closing ceremony would be marked by performance by Aradhya, a Class X student of Doon School, Dehradun.She appreciated parents of these students for their support and motivation to children for preparing for these events from home. She said owing to online preparations, she had also asked readers to use apps such as Kindle to make most of the moment. Young readers had shared reviews of their handwritten books. Students up to the age of 12 years were asked to upload pictures of their drawings and child writers were asked to write stories based on uploaded drawings, which would be published at the online fest. The theme given to them was 'Nature and friendship'. Drawings and entries were received from all over the country. Sandhu said the authors taking part were the ones who had written books for children only.The founder director has read each book herself before deciding to add it to the festival. Books from all genres are included to the stock, including mystery, horror, fiction, non-fiction, adventure, self-help and humour. Young authors participating in the event will be Shivi Dua from Gurugram, Manjiri Prabhu from Pune, Prasun Roy from Kolkata, Saurabh Thakur from Delhi, Abhirup Dhar from Mumbai, Maulshree from Chennai and Yash Tiwari from Kanpur. Speakers at the event will include Brigadier Rajeev Mahna, Payal Gupta and Neetu Bhalla. There will be around 14 sessions for two days, the details of which could be accessed at the FB page of the group.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/treat-for-kids-online-literature-festival-on-april-22-23-69369
11-04-2020||---||Guru Nanak Dev University exams from May 15||Jalandhar, April 10Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has announced to conduct semester examination for the current session from May 15 onwards. In an official notification issued to all colleges and institutions affiliated with Guru Nanak Dev University, the office of Controller of Examinations, mentioned that owing to the lockdown in the country due to Covid-19, there was a disruption in the regular teaching schedule and despite all efforts to provide online teaching material, students have been facing hardships. Therefore, as per the orders, the exams for all even semesters of May-June 2020 will be conducted from May 15.To reduce the difficulty level, students would be allowed to attempt five questions of total eight questions. The condition of attempting minimum number of questions from a particular section will not be applied for all exams. Besides, separate exam dates would be announced for students, who would be unable to appear for the exams due to travel restrictions, without any additional fee.Considering the lockdown, the practical examinations that are usually conducted before the theoretical exams, will now be held after the theory, as per the university directions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/guru-nanak-dev-university-exams-from-may-15-69368
11-04-2020||Phagwara||Phagwara MLA, ADC distribute ration bags||Continuing their drive to help people and the curfew imposed in the state, Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal and ADC Rajeev Verma dlistributed 15,000 ration bags to families in Phagwara subdivision here on Thursday.The bags containing 10 kg of wheat, 2 kg of dal and 2 kg of sugar were delivered to families at their homes.Dhaliwal said as the people cannot go out during the curfew hours, the ration was being delivered to them at their doorstep. He said the mandated physical distance between people was also being maintained during the distribution drive. He lauded the efforts of the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh-led government for standing with the people during this time of crisis. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-mla-adc-distribute-ration-bags-69367
11-04-2020||Hoshiarpur||Shop owner held for violation in Hoshiarpur||300-gm heroin seized, 2 heldPhillaur: The CIA staff of Jalandhar (Rural) seized 300 gm of heroin from two persons on Thursday and arrested them. SSP (Rural) Navjot Singh Mahal said the suspects have been identified as Nanak Dass and Ravi Kumar, residents of Kapurthala. The suspects were nabbed at a checkpoint near Sutlej River. A case under the NDPS Act was registered. OC60K ml lahan seized in raidNakodar: The Jalandhar (rural) police recovered 60,000 ml lahan which was stored along the banks of Sutlej River at a village near Shahkot to prepare illicit liquor. SSP (Rural) Navjot Singh Mahal said the police got a tip-off that some smugglers were active in preparing illicit liquor. He said a raid was conducted and 60,000-ml lahan seized. A case under Sections 61,1 and 14 of the Excise Act was registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shop-owner-held-for-violation-in-hoshiarpur-69366
11-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Brain behind Neki Da Rath didn’t see his twins for a week||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 10Last year floods and a set of twins amid Covid pandemic this year — right in the beginning of his career, IAS Amit Kumar has witnessed a year which he thinks will go down as among the most tumultuous ones.Amit Kumar, SDM, NakodarWhatever is happening is unprecedented. It hasn't happened before. We handled elections previously and floods, too, last year, but this is way more different. Then we could go anywhere and do anything. Now, protocols impede us. The kids were born early and I was at a meeting when the call came. I hurried to the hospital but still couldn't meet them because protocol had to be followed. I just saw them from a distance. They also stayed at the nursery for many days. And for a week, I didn't come anywhere near my family. I only went near my family once they settled down at home.Working day and night to assure ration and organise necessities for residents, Nakodar SDM Amit Kumar was met with the birth of his twins amid strict Covid protocol and demanding duty calls.A modest IAS office of the 2016 batch, not one to popularise initiatives he's taken, he started a Covid helpline and the 'Neki Da Rath' initiative in Nakodar, where a tempo traveller traverses across areas for collecting ration from donors and disbursing it among the needy.The day his children were born - he rushed to the hospital to check on his family - but for a week was not able to see either his wife or newborn fraternal twins - a son and a daughter. Absolutely alone in Jalandhar, he was left to tend to his family amid the social distancing protocol. Still not having met them properly, it's a price he is willing to pay both to keep the people of his area well-fed and ensure the protection of his newborn babies.Kumar says: "Whatever is happening is unprecedented. It hasn't happened before. We handled elections previously and floods, too, last year, but this is way more different. Then we could go anywhere and do anything. Now, protocols impede us."While his babies were premature (by a fortnight) and were born at a time when strict adherence of protocol was to be implemented among citizens, Kumar balanced it out by keeping away from his family. Showered with petals in an area a few days ago, he says it is appreciation like this which makes all these efforts worthwhile.He says: "The kids were born early and I was at a meeting when the call came. I hurried to the hospital but still couldn't meet them because protocol had to be followed. I just saw them from a distance. They also stayed at the nursery for many days. And for a week, I didn't come anywhere near my family. I only went near my family once they settled down at home."He attended his family amid the protocol alone initially as his parents were in Chandigarh. Eventually, his mother also joined the family.Even as things at home remained demanding, Kumar started a 'Neki Da Rath' initiative at Nakodar. A tempo traveller, whose number has been circulated to citizens, collects essential items from those willing to donate and disburses them among needy citizens. The donors' photographs have been put in different collages and these 'appreciation collages' are shared on social media to encourage them. Officials also send out messages thanking them for their work.Kumar says: "The idea came from the name Nakodar. I heard the name came from the phrase Neki Da Dar (door of good works), which eventually got distorted into Nakodar. From Neki Da Dar, I happened to ideate 'Neki Da Rath'. The tempo thus disburses essential ration and collects it without requiring people to come out of their homes. We also congratulate and send appreciation messages and calls to donors to encourage them."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/brain-behind-neki-da-rath-didnt-see-his-twins-for-a-week-69360
11-04-2020||---||311 vehicles impounded in Jalandhar for flouting curfew norms||Jalandhar, April 10Cracking the whip on people flouting curfew norms, the police on Friday impounded 311 vehicles in the city, who were loitering.Divulging the details, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said acting sternly against violators the police confiscated these vehicles moving without any reason in the city.He said the campaign would be intensified in the coming days and no one would be allowed to move in the city without any purpose. Bhullar said the curfew had been imposed for the well-being of people, so that they could be saved from coronavirus.Five persons, identified as Malkiat Singh, Amandeep Singh, Jagdish Kumar, Vishal, alias Saalu, and Sanjeev, alias Vadda, were arrested for violation of curfew norms.The FIRs were registered against them for flouting norms during curfew. Bhullar said a strict vigil was being kept in the city to maintain law and order during the curfew.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/311-vehicles-impounded-in-jalandhar-for-flouting-curfew-norms-69358
11-04-2020||---||Jalandhar residents clap for security guards, sanitation workers||Jalandhar, April 10Residents of Jalandhar Heights took to their balconies at 5 pm on Friday to clap and express their gratitude and appreciation for the frontline workers of their society, including security guards, their service team, sanitation workers and delivery men, who are risking their lives amid Covid outbreak.“The initiative was taken to express thanks to these frontline workers who risk their lives to provide services to public. They ensure that the rest of the society is safe and healthy, and we owe our gratitude to them,” said Major General (retd) Arun Khanna, chief administrator of Jalandhar Heights Welfare Society.Major Khanna said he planned the activity jointly with AGI Infra Ltd managing director Sukhdev Singh to appreciate these frontline workers and appreciate the services that they deliver by keeping their own lives at stake. He said the activity was in line with PM Modi’s initiative that was taken on March 22 at national-level.He said over 1,500 families residing at Jalandhar Heights I, II and Smart Homes came to their balconies and whole heartedly supported the initiative to express thanks to the workers who are on their toes, putting themselves at risk.Jalandhar Heights II security in-charge Avtar said it was an overwhelming feeling for all. He said the cooperation and appreciation they got would further motivate them to deliver their services with more dedication. Kanwarpreet Singh, of JH, said: “I appreciate our society’s management. Our frontline warriors are standing day and night for our protection. They make us feel safe at our homes by being on duty outside”Residents Sealing their areasJalandhar: Several residents and councillors on their own have sealed some of the areas in Jalandhar. Two days ago, some residents had sealed Sodal area, after which the rest of the people had called the police and said the sealing was creating trouble. SHO Division 8 said he had visited the area and had asked area residents not to indulge in sealing of the area on their own. On Friday, Dolly, councillor of Ward No. 15, also covered the entry point of Preet Nagar area on Ladowali Road. Some entry points were covered by the branches of trees, so that no one could enter. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-residents-clap-for-security-guards-sanitation-workers-69357
11-04-2020||---||Another +ve from Nijatam Nagar family; Jalandhar count mounts to 12||Jalandhar, April 10With the third person from the same Nijatam Nagar family testing positive today, the total tally of positive cases in the district has reached 12.The latest person is the 17-year-old grandson of Nijatam Nagar 72-year-old woman, currently admitted to CMC Ludhiana, who tested positive on March 26. While the 47-year-old son of the woman tested positive on Wednesday, the test sample of her grandson came out positive today. While four more patients (barring these two) have tested positive in the past three days, with the contact history of none of them traced, the bustling city area braced itself to the impact of community spread.As many as 2,080 people in the city have been placed under quarantine at present and a majority of these are from congested main bazaar areas, where houses are close together and many of those now tested positive were hobnobbing with crowds until days ago.The Nijatam Nagar elderly woman’s positive sample was the city’s first indication of community spread, as the source of her infection couldn’t be traced and still hasn’t been. She further infected two members of her family. The sample of the daughter-in-law, however, is awaited, while her granddaughter tested negative.Four more patients were reported in the city in the past three days (59-year-old Ayurvedic chemist (now deceased); 65-year-old Bhairon Bazaar woman, 42-year-old Purani Sabzi mandi woman and 53-year-old hospital technician) – all from busy bazaar areas.Meanwhile, in the Nijatam Nagar case, 11 members of the family had previously been tested and all of them tested negative. Discharged from the Civil Hospital and placed under home-quarantine, the 47-year-old son went to hospital again after he had respiratory trouble. He visited a private hospital in Jalandhar, from where he was referred to the Civil Hospital. He had been admitted to the Civil Hospital for a second time since April 5. Six staff members of the private hospital he visited had already been placed under quarantine. Today, his son also tested positive.While earlier the department said the family had a travel history, later it was established to be a rumour.Speaking to The Tribune, the 47-year-old patient from Nijatam Nagar, who is the father of the 17-year-old who tested positive today, said: “We have no travel history and no Italian relative. No foreign relative visited our house. I can give that in writing. Me and my 11 family members were discharged after we were told that our samples have tested negative. I think the transmission of Covid has come to the family from the ashram, where my mother went. My only concern at present is that we receive proper care.”Dr TP Singh, nodal officer, Covid-19 for Jalandhar, said: "The contacts of all patients are being traced. About 2,080 persons in the city are presently under quarantine. As many as 50 contacts have been traced of the 53-year-old technician, who was working at the private hospital, who tested positive yesterday. Further contacts of the patients who tested positive yesterday are also being traced."As many as 18 members of the Civil Hospital medical staff were also been placed under quarantine on Thursday, a day after they complained of inadequate PPE kits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/another-ve-from-nijatam-nagar-family-jalandhar-count-mounts-to-12-69356
11-04-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Cases from high-density areas cause of worry in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 10With the Covid-positive patient count in Jalandhar touching 12 today, the district seems to be emerging as the next hotspot for the disease. The new positive case today is a 17-year-old boy from Nijatam Nagar, whose father and mother are already undergoing treatment.As many as 86 persons from the district, who are immediate contacts of Covid patients, have been quarantined at the Civil Hospital for the past few days and their samples are being taken.The 12 patients include seven from the city, four from Virk village of Phillaur (three got cured) and daughter of deceased Bhai Nirmal Singh from Lohian.The biggest worry for the administration so far is that the seven positive cases that have emerged so far from the city are from the old city areas where the density of population is very high. In all such localities, including Anand Nagar (of Maqsudan), Old Sabzi Mandi, Mitha Bazaar, Bhairon Bazaar and Nijatam Nagar (three from a family), the police have ensured there was only one entry and exit point.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet S Bhullar said, “Policemen are standing guard at all sealed areas and ensuring there is no movement. Restricted entry, that too only of a few vendors for the supply of vegetables and milk, has been allowed in these areas. The best part is that youth volunteers from such areas have themselves taken to sealing of their lanes by tying ropes at the entrances and standing guard 24X7 by rotation. This will further ensure containment.”To ensure early diagnosis, Deputy Commissioner Varinder K Sharma says, “I have directed the health teams to do more testing. I have also asked them to quarantine the immediate contacts of the positive patients at the Civil Hospital.”He said he had roped in several officials and delegated them different tasks. SDM Jai Inder Singh said, “We have declared 1 sq km area in Mitha Bazaar (from where a positive patient died on Thursday) as a containment area. All curfew passes that were issued in the area have been cancelled as a blanket order. The area ACP and his police team are ensuring that no one steps out of the house.”In another locality Purani Sabzi Mandi, from where a woman tested positive for Covid yesterday, the health officials have taken samples of 11 members of her joint family and also the domestic help. Dr Harish Bhardwaj from the Civil Hospital and his team of health workers have been assigned the task to visit 227 houses in the area.As many as 72 contacts of an operation theatre assistant from Sacred Heart Hospital of Maqsudan, whose report came yesterday, have been quarantined. His wife was a receptionist at the hospital whereas he had been doing physiotherapy for two patients and had also gone to Police Lines recently for treating a patient.DC Sharma said, “I have been holding flag march daily and urging residents to stay indoors. It is for the first time today that I can see some compliance. As far as the infrastructure is concerned, we don’t have any shortage. We have the required equipment and we are expecting delivery of some more orders shortly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cases-from-high-density-areas-cause-of-worry-in-jalandhar-69385
11-04-2020||---||NRIs lend a helping hand to villagers in Jalandhar area||Jalandhar, April 10At Jajjan Kalan village, four elderly NRIs have taken it upon themselves to ensure the villagers get proper food supply. NRI sarpanch Amrik Singh (76) serves tea at midnight to 12 men on guard duty at various nakas of the village. At Virk village in Phillaur, where three persons who had previously tested positive have been cured, the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Club daily supplies food to over 150 families under quarantine and health employees deputed there.Panchayats of Bachowal and Dyalpur, too, are supplying food to villagers and holding “theekri pehras”. At Sangal Sohal village, over 2,000 families of migrants and needy villagers are provided langar every day.From distributing ration , holding “theekri pehras”, deploying tractor-installed pumps to sanitising villages are setting example in organising mini-social distancing movements in pockets to ensure stopping of Covid-19 pandemic.Birmingham-based NRI Amrik Singh (76), sarpanch of Jajjan Kalan village, himself is chipping in, along with three NRI friends of the village, to provide food to the men standing guard across 24 nakas in the village. After the lockdown was implemented, the NRIs were faced with the challenging task of providing ration to 146 migrant families. The England-returned NRI families pooled in money to help for the noble cause.They said with the help of the government, they planned to keep up the food supply for two months.Amrik Singh said, “It’s our resolve, as long as we NRIs are around, we just have to ensure the ration keeps flowing in. Village youth do guard duties and we encourage them with our support.”Sumit Basra from Virk village, one of the organisers, said, “Since many families were placed under quarantine after curfew was imposed, our panchayats stepped up the efforts. We have been feeding the village’s needy residents and those under quarantine after some people tested positive. The village took it upon itself to provide food to the families. Now that three patients have tested negative, it’s time to celebrate. We ensure food to whoever can’t go out during the isolation period.”Mangal Singh from Sangal Sohal village said Hoshiarpur-based Dhann Guru Ramdas Ji Langar Sewa from Pur Hiran village had been sending a vehicle daily since April 1 providing langar to over 2,000 migrant, factory workers and needy villagers daily.Mangal Singh said, “We have 1,600-1,700 migrant workers in the village alone who are being provided food daily.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nris-lend-a-helping-hand-to-villagers-in-jalandhar-area-69383
