11-07-2020||---||75 new COVId-19 cases surface in Jalandhar, two more die||Jalandhar, July 1175 people have tested positive for COVID-19 in Jalandhar on Saturday, taking the tally in the district to 1,166.Meanwhile, two deaths were also reported today. With the two more deaths, the death toll in the city has climbed to 25.Details are awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/75-new-covid-19-cases-surface-in-jalandhar-two-more-die-111505
11-07-2020||Our Correspondent||SDMs to grant sanction for protest, rally in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, July 10A day after The Tribune highlighted violations of social distancing norms at protests and rallies by leaders of various political parties in the city, the District Magistrate (DM), Ghanshyam Thori, on Friday designated Sub-Divisional Magistrates (SDMs) as competent authority to grant sanction/approval for protests or processions in the district and also restricted gatherings to a maximum of five persons.The permission for rallies/protests in areas falling under the Municipal Corporation limits are to be granted by the Commissioner of Police.The DM said SDMs concerned would grant permission after ensuring compliance of guidelines issued by the state Department of Home and Justice on November 6, 2018. They would also have to maintain a record of applications/permissions. The DC said the orders would be in force till September 2.The DM also banned bursting of firecrackers on national or state highways and celebratory firing at marriages or private functions. Besides, carrying of firearms in procession and raising of slogans in the jurisdiction of the Commissionerate police, too, has been banned till September 7.The DM further told villages falling in the district to hold ‘thikri pehras’ (night patrolling) from 8 pm to 5 am. He also directed all nagar councils, nagar and village panchayats to follow the order and instructed their heads to inform SHOs of their areas of persons who will be part of ‘thikri pehra’ teams. He said the order would be in force till September 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sdms-to-grant-sanction-for-protest-rally-in-jalandhar-district-111183
11-07-2020||---||Day after, Health Dept mum on contact tracing of SSP in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 10A day after the SSP Jalandhar was tested positive within 24 hours of attending a high profile wedding, attended by many big wigs of the district, the Health Department maintains a silence on the status of those present on the occasion. While the SSP who tested positive yesterday has been placed under home isolation, department officials remained mum on whether any of those present at the wedding had been tested.3 Migrants Catch Virus, Hoshiarpur Tally 197Sources said officials received calls from senior leaders on the testing status and protocol. As per sources, some of the leaders are opting for private testing as all the government tests were going to the Faridkot lab.Samples of the family members of SDM Shahkot – who tested positive yesterday – have also been taken.However, there is no official word from the health authorities on whether any of the contacts of the senior police officials were being sampled for Covid-19.Dist reports 49 new casesWith 49 more persons testing positive on Friday, the number of cases in the district has risen to 1,091. With one casualty, the death toll climbed to 23.The deceased was a 67-year-old man from Bhur Mandi. He had tested positive on Thursday. Of the 49 new cases, 10 are women. Fresh cases also included 18 defence personnel, seven residents from Makhdoompura, a hot spot which is fastly churning out new cases, and a CRPF personnel, who is a resident of Sarai Khas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/day-after-health-dept-mum-on-contact-tracing-of-ssp-in-jalandhar-111184
11-07-2020||---||Police DAV cadets bag scholarships||Jalandhar, July 10 Three cadets of the Junior NCC Air Wing of Police DAV Public School, Jalandhar, have been awarded scholarship on the basis of their record and are the only ones who have been selected from the city for this feat.  Cadets of the Junior NCC Air Wing Pardeep Singh Chouhan, Sanju Joshi and Hitesh Jindal were awarded a cheque of Rs 6,000 each by Wing Commander SK Sharma, his associate Junior Warrant Officer KK Saha, Sergeant Ravi Rai Yadav, Sergeant Arun Bhatt of NCC Air Wing at their official premises.  Dr Rashmi Vij, principal, lauded the efforts of the cadets of the Junior NCC Air Wing and the in-charges of the Air Wing of the Police DAV Public School Deepak Mehta, Manpreet Singh, Sudha Malhotra, and Amardeep and exhorted the students to excel in such all spheres of life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-dav-cadets-bag-scholarships-111185
11-07-2020||---||CT Group offers major, minor degree to engineering grads||Jalandhar, July 10The CT Group of Institutions, South Campus, has introduced major and minor degree for the students who are enrolled in B Tech courses (all streams) of the IKG Punjab Technical University. These students can now choose from a long list of disciplines that offera minor option.Throwing light on this initiative, Dr GS Kalra, Campus Director, said, “The key objective of this is to diversify the knowledge of the undergraduates. This will generate more employment options for them. This will have more educational and professional skills after the completion of his undergraduate courses. It typically involves taking a set number of additional courses, determined by the department offering the minor and once completed the minor is indicated on transcript.”Telling about the applicability and entry level process, Dr Kalra said, “Students of B Tech (all branches) from the session 2018-19 onwards are eligible to opt for this degree. The candidate will start the minor degree in their individual B Tech from third semester onwards. Also, the passed out students can avail of the option of pursuing the minor degree in the concerned subject. The fee for the course will be applicable according to IKG-PTU norms.”Dr Kalra said this option to pursue minor course along with full degree would be very beneficial for an engineering student as he can explore his inner abilities too along with his core field.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ct-group-offers-major-minor-degree-to-engineering-grads-111186
11-07-2020||---||MBD offers scholarships to 100 students||JAlandhar, July 10MBD Group today celebrated the 75th birth anniversary of its founder Ashok Kumar Malhotra by organising scholarship, award and social responsibility events. The group has doled out scholarships for 100 students.Since the outbreak of Covid, the group has started publishing and diversifying into e-learning, m-learning, skill development, eco-friendly notebooks, paper manufacturing and ICT infrastructure.Satish Bala Malhotra, chairperson, MBD Group, said: “The group has added new tools to stimulate the traditional teaching learning methods. The group launched their ACME app, which is an extensive online learning app featuring 15,000-plus animated videos that cover all topics of CBSE and state boards for students of Classes I to XII.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mbd-offers-scholarships-to-100-students-111187
11-07-2020||---||LPU’s Credit Transfer Scheme to help students willing to study abroad||Jalandhar, July 10Every year, several Indian students aspire to go to abroad to pursue higher studies. However, this year, their dreams have been put on hold due to Covid-19. The parents, too, are reluctant to send their wards abroad, in such a scenario.Amid all this, Lovely Professional University (LPU) has started offering a unique ‘Credit Transfer Programme’, under which any student would be able to make a wide choice of his/her preference for the country, university and the programme. The LPU has begun connecting its students to its partner universities across the globe, including those of the US, UK, Canada, Australia, Germany, France and Switzerland.Additional Director of LPU’s division of International Affairs Aman Mittal said, “Under this credit transfer opportunity, a student can study any part of the programme at the LPU campus and complete the rest of his/her degree at an LPU’s foreign partner university, be it USA, UK Canada, Australia, New Zealand or any other country opted for. The student will get the final degree from LPU’s partner foreign university. The students can prefer the option of ‘credit transfer’ after two years, when situations becomes normal. This will prove to be economically viable too.”He further said, “This programme has been widely accepted by students and their parents because it removes the concerns borne out of Covid-19. More students are opting for this credit transfer option, as they can still realise their dream of going abroad and be sure that it will be a reality.”Know Credit Transfer ProgrammeUnder this programme, any student would be able to make a wide choice of his/her preference for the country, university and the programme. The LPU has begun connecting its students to its partner universities across the globe, including those of the US, UK, Canada, Australia, Germany, France and Switzerland.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lpus-credit-transfer-scheme-to-help-students-willing-to-study-abroad-111188
11-07-2020||Jalandhar||Blind murder case solved in 24 hours||With the assistance of CCTV camera footages, Technical Cell and Forensic Team of the Jalandhar police solved a blind murder case and arrested Pankaj Chauhan, a native of Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh (presently resident of Jattan Mohalla, Adampur) and recovered the weapon (datar) used in the crime.Navjot Singh Mahal, SSP (Rural), said Pankaj had been arrested for the murder of Pappu Kumar at Adampur on the night of July 9. The SSP said Shivam Kumar, a native of Badari Bajurg in Aligarh district, (presently residing at Jattan Mohalla, Adampur) informed the police that his father Pappu Kumar, who runs a golgappa stall, went to sleep in his house at ward number 10, Adampur, on the night of July 9. But when he didn’t return till 6.30 am this morning, Shivam went there to enquire and found that the body of his father was lying on the bed in verandah.Shuvam said there were injuries on the neck and right arm of Pappu. His mobile phone and Rs 7,000 were also lying there. A case has been registered in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/blind-murder-case-solved-in-24-hours-111189
11-07-2020|| ---||AAP accuses Congress of ‘deviating’ from poll promises||Jalandhar, July 10  The youth wing of the Aam Admi Party (AAP) held a protest here on Friday against the Congress for failing to keep the promises made to the people of the state. Sporting masks, the activists had gathered at the DAC complex and also burnt an effigy of the state government while indulging in sloganeering.  Tarandeep Singh Sunny, AAP youth wing Doaba president, submitted a complaint letter to DC Ghanshyam Thori, demanding that a case be registered against the CM for duping the people of the state. “In the 2017 elections, the Congress party in its manifesto had made several promises. Even after the completion of three years of term, not a single promise has been fulfilled,” Sunny said. He added that three years ago the CM had promised in four weeks of the formation of government the state would be be made drug free, had also offered free mobiles to the youth, Rs 2,500 per month unemployment allowance to the unemployed, Rs 5 per unit electricity for factories for five years, 300 units free electricity for poor, free transport to school kids, free education for girls. Dismayingly, all were fake plastic promises.  “Let alone free education for children, even existing fee hasn’t been pardoned during the lockdown,” he said, before adding, “tolls in the state also cost people dearer than before.”  He also said the fixed charges for electricity meters had burdened industries. Nor has the electricity bills of the poor been pardoned during the lockdown. The activists also slammed the decision to allow liquor shops to operate till late night.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-accuses-congress-of-deviating-from-poll-promises-111190
11-07-2020||Garhshankar||Migrant worker drowns in pond||Body of a migrant labourer was recovered from a pond in Denowal Khurd village. The police handed over the body to his kin after post-mortem. According to the information received, a migrant labourer, William Tung, son of Ilyas Tung, a native of Odisha, fell in the pond as he was under the influence of alcohol. He died after drowning in pond. The police fished out his body and got his post-mortem done on Friday. A case has been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/migrant-worker-drowns-in-pond-111191
11-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||CISCE toppers on cloud nine amid pandemic||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 10Shivam Bhagat, Ananya Malhotra and Shrey Kumar topped the ICSE Class X examinations with 98.6 per cent marks while Yadwinder Singh Nagra and Sidharth Jojra bagged the first and second positions in the city by scoring 94.50 per cent and 93 per cent marks in the ISC Class XII examinations, the results of which were declared by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) here on Friday.The toppers were excited over the results as amid the pandemic, the students did not go to classrooms to attend lectures. Rather they attended online classes, so the declaration of the results came as a relief from the usual boredom which they were experiencing.Shivam Bhagat, who wants to become a software engineer, has opted for the non-medical stream. “I want perfection in my profession, for which I had started working hard when I was in Class VII. I started learning about JAVA, HTML, etc. Besides, over the years, I have learnt many languages,” Bhagat shared. The topper loves to draw sketches in his free time. While Bhagat’s father Rakesh Kumar is an officiating principal at a government college, his mother is a government schoolteacher.Another topper Ananya, who has opted for the commerce stream, wants to join Sri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC) for which she is working hard. “I have always believed that quality, not quantity, matters. If I studied for four hours in a day, I would always do it with full concentration,” exudes Ananya. She said, “In my free time, I like to do blogging and write poetry.” Ananya’s mother is an officer in an insurance company while her father is a zonal manager of Punjab and Sind Bank.Shrey Kumar aspires to become a cardiologist and wants to serve humanity. He has opted for the medical stream. He said because of the pandemic, there was a little problem in studying, but still he was managing the same. Talking about his routine, he said he never took studies as a burden and continued to do exercise even during the exams. “I usually studied at nights,” he said. His father Gagandeep is a professor at DAV University and his mother is a headmistress at a government school.Class XII toppersYadwinder Singh Nagra, a topper in the non-medical stream, is a champion in discus throw. He wants to do BA economics honours from Punjab University. Son of a businessman, Yadwinder is reading mystery and fictional novels these days. Sidharth Jojra who bagged 93 per cent marks in the medical stream did self-study.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cisce-toppers-on-cloud-nine-amid-pandemic-111192
11-07-2020||Hoshiarpur||Training for teachers held||FREE URDU CLASSES start on july 20Jalandhar: The Language Department has decided to start free online Urdu classes from July 20. The District Language Officer, Rekha Verma, said the classes are free of cost and would be conducted for six months. She said the classes would be held from 5.15 pm to 6.15 pm every day. She informed that interested people can register their names in the office of Language Department at the District Administrative Complex. TNSGurjot Kaur IN GNDU BOARDJalandhar: Social activist and Trustee of Pushpa Gujral Nari Niketan Gurjot Kaur has been selected as the member of the Board of Control in the subject of Punjabi at Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar. She will serve in the board for a period of one year starting from July 2020. She will be assigned the task to prepare the syllabus for all levels of Punjabi course upto PhD. She has been assigned the task by GNDU VC Dr Jaspal S Sandhu. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/training-for-teachers-held-111193
11-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Online consultation with docs witnesses a spike||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 10Concepts of telemedicine and video consultation have become a routine practice for doctors in the metro cities, but the trend also seems to be catching up with Jalandhar residents, owing to the Covid spread.The doctors say that the patients are avoiding visiting hospitals as far as possible and are approaching them physically only when there is a dire emergency. For their routine problems and post-operative consultation, they either seek the doctor's advice on phone or make use of the WhatsApp video mode.Many doctors say that they had taken telemedicine software, which is also now legal to use as the Medical Council of India had allowed it for safety of patients due to the virus spread. Everything ranging from seeking appointment to discussing their health issues and making payment is done through the software. But they said instead of coming via the software, the Jalandhar patients were more convenient in consulting doctors on phone calls and video conferencing.IMA President Dr Navjot Dahiya says, "Telephonic consultation is getting very common for patients facing depression. Many patients have bought pulse oxymeters and have begun managing their symptoms on their own after seeking advice from us."SPEAKING OUTTelemedicine is more prevalent in certain specialties related to psychiatry or trouble in throat. So, far, only 5-10 per cent of the patients are coming via this mode. But a large number of patients have been calling up for telephonic or video consultation. —Dr Navjot Dahiya, President, IMA PunjabPatients are avoiding hospital these days. Many of my patients who have undergone surgery are now consulting me on phone. They show me the wounds on the video and I suggest them changes in medicine accordingly. If there is a need to visit the hospital, we even call them up. —Dr Kamal Gupta, consultant surgeonTele-consultation helps avoid social-crowding and we are using it in between. Whenever parents want to consult us about their children, I give them telephonic appointments at a gap of 15 minutes. But I am not charging them for any such service. —Dr Anshuman Verma, PaediatricianOnly 35 per cent of patients have been coming to the hospitals. Since the MCI has legalised the telephonic consultation, we are trying to help the patients as far as possible, especially those from far-off areas. We call the patients to the hospital only when there is acute emergency. —Dr BS Johal, Orthopaedic Surgeon||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-consultation-with-docs-witnesses-a-spike-111199
11-07-2020||---||Civic body unfazed as danger lurks overhead||Jalandhar, July 10Residents of several congested areas residents in Jalandhar are grappling with the problem of dangling wires. The wires have been suspended perilously. In some of the areas, it becomes difficult for commuters to cross the lane. Residents of Uttam Nagar, Basti Sheikh, in ward number 38, have been complaining of the same problem for more than 10 years now. Unable to find any solution to the problem, they have taken the precautions at their own level by covering the wires with plastic sheets.Councillor of the ward Onkar Tikka said the issue was quite old but it had not been fixed till date.Notably, before the pandemic, MLA of Jalandhar West constituency Sushil Kumar Rinku had also written a letter to the PSPCL in which he complained about the hanging electricity wires. He had asked the department to act on the complaints.Gaurav Kapoor, one of the residents of the area, said several requests had been made in this regard but to no avail. "The authorities cannot afford to take the issue of dangling wires lightly as it poses a grave threat to the safety of residents." he said questioning the MC as to why it was waiting for any tragedy to happen.Kulwant Singh, another resident said he, along with other residents, had been raising the issue for the past many years but the problem still stands there. "Our pleas have fallen on deaf years. We hope that issue of low-lying wires is rectified immediately."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/civic-body-unfazed-as-danger-lurks-overhead-111200
11-07-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Time to give priority to Indian home-furnishing products’||SHARANPAL Singh Narula, the owner of Narula Furnishings based at Nakodar Chowk here, said that the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the local furniture industry hard, as it has seen a drop of nearly 60 per cent to 70 per cent in sales since the imposition of the lockdown. In an interview with Avneet Kaur, he throws light on the problems facing the industry and how he intends to re-strategise his business to sail through the tough times. Excerpts:How is your business doing amid the lockdown?The work is moving at a very slow pace. We have a retail showroom that deals in furnishing services including furniture, home decor, artifacts, wall decors, floorings, etc, in Punjab, Himachal and other northern states. We are also a leading manufacturers of mattresses in Jalandhar. I always had advanced bookings for March, April, May and June because of weddings, but Covid-19 has played a spoilsport and we are now struggling to find ways to cope with the losses.A large number of labourers have gone back to their native places, which has badly hit industrial operations here. Nearly 50 labourers worked at my manufacturing unit before the lockdown. The number has now come down to just 15. I am now trying to convince my workers to come back, but it is to be seen if they return.  —Sharanpal Singh Narula, owner of Narula FurnishingsWhat are the major issues troubling you at present?Well, the first major issue is that most of our operations involve off-site visits. No matter what orders we receive, be it curtains, wall decor, flooring or furniture, a site visit is a must for measurement and other purposes. But as Covid cases are increasing every day, people are afraid of letting anyone in their homes. Another problem affecting us is that the creditors have dried up. Vendors want us to make immediate payment while they had been earlier allowing a credit period of 30-40 days. So, things are becoming problematic as of now. Besides, supply chains have been disrupted.What is the status of your labour?A large number of labourers have gone back to their native places, which has badly hit industrial operations here. We are also facing a shortage of labour. Nearly 50 labourers worked at my manufacturing unit before the lockdown. The number has now come down to just 15. I am now trying to convince my workers to come back, but it is to be seen if they return and when the crisis ends.Do you expect your business to pick up in the near future?Looking at the situation, I think that the industry will not be able to stand on its feet for at least next six months. Although, many businessmen are expecting the business to get better by Diwali, but chances are very less. Also, because of the low liquidity, people aren't really starting their housing projects. Only those who had got most of the work done before the lockdown have resumed construction.What lessons have you learnt from the crisis?The Covid-19 pandemic has been a wakeup call for all. It has taught us the lesson to become self-reliant in all respects. You won't believe me but 70 per cent of luxury homes are built in India with Chinese home furnishing products. But now, I have asked all architects, interior designers and builders associated with me to go for Indian home-furnishing products.What are your expectations from the government?There is a dire need of relaxation on interest accruing on bank limits or loans for a period of six months. Due to closure of operations and non-receipt of outstanding payments, it has become difficult for us to pay both loan instalments and interest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/time-to-give-priority-to-indian-home-furnishing-products-111201
11-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Parents in fix over new US rule for international students||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 10The US Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s decision to ask international students, whose classes have shifted online, to leave the country has put parents in a dilemma.Those students who came back to India ahead of the lockdown have been searching for flights to return to the US and resume their classes. The ones who stayed back in the US are a worried lot as they do not want to get deported.Dr Monika Bawa, pediatric surgeon, PGIMER, Chandigarh, said her son Akshit had joined Brown University last year. “As Covid spread in the US, we called him back. He continued his online classes and even gave exams from home. His F-1 visa will expire by mid-August.”She said, “The bigger worry is to get the flight booked so that my son can get his visa extended. We are in a fix.”Amritsar-based Sarabjit Singh stays with his son, who studies at University of California. He said, “My son has completed his bachelor’s degree. The US government wants to save universities as international students are demanding slashing of fee as classes are being held online.”He said, “Things are likely to get normal as universities will adopt hybrid format of education wherein students will attend practical classes and theory part will be held online.”Aarti Raina whose son studies in Chicago, said, “My son had joined bachelor’s course in 2018. He is doing major in physics and mathematics. His classes were held online from March to May. Later, his institute gave them a break. His university is yet to decide whether classes will be held hybrid or online. In case his classes are held online, he may be deported.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/parents-in-fix-over-new-us-rule-for-international-students-111251
11-07-2020||---||Cyprus returnees await resumption of flights||Jalandhar, July 10Over 60 persons from Punjab and Haryana, who are either studying or doing a job in Cyprus, had come to India in the wake of the Covid outbreak. They’re now in a fix, as they want to return to Cyprus, but there are no flights available.About 20 of them from Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Gurdaspur and Bathinda gathered here to share their plight and decide the future course of action. Of them, a few said their visas had expired, but the Cyprus government officials had assured them of reinstating these after the resumption of flights. Despite repeated requests to the government officials, they were in complete dark as to when the flights would resume.Gurpreet Kaur (35) from Sangal Sohal village of Jalandhar said: “Being just a matriculate, I had no means to earn in India. To feed my three children, I had left my house and started working in Cyprus as a domestic maid to ensure that my children could get a decent education. Now that I am stuck here, with no job in hand, I intend to return to Cyprus as soon as possible”.Manpreet Singh of Jalandhar said he was pursuing a course in hotel management in Cyprus and was doing a part-time job there, but his visa had now expired. “I have been told by the consulate that I will be reinstated and allowed to continue with my studies and job, if I manage to get a flight from India,” he said.A resident of Rampura Phull in Bathinda, Harpreet Kaur (22) said she was pursuing a course in hotel management and her spouse Rajwinder Singh was doing a course in business management. “We are stranded here as there are no flights. Our college does not allow us to go about our studies online. We are required to physically attend the classes,” shared Harpreet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cyprus-returnees-await-resumption-of-flights-111253
