11-11-2020||Jalandhar||CM gives Rs1 lakh aid to Paranthe Wale Bebeji||Kamlesh Kumari is running a small parantha shop in the Phagwara Gate market in the evening till midnight for about 35 years. Assistant Commissioner (General) Hardeep Singh today visited the house of Kamlesh Kumari in Parkash Nagar locality and handed over the cheque to her on behalf of the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said that following the directions of the Chief Minister, who had announced this financial assistance a few days ago, the district administration had handed over a cheque to her. He mentioned that earlier financial assistance worth Rs50,000 was also provided to Kamlesh Kumari from the CSR fund to encourage this elderly entrepreneur.Kamlesh Kumari lauded the government for understanding her concerns and providing her this much-needed help, especially during these trying times. She said that this unforgettable help has come as a succour to her. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cm-gives-rs1-lakh-aid-to-paranthe-wale-bebeji-169203
11-11-2020||Jalandhar||Jats for quota in govt jobs||The All-India Jat Mahasabha national general secretary Chaudhary Yudhvir Singh during a meeting of its members held at Lions Club here on Tuesday announced that they would ask the state government to give reservation to Jats in government jobs.Another meeting on the issue would be held in the month of January, he said. He said that a large number of Jat families were left with only one acre of land. “According to the Mandal Commission reservation formula, Jats to be included in the reservation category, however, the same hasn’t been implemented”, said Yudhvir.Further, to keep the Punjab wing of the Mahasabha fully functional, All India Jat Mahasabha vice-president Harpal Singh Harpura was appointed as executive chairman of the Punjab Jat Mahasabha.Harpura was also vested with the powers to appoint new members. Yudhvir said the mahasabha would work to remove social evils, uplift financial status of Jats and would provide higher studies for children along with safeguarding their political rights.“We are working against the farm laws passed by the Centre and in Punjab new roadmap for the struggle will be designed. Then national president of All India Jat Mahasabha and former Chief Minister of undivided Punjab, Chotu Ram, implemented the mandi system and today the Centre by passing new farm laws has ended it and tried to haunt the farmers by directly benefiting corporates houses. The farmers will not tolerate this and struggle will not be over till the end”, added the general secretary. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jats-for-quota-in-govt-jobs-169202
11-11-2020||---||Insurance firm fined Rs79K for denying claim||Jalandhar, November 10The Permanent Lok Adalat (PLA) directed New India Assurance Company Limited to pay Rs 64,350 compensation to a city-based resident.The firm has also been asked to pay Rs 15,000 as litigation expenses to the beneficiary for its negligence in conducting a timely assessment of the loss suffered by the resident.Inderjit Kaur, a resident of New Jawahar Nagar, had approached the PLA in December 2018 against non-disbursal of an insurance amount to her father.What pla says...The insurance firm is bound to follow the 'Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (Protection of Policyholder interest) Regulations', hence, considering that the claim of the applicant was neither settled nor repudiated, directed the company to pay Rs64,350 to the applicant with an interest rate of 6 per cent per annum from the date of registration of application. The applicant was also held entitled to a litigation cost of Rs15,000.As per the judgment order, the applicant had submitted that her father, Surmukh Singh, had purchased a truck, bearing registration number PB-08N-9840 on December 5, 1995, which was registered with the District Transport Office, Jalandhar.Surmukh regularly got the insurance of the vehicle done and had also purchased an insurance policy (Number 361001/31/89/01/00000762, from the insurance company on May 20, 2009 which was valid till May 19, 2010). Unfortunately, the truck was burnt down by mob on May 24, 2009 near Paragpur village on the national highway while the vehicle was heading to Ropar from Jalandhar.Avtar Singh, who was the second driver of the truck, said their vehicle was damaged and all the documents, including original registration certificate, original route permit, insurance policy, pollution certificate, a letter issued by the Regional Transport Authority regarding route permit to Chandigarh, a letter issued by the Regional Transport Authority from Jalandhar to Haryana got damaged. He said they were asked to leave the spot following which an FIR was registered as the truck was burnt by mob.Apart from approaching the administration for compensation, he also applied for the insurance claim for damage and loss to the truck in the office of the insurance firm at Patel chowk and gave them the copy of an FIR.Later, a surveyor was appointed to assess the loss and damage caused to the truck, who took photographs of the damaged truck. The said photographs were in the custody of the surveyor and insurance company.Surmukh had also submitted various invoices/bills, documents regarding order and estimate, cash/credit memos. Despite the completion of all the formalities, the respondents did not release any insurance amount.Surmukh passed away in December 2009. However, he bequeathed his movable and immovable properties in favour of the applicant. After his death, she continuously pursued the case.On January 14, 2016 the applicant issued a letter to the company to release the insurance amount in her favour. But despite repeated attempts, she could not get the amount. Later, she registered a case against the company in 2018 at the PLA and sought compensation.After hearing statements of both the parties, the PLA comprising Chairman SK Jhulka and member Shushma Handoo concluded that the insurance firm was bound to follow the “Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (Protection of Policyholder Interest) Regulations”, hence, considering that the claim of the applicant was neither settled nor repudiated, directed the company to pay Rs 64,350 to the applicant with an interest rate of 6 per cent per annum from the date of registration of application. The applicant was also held entitled to a litigation cost of Rs 15,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/insurance-firm-fined-rs79k-for-denying-claim-169201
11-11-2020||Our Correspondent||6 gangsters arrested, eight pistols, ammunition seized||Hoshiarpur, November 10The district police have arrested six gangsters and seized eight pistols, ammunition, cars and motorcycles from them.Giving information during a press conference here on Tuesday, Navjot Singh Mahal, SSP, Hoshiarpur, told mediapersons that the team included Rakesh Kumar, DSP investigation, SHO Bullowal Inspector Pardeep Kumar, SHO Model Town Inspector Karnail Singh and in charge CIA Inspector Shiv Kumar for catching hold of gangsters and notorious snatchers.The SSP said CIA Inspector Shiv Kumar arrested Pranav Sehgal, alias Paru, a resident of Vikas Nagar, Rahon Road, SBS Nagar, and Rajat of Kirti Nagar, Hoshiarpur, from Bassi Maroof. The police recovered two illegal pistols, five live cartridges and a motorcycle from them. An FIR was registered against them under Sections 506 of the IPC and 25 of the Arms Act. The SSP said Pranav Sehgal, who is merely 20 years old, was wanted in a murder case of owner of Sodhi Car Bazaar, Dasuya, and in three cases of attempt to murder registered at SBS Nagar. “One of these cases was of firing on an NRI at SBS Nagar where the night show of Punjabi Singer Sidhu Mossewala was scheduled to be held during a kabaddi cup. However, after this firing incident his show was cancelled. Pranav Sehgal is working under the sinister influence of Rakesh Khatri, alias Sonu Khatri, a resident of Balachaur, who himself is a wanted criminal in many cases”, said the SSP.He said the SHO Bullowal arrested Lucky, a resident of Hoshiarpur, Sunil Kumar, alias Monu Gujjar, a resident of Hajipur village, and Paramjit Singh, alias Pamma, a resident of Naru Nangal, who are close aides of notorius gangster Ravi Balachoria. The police recovered five illegal pistols, 22 live bullets, 50 gm of heroin and a Honda City car from them. An FIR under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and Section 25 of the Arms Act has been registered against them. The SSP informed mediapersons that Lucky and Monu Gujjar were wanted in attempt to murder and under the NDPS Act case, besides cases of murder and other heinous crimes registered against them, while Pamma was on bail since September 28 in a murder case of a police officer’s son.In a similar operation, SHO Model Town arrested Varinderjeet Singh, alias Sabi, a resident of Bassi Jana police station and recovered an illegal pistol and four live bullets from him. “An FIR under Sections 336 and 506 of the IPC and 25 of the Arms Act has been registered against him. The arrest of the gangsters would also further helpful in tracking, tracing and arresting other big fishes”, said the SSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-gangsters-arrested-eight-pistols-ammunition-seized-169200
11-11-2020||Ajay Joshi||Fortunes of handicraftsmen hang in balance, no time for celebrations||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 10At this point of the year, Sanjana would start rubbing her hands together, immersed in the thought of customers, buying and eventually emptying her stall of decorative items. Nowadays, the pleasant thought hasn’t crossed her mind, not even once.“Our preparations for Diwali sales kickstart very early and almost two months before the celebrations we start collecting artificial pearls, frills, colourful clothes and other raw materials.It takes two-three hours to make one set of hanging frills embedded with hand bells, anklet bells, shinning mirror pieces and small lanterns and the handiworks vary with creativity. “I am standing here (Rainak bazaar) since 9.30 am and managed to sell only three in four hours,” says Sanjana, who’s been selling a variety of such pieces for the last five years, and has never witnessed a lull as big before.Every year dozens of Rajasthan-based artisans come here during the festival season to sell their handicrafts at a better price. The high hopes of expanding their sales have dropped dead to the ground amid the pandemic. The footfall of customers has reduced greatly compared to previous years. They have had a minimal sale during Dasehra and Navratri. Moreover, the online platforms are threatening to runaway with the profits of the pavement hawkers.“We usually copy the traditional designs and add only the new trappings that change with time. To beautify different kinds of frills, we also fix the Ganesh-Laxmi idol in between,” the 17-year-old tells. While she stands outside the shops with the decoratives, her brother persuades people to buy their stock. The whole family, comprising their parents and two more siblings, do the same job amid the festive season.Like them, a large number of the migrated artisans stand on different market areas of chowks to earn at least Rs500 a day. Owing to the crowd, Rainak bazaar inside Jyoti chowk is one of the hotspots for the crafters. Native of various villages in Jaipur, these artists consider Jalandhar as their second home — most of them living in the slums of Mithu Basti.Gopali Devi, 40, could mostly be seen lounging about her stall at Tikki Wala chowk these days. She has enough time to revisit the beginning of her journey. “I was trained by my parents and have passed on the baton to my children as well. We have been indulged in the art for generations and when there is no festivity around we sell the traditional Rajasthani jewellery… the college girls love it!” she shares.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fortunes-of-handicraftsmen-hang-in-balance-no-time-for-celebrations-169199
11-11-2020||Our Correspondent||1 dies, 21 test +ve in Hoshiarpur district||Hoshiarpur, November 10The district reported one more Covid-19 fatality on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 224, while 21 new cases pushed the infection count in the district to 6,458.Story HighlightsWith 1,463 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms taken today, total number of samples taken in the district so far has reached to 1,70,324. According to the reports received from the lab, 1,63,406 are negative, while the reports of 1,637 samples are awaited and 133 samples are invalid. Dr Jasvir Singh, Civil Surgeon, informed that the number of active cases is 200, while the number of patients who have recovered is 6,034. Out of 21 positive cases reported today, four are related to Hoshiarpur city, 17 belong to various health blocks, while a 63-year-old resident of Lamin village died at CMC Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-dies-21-test-ve-in-hoshiarpur-district-169198
11-11-2020||---||Rs1,850-cr development works approved: Chief Principal Secy||Jalandhar, November 10The Chief Principal Secretary, Suresh Kumar, said the state government had approved development projects worth Rs 1,850 crore of which works on Rs 900 crore were in progress.He said remaining works would also be started and tenders worth Rs 400 crore were in the pipeline.The Chief Principal Secretary was in the city to kickstart the development works at a cost of Rs 161 crore in the Cantonment Assembly segment. He also pointed out that all the projects would be accomplished within the stipulated time frame, thus paving the way for a major facelift, besides ensuring basic facilities to residents.Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh said the project works worth Rs 161 crore were initiated, including two sewerage projects of Rs 68 crore each and two road projects at a cost of Rs 26.31 crore.The MLA further mentioned that these projects would resolve major civic issues. He said installation of 100.66 km-long sewerage line has been started in 11 villages under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation, which would be completed at a cost of Rs 67 crore to provide modern civic amenities to 7,300 households in Subhani, Khambra, Alipur, Sofipind, Rehmanpur, Khusropur, Nangal Karar Khan, Alladinpur, Deep Nagar and Sansarpur.Apart from this, construction of 66-ft road leading towards Partappura from Urban Estate has begun, besides another road from Alipur to Khambra would be completed at a cost of Rs 2.13 crore, he said.Prominent amongst those present on the occasion included Shahkot MLA Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowaia, Mayor Jagdish Raj Raja, Principal Secretary of Local Bodies Department Ajoy Sharma, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and Commissioner MC Karnesh Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs1-850-cr-development-works-approved-chief-principal-secy-169197
11-11-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Colleges, universities reluctant to reopen||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 10Though the state government had given its nod on November 5 to reopen colleges and universities outside the containment zones from November 16, the authorities concerned were reluctant to take a call in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.While some universities had allowed post-graduate and PhD scholars to attend institutes, college managements were not keen on calling undergraduates.Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology (NIT) had reopened for MTech and research scholars, but has yet not taken any decision on holding regular classes for BTech students. Students returning to the campus were being screened for the virus.Dr LK Awasthi, Director, NIT, said, “We have already conducted 700 tests of students. We have also opened our hostels for students and are following all precautions.”Lovely Professional University, which has over 25,000 students enrolled, has not taken any call so far. “We do not want to reopen the campus in haste. The biggest challenge before us is whether students are ready to rejoin and are their parents willing to send them. Once students rejoin, we also have to open hostels, which itself will be a challenge. We need at least a week’s time to review the situation. Whenever we reopen the campus, we will follow all protocols,” said Aman Mittal, Additional Director, Public Relations (LPU).Managements of private colleges also shared the similar concern. Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi, Principal, Kanya Maha Vidyalaya, said, “After the government allowed research scholars and post-graduate students to visit laboratories in mid-October, some of our students started coming. However, we are not prepared to call undergraduate students. Once we call students, we will have to open hostels where they will be using common facilities, including washrooms and mess.”“Day scholars will use public transport and may become Covid-19 carriers. Holding online and offline classes will be doubly taxing on teachers, which we cannot afford. As of now, we are not reopening our campuses for BTech students,” said Dr Dwivedi.The college principals said they were also wary of the fact that second wave of the Covid-19 was expected around November end. They said they do not want such a situation wherein colleges had to be shut again.They added that as regular Classes for IX to XII in schools were not getting good response, they were not sure if a similar experiment could work for college students.A possible way out...While some universities had allowed post-graduate and PhD scholars to attend institutes, college managements were not keen on calling undergraduates. Most colleges have devised a plan to call in a few students on daily basis for their clearing doubts. Aseem Bhardwaj, a BBA-I student, said, “We have been attending online classes since August. Our teachers have allowed us to visit them after taking prior appointment. Whenever we have a doubt related to any topic, we send a message to our teachers who call us to the college. This way, we feel safe and get all the help.”Authoritiespeak||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/colleges-universities-reluctant-to-reopen-169196
11-11-2020||Jalandhar||Mandi, MSP system will end if laws implemented: Harish Rawat||All-India Congress Committee general secretary and state affairs in charge Harish Rawat today alleged the Narendra Modi government was hell-bent on making farmers and agricultural labourers slaves of the corporates.Speaking during a tractor rally, which was carried out from Nakodar to Talwan, against the farm laws, Rawat said if the laws were allowed to be implemented, the mandi and MSP systems would collapse. He said the minimum support price, mandis and assured procurement had provided food security to the nation and financial security to farmers, but the Modi government was out to destroy this system. He said the BJP government wanted to leave the poor at the mercy of the corporates.Earlier, Rawat received a rousing welcome by Jalandhar MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary, Phillaur Assembly constituency in charge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary and party workers as he entered Jalandhar district. The leaders and supporters greeted him at the Sutlej Bridge and accompanied him in a convoy to Nakodar. En route, he stopped at Nurmahal road Ganna Pind and Partabpura villages.Chaudhary said Rawat’s visit would boost the morale of party workers and farmers who have been protesting against the laws for months. Ex-MLA Jagbir Singh Brar said the farmers were already under debt and the BJP government was making their life further difficult.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mandi-msp-system-will-end-if-laws-implemented-harish-rawat-168898
11-11-2020||Jalandhar||Dhindsa, Brahmpura join hands for SGPC elections||Having split in July, SAD (Democratic) chief Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and SAD (Taksali) chief Ranjit Singh Brahmpura have come together again. Claiming to have formed a ‘Panthic’ front to liberate the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) from the clutches of the Badals, both said they were now on the same page for the cause.Besides Dhindsa and Brahmpura, the front has been joined by former Akal Takht Jathedar Bhai Ranjit Singh, founder of Sant Samaj Baba Sarabjot Singh Bedi and former Speaker and president of SAD (1920) Ravi Inder Singh. All five had a long discussion on the upcoming elections of the SGPC and said they had taken a pledge to stand united for Panthic issues. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dhindsa-brahmpura-join-hands-for-sgpc-elections-168960
