12-06-2020||Ludhiana||67-year-old Jalandhar woman dies of Covid-19||A 67-year-old coronavirus-positive patient, who was admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital here, died on Friday. She was diabetic and had a heart condition.The woman was admitted on June 5 and tested positive on June 6. Since then she had been on ventilator.Medical Superintendent of DMCH Dr Ashwani Chaudhary said she died around midnight; and had been admitted to the hospital following other health complications, and when her Covid-19 test was done, she was found positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/67-year-old-jalandhar-woman-dies-of-covid-19-98155
12-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||With medical degrees, these bureaucrats face Covid head-on||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 11PLAYING A PIVOTAL ROLEDr Sanjeev Sharma, SDM, Shahkot, is a PhD with all his doctorate work on virusesIn the ongoing fight against Covid-19, four civil officials posted here have been playing a pivotal role in handling the disease, especially because of their qualification and background. While three of them are qualified doctors, the fourth one has a doctorate degree on viruses.The overall coordinator for the Covid-19 management from the administration side is Dr Shena Aggarwal, MBBS passout from AIIMS (2009 batch). Having remained the topper in AIIMS as well as in her IAS examination, the entire team of officials banks on her for managing duties, hospital beds and testing norms. Dr Shena Aggarwal is posted as the CA, Jalandhar Development Authority.Both Dr Jai Inder Singh, SDM-1, and Dr Vineet Kumar, SDM, Phillaur, are BDS passouts. While Dr Jai Inder passed out from SGRD College, Amritsar, in 2009 and appeared for PCS examination in 2013, Dr Vineet passed out from the Laxmi Bai Institute of Dental Sciences in 2012 and joined the civil services in 2016.Says Dr Jai Inder Singh, “Our professional qualification has certainly helped us in performing our roles amid the Covid outbreak. I have been the nodal officer for the Civil Hospital. Understanding all terms such as SARI and ILI, which doctors are using on a daily basis, was not at all a problem for us. We have ourselves worn PPE kits and entered wards to make arrangements for the entertainment of patients. We have counselled the patients a number of times and have even done contact tracing for many by taking their history.”Dr Vineet shared, “As doctors, we could gauge how the disease was coming and what all planning we might have to do. There have been discussions on the WHO guidelines on preparing 1 per cent solution for sanitisation. So it is here, we could pitch in and help our teams understand what all it is about. When the disease initially came in my subdivision at Virk village, I was thoroughly involved in the management and we ensured that it is properly contained. The best part is that the Civil Hospital doctors and health workers do not treat you like any layman. Also, since there is a frequent change in the guidelines, we as doctors can better understand how to proceed and re-strategise things.”Dr Sanjeev Sharma, SDM, Shahkot, is a PhD with all his doctorate work on viruses. “In this time, I could understand the behaviour of viruses, their mutations and how to keep safe. So I was tasked with creating awareness and preparing material for people to understand the problem and take precautions.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-medical-degrees-these-bureaucrats-face-covid-head-on-97874
12-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||Of 10 Covid-19 casualties, majority chose pvt hospitals for treatment||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 11Three City Residents Among 12 New CasesThe three residents of the city who tested positive include a 34-year-old man from Avtar Nagar, whose contact history is not known yet, a 27-year old woman resident of Shaheed Baba Deep Singh Nagar and a 40-year-old man from Buta Mandi, a contact of a previous Covid patientOf the 10 persons died of Covid in the district so far, a majority were referred to or chose to go to private hospitals. While most of them had co-morbidities, at least six were put on ventilator.Of the 10 persons, four chose to go to the local Civil Hospital while the rest chose private hospitals or medical establishments in the city and outside the district. Of the four who died at the Civil Hospital, one was city’s first case (an Ayurvedic chemist), the other three were women from Kotla Heran, Basti Danishmandan and Ishar Nagar.Ever since the lockdown started on March 23, there have been 10 Covid deaths in the district. Of these, one was 30 year old, two were aged 48 and 49, three aged 50, 51 and 59, one aged 66 and 64 and two were aged 91 and 86-year-old. The latter died on Wednesday.Three persons died at hospitals in Ludhiana (two at the CMC and one at the DMCH); one at the PGI, Chandigarh, and another patient at a private hospital at Rama Mandi here.The person who died on Wednesday had been admitted to a private hospital but breathed his last at the IMA facility in Shahkot. He also went to the Civil Hospital but the family chose to take him to the IMA facility. The majority of the deceased were cases which traversed private hospitals before finally being referred to a medical college or some other multispeciality centre in the state.With the majority choose to go to private hospitals, the private institutions have to exercise caution in coming days. So far, the health authorities have denied the need for extra ventilators or beds to add to the existing arrangements in the district. As many as 150 ventilators are on reserve in private establishments.Dr. Vijay Mahajan, CMD, Tagore Hospital and Heart Care Centre, Jalandhar, said: “Private hospitals are getting a steady stream of Covid patients. A policy for all private hospitals must include the presence of ‘triage’ areas outside the hospital where a flu corner is established and all patients are screened for temperature and travel history before entering. The foremost concern of the private hospitals is ensuring patients with co-morbidities or diseases already admitted with them stay protected from the infection. While we take in all patients, high-risk patients with Covid symptoms must be referred to the Civil Hospital. At present, this is how we operate and strict protocol is being followed to ensure that none of those suspected to be infected is let into the main area of the hospital.”Dr Navjot Dahiya, in charge, IMA chapter, Jalandhar, said: “With the current case inflow, existing beds and ventilators in the district are enough. But keeping in mind any kind of emergency, which might arise in the future, the best solution would be to earmark a common place somewhere outside the city, away from congested areas, where beds in larger numbers can be incorporated at a single facility. A university or a mall could be used for the same. The private sector is willing to provide beds for the same. We have also created a back up of ventilators that can also be provided to the government if we are provided with the AMC (annual maintenance costs). It isn’t possible to set up isolation units at private hospitals in the city as they are located in crowded areas, some in the heart of residential localities.”Those deeceased who were put on ventilator support include city’s first Covid casualty Ayurvedic chemist Parveen Sharma, a Maharashtra labourer from Basti Gujan who was admitted to a private hospital, the 64-year-old Tagore Nagar man who died a few days ago, the 30 year-old admitted to the PGI with kidney disease, a 91-year-old Jandu Singha resident and a patient admitted to Ludhiana. The 51-year-old astrologer, a Covid suspect, who died a few days ago, was also gasping when brought to the ESI Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/of-10-covid-19-casualties-majority-chose-pvt-hospitals-for-treatment-97875
12-06-2020||Our Correspondent||50% Sultanpur Lodhi farmers go for direct seeding of paddy||Kapurthala, June 11Known for the production of vegetables across the state, Sultanpur Lodhi has again showed the way to the farming community with nearly 50 per cent of direct paddy sowing during the current season. Under the technical guidance of agriculture and farmers’ welfare department, the upbeat farmers from this area have changed the whole scenario of traditional method of paddy transplantation as they brought nearly 16,000 hectare area out of total 34,000 hectare paddy area, under direct paddy sowing.Agricultural Development Officer at Sultanpur Lodhi, Dr Jaspal Singh Dhanju, said the farmers of this belt are very keen to adopt new techniques and seeds, resulting in the production of many cash crops like potato, tomato, maize, bell pepper etc. This year they went for direct sown of paddy and that too with a little modification in zero till drill, which was mainly used for wheat sowing, he added. Terming it as a giant step to control the cultivation expenses as well as to save the ground water, Dr Jaspal Singh said the biggest challenge was to provide a sense of security and belief in the success of direct paddy sowing and for that the department has established direct contact with all the progressive farmers in the area besides ensuring the physical presence of department official in the fields at the time of sowing. Baldev Singh from Talwandi Chaudriyan village said he started the direct sowing seven years ago and this time he opted for direct sowing in 450 acres. Working on the successful trials of direct paddy sowing, farmer Harman Singh of Nurowal village said he used this technique in his entire land holding. On the other hand, the owners of paddy sowing machines, Ajaypal Singh and Yuvraj Singh of Sarai Jattan village, term it a great success story as they have sown more than 650 acres on rent basis. Dr Jaspal Singh further said after the sowing of paddy, farmers must remain vigilant to control the weed in field.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/50-sultanpur-lodhi-farmers-go-for-direct-seeding-of-paddy-97876
12-06-2020||---||Webinar dwells on use of tech for ‘self-reliant Bharat’||Jalandhar, June 11A webinar on ‘Appropriate technology for self-reliant Bharat’ was organised by the BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology to discuss challenges and ways to achieve ‘Atamnirbhar Bharat’ vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Prof Aditya Diwakar Nath Bajpai, Rani Durgavati University, Jabalpur (Ex-Vice-Chancellor, HP University) who is a renowned educationist and economist, delivered a talk in the webinar.He said the biggest challenge for India to be self-reliant was in the sectors of energy and technology. In the last few years, the dependence of people on the technology was exponentially increasing. The requirement of the same was being fulfilled by the advanced countries by providing ready solutions for Indian market.As a result, there was a threat to the safety and security of Indian culture and heritage. Further, India was sharing its boundary with seven countries, out of which there was a major challenge posed from Pakistan and China in terms of its security and trade.Since the problems of various countries could not be the same, there could not be a universal solution to any problem for all nations across the globe. To manage it efficiently, self-reliant India had to devise its own solutions using its resources rather than depending upon other nations.Professor Bajpai explained the topic with some areas in this mission ie managing groundwater, new methods of irrigation, switching to ayurveda, practicing yoga, renewable energy resources and indigenous products, which could help India to be self-reliant.He emphasised the need to become self-propelled than self-reliant to achieve the mission. Prof Lalit K Awasthi, Director, NIT, said, “In case of hardware and mobile phones, we are totally dependent on imports and we have to find solutions to such problems if we want to be self-reliant.”Professor Awasthi reassured the commitment of faculty, staff and students for contributing to the self-reliant Bharat and informed that during pandemic times, a number of patents had been filed by institute faculty and lot many research projects had been submitted to funding institutions.More than 100 participants from various parts of India attended the webinar. Prof ADN Bajpai answered to queries of the participants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-dwells-on-use-of-tech-for-self-reliant-bharat-97877
12-06-2020||Ashok Kaura||MC fails to evict encroachers from its land||Phagwara, June 11As soon as Unlock-1 began, traffic chaos is being witnessed in the corporation town of Phagwara. Despite stern orders issued by Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal and SSP Satinder Singh to check people roaming without masks and openly violating the orders, people are not seemed to be in mood to follow the instructions even during the increased risk of Covid-19. Kapurthala SSP Satinder Singh said the police would strictly implement lockdown restrictons on every Saturday and Sunday, besides holidays.Most of the shops could be seen open even after the strict closing time of 7 pm. Several shopkeepers had encroached upon the verandas outside their shops and pavements meant for pedestrians. Some shopkeepers have constructed basements under the pavements and verandas illegally in the posh locality of Hargobind Nagar, but the Municipal Corporation had taken no action against the violators.Expecting the Phagwara Municipal Corporation to clear encroachments from public property may be asking for too much as the civic body is not even able to evict encroachers from properties under its direct control.The police have illegally occupied the council’s guesthouse for the past 26 years, despite being asked to move out. The office of the DSP is functioning from the guesthouse. Sources said former nagar council (NC) had passed resolutions and submitted a memorandum to the Punjab DGP and Principal Secretary, Local Bodies, more than nine years ago to initiate the necessary steps to get the guesthouse vacated.Although the new police complex, including offices and residences, has been constructed near Gurdwara Sukhchain Sahib, the police seem to be in no mood to vacate the guesthouse.Phagwara SP Manwinder Singh said he joined his duty at the guesthouse. Moreover, the NC never asked him to vacate the guesthouse. The police have also encroached upon the land of PRTC and running the office of the Traffic Police from the Phagwara bus stand for the past several years.Another significant occupation, about which the council has not been able to do anything, is on a large portion of the council premises by City Club for the past 44 years. Its lease expired in 1976.The City Club, headed by Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner, who is a permanent president of the club, was paying a token rent of Re 1 to the council till 19 years ago when the then NC president Kharaiti Lal Gaba hiked it to Rs 100 per month. However, the present market rate of the area is more than Rs 1.5 lakh per month. Municipal Corporation authorities said neither the club was renewing its lease nor considering increase in the lease rent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mc-fails-to-evict-encroachers-from-its-land-97878
12-06-2020||---||Jobless man kills father||Jalandhar, June 11A 35-year-old man allegedly killed his father after a heated argument at Guru Nanakpura West here today. The deceased has been identified as Bhopal Singh Rana (60).ACP Bimal Kant said the accused, Dinesh Singh Rana, first hit his father with an iron rod and then inflicted a deep cut on his throat with a sharp-edged knife.During interrogation, the accused said his father would taunt him for being jobless and was pressurising him to look for a job. In a fit of rage, he killed him.The victim is survived by his wife and two sons. While his wife works as a peon, his elder son is working with a private company. The accused is also married and has a five-year-old son. No one was at the home when the incident took place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jobless-man-kills-father-97879
12-06-2020||Hoshiarpur||Two cell phones seized from jail inmates||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-cell-phones-seized-from-jail-inmates-97880
12-06-2020||---||Jalandhar NIT improves NIRF ranking to 52nd||Jalandhar, June 11Three universities of Jalandhar have figured in the list of top institutes in the 2020 NIRF ranking declared by the HRD Ministry on Thursday.A deemed university being run by the Centre, Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology (NIT), Jalandhar, has managed to get 52nd rank this year against 113th position last time. Likewise, the state government-run IK Gujral Punjab Technical University has got 104th rank among top 200 engineering institutes of the country.Among private universities here, Lovely Professional University has got an overall university ranking of 78 among all the government and private universities of the country. The LPU is the only private university of Punjab to be among the top 100. The LPU School of Pharmacy has been ranked at 29; Management 49; and Engineering at 87.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-nit-improves-nirf-ranking-to-52nd-97881
12-06-2020||Jalandhar||Online coaching for jobless to crack competitive exams||The District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE) has initiated online coaching for jobless youth, which would help them in competitive exams and interviews.Vishesh Sarangal, Chief Executive Officer, DBEE, and Additional Deputy Commissioner, said the free online coaching classes had been started under the state government’s ‘Ghar-Ghar Rozgar’ scheme amid the Covid lockdown.As the unemployment rate has surged due to the lockdown, several enquiries were being made at the employment bureau for jobs. Sarangal said the youth would be guided by counsellors of the DBEE on how to clear competitive exams for government jobs.Jasvir Singh, a career counsellor at the employment bureau, said the department had roped in private tutors to provide online coaching daily. “The tutors will prepare students for all government exams, including SSC, banking and others. The state employment bureau had earlier planned to provide coaching to the unemployed youth offline, however they shifted to the digital mode due to the lockdown.Demo classes with 25 already registered youths had already been conducted.Meanwhile, Deputy Director, DBEE, Sunita Kalyan said, “The interested applicants can dial 89683-21674 for coaching and services from 9 am to 5 pm. Job seekers can register themselves on www.pgrkam.com for the regular updates about jobs and others”.Videos to aware students of Covid-19 pandemicTo make students aware of the ongoing pandemic and precautions to protect yourself, the Education Department had asked principals and teachers to send educational messages on the pandemic. Now, the teachers have been asked to send videos to students till June 30 to spread awareness among students while taking online classes.Already, the teachers have been using new tools and technologies to teach students. Mission Fateh is the effort of the people of Punjab to defeat the pandemic in the face of overwhelming odds. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-coaching-for-jobless-to-crack-competitive-exams-97882
12-06-2020||---||Provide smartphones to Asha workers: Kalia||Jalandhar, June 11Former Health Minister Manoranjan Kalia has urged the state government to provide smartphones to Asha Workers.He said these workers earned between Rs 2,000 and Rs 3,000 per month and could not afford a smartphone to update data on the government application after carrying out a door-to-door survey for Covid-19.Kalia said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh should provide the smartphones to 28,000 Asha and anganwadi workers free of cost. Apart from this, the government should also bear the minimum Internet charges of Rs 200 per month per person.He said for the survey, Asha workers were being paid Rs 4 per household and they were supposed to cover 25 households in a day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/provide-smartphones-to-asha-workers-kalia-97883
12-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Father, son booked for duping man of Rs 25L||Nakodar, June 11The Mehatpur police today booked a father and his son, both travel agents, for allegedly duping a local resident of Rs 25 lakh on the pretext of sending him abroad.Nakodar DSP Navneet Singh Mahal said the suspects had been identified as Mohindar Singh, a resident of Padda Colony, Sukh Enclave, in Sultanpur Lodhi and his son Rannbir Singh.He said Amarjit Singh, a resident of Tandaura village, here, complained to Jalandhar (rural) SSP Navjot Singh Mahal that he paid Rs 25 lakh tothe suspects for facilitating his migration abroad but neither he was sent abroad not returnedthe money.Mahal said a case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 13 of the Travel Professional Regulation Act had been registered against the duo after a probe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/father-son-booked-for-duping-man-of-rs-25l-97884
12-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Stationery items distributed among children||Phagwara, June 11The Sarb Naujwan Sabha, Phagwara, headed by Sukhwinder Singh, has distributed stationery items among adopted children of closed schools for homework during the lockdown.ASI Surjit Kumar presided over the function and distributed stationery among children of schools belonging to Malikpur, Chachoki and Jagatpur Jattan villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stationery-items-distributed-among-children-97885
12-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||Gotta, kinari business loses sheen||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 11The Covid-19 outbreak and the lockdown have cast its shadow on the ‘gotta’ and ‘kinari’ (used as accessories on suits) business. Most functions have been postponed and women buyers are also preferring staying indoors in the wake of the Covid threat.In the months of June and July, retailers stock varieties of knitting yarn for winters. However, this year there is a dearth even in the supply of basic yarn stock from manufacturers due to the lockdown.There is a dearth of knitting yarn even in summer months. Also, since there are no weddings, kitty parties and gatherings, no one is buying gotas and laces. Boutiques are badly affected. Their workers have gone back to native places and there is less demand for these accessories.Manish, ShopkeeperManish, who has been running a hand knitting yarn and women dressing accessories shop for the past over two decades, has been going through the toughest phase in the business.Apart from a variety of hand knitting yarn, he deals in the choicest assortment of embellished, embroidered, sequined, tasseled, sparkling laces and ‘gota’ (golden lace) and usually earns a handsome amount in summer and the monsoon.Manish, who reopened the shop on May 18, said it was the most unusual slump he had ever seen. “There is a dearth of knitting yarn even in summer months. Also, since there are no weddings, kitty parties and gatherings, no one is buying gotas and laces. Boutiques are badly affected. Their workers have gone back to native places and there is less demand for these accessories,” he said.“We would stock hand knitting yarn in these months. But due to a shortage of labour and partial resumption of manufacturing at factories, yarn supply has been affected. While there are apprehensions that both supply and sales will pick up in September and October, it is difficult to predict as of now. We are pinning our hopes on winter sales - when yarn is in demand.”“We have lost 30 per cent of our business in yarn sales due to the lockdown. Those who would buy wool for two cardigans earlier would buy for only one now. Many have skipped buying altogether. But we are hopeful of things getting better by winter.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gotta-kinari-business-loses-sheen-97888
12-06-2020||---||This principal spares no effort to ensure quality education to pupils||Jalandhar, June 11As schools have shifted to digital mode in these times of the Covid-19 pandemic to ensure that studies of students do not get affected, it has put extra responsibility on teachers to not only become technically sound but also deliver appropriate study material to them. Sunita Sahota Randhawa, principal, Government Co-education Senior Secondary School, Ladowali Road, is leaving no stone unturned to provide quality education to students even amid the lockdown.With a large number of students from poor families having no access to smartphones and computers, she ensures that the students of her school are able to connect to live classes started by the State Education Department on DD Punjabi channel.She says: “Though the coronavirus outbreak has led to temporarily closure of schools, I, along with my staff, am on toes to ensure full-fledged e-classes are provided to the students through all available virtual mediums. With the help of subject teachers, I ensure that a daily reminder is sent to senior secondary students to watch Swayam Prabhu channel.”“Those who did not have access to the channel were provided it free of cost. The teachers are also instructed to make sure that regular physical and co-curricular activities that can be performed at home are advised to the students. To verify that the students are learning the activities given to them, we ask their parents to give us weekly reports. The students who have smartphones send us their pictures.”With around 370 students in Classes VI to XII, the principal also focuses on providing career guidance to all students. “Through several activities the students are helped to explore their field of interest. Career counselling is regularly imparted to the students, especially those who are studying in senior secondary classes. Apart from helping the students in choosing their streams, they are also counselled on various career options available after schooling,” added Sunita.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-principal-spares-no-effort-to-ensure-quality-education-to-pupils-97890
12-06-2020||Phagwara||Two arrested with drugs||Ban imposed on kite-flying stringPhagwara: Kapurthala District Magistrate Deepti Uppal has imposed a complete ban on the use, storage and sale of synthetic and nylon string for flying kites and the Chinese string till August 1. In the order issued under Section 144, CRPC, the District Magistrate said it has come to her notice that in these days a lot of people were using such strings to fly kites and dolls. Hence, there was an urgent need to take appropriate steps to stop the practice. OCRelief given to flood-hit farmersPhillaur: Congress leader and Assembly in-charge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary on Wednesday disbursed financial assistance sanction letters to farmers adversely affected by 2019 floods in Mau Sahib and Ganna Pind villages of the Phillaur Assembly constituency. Based on the letters, the compensation amount would be deposited directly into bank accounts of the beneficiaries. The letters amounting to Rs 14,56,000 were handed over to 94 beneficiaries. Seventythree of them belonged to Ganna Pind and 21 are residents of Mau Sahib. On Monday, letters amounting to Rs 40 lakh were disbursed by him to flood-affected residents. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-arrested-with-drugs-97891
12-06-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Survival, not profit, should be the aim of bizmen this year’||Nearly 50-year-old Jalandhar-based company, Hind Engineering Works, has ventured into the job of making items that are in demand these days. Company owner Narinder Singh Saggoo, who is also the president of the Focal Point Extension Association, shares with Deepkamal Kaur how he has been tackling the crisis induced by the Covid-led lockdown. Excerpts:How is your business doing amid the lockdown?We are into the manufacturing of cast iron hand pump parts, pipe fittings, luxury bathroom fittings and submersible pumps. The demand for these has come down to just 50 per cent of the before-Covid level. We are working at the 30 per cent to 40 per cent level of our capacity as many of our labourers have left for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.We want the government to exempt us from payment of fixed charges for power consumption. Since our consumption has almost halved, the government should instruct the PSPCL to charge as per the power usage. This will help us reduce our overhead costs and lighten our burden to a large extent.Narinder Singh Saggoo, Owner, Hind Engineering WorksAre migrant labourers returning after easing of restrictions?We have been getting calls from our migrant workers, asking us to re-employ them. Now as the trains have started, and also because they couldn't find any work there, they have started to come back. We have told them that they would have to follow the government guidelines, including quarantine norms, before starting to work on our premises. We have a building with 10 rooms to house the returning labourers during their quarantine period. We also give them small jobs such as packaging during this time. We make sure that products handled by them are left untouched for 48 hours to prevent the spread of coronavirus.Are you getting the required raw material for your business operations?Yes, we are getting the required raw material but prices have increased. All iron and steel items used in fittings have become dearer by 10 per cent to 15 per cent. The iron prices are fluctuating a lot. This is happening as some people had stocked up on iron parts during the lockdown and are now selling these. A rise in cost of raw material leads to an increase in prices of our items too. Our exports often get stuck up if we don't take into account the competitive prices of products from other countries, including China.What are your demands from the government?We want the government to exempt us from fixed charges for power consumption. Since our consumption has almost halved, the government should instruct PSPCL to charge as per the power usage. This will help us reduce our overhead costs and lighten our burden to a large extent. Of late, our burden has also remained high as our labourers, who were into manufacturing of items, had left but our supervisors, foremen and watchmen stayed on duty. While we were not manufacturing, we had to pay wages to the higher-rung people. Bank loans were another overhead.Have you brought a change in production line or re-strategised your business in any way?Yes. Our company has been quite innovative. While I am myself quite experimental, my sons often tend to modify products, keeping in mind market needs. Initially, we manufactured many foot sanitiser stands and sold them in the market. Their demand fell after a boom in the beginning. Another product that we launched was automatic sanitiser dispenser that works on sensor and sprays it in form of droplets or mist on hands. The sanitiser gets used rationally and more effectively on hands. This dispenser is in high demand and private companies, shops, offices, hotels, restaurants, schools and even mohalla societies have been buying it. In a week or so, we may come up with UV light devices for quick sanitising of mobiles, purses, belts and other non-washable items that we carry outside daily.What message you want to give to other manufacturers at this point of time?At least for this year, all manufacturers must not worry about profits. The aim should be to survive. One must not give up and try his best to sustain in the market and continue to maintain the name of their brand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/survival-not-profit-should-be-the-aim-of-bizmen-this-year-97892
12-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Unsettling to skip passing out parade, say IMA cadets’ parents||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 11Several parents from Punjab, whose children would be passing out from IMA, Dehradun, this Saturday, have expressed their anguish for not being able to be with their wards in one of the most seminal moments of their lives.“Had the world not been gripped by the coronavirus, we would left for Dehradun to be with our sons and celebrate their achievement. Like all parents, we too would have performed the pinning ceremony and got pictures clicked. We are finding it a tad difficult to come to terms with the fact that we won’t be there with our children,” say parents of several young boys, who had studied together at Sainik School, Kapurthala, trained together at NDA and will now be passing out from the IMA.Couple Malkinder Bajwa and Harjinder Bajwa, both of whom are teachers at Sainik School, Kapurthala, said their son Harman Bajwa would be passing out from IMA, Dehradun. “In all these years, it will be for the first time that parents of cadets won’t be able to attend the passing out parade of their children. We had even readied a frame to be put on the wall of our drawing room, but now we won’t have the picture for it. Perhaps, it wasn’t in our destiny. Even, our son won’t be able to fly to us to spend his one month break. From the academy, he will be straightaway going to Assam, where he will join the Special Forces.”Tarn Taran-based Birinder Kaur Dhillon, mother of cadet Akashdeep Dhillon, said, “Of course, it’s sad that we would be missing out on one of the important events in our son’s life, but we can’t do anything about it.”Dasuya-based Arvind Gautam and his wife Anjani Kumari, both of whom are government school teachers, recalled, “Since when he was very young, our son Tapeesh Gautam wanted to join the Army. We supported him in fulfilling his dreams. And now, when it was time to see him accomplish his childhood dream, we won’t be able to celebrate his happiness with him in person.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unsettling-to-skip-passing-out-parade-say-ima-cadets-parents-97935
