12-08-2020||Jalandhar||Curfew relaxed for 4 hours on Janmashtami in Jalandhar||He said there are around 207 temples in the jurisdiction of Jalandhar Commissionerate, for which elaborate security arrangements have been made in the wake of the celebrations. He said around 1,000 cops have been deployed to keep a strict vigil in the wake of Janamashtami celebrations. He said CCTV cameras have been installed at all temples for keeping a regular check in and around temples. He said round the clock vigil was being kept in the city, for which various patrolling parties were set up. Likewise, he said senior officers were instructed to conduct inspection in the city to maintain law and order situation. Meanwhile, the top cop, along with other officers, visited Maha Laxmi Temple and gave directions to officials for smooth celebrations. ADCP Vatsala Gupta, ACPs Satinder Chadha, Harsimrat Singh and others were present on the occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/curfew-relaxed-for-4-hours-on-janmashtami-in-jalandhar-125458
12-08-2020||Jalandhar||‘Op Red Rose’: 1,432-ltr illicit liquor recovered in 10 days||Following the unfortunate Tarn Taran hooch tragedy that claimed the lives of around 113 persons, the Excise Department along with the rural and city police have swung into action.698.49-ltr country-made liquor also seizedAs per the figures received from the City Police Commissionerate and the rural police, over 1,432.25 litres of illicit liquor, 698.49 litres of country-made liquor and 10,640 kg of lahan have been recovered by the police in just 10 days. Most of the recoveries were evidently made by the rural police. While the city police seized 14.25 litres of spurious liquor and 613.74 litres of country-made liquor, the rural police have seized 1432.25 litres of illicit liquor, 84.750 of country-made liquor and 10,640 kg of lahan.As per the figures received from the City Police Commissionerate and the rural police, over 1,432.25 litres of illicit liquor, 698.49 litres of country-made liquor and 10,640 kg of lahan have been recovered by the police in just 10 days. Most of the recoveries were evidently made by the rural police. While the city police seized 14.25 litres of spurious liquor and 613.74 litres of country-made liquor, the rural police have seized 1432.25 litres of illicit liquor, 84.750 of country-made liquor and 10,640 kg of lahan.In addition, the rural police arrested 91 persons, including 82 men and 9 men in 103 cases between August 1 and 10. Likewise, the city police arrested 62 persons in 59 cases.Pawanjit Singh, Assistant Commissioner, Excise Department, Jalandhar, said, “After conducting several raids, major recoveries were made from Phillaur, Lohian, Bhilga, Shahkot, Mehatpur and other rural areas.Raids were carried out early in the morning in these areas so that the accused could also be nabbed easily. The easy and free availability of water along the Sutlej is apparently the prime reason behind the storage of lahan in village areas which are far away from residential areas.”Likewise, Navjot Bharti, Excise Taxation Officer (ETO), said, “Officials of the department, accompanied by the police, have already been monitoring the sale and manufacturing of spurious liquor for the past three months under “Operation Red Rose” and after the hooch tragedy, they have intensified their drive and have done huge recoveries in just 10 days.”As per information received from SP (Hqrs) Ravi Kumar, 466.500 litres of illicit liquor, 18.750 of country-made liquor, 32.250 litres of English wine and 3,000 kg of lahan were recovered from Phillaur subdivision, including Phillaur, Goraya and Bilga.From Nakodar subdivision, a total of 96.750 litres of illicit liquor, 9 litres of country-made liquor and 299 kg of lahan has been recovered. Thirteen FIRs have been registered in Nakodar.Maximum recoveries were done in Shahkot division, including 785 litres of illicit liquor and 7,350 kg of lahan. Thirtyfive cases were registered here with the arrest of 30 persons. The other recoveries were made from Kartarpur and Adampur subdivision.A senior official of the city police commissionerate said the manufacturing and sale of spurious liquor were mostly restricted to rural areas only. However, the drive to curb the banned liquor continued in city areas as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/op-red-rose-1-432-ltr-illicit-liquor-recovered-in-10-days-125459
12-08-2020||Jalandhar||IMA Punjab develops cost-effective ventilator||Indian Medical Association (IMA), Punjab, has taken a leap forward to facilitate Covid-19 treatment to critically-ill patients under the President ship of Dr Navjot Dahiya and Secretary Dr Paramjit Maan.IMA, Punjab, which is running a dedicated Covid hospital at Billi Chaharmi, near Shahkot, has introduced new ventilator equipment called High Flow Nasal Cannula (HFNC). Director of this Covid Hospital Dr SPS Sooch said this new form of ventilation therapy was being used at a few selected centres in Punjab.Members of the IMA said until now, seriously-ill patients with breathing difficulties, requiring high flow oxygen were put on ventilators and to treat such patients, hospitals required highly complicated form of invasive ventilation which needed to be operated by highly-skilled paramedical and medical personnel.This HFNC can be operated by ordinary paramedical staff/nurses, under the supervision of the doctors, as compared to the earlier used ventilators. This form of therapy is very effective in critically-ill patients. Moreover, this therapy is cost-effective as this machine costs around Rs 2 lakh as compared to conventional ventilator, which values around Rs 12 to 20 lakh, he said.State president Dr Navjot Dahiya, along with Secretary Dr Paramjit Maan and Dr SPS Sooch, Director, COVID Hospital, demonstrated the functioning of this HFNC before the State Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ima-punjab-develops-cost-effective-ventilator-125460
12-08-2020||Avneet KaurJalandhar||Surya Enclave residents protest against JIT||Members of Surya Enclave Extension Welfare Society staged a symbolic protest against the Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT) here on Tuesday morning. Five members of the society, holding candles in their hands, ensuring social distancing and following other Covid-19 norms, sat outside the office of JIT demanding refund of the principal amount paid to JIT for the plots, the possession of which they haven’t received till date.Fact FileIn 2011, the JIT had framed a “development scheme” for the allotment of residential plots in Surya Enclave Extension in around 94.97 acre of land. It offered around 431 plots in various sizes, ranging from 100 square yards to 500 square yards to the general public at a reserve price of Rs17,000 per square yard. Though it had taken a substantial amount of money from the allottees, it failed to hand over the possession of the plots to a few of them. Talking to The Tribune, ML Sehgal, president of the Surya Enclave Extension Welfare Society, said the JIT had miserably failed to remove illegal encroachments from their area, which was the main hurdle behind allottees not getting the possession of their plots even after nine years.“There are a number of encroachments on the ‘C and D’ block of the complex. Also, there is a slaughterhouse on the complex and an illegal kothi (house) in the park, which despite repeated complaints, has not been removed,” he said.He said migrant workers have illegally occupied residential plots in their area that belong to various allottees. “There are total 16 allottees, who had paid around Rs40 lakh to Rs50 lakh each, but haven’t got the possession so far, as these encroachers refuse to clear the area and even the JIT had failed to take any action against them,” Sehgal said.Another protester, Rai Sahib, said: “I am an uneducated man, I do not have knowledge of all this paper work and legal formalities,” he said, alleging that even though he hasn’t received the possession of his plot, the JIT claimed to have given him the possession.Other protesters Bharat Bhushan Khullar and Naresh Walia said: “The JIT is yet to clear encroachments on the Maharaja Agarsain road (120-feet road lying unconstructed), which gives a very shoddy look to our colony. There is a factory falling in between and some migrants have built their kuccha houses on the road, which needs to relocated,” they said, adding that they have been demanding the construction of a 120-ft road connecting the Damoria Railway Overbridge with the national highway via Surya Enclave Extension since long, but the authorities concerned were paying no heed.Major demands||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surya-enclave-residents-protest-against-jit-125461
12-08-2020||When Punjab reported the first death due to Covid-19||‘Testing positive came as a rude shock to all’||“We were already fearful because of the death of Baldev Singh, but when I was tested positive for Covid, I was taken aback. I remember losing sleep and appetite when I got to know about my report. I was then admitted to the hospital. I still remember how I spent the first night in the hospital. I was scared and nervous, nothing was cheering me up. But then, I decided to shun bad and negative thoughts cropping up in my mind and started thinking positive. 'Dil mazboot karna painda hai', then only one can conquer this disease.“Thankfully, I had no co morbidities, and I never suffered any minor illness, too, but contracting this virus was something very shocking to me. I had minor symptoms such as cough and cold, otherwise I was alright. I seriously wish that nobody goes through this disease, where people are in isolation, away from their families. But, I am thankful to the hospital staff, who took care of me with love and compassion. I was getting medicines and food on time, and was in touch with my family members through cell phone continuously.“There was a time during my treatment, when I was not able to talk to my daughter. I kept wondering why she never came online. It was only when I got back, that I got to know that since my reports were tested positive twice, my daughter was unable to bear this shock. This made it difficult for her to talk to me. Now, four months have elapsed since I tested positive, but I still get the jitters. But I request everyone who has contracted the virus, not to lose hope. I know it is easier said than done, but one can tide over this with his strong will.”— As told to Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/testing-positive-came-as-a-rude-shock-to-all-125462
12-08-2020||Jalandhar||Usual buzz missing, highway eateries getting reasonable footfall in Jalandhar||When almost all city-based restaurants and hotels have lost out on their customers and some of them have even shut down operations temporarily amid coronavirus, the highway eateries have fared far better getting a regular clientele.Confined at home, they needed some changeAmong various highway travellers at Haveli, a Jalandhar-based family of seven, too, could be spotted enjoying food at Haveli. Raj Kumar Sikka had come along with his wife, siblings, kids and family elders. Asked how come he had tagged the elderly and the kids, he quickly retorted: “They had been getting bored confined to the four walls since March and were after me to give them some change. So, I brought them here to spend a good time together outside their confines.” Ever since the MHA issued guidelines on June 23, the highway joints were the first to open, of course keeping safety protocols in mind. Though the usual buzz is missing and waiting time to occupy a table is minimal, almost all the eateries including Haveli, Lucky Dhaba, multinational chains of eateries offering burgers, pizzas, coffee and snacks are getting a reasonable footfall.The more one advertises about ensuring safety norms and government SOPs, the more clientele he gets as is the case with Haveli. Step into their outer area and you no longer find women and kids filling the buckets from a well and posing for pictures — a scene that has been the main attraction of the restaurant for 13 years since its launch. The rides for kids are no longer functional. In fact, there are very few kids and elderly peoplewho are landing up here. Even those who come along are not allowed to venture around and touch anything here and there.The outside stalls of junk food opened just a month back but the menu remains limited. Golgappas are served but in one pack where in the customer has to himself fill the balls with a glass full of sweet and sour water provided along. South Indian counter provides dosas but not the idlis and vadas. The Chinese counter too has a limited number of items to offer.Even the main menu in the restaurant remains a bit restricted. While earlier even the non-seasonal varieties of vegetables were available on the platter, but now only the more commonly ordered food items are being offered. Other than ensuring a good quality of food and service, the main focus remains on maintaining hygiene and sanitisation for which a dedicated staff remains employed all the time.While thermal screening, hand sanitisation and 50 per cent occupancy norms are being followed like any other restaurant, Haveli has introduced new layout system. As every alternate table in the restaurant remains sealed, new side tables have been added to the main tables. It is here that the waiters place the autoclaved, laminated plates.Harsh, manager of Haveli, shares: “We have installed a plant where all washed dishes are subjected to heat and then laminated. We laminate all utensils including plates, bowls, glasses, cutlery and even pickle and chilly stands. We keep on fumigating the restaurant with sanitisers all day through. Our waiters serve the customers wearing masks, head caps and gloves which we keep providing them afresh. We keep checking the body temperature of our staff after every two hours and are even maintaining a record of the same.”Haveli CEO DK Umesh shares: “From the number plates of vehicles parked outside, we have assessed that majority of our customers are travellers. The number of people coming to us from Jalandhar, Phagwara and neighbouring towns have somewhat fallen. But it is indeed picking, especially on the weekends. We get about 250 cyclists from Jalandhar at our dhaba on Sundays, who stop over and have paranthas and tea here.”PeoplespeakI am a businessman from Faridabad and was on my way to Jalandhar for some work on Tuesday. So, I chose to stop over here for lunch at Haveli. I am satisfied with the level of hygiene and sanitisation that the owners are maintaining — Sudhir Verma, a customerWe started operating the day dining facilities were introduced. We worked out on plans to ensure proper sanitisation to rebuild customers’ confidence. We are yet to open our banquet and theme resort ‘Rangla Punjab’. We are waiting for norms to allow entry to over 50 people — DK Umesh, CEO HaveliI am regular customer at Haveli. I’ve been here even during the last two months. Fewer events are held now but I venture out with my friends. We have been taking all precautions to keep us safe from Covid but going out occasionally is important to have some change.  — Sumit Kalsi, Mrs Punjab 2017We are going out only at some selective places, where we feel confident that we won't catch an infection. Life had become quite monotonous doing cooking all the time in the kitchen and we indeed look forward to some kind of a break in between to keep ourselves pepped up. —  Dimple, housewife||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/usual-buzz-missing-highway-eateries-getting-reasonable-footfall-in-jalandhar-125463
12-08-2020||Jalandhar||Nothing ‘Smart’ in Jalandhar for its residents||Even as it has been nearly four years since Jalandhar was included in the list of cities to be spruced up with Centre funds under the Smart City project, almost all major projects either remain in the tendering stage or have their execution pending.The only two projects which are in advance stage include those of installation of solar panels atop 17 government buildings to save energy consumption at a cost of Rs18 crore and equipping 141 primary and middle schools with smart classrooms.However, neither of the two projects are of direct public utility as the residents in fact had been looking forward to having other more important civic amenities, including well-paved roads, properly installed LED lights, storm water sewage, Integrated Command and Control Centre for more safety, spruced up walkways, roadside benches, better landscaping of green belts, escalator/ramps at railway station etc, none of which are yet available to them.Jalandhar Congress MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh himself confesses that the majority of the works are at tender stage and their execution would begin soon. He has said that the projects with an estimated cost of Rs 82.29 crore were under execution whereas tenders have been issued for projects worth Rs894.39 crore.Even the work for the facelift of 11 chowks which was to be done at a cost of Rs 20.32 crore is still to be completed. Work on Dr BR Ambedkar Chowk, Guru Amardass Chowk, Kapurthala Chowk, Bhagwan Valmiki Chowk (Jyoti Chowk), Guru Ravidass Chowk, Doaba Chowk, PNB Chowk and Kapurthala road intersection, BMC Chowk, HMV Chowk and Model Town intersection included in the project is still underway with no major change visible yet.Work order for two projects — installation of 65,000 LED lamps at a cost of Rs43.8 crore and laying of storm water sewage system on 120 feet road for Rs21 crore — have been issued but the projects are yet to take off on ground. Two road sweeping machines taken under the project too remain unutilised.The railway station here, too, is awaiting works to the tune of Rs6.26 crore for installation of escalators, construction of a foot overbridge and other works. A plan to develop a 4-5 km of walkway along DAV Canal too remains in papers only as of now.The biggest failure under the project is the installation of 1,200 CCTV cameras at strategic points in the city and connecting them with an Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC), the foundation stone of which was laid two years ago in the PAP Complex. The project for safety of residents and to maintain a digital eye on the miscreants is hanging for long.Ex-Mayor Sunil Jyoti commented upon the issue saying, “It was shocking to read a news report this morning that the CEO of Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Corporation (PMIDC) is proceeding on leave because Additional Chief Secretary of the Local Bodies is not clearing tender file for Rs250 crore pertaining to setting up of ICCCs in Punjab under Smart City project.”It is a matter of great concern that bureaucracy of the state is so careless about the Union government funded projects too. Smart City projects are dream projects of the Prime Minister aimed at providing ultra modern facilities to cities for Rs2000 crores of which Rs1000 crore is to be funded by the Central fund. Unfortunately, there has been no implementation in the past 3.5 years,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nothing-smart-in-jalandhar-for-its-residents-125464
12-08-2020||Jalandhar||Rs18 crore at stake, colonisers seek more time to pay||The colonisers and builders on Tuesday met Mayor Jagdish Raja and appealed for extension of time period to hand the dues. The move has come after Nirmal Singh Nimma raised the matter of colonisers owing approximately Rs 18 crore to the Municipal Corporation (MC).The colonisers had approached the Mayor reasoning they had been facing crisis amid the pandemic. However, the Mayor didn’t budge an inch. “No further delay will be allowed and the colonisers will have to pay to the MC,” he was quoted as saying.Notably, Nimma had exposed that from 2013-2018, 82 colonisers had approached the department for regularisation of colonies and of these, 42 colonies were regularised, while the remaining requests were rejected because they didn’t match the terms and conditions set by the State.He said even after getting refusal from the MC, 40 colonies were established. “This is a big scandal. The 40 colonisers didn’t pay even a single penny during the five years, leading to losses of around Rs 6.15 crores to the civic body. On the other hand, the 42 colonies that were regularised paid only 10% of the total amount and remaining 90% is still pending. They (42 colonisers who got approval) owe Rs 2.25 crore. The total amount owed to the civic body, along with interest, is a whopping Rs 18 crore,” Nimma said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs18-crore-at-stake-colonisers-seek-more-time-to-pay-125465
12-08-2020||---||Over 13,650 patients taking treatment at 10 OOAT centres||Jalandhar, August 11Over 13,650 patients are turning up for treatment at the government Outpatient Opioid Assisted Treatment (OOAT) centres. The district has 10 OOAT centres in Shahkot, Kartarpur, Adampur, Shekhe, Philliaur, Nurmahal, Kala Bakra Nakodar, Lohian Khas and Apra.As per the data, total registration in 10 OOAT centres was 13,653, including 4,768 OPD at Shekkhe, 2,477 at Nakodar, 782 at Phillaur, 773 at Nurmahal, while Adampur centre has a registration of 1,560, 708 at Kartarpur, 806 at Apra, 530 at Shahkot, 781 at Kala Bakra and 468 at Lohian Khas.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said that surge in drug dependants coming for treatment in these OOAT centres reflect their eagerness to shun this curse, which was ruining the youth of the state. Thori said people were shunning the stigma attached with drug addiction and were freely coming to the centres for treatment of their loved ones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/over-13-650-patients-taking-treatment-at-10-ooat-centres-125466
12-08-2020||Jalandhar||Lovely Professional University’s Aerospace Engineering student wins international award||Lovely Professional University’s Gopalchetty Brahma, a BTech Aerospace Engineering student, has won an international award named ‘Silver Honour’ in the International Astronomy and Astrophysics Competition (IAAC-2020) held online.The competition, which aims at sharpening the students’ minds to learn more in depth about astronomy and astrophysics, had contenders from US, UK, Russia, Canada, Germany, China, France, Italy, Spain, South Korea, New Zealand, Greece, Hong Kong, Singapore and many more. Gopalchetty proved his deftness and creativity in academic course related fields by bettering everyone.The winning certificate issued under the signatures of IAAC public relations manager Stefan Amberg and team coordinator Fabian Schneider indicates that the final round of the competition was a supervised exam, where the LPU participant scored enough points to get placed among the top-seven per cent of all the participants from across the world to finish atop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lovely-professional-universitys-aerospace-engineering-student-wins-international-award-125467
12-08-2020||Kapurthala||4,311 students to get smartphones in Kapurthala today||Under ‘Connect Captain’, the Punjab Government would provide smartphones to 4,311 students of Class XII in the district as the stage is all set for tomorrow’s functions to be held across the district.Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said the district administration had scrutinised the 4,311 eligible students from Class XII, which includes 2,236 boys and 2,075 girls from government schools. She said it would make students capable of competing in current times. She also said it would be a more valuable product for them as online study remains the only way out for students.In the first phase of the campaign, 100 smartphones would be given to students, 25 each in the district. She said the functions to be held at DAC Kapurthala, Market Committee office Sultanpur Lodhi, SDM office Bholath and Ramgarhia College, Phagwara. She also made it clear that during the distribution functions, a strict Health Department protocol would be followed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-311-students-to-get-smartphones-in-kapurthala-today-125468
12-08-2020||Sanjiv Kumar BakshiHoshiarpur||With just 9 fire tenders, Hoshiarpur ill-equipped to deal with fire mishaps||The district is one of the largest in Punjab with a population of about 16 lakh. It is also home to 10 towns and approximately 1,419 villages. Besides, the forested area spans 1,100 sq km.Moreover, there are around 33 large and medium-scale industries and 9,109 small-scale and micro industrial units in the district. And all are counting on the meagre number of nine fire tenders deployed at the Fire Station, Hoshiarpur, and sub-fire station at Dasuya, under the Municipal Corporation (MC) and Municipal Council, in case of an accident.In the summers, forests are more prone to wildfires as hot and dry gales blow about and many a times, these affect nearby colonies too. The condition is such that if two or three major fire incidents occur at the same time, the resources here inevitably wouldn’t suffice — the fire brigade in the district is having almost half the staff it requires.Now, this is a major issue that needs to be looked at. Apart from the MC at Hoshiarpur, there are seven councils and two notified area committees in the district. However, out of these ten civic bodies, the district’s MC has a fire-fighting service while three are owned by the councils of Dasuya, Tanda and Garhdiwala and are stationed at Dasuya. Hoshiarpur’s brigade has five fire tenders, four heavy vehicles mounted and two light firefighting vehicles. There are two firefighting bikes to reach narrow places and streets, but these are rarely used.This is all that the district has for an area of 3,386 sq km to tackle emergency fire scenes. Meahwhile, the other facility available in the district is 40 km away at Dasuya and another at Talwara (70 Kilometers from Hoshiarpur), of the Bhakhra Beas Management Board (BBMB), which sends its fire tenders only upon directions by the district administration.Meanwhile, in Hoshiarpur, there only 29 employees working at the fire station and half of them are outsourced. The permanent employees are just 15, which include four sub-fire officers, two leading firemen, five firemen and four drivers. The outsourced employees include four drivers and ten firemen. For the six fire tenders to be used at a given time, a requirement of at least six leading firemen, 24 firemen and six drivers in one shift is needed. For two shifts (as the fire station works in two shifts), 12 leading firemen, 48 firemen and 12 drivers should be there, and that too, if none takes a weekly off or a leave.But as there are only two leading firemen, five trained firemen and four drivers. Not only this, the District Fire Station Officer’s post and the post of Additional District Fire Officer is lying vacant since 2018. While the three posts of sub-fire officer are also available. Similar is the situation at sub fire station Dasuya, as chunk of it’s staff is outsourced.The MC is trying to tug the cart by deploying outsourced firemen and drivers. Also, sometime ago, the MC burned a hole in their pocket — they were tagged as helpers – by deducting their remuneration from Rs8,600 to Rs7,200.Sub-fire officer Jaswant says, “We are in dire need of staff. Anyone can understand how tough it is to work with around half of the crew required.” Yet the boys are doing well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-just-9-fire-tenders-hoshiarpur-ill-equipped-to-deal-with-fire-mishaps-125469
12-08-2020||Hoshiarpur||60 test positive in Hoshiarpur||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/60-test-positive-in-hoshiarpur-125470
