12-12-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Hoteliers still not feeling at home||Hoshiarpur, December 11The owners of hotels, restaurants and banquettes had been incurring losses for several months and now, there is some relief but business is yet to come to a break even. Something that was earlier considered as nominal has now become huge as gathering in parties have become limited and in place of several hundred guests, the numbers are usually less and occasionally rise to 200. The safety measures are everybody’s concern and the guests keep pressing for sanitisation time and again. They are doing everything possible to make customers feel safe.In one such effort, a classy vegetarian restaurant MCM on Court Road has come up with an idea of live kitchen and added some snacks to the menu that were earlier not there. Maninder Singh Cheema, the owner, said, “We are sanitising daily to ensure that the visitors are safe. Apart from it, we take care that the staff engaged is in good health. The necessary precautions are being followed.” Since people are wary of sitting and dining in closed area, a rooftop dining area is another addition. “The customers prefer the eatables untouched by hand and especially prepared before their eyes so many snacks have been spliced in that will be prepared in wok and served to them directly.”Sanjeev Saini, partner of famous vegetarian restaurant in the city Punjab Sweet, said, “The customers are very particular about safety these days. Although we sanitise thoroughly, still people stress upon before taking a seat. We take extra measures to ensure the premises are completely safe for the guests. We keep a regular check upon the health of the workers.” Since parties have dwarfed, so the regular buffets have been replaced with individual servings. The daily lunch and dinner buffet which was once a lure has been closed “keeping in view the safety of the guests.”Gunraj Singh, the owner of Daulat Garden Banquette, rued, “Despite all efforts, it’s difficult to meet expenses as there are almost no bookings. They are rising and even the staff has been added for proper sanitisation and extra arrangements for cleaning and safety but the gatherings have shrunk.”The owners can feel that people still have the air is shot through with wariness and seems that it will not be disappearing before the vaccine arrives. “As the number of cases is still not decreasing visibly, the business is still declining. The residents are wary of stepping into the hotels and prefer dining at home. We have already suffered a lot, hopefully, the situation betters in coming weeks but for two more months I don’t think it will,” said Shyam Sunder Sharma, a hotelier and miniplex owner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoteliers-still-not-feeling-at-home-183023
12-12-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||City’s heart missing its beat, official apathy to blame||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 11Earlier when one used to enter Nikku Park, high decibel noise of children enjoying rides used to be pretty audible, but now, it is the chirping of birds that is more distinct during these winter evenings.As one moves ahead, a kid or two can somehow be spotted on a few rides, but there is no usual waiting in queues. Parents with kids as old as 2 years or so can be spotted but with sanitisers in their hands. It has been nearly five weeks since Nikku Park opened for public after a long gap of over eight months, but clearly, the routine buzz is yet to return.Blame it on long closure due to Covid-19, most rides in the park are in dire need of repair. Though the ‘Kangaroo ride’ is open, one of the seats is lying broken. The net of the spring bouncer which was an all-time favourite among kids, has been partly removed because of pending repair work. Another go-to place for kids at the park – net bowling, too, is lying shut, as the green mats have completely worn out.Several swings do not even have seats. The café has not been reopened as the contractor no longer finds it lucrative. Owing to little care, even the vegetation around has dried. Needless to say, toilets are in a shambles.While the condition is deteriorating, charges for rides have been slightly raised. The ticket for a combo of any three rides which could earlier be bought for Rs30 has now touched Rs50. The parking area, which was earlier free, now charges Rs20 for car parking, while Rs10 for a two-wheeler.The park, which was earlier managed by the Nikku Park Children Welfare Society and run on 20-year lease by industrialist and philanthropist Atamjit S Bawa, was taken over by the local administration in September last year. Ever since, the officials of the administration and Municipal Corporation are managing its affairs.The park management, which earlier had nearly 75 employees, has cut the staff size to just 35, owing to less collection and long closure due to Covid. The employees share, “Our work has doubled, while our salaries have been halved. Most safai karamcharis are doubling up as gardeners, too!”Most residents feel the park was their favourite place till the time it was in private hands and its deterioration began from the very first day when its maintenance shifted in government’s hands. They are also of the view that the government intends to kill the park falling in the posh Model Town area in the heart of the city and instead, set up a multi-storey parking lot in some part of it.Councillor Aruna Arora, too, agreed that there has been a problem. “We will discuss it all at a higher level and decide what can be done about it,” Aruna said.Staff reduced to halfThe park management, which earlier had nearly 75 employees, has cut the staff size to just 35, owing to less collection and long closure due to Covid. The employees share, “Our work has doubled, while our salaries have been halved. Most safai karamcharis are doubling up as gardeners, too!”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/citys-heart-missing-its-beat-official-apathy-to-blame-183024
12-12-2020||---||Child labour: Factory owner booked||Jalandhar, December 11Kuldeep Singh, the owner of HK Forgings, Sangal Sohal, has been booked for employing six child labourers at his factory in Jalandhar.While the district administration maintained that six children had been rescued, in the raid on Thursday, an FIR lodged on the issue clarified that nine children, pursuing the hazardous occupation at a hand tools factory, were rescued on Thursday afternoon. Three of the nine children were later found to be adults. An FIR was lodged under Section 14 (1) of the Child Labour Prohibition and Regulation Act (1986) at the Maqsoodan police station on Friday.As many as six children, including a girl, were rescued by the teams of the district administration from a hand tools factory in Wariana, Leather Complex, on the Jalandhar-Kapurthala road. Acting on a tip-off from NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA), a team headed by SDM-II Rahul Sindhu, accompanied by the police, reached the factory.While the administration have ruled out any child trafficking scenario with the case in the district at present, the five boys rescued from the factory have been sent to Children’s Home at Hoshiarpur, while the girl is at the Gandhi Vanita Ashram in Jalandhar.This is the second such raid in the district amid the Covid pandemic. In the first raid, held in August by the police, a total of 47 child labourers were rescued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/child-labour-factory-owner-booked-183025
12-12-2020||---||4 die, 97 test positive in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, December 11As many as 97 new cases of Covid were reported in Jalandhar on Friday taking the tally to 18,909. Four deaths were also reported, which increased the toll to 598. There are 879 active cases in the district so far and 17,432 people have been discharged, while as many as 557 people are under home isolation.Meanwhile in Kapurthala, six people tested positive for the virus and a 58-year-old man died. The deceased is a resident of Sujo Kalia village. He died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.1 dies, 24 +ve in HoshiarpurThe district reported the death of a person due to the Covid-19 disease on Friday. Besides, 24 new positive cases were witnessed in the district. Civil Surgeon Jasvir Singh said 1,705 new samples were taken of those people who had flu-like symptoms.With today’s new cases, the count of positive patients has increased to 7,301. The Civil Surgeon said with the death of another patient, the toll had increased to 277. The number of active cases was 194 while the number of patients who have recovered was 6,830. — OCJalandhar round-upSamples collected 4,15,242Negative 3,76,247Positive 18,909Active 879Discharged 17,432Deceased 598Sample inappropriate 3,395Results awaited 3,389Home isolated 557||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-die-97-test-positive-in-jalandhar-district-183026
12-12-2020||Our Correspondent||‘Fake’ encounter: Family refuses to cremate body||Hoshiarpur, December 11The family of 40-year-old Mohalla Salwara resident, Inderjit Singh, who was killed in an encounter with the Amritsar police in Jandiala on Tuesday, protested here on Friday.They kept the body of the deceased at Naloiyan Chowk and blocked the road demanding justice for Inderjit. Representatives of many political parties and social organisations also joined them and raised slogans against the Punjab Police.The police were also present on the spot. As soon as the information about the case was received, senior BJP leader and former Cabinet minister Tikshan Sood reached with his colleagues and expressed grief with the victim’s family. He expressed grief over the incident and said the investigation of Inderjit’s death should be conducted by the CBI and those responsible for his death should be punished severely.Bahujan Samaj Party’s state convener Bhagwan Singh Chauhan also reached the dharna site with his colleagues and demanded justice for the victim. He said it has been confirmed by the postmortem that Inderjit’s death was caused by the cops’ bullet. He said the government should provide a government job for his widow and Rs50 lakh each to the deceased’s two young children. He demanded that the police officers responsible for this death should be given the harshest punishment. Former Municipal Corporation Mayor Shiv Sood also reached the site and expressed grief.Shiv Sena district president Javed Khan strongly condemned the police encounter and said there should be a high-level probe in the case and the culprits should be given an exemplary punishment at the earliest.Babbu Ajjowal, Satish Bawa, Ranjit Singh, Mohinder Pal Saini, Ranjit Singh and a large number of residents of the area and family members were present on the spot.They declared that the body would be cremated only after the government agrees to their demands.Deputy Superintendent of Police Jagdish Raj Atri tried to persuade protesters, but they were adamant on not cremating the body unless justice prevailed and demands of compensation and job for his kin were met. Deceased’s brother, Maninder Singh, told mediapersons that Inderjit had come from Dubai, but he could not go back due to the Covid-19 pandemic.He has two kids, who are still studying in elementary school.Later, ADC Harbir Singh reached and tried persuading the protesters but they refused to open the blockade unless their demands were met.The ADC asked for some time to take up the matter with the higher ups and the Chief Minister’s Office and said the district administration could promise anything only after it.After this, the protest was postponed for 24 hours (till 2 pm on Saturday) and the traffic jam was lifted and the body was sent to the mortuary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fake-encounter-family-refuses-to-cremate-body-183027
12-12-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj---||Arhtiyas join their ‘farm friends’ at Singhu border||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, December 11  Nearly 150 arhtiyas from Kapurthala reached Singhu border on Friday to stand in solidarity with farmers. But they were not alone! Arhtiyas from Fazilka and Ferozepur also joined them.  They started off from Kapurthala early morning holding banners reading ‘Main Kisan Virodhi bill de khilaaf haan’, ‘Tin kaale kanoon vaapis lao’ in their hands.  Arhtiyas have lent a huge support to farmers in this ongoing protest. “I have never seen such a huge protest which has piqued the interest of international media as well. But we must congratulate farmers for holding such a huge protest in such a peaceful manner. They are so strong and we are with them,” Vijay Kalra, president of the Arhtiyas’ Federation, Punjab, said, adding that every essential item was being provided to farmers.  Kalra, while delivering a speech from the stage at Singhu border, said: “We must hail farmers, who have managed to organise such a big protest and are taking so much weight of other conspiracies that are being happening against them.”  The arhtiyas have been going and coming in batches.  Naresh Bhardwaj, secretary, Arhtiyas’ Federation, Punjab, and president Dana Mandi, Phagwara , said as many as 50 arhtiyas have gone from Phagwara main mandi alone.  “We reached Singhu border around 2.30 in the afternoon and have been listening to farmers’ woes, ensuring that we are with them,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/arhtiyas-join-their-farm-friends-at-singhu-border-183028
12-12-2020||Jalandhar||Sportspersons cancel march to Rashtrapati Bhavan||In view of sealing the toll plazas on Jaipur-Delhi route by farmer organisations, the sportspersons from all over the country have cancelled their proposed march to Rashtrapati Bhawan on December 12.Padma Shri wrestler Kartar Singh, along with other sportspersons had started their march on December 5 from Jalandhar to return their honours to the President in a show of support to the stir.Majority of sportspersons are from farming background. They were joined on the way by other former players. Their numbers have swelled to almost 50 and included Arjuna awardees, Padma Shri awardees, Dronacharya and Dhyan Chand recipients.They had sought time from Rashtrapati Bhawan for a meeting on December 9 but no communication was received.Many awardees from other states had also lent support for the proposed march. Now, it has been decided to announce the next step later.Meanwhile, prominent wrestler from Maharashtra Arjuna winner Kaka Pawar, announced support to agitating farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sportspersons-cancel-march-to-rashtrapati-bhavan-183029
12-12-2020||---||Coffee-table book on Guru Nanak Dev’s life released||Jalandhar, December 11 “Ek Onkar – One Supreme Reality”, a coffee-table book on the life of Guru Nanak Dev was released at the Virsa Vihar on Friday. Authored by Army veteran Maj Gen Balwinder Singh (retd) VSM, the book focuses on Guru Nanak Dev’s spiritual journey leading to his enlightenment at Sultanpur Lodhi. “There is no Hindu, no Muslim. There is only one God and we are all equal before him.” The book launch is a part of the formal initiative by the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) to spread the word on history and heritage of Sultanpur Lodhi. The book was launched by MP Santokh Chaudhary along with environmentalist Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal. Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and Municipal Commissioner Karnesh Sharna, among others, were also present.  This is the rivulet from where Guru Nanak came out enlightened and gave the moolmantra ‘Ek Onkar’ to humanity. Maj Gen Balwinder Singh is a life member and convenor of the INTACH, Jalandhar Chapter, and a member of the Governing Council of India. He is also one of the patrons of the Virsa Vihar.  He said the INTACH tasked his team to prepare a coffee- table book with a vision to further spread the message of Guru Nanak Dev in the society. He said it was more than satisfying to release the book during the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. Speaking to The Tribune he said, “Guru Nank Dev spent 14 years, 9 months and 13 days at Sultanpur Lodhi and attained enlightenment at Kali Bein. His message is a beacon of hope and assimilation beyond caste and creed in the present times. While the book has been in my mind for the last few years, the project officially took off on the 500th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. At present, people are too fixated on identities, names, caste and creed but the first Sikh Guru’s life and his spiritual journey entails that there are greater treasures and more significant things in life.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/coffee-table-book-on-guru-nanak-devs-life-released-183031
12-12-2020||While environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal hasn’t visited the Delhi stirs yet||I have got your back!||Say no to drugsTo raise awareness regarding drugs among the staff of the police, an oath-taking ceremony was held at Kapurthala in which SP (Headquarters) made police officials take a pledge against drugs. SP (Headquarters) Mandeep Singh said the Police Department in the district was committed to the eradication of drugs. He said while the supply chain was already being cut, now the department is also holding awareness programmes to curb the demand. “Vital awareness programmes were being held to spread the word among the masses and previously the state government’s DAPO and ‘buddy programmes were also aimed at achieving the same,” Mandeep said. He exhorted officials to spread the word among the public and work to end the menace. Dressed in formal khakis, the men in uniform also pledged the same. Various other police officials also organised similar oath taking campaigns. The ceremony was held on December 9.UDID cards for disabledThe district administration Kapurthala has decided to launch a special drive to provide unique cards under UDID project to the disabled persons across the district. Deepti Uppal, DC Kapurthala, said these would replace the decades-old manual certificates besides having the online access at any place to further bring the more transparency and facilitating these people to avail the benefits of various government welfare schemes. She said that under the campaign from December 17 to January 15, 2021, camps would be organised at various CHCs, PHCs and civil hospitals across the district where people suffering from 21 types of physical disabilities would be covered. The astonishing part of this campaign is that it would ensure to provide the cards to 1,596 students, out of which 591 are of Classes I to V and 1,005 belong to VI to XII standard. Types of disabilities that would be covered included acid attack victims, Autism Spectrum disorder, blindness, cerebral palsy, chronic neurological conditions, hearing impairment, hemophilia, intellectual disability, leprosy cured, locomotor disability, low vision, mental illness, multiple disabilities, including deaf blindness multiple disabilities including deaf-dumb, multiple sclerosis, muscular dystrophy, Parkinson’s disease, short stature/dwarfism, sickle cell disease, specific learning, disabilities speech and language disability and thalassemia. The first camp would be organised at CHC Tibba on December 17, PHC Dhilwan on 18, CHC Fattu Dhingha on 21, CHC Begowal on 22, CHC Kalasanghaian on 28, CHC Panchta on 29, SDH Sultanpur Lodhi on January 7, SDH Phagwara on 8, SDH Bholath on 14 and Civil Hospital Kapurthala on January 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/i-have-got-your-back-183032
12-12-2020||Jalandhar||1971 Indo-Pak war hero remembered||Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Friday called upon the youth to take inspiration from the supreme sacrifices made by great heroes to safeguard the unity and integrity of the country.Presiding over the 49th anniversary function to pay homage to war hero Jeet Singh, the martyr of Indo-Pak war 1971 here, the DC said that he laid down his life for the sake of the country. He said that the youth and students must take inspiration and serve the country with zeal and commitment.Thori further said that the war of 1971 was a turning point in the history of Independent India. He said that the triumph of India in this war emerged as a strong and vibrant nation in the world. The DC also said that India is a country with the highest population of youths in the world and have a huge responsibility on their shoulders to make India a superpower on the earth.He said that the society, administration, and nation will always be thankful to such martyrs who served the country with patriotic fervour to defend its sovereignty. Meanwhile, distributing sewing machines and blankets among needy persons during the event, he also announced a grant of Rs25,000 to the Shaheed Jeet Singh Educational and Welfare Society. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1971-indo-pak-war-hero-remembered-183033
12-12-2020||Jalandhar||Protest against ‘mixopathy’ held||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/protest-against-mixopathy-held-183035
12-12-2020||Jalandhar||Book launched||Shirdi Sai Baba Foundation’s book “Sai Vibhuti” was released in Jullundur Gymkhana Club by Shri Satyah Sai Sewa Foundation Punjab here on Friday. The book was released by Bobby Sehgal, vice chairman, Punjab Health Systems Corporation, Manish Sehgal, Maninder Singh, Dr Sajan Sharma, Kulbhushan Suri, Anish Suri, Mohit Trehan and Talwinder Soi. The book written by Ashim Khetarpal, was released by the temple committee and literary personalities, Prem Vij, Ashok Bhandari of Bhandari Adbi Trust and famous theatre artist Vijay Kapoor and secretary of temple panel Manish Gupta were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/book-launched-183037
12-12-2020||Sixtyseven-year-old city resident Sangeeta Sehgal had to spend a week in the hospital||‘If symptoms appear, call doc at the earliest’||“It was mid-August, when I had the first bout of dry cough. I went through three courses of antibiotics, but the situation didn’t improve at all. On the contrary, my oxygen level started dropping to 87-88, which is supposed to be alarming. I got my Rapid Antigen Test done that revealed that I was Covid positive. The CT scan of my chest also revealed a pneumonia patch. After consulting a doctor, I was advised to get admitted immediately.Complete precautions should be taken but once any symptom appears (varies from person to person), don't generate unnecessary fear and doubts. Consult your doctor at the earliest, so that timely treatment can be started at once to prevent an unexpected serious situation. —Sangeeta Sehgal, City resident“I was transferred to a private room, which was converted into a Covid ward. It was isolated and I was away from my family, but I thanks to corona warriors like all doctors, nurses, sweepers and others, who never let me feel alone. They took such good care of me that seclusion and depression could not affect me at all.“Good food and necessary amenities such as air conditioner and TV were a big boost that facilitated me in passing my time on my own. I would spend my leisure time listening to music, meditating, solving sudoku, chatting with family and friends, who worked as a great motivational force for me.“Initially, I was put on some medicines for 10 days. I was relieved from the hospital within a week and was instructed to observe home-quarantine for another week, which I strictly did. By the grace of God I am fine now except minor body aches and weakness, which generally goes off in a short span of life.“Complete precautions should be taken but once any symptom is experienced (varies from person to person) don’t generate unnecessary fear and doubts. Consult your doctor at the earliest, so that timely treatment can be started at once to prevent an unexpected serious situation.“I am thankful to my family, who supported me apart from my friends, who motivated me and took good care of me in the hospital.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/if-symptoms-appear-call-doc-at-the-earliest-183040
