13-04-2020||Ashok Kaura ||122 Bhutanese students studying at LPU Phagwara leave for Thimphu in a special plane||Phagwara, April 13As many as 133 students of Bhutan--122 studying at Lovely Professional University and 11 of other institutions--who were examined by a team of the Health Department led by Dr DP Singh, left for Bhutan in a special plane sent by the Bhutan Government to Amritsar on Monday morning.Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said special LPU buses dropped these students at the Amritsar airport. Blood samples of 27 contacts of LPU student Neeti Chauhan were tested and sent to lab on Sunday night. Chauhan, a student of Bachelor of Physiotherapy, hadtested positive recently.  Six students of Bhutan were admitted to the Civil Hospital after they became unwell on Sunday night.Nodal Officer Dr Naresh Kundra told this correspondent that these students were discharged on Sunday night.Meanwhile, medical teams are busy examining the remaining people on the LPU campus which was sealed.Sealing of the LPU campus continued on Monday.DC Deepti Uppal, SSP Satinder Singh and CMO Dr Jasmeet Bawa are monitoring the situation. The SSP has instructed the police officers to be strict with the violators of curfew.Uppal has appealed to the people to realise the sensitiveness of the situation and follow self restrictions by staying in their houses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/122-bhutanese-students-studying-at-lpu-phagwara-leave-for-thimphu-in-a-special-plane-70566
13-04-2020||Jalandhar||Wedding  guests under scanner as brides mother dies of Covid-19||While 13 members of the family have already been moved to the isolation ward at the civil hospital today, the health officials are facing an uphill task of tracing their relatives. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wedding-guests-under-scanner-as-brides-mother-dies-of-covid-19-70299
13-04-2020||Jalandhar||‘Airlift students   stuck abroad’||Woman attacked, robbed of pursePhagwara: Two bike-borne robbers attacked and injured a woman in Patel Nagar on Saturday. The victim, identified as Jaswinder Kaur (73) of New Patel Nagar, was going to purchase medicine when the robbers attacked her with an iron rod, leaving her in a pool of blood. They snatched her purse, mobile phone and managed to flee. The police have registered a case. OC296 curfew violators heldPhagwara: The police have arrested 296 persons on charge of curfew violations from March 23 to April 11 in Kapurthala district. This was stated by Satinder Singh, SSP Kapurthala, on Sunday. He said 186 FIRs had been registered against curfew violators and 45 vehicles had also been impounded till now. OC2L food packets distributedNakodar: The police have registered 320 FIRs against curfew violators in rural areas of Jalandhar district till date, said SSP (Rural) Navjot Singh Mahal on Sunday. He said 449 persons had been arrested for curfew violation from March 23 to April 11. He said 2,04,626 food packets and 47,788 ration kits were distributed to needy during the period. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/airlift-students-stuck-abroad-70504
13-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Phillaur tehsildar distributes ration among 20 J&K residents||Phillaur, April 12Continuing its drive to reach out the needy who are stuck in the district due to the nationwide lockdown in the wake of Covid-19, the Jalandhar district administration on Friday gave a healing touch to 20 Jammu and Kashmir residents, who were stuck in Goraya, by providing packets of ration to them.Tehsildar Phillaur Tapan Bhanot was informed by few villagers that around 20 Jammu and Kashmir residents from Kupwara had been stuck in Goraya. The officer was informed that these Jammu and Kashmir residents, mostly woodcutters and shawl sellers, were facing the shortage of food material.Swinging into action the Tehsildar brought the entire matter into the notice of Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and Sub-Divisional Magistrate Vineet Kumar who asked him to ensure every sort of help to these people.Accordingly, a team led by Tehsildar went to Goraya and handed over packets of ration containing wheat flour, rice, pulses, sugar and tea to all of them. The officer also provided their contact numbers to the Kupwara residents and asked them to call him if anything else was needed in future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phillaur-tehsildar-distributes-ration-among-20-jk-residents-70462
13-04-2020||Our Correspondent||11 deliveries during curfew at Posi Primary Health Centre||Hoshiarpur, April 12The Primary Health Centre (PHC) at Posi village, which is one of the hotspots of Covid-19, has also been providing necessary health services to village residents.During the curfew, as many as 11 deliveries were conducted and 1,200 patients were examined at the OPD of the PHC. The medical staff of the PHC has been performing their duties round the clock, besides regularly examining 1,161 persons, who have been quarantined at their houses in the area.Posi SMO Raghbir Singh said at the centre, a resident of Moranwali village had died and as a precaution, those who came in contact with him and his family members had been quarantined.He said despite this, emergency health services were being provided at the PHC. He added that it had been ensured that pregnant women do not face any problem.Besides, the PHC is being sanitised twice to eradicate the chance of infection. Besides, children have been given vaccination while maintaining social distance.Having a population of 1,77,432 people in the area that comes under the PHC, eight rapid response teams have been constituted. Posi is the only village where the maximum number of people (1,161) in the state has been quarantined. Praising health workers, DC Apneet Riyat said the 1,161 persons who had been quarantined were being monitored.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/11-deliveries-during-curfew-at-posi-primary-health-centre-70460
13-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Education Department takes digital route to fill the gap||Nawanshahr, April 12With the state extending the lockdown till May 1, the state Education Department has taken the digital route and launched the ‘Ghar Baithe Sikhiya’ programme for students to fill the gap.Besides holding virtual classes, teachers are making the students and parents aware of preventive measures to be taken to check the spread of deadly Covid. ‘Ghar Baithe Sikhiya’ programmeDistrict Education Officer (Secondary) Harcharan Singh said as per consistent motivation by Education Secretary Krishan Kumar and guidelines issued by state coordinators and resource persons, a team of dedicated teachers in the district had been doing a commendable job in developing the content for English, social studies, mathematics and science.“The translated and simplified study material of Khan Academy classes and NCERT books in math and science is being provided to teachers. As many as 586 teachers of middle, high and senior secondary schools are taking online classes through Zoom app, YouTube and WhatsApp”, he said.District Education Officer (Elementary) Pawan Kumar said the result of non-board classes had been declared through the social media and the admission to the next class had also been done online. “A total of 135 primary school teachers in the district are taking virtual classes and keeping the students engaged in studies,” he added.The officials said more than 200 teachers and non-teaching employees of the department had been deputed as ‘Corona warriors’ along with the police and health officials to fight Covid.Harbhajan Singh, a parent, said, “Online classes, assignments and homework are keeping our children busy and occupied all the day. We are happy with the efforts of the teachers.”The teachers are also in touch with students of classes X and XII and preparing them for the postponed board examination by taking regular tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/education-department-takes-digital-route-to-fill-the-gap-70459
13-04-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Sahitya Akademi Award winner immerses himself in books||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 12Noted author Waryam Singh Sandhu is busy reading several old books that he was thinking to read again for long. He said though tough time had come, this, too, shall pass and everything would be fine soon.He has finished reading noted Punjabi novels and ‘War and Peace’ by Russian author Leo Tolstoy.The Sahitya Akademi Award winner has also been watching several old classics again. “This is a time when one should be mentally strong. Thereafter, we will be able to overcome the problem,” he said.The acclaimed writer was to leave for Toronto on April 9, but had to cancel the plan due to the pandemic.“I have been living here with my wife and helping her with household chores. I do yoga and have seen a lot of changes in me since the first day. I have started doing other exercise too. It makes me feel energetic all day. Earlier, I was facing problems in sleeping during the day. Now, I get a sound sleep for an hour,” said Sandhu.However, he misses interaction with university students amid the lockdown. He used to get invitations from universities for lectures.“I have been missing interactions with students on various topics. There were several lectures that were scheduled, which won’t happen now,” he said.The author said people must listen to good music, watch art movies, exercise and read books. “This time can be utilised in a productive manner,” the writer of ‘Chauthi Koot’ said, adding that maintaining psychological health was important.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sahitya-akademi-award-winner-immerses-himself-in-books-70458
13-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||This bank cashier ensures no one sleeps hungry in her village||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 12On March 25, when Virk village reported its first Covid case and teams of the Health Department and police personnel left for the village, food for needy persons was the first concern for 54-year-old Bina Kumari."I was only concerned that no one in the village should sleep hungry," she said. Over 15 days have passed, the 54-year-old has taken the responsibility to feed those who don't have food in the village. She distributes food among needy persons in the village. Besides, she also started sewing masks for villagers.Having gone on leave since March end, the head cashier at a bank in Dosanjh Kalan village feeding villagers has become her full-time job.She wakes up at 5:30 am and sits in front of the stove everyday at 9 am to prepare food. Earlier, four persons had tested positive for coronavirus in the village, three of them have recovered. Along with the efforts of NRIs and members of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Young Sports Lok Bhalai Club, which has 21 members, the village ensures distribution of 400 packets of dry ration among needy 250 villagers daily. Besides, around 1,200 masks have also been distributed among village residents. Of these, 700 have been sewn by her.Tiffin boxes are provided to health workers and food wrapped in polythene is sent to 40 homes in the basti.A single packet of dry ration includes 5 kg atta, rice, mustard oil, refined oil and ghee, 2-kg sugar, tea leaves, turmeric, chilli powder and salt packets.Bina said: "I used to sit in the office till evening. Now, I have been idle, so we provide food to needy. Once the pandemic is over, we will all go back to work and feed ourselves. But till then, we have to feed needy persons. It gives me immense pleasure to satiate the hungry. My two daughters, sisters-in-law and I collectively undertake this. As long as things don't get normal, we will try to keep this up."Bina Kumari's son Ashok Bangar said: "My mother works from 9 am to 10 pm everyday without any break. She is very happy about it. It is like a mela at home. My two aunts and uncle help her out. Collectively, eight to 10 people are on the job. Club members are all like an extended family and these are joint efforts."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-bank-cashier-ensures-no-one-sleeps-hungry-in-her-village-70457
13-04-2020||Jalandhar||13 held for not wearing mask||The city police on Sunday arrested 13 persons for not wearing face masks, while eight others were held for violating curfew norms.The arrested persons were identified as Vinay Kumar, Prince Verma, Harjinder Singh, Jasvir Singh, Bumb Bahadur, Katwalu Ram, Vijay Kumar, Vishal Sampla, Shankar, Jiwan Kumar, Ravinder Singh, Ashish Kumar and Sanjiv Kumar.Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said to check the spread of coronavirus in the state, the government had made it mandatory for everyone to wear masks before stepping out of their homes. He said a total of 204 traffic challans were issued on Sunday and nine vehicles impounded for violation of curfew norms. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/13-held-for-not-wearing-mask-70456
13-04-2020||---||Cops rescue stranded truck drivers||Jalandhar, April 12In a humanitarian act, the Jalandhar Police Commissionerate on Sunday rescued around 250 truck drivers who were stranded in the Kutch region of Gujarat.After the imposition of the countrywide lockdown, the truck drivers remained stuck in Gujarat and a few days ago they uploaded a video on social media urging the government to permit them to move back to their hometown. However, nothing happened in this regard, but luckily the video went viral on social media. Subsequently, when it was brought to the notice of Commissioner of Police (CP) Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, he immediately verified it and came to the conclusion that most of the drivers hailed from the Doaba region.Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said when they verified the video highlighting the plight of the stranded truck drivers, it was discovered that the truck drivers were from Punjab. They were stuck without food and accommodation in Sabarkantha district of Gujarat due to the lockdown.Following this, with the help of a local source, he took up the matter with the police and the administration of Sabarkantha district. Besides, a team of officials was also constituted here to urge the police and the civil administration in Gujarat to provide the required help to the truck drivers.Bhullar confirmed that after providing food and lodging facility to the truck drivers, officials in Gujarat ensured that the truck drivers would shortly be allowed to return to their destinations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cops-rescue-stranded-truck-drivers-70452
13-04-2020||Jalandhar||Dist is Covid hotspot as seven fresh cases reported, count 22||As many as seven persons tested positive for coronavirus in the district, taking the count to 22. With new cases, Jalandhar has emerged as a Covid hotspot in the region, surpassing Nawanshahr that has 19 cases. Among the new patients, a 51-year-old Shahkot-based woman tested positive after her death on Sunday. Health officials collected her sample after she died on April 9.A containment plan has been introduced at Kotla Heran village in Shahkot after she tested positive. While the village has been sealed, the deceased’s husband, who returned from Dubai three weeks ago, was admitted to the Civil Hospital on April 5.Tested after her death, she was cremated without Covid protocol. As many as 60 to 70 persons participated in her cremation. There are around 10 members in her family, who have been shifted to the Civil Hospital.Surjit Singh of Kotla Heran village, who was present during her cremation, said: “Close to 55 residents of the village were present when she was cremated. Her husband had returned from Dubai just about a month ago. Her in-laws had also returned from England more than a month ago. Neighbours had regularly been meeting them. We came to know on Friday about the woman’s death, but no one knew that she was a Covid patient.”Till Saturday, over 3,000 people had been placed under isolation in the district. Dr TP Singh, nodal officer, Covid, Jalandhar, said: “As many as 217 contacts of various patients have been traced and their samples are being taken. We are still looking into the contacts of the Shahkot woman. At present, 82 people are admitted to the isolation ward. As far as the cremation of the Shahkot woman is concerned, her body was sanitised and sent in a body bag. We are looking into the reports of her cremation and identifying her other contacts.”— TNSSamples of MLA Henry, family members takenHealth teams took the samples of Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry and his family members as the MLA had come in contact with the son of Jalandhar’s first Covid deceased. His son had tested positive on Saturday. The MLA said: “The samples of seven family members were taken on Saturday night. We have already been quarantined for four days. We met the deceased’s son on March 30.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dist-is-covid-hotspot-as-seven-fresh-cases-reported-count-22-70434
