13-05-2020||Industry & Lockdown||‘Tech-driven avenues in sports goods manufacturing unit will increase sale’||Rajesh Kharbanda, managing director and CEO of Nivia Sports, a leading sports goods company that produces athletic equipment, apparel and accessories for football, cricket, hockey, badminton and basketball, talks about the losses incurred due to the lockdown and opportunities in the coming days in a conversation with Ajay Joshi. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted your sports goods manufacturing unit?Apart from sportspersons or people inclined towards sports, schools and colleges are our major customers. As all institutions have been lying shut since the Covid-19 outbreak, the demand has sharply declined. We have suffered 16 per cent loss of the total turnover during the lockdown. In addition, it has directly affected 50 to 60 per cent sale this year. The import and export have also vanished drastically.Though we faced this unexpected loss, we learnt various techniques and technologies that will help us work even in any crisis. We have become more tech-savvy and realised that by cutting down on our travel expenses, we can still increase our sales. — Rajesh Kharbanda, MD, CEO of Nivia SportsHow will the sports business revive after the lockdown?Our business will likely to see a turnaround during Diwali. However, it is also uncertain as customers will first stock essential goods. Looking at the downfall in the public job sector and termination of sports events, we cannot expect an immediate surge in the demand. Social gatherings and public events will not take place for some time. So, it was ambiguous to predict a boom in the sector. But as the lockdown has encouraged people towards physical fitness, the demand for individual sports equipment will go up in the coming days. With high hopes, we have also been running #combackstronger campaign on social media.What are plans to restart operations in your unit?There is a silver lining to everything. After devising new strategies, we have lately contacted local vendors or manufacturers who can provide a substitute to products that are imported from China. Moreover, we have now learnt about more technology-driven avenues that will help increase the sale and fetch more customers. We have also started our operations marginally since the last week and have now been focusing on the output every day.How are you dealing with the issue of labourers?Amid the lockdown, we have now realised that labourers are the backbone of any industry. We should never take our workforce for granted. Once gone, they will not come back soon and it will affect the industry badly. Now onwards, we will work for the welfare of labourers even when they aren’t working.How have you managed to pay the salaries of workers?We have around 3,000 labourers, who work in different units. So, we had paid their salaries of March in advance. Now, we are paying their salaries of April on a rotation basis.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?Though we faced this unexpected loss, we learnt various techniques and technologies that will help us work even in any crisis. We have become more tech-savvy and realised that by cutting down on our travel expenses, we can still increase our sales. During the whole lockdown phase, our staff worked online and engaged our customers virtually. New tech-driven ideas can be used for a longer time. We have also learnt that there is a need to create more such products that could be used by people at home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tech-driven-avenues-in-sports-goods-manufacturing-unit-will-increase-sale-83918
13-05-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar DC tells printers, publishers to start printing PSEB books||Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, Varinder Kumar Sharma on Tuesday asked the printers/publishers to immediately start the printing of the books of Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) so that they were distributed to the students from the beginning of the academic session.Chairing a meeting with the printers/ publishers from the district here at the District Administrative Complex, the DC said due to the lockdown and curfew restrictions, the printing work had not been started. As the schools would start functioning as soon as the lockdown was lifted, the printing work needed to be completed at the earliest.The DC said the state government was committed to ensuring that students got the books right from the beginning of the session. For this, the necessary modalities had already been completed by the Education Department and now the printing of books must start soon.He asked the officials of the Education Department to ensure that this work was completed well in time. The district administration would give its full support and cooperation to them in this regard, he said.He said all the issues raised by the printers/ publishers were resolved so that they could complete the work well in time. Also, he would regularly monitor the work himself to ensure that books were supplied to the board.ADC Jasbir Singh, DEO Harinderpal Singh, GM (Industries) BS Brar, Assistant Labour Commissioner Harjit Singh and others were present. — OCOnline courses at Apeejay CollegeJalandhar: The inaugural ceremony of online skill enhancement courses run by the Apeejay College of Fine Arts took place here on Tuesday. The courses were conducted on a videoconferencing app and were also aired live on Facebook. Principal Sucharita Sharma said: “With the help of ‘bridge’ provided by advanced technology, we have been able to reach students and are making efforts to provide them the best quality of education. Dr Sunit Kaur, head, department of English, took the students to a virtual round of college and told everything about the college. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-dc-tells-printers-publishers-to-start-printing-pseb-books-83908
13-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Man who brought Nanded pilgrims meets mother after over two weeks||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 12Out of his home since April 22, it was after over a fortnight that Sukhdev Singh (36), a bus driver, returned to his home.“Gharwaleyan ne kapre saarte. Motorcycle dhuvata. Mata de pairi hath vi nahi laya. Mata bas vekh vekh khush hoi jandi ki munda ghar aa gaya (family burnt my clothes, got washed the motorcycle. I haven’t touched my mother’s feet since my return. She is too happy to see me as his son has returned home), says Sukhdev, who was discharged from the quarantine centre in Meritorious School, here, after 14 days. He had gone to bring back pilgrims from Nanded.Authorities are giving PPE kits to cops and doctors but none for us who drove thousands of kilometres to bring back the pilgrims? At the hospital too, we washed our utensils and bathrooms on our own. Seven of us were discharged on Sunday. Others are still there. — Sukhdev Singh, bus driverA resident of Kot Majlas village in Gurdaspur, he returned home at 11 pm on Sunday night on a motorcycle straight from the meritorious school quarantine centre. A conductor also accompanied him on the bike.“Having started on April 22, 36 members of our depot had been told to bring back Nanded pilgrims. We thought on return, we will be kept under home quarantine for 14 days. But they sent to the isolation centre. We had first reached SBS Nagar on April 28, from where we were sent to Jalandhar. We all drivers had been staying on the third floor,” Sukhdev said. For the first three days, it seemed staff didn’t know what to do with us. But later, things got better, at least food. Sukhdev is not happy with the department.“They are giving PPE kits to police personnel and doctors but none for us who drove thousands of kilometres to bring back the pilgrims? At the hospital too, we washed our utensils and bathrooms on our own. Seven of us were discharged on Sunday. Others are still there,” he said.My family was worried. My mother was overjoyed the moment she saw me. She had been getting nervous watching news on TV and calling people around. Now, she is relieved.Even at home, Sukhdev is following a strict protocol. “We are happy but we are not touching or embracing each other for the coming 14 days as instructed by doctors.”After Sukhdev returned, his 55-year-old mother burnt some of his clothes, washed some and sanitised all his belongings as well as him. The family slept at 1 am.His wife and child are in Delhi where they had gone before the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-who-brought-nanded-pilgrims-meets-mother-after-over-two-weeks-83909
13-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Industry hit as migrants keen on returning home||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 12Even when 80 per cent of the labour is here, the industry is still non-operational. Continuously looking at their cellphones waiting for an SMS from the administration with regard to the resumption of train services, migrant workers in factories are working half-heartedly. They are also avoiding going to work. They are physically present here, but their mind is not here in work, say industrialists.Industrialists said the simultaneous decisions to restart operations at the units and then allowing the migrant labourers to leave were not correct. Also, the workers had a feeling that even if they work now, they would have to leave immediately after getting a call from the administration and they would not be paid.MSME unit owners said the entire focus of the workers had shifted to returning to their home.In Jalandhar alone, more than one lakh migrants keen on returning to their native places have registered themselves and more than 13,000 have already left, and those who are here are continuously waiting to go back.Neeraj Arora, president of the rubber footwear manufacturers association, said on Thursday, some workers were operating a machine at his unit when they received a message about the train departure. They stopped the work midway and left for their places.Over 1l registered to return to their statesIn Jalandhar alone, more than one lakh migrants keen on returning to their native places have registered themselves and more than 13,000 have already left, and those who are here are continuously waiting to go back.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/industry-hit-as-migrants-keen-on-returning-home-83910
13-05-2020||Jalandhar||Young couple commits suicide||Online contests on CoronavirusHoshiarpur: English Literacy Club of DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, organised online slogan writing and video shooting competitions to make the students and teachers aware regarding the Covid-19. Students conveyed messages through their slogans, motivating the people to stay home, follow the directions of health authorities and practice yoga regularly. They also made the students aware regarding the care of children, elderly and animals during the lockdown. Gurpreet got the first prize, Anchal and Shruti received the second and third prize respectively and Shurbhi got the consolation prize. Principal Dr Sham Sunder Sharma congratulated the winners and teacher-in-charges Prof Archana Vasudeva and Dr Naresh Kumar for the success of the event. College managing committee president Dr Anop Kumar and secretary principal (retd) DL Anand appreciated the efforts of the students of the club. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/young-couple-commits-suicide-83912
13-05-2020||WITH a population of over 2 lakh in my constituency||‘Ensuring speedy supply of essentials’||I have been ensuring immediate delivery of ration, groceries and medicines to residents in my constituency. Besides, my major concerns are creating awareness against the virus among residents and circulation of the information regarding the government aid. For the same, I have approaching residents through virtual platforms. Residents are also giving their suggestions and raising demands. I am also trying to tell people not to indulge in panic buying amid Covid fear.Initially 8,000 dry ration packets, sent by the state government, were distributed among the underprivileged and later, with the help of various societies, cooked food and milk were also provided to needy families. We have sent more demands of people in hilly areas to the state government. Municipal committees have also been asked to spend Rs 15,000 daily for the supply of food packets among needy. In addition, help is also taken from village sarpanches, who further inform about areas where people are waiting for help. While arrangements have been made for medical treatment of people at community centres, medication for pregnant women is still a challenging task and we are working in this direction. With the help of my family members who are practicing doctors, local residents are regularly informed about the virus and health workers are also paying regular visits to residents' houses. So far, around six persons (all Nanded returnees) were found positive. Hence, all steps are being taken to contain the spread of Covid.(As told to AJAY JOSHI)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ensuring-speedy-supply-of-essentials-83915
13-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||This writer tells harsh reality of pandemic through his poems||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 12‘Rail di patri, patri tureya, jawa main mazdoor ho, kut khavan, chori ghar javaan, mera ki kasoor ho’.This is a line from a poem penned by Amolak Singh, president of the Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch. Through this poem, he has tried to highlight the current scenario of the nation under the lockdown due to novel coronavirus outbreak.If you are aware and watch everything closely what is happening in the life, then no lockdown can isolate you. But if you are not awake and close your eyes to everything, then you automatically become isolated even when there is no lockdown. If we see clearly, we will realise that we have got to see a wider range of the world, things happening around us and changes in the environment. All this prompted me to write. — Amolak SinghThe poem tells the pathetic condition of the workers at this hour of crisis. Amolak Singh, who is also the convener of the cultural wing, Desh Bhagat Yadgar Committee, has written several other poems during the lockdown.“If you are aware and watch everything closely what is happening in the life, then no lockdown can isolate you. But if you are not awake and close your eyes to everything, then you automatically become isolated even when there is no lockdown,” he feels.“If we see clearly, we will realise that we have got to see a wider range of the world, things happening around us and changes in the environment. All this prompted me to write,” he said, adding that it was very important to remain active even during such times.He gave the example of Shaheed Bhagat Singh. “Minutes before his hanging, the great freedom fighter was reading a book on Lenin. And when he was called by jail officials, Shaheed Bhagat Singh replied that a minute was still left. Ek inquilabi, dooje inqlabi nal gall kr reha’ (one revolutionary is talking to another),” he said.The writer said this was the time when one could think, and make strategies to improve in the future. “Since we are into field work and organise big events and rallies, I have also been doing retrospection and thinking about merits and demerits and also planning on how to improve ourselves,” he said.Talking about his routine, Amolak Singh said he had increased his working hours in the lockdown. “I stay up late to work and write and review certain things. I don’t understand how people say that they don’t know how to pass their time amid the lockdown,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-writer-tells-harsh-reality-of-pandemic-through-his-poems-83916
13-05-2020||Avneet Kaur||He spends his entire savings to prevent spread of Covid-19||Jalandhar, May 12Sukhwinder Singh, a resident of Phagwara, who runs a small roadside dhaba on the Phagwara-Chandigarh road, has been leading from the front in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. He has been playing an instrumental role in containing the spread of the virus by spraying disinfectant in public places, chowks and areas identified hotspots both in Jalandhar and Phagwara.After investing all his savings and borrowing some money from his friends, he converted his own Bolero car and a Chota Hathi (small commercial van) into a sanitisation vehicle. He has installed a bucket containing sodium hypochlorite disinfectant and a 500-600 m pipe to carry out the sanitisation work where his vehicle can’t enter.“From March 23 onwards, I have been into sanitisation and langar work. During initial days, my focus was more on distributing langar among the needy. Thereafter, I realised it was creating chaos as people were not obeying social distancing norms. I also realised that on streets, there are already many NGOs engaged in distributing ration and cooked meals. So, I took the responsibility of sanitization. From March 29, I started visiting the areas that have been declared Covid-19 hotspots by the district administration and other localities,” Sukhwinder said.He said he first started the sanitisation work from Phagwara. “I do not have a team with me. I have been working alone. Sometimes, my neighbours or friends volunteer to accompany me. But mostly residents of the areas where I visit help me carry out the work. At present, there is not even a single street left in Phagwara which has not been sanitised by me.”Sukhwinder said after he finished the work in Phagwara, he started visiting Jalandhar. “So far, I have covered 60 to 70 per cent of the localities in Jalandhar, including the infected areas. I am also in touch with the Fire Department and the district administration. I have been assisting them with the sanitisation work,” he said, adding that he reaches around 7 or 8 am in the city and returns home late in the evening.When asked about his motivation to carry out this work despite financial challenges, he said the Gurbani teaches him to live for others. “When I will die, I am not going to take along a single penny with me. My purpose of life is to have compassion for others. We all must help each other during thus tough times,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/he-spends-his-entire-savings-to-prevent-spread-of-covid-19-83917
13-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||On return, NRIs have to pay for mandatory quarantine||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 12All NRIs who will be coming to the city have to pay for their mandatory quarantine, for staying in hotels of their choice. This was stated by the district administration here today.As many as 26 hotels and two institutional quarantine centres have been dedicated for the NRIs and travellers coming from other states through flights to the district in the days to come.NRIs will be expected to pay quarantine charges. The NIT centre is only for those returning from within the country. NRIs will be kept at hotels and paid quarantine centres. All arrangements have been made for the same. If poor migrants or workers come to the city, arrangements for them will be made then. We don't have any NRI returnees’ list so far. — Anupam Kler, Deputy Director, Local Bodies, & Nodal Officer for NRIs staying at hotelsWith prices for the NRI stay pegged between Rs 1,000 (or DAVIET quarantine) and Rs 7,500 for plush hotel quarantine, some of the NRIs raised concerns over the decision.The district administration has stated that 3,500 persons stranded in various parts of the country are expected to reach the city in the days to come. The National Institute of Technology (NIT) has been declared as a quarantine centre by the administration for them. As per directions of the state government, travellers coming from outside have to undergo mandatory quarantine even in case of asymptomatic conditions.Officials said all NRIs coming to the district would be screened at Meritorious School and if any are found asymptomatic, they would be quarantined and would be sent to the hospital if they were found to be symptomatic. They said throat swab test of NRIs would be held at the school. From there, they will be shifted to the hotel, chosen by them as quarantine centre.While the number of NRIs is not known yet, 400 to 500 rooms in various hotels of the district have been kept for them.Starting at Rs 1,000 (for DAVIET) per day expenses, an NRI would have to shell out minimum Rs 14,000 for the 14-day quarantine period.For those going for the most expensive hotels (Rs 7,500), the 14-day expense would come to over Rs 1 lakh.While on the one hand this might give a boost to the hotel industry, which is languishing amid the lockdown, on the other some raise concerns that the decision will affect poor or migrants coming from abroad.Jasbir Singh Gill, member, NRI Sabha, said: “People from countries such as the US, Canada and the UK don’t want to return to India. However, the government seems to have disregarded concerns of poor migrants who will be coming from middle eastern countries. A lot of them have failed to get their salaries and can’t afford to pay the quarantine charges. The return of these people, both from India and abroad, is a crucial juncture for the cash-strapped government. However, hotels for affluent NRIs is a welcome step. Arrangements should be made beforehand for those who might not be able to pay for their stay.”Anupam Kler, Deputy Director, Local Bodies, and Nodal Officer for NRIs staying at hotels, said: “The NRIs will be expected to pay quarantine charges. The NIT centre is only for those returning from within the country. NRIs will be kept at hotels and paid quarantines. All arrangements have been made for the same. If poor migrants or workers come to the city, arrangements for them will be made then. We don’t have any NRI returnees list so far.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/on-return-nris-have-to-pay-for-mandatory-quarantine-83905
13-05-2020||Phillaur||Five arrested with 147-kg poppy husk||In a major breakthrough, the Jalandhar (rural) police on Tuesday seized 147 kg of poppy husk, drug money worth Rs 21,500 and a Tata Sumo (PB10 BH 0884) from five persons and arrested them.The suspects have been identified as Ramji of Mohalla Bebi Deep Kaur, Hardeep Singh of village Burj Husan, Amandeep Singh of Ranjeet Pura Mohalla, Gurwinder Singh of Quila Mohalla and Baljinder Kumar of Umarpur in Bilga town of the district. SSP (Rural) Navjot Singh Mahal said a case under relevant Sections of the NDPS Act and the IPC and 51 (B) of the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, was registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-arrested-with-147-kg-poppy-husk-83906
13-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||5-month-old among 9 new cases in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 12Nine new coronavirus cases, including a five-month-old child, were reported on Tuesday. With this the district tally has now reached 197. Eight of the patients belong to New Gobind Nagar and they are the contacts of a Covid positive woman whose test report had come a few days ago. The ninth case is from Rasta Mohalla.While in Kapurthala, one positive case was reported today. The patient had arrived from UP on Monday night.According to official data, until now 5,322 samples have been taken in the district out of which 197 have been found positive whereas 4,476 samples have been found negative. DC Varinder Sharma said that reports of 491 patients were still pending. So far 25 patients after recovery have been discharged from the Civil Hospital. As per the information, all active cases of the coronavirus undergoing treatment at the local Civil Hospital were non-critical.According to the information as many as 22 teams of the Health Department on Tuesday conducted door-to-door survey of 9,662 houses during which 43,698 persons were screened. They said in the district so far 8,061 persons had been home quarantined out of which 7,084 had completed their 14 days period where as the quarantine period of 977 persons was still active.Five test negative in ShahkotSenior Medical Officer AS Duggal said the report of five persons who had arrived in Shahkot from other states had come negative. But they have been asked to follow home quarantine. On Monday, two students studying in other states had also arrived and they had also been put under home quarantine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-month-old-among-9-new-cases-in-jalandhar-83907
