13-06-2020||Avneet KaurJalandhar||Mask must even while driving alone, says DCP (Traffic) Dogra||Ever since the curfew was lifted in the state, a lot of restrictions were put in place to ensure the safety of residents. One of the most important rules is to wear a mask every time you step out. The failure of doing so will lead to a penalty of Rs 500. However, the rule got many residents wondering if it was applicable when you are driving alone with windows rolled up.Challans issued so farTill date, the district police have issued 6,428 challans, including 198 issued on Friday, for not wearing a mask under the ‘Mission Fateh’ initiated by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, thereby imposing a fine of Rs25.59 lakh on the defaulters.Various social media posts have been making the rounds with residents asking the logic behind wearing a mask when you are alone. Also, the recent incident in Patiala when a woman doctor was issued a challan for not wearing a mask while driving a car, apparently when she was on her way for Covid-19 duty, brought the public and doctors’ fraternity together under one umbrella raising objections over this mandatory rule.Richa Chadha, a resident of Friends Colony and working as a sales manager in a private firm, said, “I was on my way to the office when a woman constable near BMC Chowk stopped me and issued a challan for not wearing mask. I told her repeatedly that no one is in the car; I am driving alone with windows shut, so on what grounds I am being challaned”.She said the constable replied her that they had strict instructions from the government to challan everyone for not wearing a mask while venturing out.“We understand that the government has devised rules for the safety of the public, but these should make some sense. Even doctors have said that it’s not necessary to wear a mask when you are alone,” she added.Naresh Dogra, DCP (Traffic), while talking to The Tribune, said it was mandatory to wear a mask no matter if you were driving alone or with people at your back seat. “As per a notification issued by the Director of Health Services, those who don’t wear a mask while venturing out will be fined Rs 500. And that’s what the police have been doing. It is for the safety of the residents and they should understand the gravity of the situation”, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mask-must-even-while-driving-alone-says-dcp-traffic-dogra-98494
13-06-2020||---||After much abuzz, silence back for  two days again||Jalandhar, June 12After four weeks of full freedom to visit bakeries, salons, sports stadium and of late even take a round in shopping malls, a curfew-like situation is set to resume once again for the next two days.Even today, all shops closed at 7 pm as per the new orders against the usual timings of 9 pm. Even though the state government has allowed shops dealing with essential commodities and services to remain open on the weekend, most people were still seen buying grocery items in the day today.Ever since the restrictions in the lockdown had been relaxed, the rush in sabzi mandis, government offices, markets etc had gone beyond control. Various government employees, farmer associations and student unions also held protests, caring two hoots to maintaining social distancing.The number of cases of Covid-19 have been on the rise for the past over a week and new and untraceable cases, too, have started emerging on a daily basis.The movement of people to Jalandhar from other cities, abroad and the return of migrants, too, has been increasing. Even Jullundur Gymkhana Club has started opening sports facilities.People have begun socialising and visiting their friends and relatives locally and in nearby towns. The sudden decision to impose the weekend curfew has led to a change of plans of several people, who were to visit their relatives or hold get-togethers to break the monotony.Earlier in the day, shopkeepers were confused as to whether they would be able to open their establishments, the matter was clarified after the government issued detailed guidelines this evening. Harvinder Chugh, a shopkeeper, said, “While the state government has allowed the industry to work normally on the weekend, even shops should have been allowed. Our work had barely started coming back on the track.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/after-much-abuzz-silence-back-for-two-days-again-98496
13-06-2020||---||Irrigation Dept plans to release water in Bist Doab Canal by July 1||Jalandhar, June 12As the Irrigation Department has planned to release water into the Bist Doab Canal by July 1, the department has started the process of cleaning it.About 200 daily wagers, mostly women, have been deployed under the MGNREGA scheme to clean the canal bed. Wild vegetation had erupted through its crevices and people from adjoining colonies had dumped trash, including polythenes, into it. The daily wagers are earning Rs 264 per day under the job employment scheme.Officials of the department said the filth and other material in the canal would create a hurdle in the smooth flow of water in the canal, which starts from Nawanshahr and passes through Jalandhar to irrigate various parts of the Doaba. The canal is 802-km-long and has 52 distributaries. An official of the department said the work of cleaning had been on for the past 20 days and would continue till the end of this month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/irrigation-dept-plans-to-release-water-in-bist-doab-canal-by-july-1-98500
13-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||2 +ve Gorakhpur men flee quarantine centre||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 12Two Gorakhpur men, who were tested positive on Thursday, have reportedly left the city in the middle of their quarantine and reached their home in UP.While the health teams were trying to contact and bring them to isolation wards after their positive test samples, the men, aged 18 and 45 years, were found to have landed in Gorkahpur. However, people of the district can heave a sigh of relief as they are confirmed to have left. While they listed their address as Subhash Nagar in the Sodal area, health department said they didn’t inform authorities before leaving town.Sources said the two men were known to have left by a bus and when health teams called them they were on their way to Gorakhpur. It is not yet known how crowded the vehicle in which they left in was or how many people they might have come in contact with on the way.Both had self reported at the Jalandhar Civil Hospital and left quietly before the results of their tests were out. They left amid quarantine protocol. The health department and authorities of UP are at loggerheads following the matter.Dr TP Singh, District Nodal Officer, Covid-19, said, “While one of them is a student, the other is a labourer. They live close by each other at the Sodal area. They did not inform health teams before leaving the district. The state authorities have intimated the UP authorities on the issue.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-ve-gorakhpur-men-flee-quarantine-centre-98501
13-06-2020||Jalandhar||67-year-old at DMC Ludhiana||With the death of a 67 year-old woman, the number of deceased in the district has risen to 11. Three more persons were tested positive in the district on Friday. Now the number of infected persons has risen to 325. Just two days ago (on June 12) an 86-year-old woman had also died.Resident of Dilbagh Nagar in Jalandhar, she was admitted to DMC Ludhiana. While she was admitted to DMC Ludhiana, her daughter was also with her there.Dr TP Singh, Nodal Officer, Covid-19, Jalandhar, said, “The woman had other co-morbidities like chronic kidney disease and diabetes. She was tested positive on June 7.Meanwhile, the three patients who tested positive in Jalandhar today, include a 31-year-old man belonging to Industrial Area, currently admitted at the IMA facility; a 53-year-old man and a 33-year-old man, contact of a case previously tested positive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/67-year-old-at-dmc-ludhiana-98503
13-06-2020||Our CorrespondentJalandhar||Agriculture officials protest attack on colleagues||The Agriculture Technocrats Action Committee (ATAC) today held a protest outside the office of District Agriculture Officer (DAO) demanding stringent action against those who attacked the officials of the Agriculture Department in Ludhiana near Sahnewal earlier this week.Dr Jaswant Rai, President Agriculture Officer Association Jalandhar, said that all the associations of the agriculture department in all the districts of the state under the banner of ATAC, have decided to go on indefinite ‘Kalam Chod’ protest starting today.“We would not do any official work until the arrests of the offenders. Three officers including a woman officer were attacked with a hoe and they also damaged the car in which the officials reached there”, Dr Rai said, adding that the officers are available to assist farmers, but will not perform any official work.Dr Kuldeep Singh, Regional Seed Certification Officer, said the officials were on government duty to stop the farmers from sowing paddy before the stipulated date which was June 10. Instead of complying with the move, the farmer on the field along with others attacked them.Since no arrests have been made so far, the members will intensify the protest if the action is not taken soon. “The law and order situation is deteriorating. A team of agriculture officials is attacked and all three have received injuries and the offenders are roaming free. We demand justice and a strict action from the government”, said Surinder Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/agriculture-officials-protest-attack-on-colleagues-98506
13-06-2020||GUNBIR SINGH Chief Managing Director (CMD) of Divine Destination||‘Centre, states should come up with out-of-the-box solutions’||How has the lockdown impacted the industry?It has dealt a severe setback to the industry. Businesses have suffered losses over the last quarter and will meet the same fate in the current quarter. Our travel industry has taken a substantial hit across all its verticals, be it leisure and business tourism, logistical support, hospitality assets, food catering businesses and aviation. The human resource within these modules in the tertiary areas such as guide services, ticketing agents, visa services, etc, is in a quandary. It has been a disaster of magnitude yet not contemplated since the industry is among the largest employment providers.Do you expect the resumption of your business in the near future?At present, there is uncertainty in the travel sector. Once cases start receding, only essential travel services will start. Industry people know that decisions globally can be made through online meetings. The impact on travel business will be seen for a long time. Leisure will await till the panic subsides globally. We will not see this happening in 2020.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to workers?We have been constantly in touch with our employees and been addressing all their needs and even providing counselling to them and their families. The company believes in taking care of their own people. We have dug into our savings to ensure that our extended families, who are dependent on us, do not suffer the pain on the fiscal front or otherwise.Have any of your major investments been deferred due to the lockdown?Investments have come to a standstill during the crisis. The crunch will continue till fund flows stabilise. At present, it is imperative to maintain the status quo and the need to stay afloat the top priority.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?Every challenge opens up new vistas of opportunities. This time has been utilised to keep in touch with the existing clientele and utilise the same for new businesses that can sail on the credibility of the old. We believe that 2021 will figure as a significant year for riding the stallion of success built on the trauma of 2020. Businesses shall be leaner and more dynamic to change than ever before.What are your expectations from the government?Industry needs more support today than ever before. This is a time when lip-service must be replaced by real monetary help. State governments and the Centre should come up with out-of-the-box solutions. Also, they need to be prepared for kick-starting demand once the healthcare issues are resolved. Hope they are better equipped for that than they were on the healthcare front.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/centre-states-should-come-up-with-out-of-the-box-solutions-98507
13-06-2020||Nawanshahr||One-week quarantine must for discharged patients: SSP||The district police on Friday launched “Our Village, Our Responsibility” campaign in the district for Covid-19 awareness in a unique initiative. Under the campaign, each village will play a vital role in keeping the village/ward free from the virus.Launching the campaign at her office here, Nawanshahr SSP Alka Meena said after easing of the lockdown rules, there had been a sharp increase in inter-state traffic and the return of Indians from abroad too had increased. In addition, one week of home quarantine is mandatory after positive patients are sent home from the Covid Care Centre. She said most of the cases were violation of quarantine rules. Breaking of quarantine norms by such people also posed a risk of spreading Covid in people living in nearby areas.She said the “Village Mission Fateh Team” would prove to be an effective tool to prevent violations in the district as the members of this team would include village-level people as members would provide information about every person coming from outside. She said an SHO, village police officer, sarpanch and two panches (MC and ward councillor in city case), Punjab Police volunteer, youth club/sports club member, ex-servicemen, government employees belonging to any village/ward who wish to become members voluntarily will be members of the Team.She said the “Village Mission Fateh Teams” would co-operate with their villages in compiling the list of outsiders at the inter-district checkpoints. She said these teams would take precautionary measures to be taken for Covid control in villages/wards such as downloading the COVA app, wearing masks, social distance, ensuring clean hands and besides violating the rules of quarantine, police control room no. 112, WhatsApp No: 83608-33805, District Police Helpline numbers 01823- 508063, 226524, 88721-23100 and COVID Control Room numbers 01823-227470, 227471. She said “Village Mission Fateh Team” would prove to be an important link to get the district Covid free.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-week-quarantine-must-for-discharged-patients-ssp-98508
13-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||NIT all set to launch its air purifier||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 12Having attained the 52nd position in the NIRF ranking this year from the 113th rank last time, staff of the Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology is geared up to further improve its perception and reach to the 25th to 30th position the next time.Dr LK Awasthi, Director, NIT, says he has congratulated his entire faculty and set higher targets for the next year. Discussing how he has been planning to achieve it all, he says, “We already had 500 research publications and several projects lined up for intellectual property rights. We are in the process of commercialising them and making them reach the masses. Our first commercially launched product will be available in the market. It will be an air purifier devised by Dr JK Rattan and Dr KS Nagla.”He shared that there are at least five products related to Covid-19 that professors of the NIT have come up with recently. “Our faculty from the department of textile technology, Dr Vinay Midda and Dr A Mukhopadhyay, have come up with a new kind of a mask which is in the shape of N95 ones. While this mask costs Rs 250 per piece or so and is non-washable, the price of our mask will be in the range of Rs 40-Rs 50 and it will be washable 30-40 times. N95 becomes a little suffocating, but our mask will be made of polyester and cotton and will be very soft and breathable. The fibres in it will be such that it will restrict the entry of any microbes. It also has an additional feature of quick drying. We are expecting that a Delhi-based company will launch it in another 10-15 days,” said Dr Awasthi. The other newly launched items of the NIT include a single piece PPE kit and shoe sanitisation facility.Dr Awasthi elaborated other issues on which he is currently working, “We are preparing our students to improve their performance in the national-level examination such as GATE. We are even reimbursing the fee of students so as to assist them financially.” He added, "We are already active on our web portal sharing information of all our achievements. We are also using social media platforms actively for dissemination. We are also highlighting our achievements via a newsletter, which we are circulating to all big institutes across India, including IITs, NITs and IISC- Bengaluru.”He also plans to rope in the alumni spread across the globe for improving the perception of the institute. “We were already evaluated well on the parameter of outreach, which we want to improve further. We also want to improve on the factor of collaborations with better ranks international institutions. For the same, I had recently gone to the US for an MoU. We are definitely on an upswing path. The ride higher above will be difficult, but we are prepared,” said Dr Awasthi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nit-all-set-to-launch-its-air-purifier-98534
13-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||His golden jubilee plans go haywire||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 12Having started his business in 1970, the owner of popular Delhi Paints had planned to celebrate Golden Jubilee of his showroom with his clientele this year. But the Covid-19 outbreak spoiled all his plans.Running an agency of Asian Paints on Old GT Road here, 75-year-old Santokh Singh says: “We had planned lucrative offers for customers this year. For instance, we had been planning to paint the room of a kid of our customers. We were working out offers on purchase of wallpapers. But after the Covid-19 struck, all such plans have been discarded.”Santokh Singh’s son SP Singh shares: “At present, only those who had started construction or painting of their house before the lockdown are purchasing our products as they want to complete the work.” Talking about how they expanded the business, SP Singh says: “A few years ago, we ventured into the segment of modular kitchen, dressing room set up, cabinets with sliding doors, unplastered PVC windows and wooden flooring with Asian Paints. The kitchen studio that we design has everything covered by cabinets with the same colour, including dish washers, oven, fridges and chimneys.”“Our business was doing good prior to the lockdown. I, my father and my brother Kuljit Singh would remain at the shop. At times, we had to call in more family members to handle customers. But the situation now is such that a single person can manage it.”Like other companies, Asian Paints, too, has ventured into sale of sanitisers. “We have sanitiser in all quantities — small and big for commercial purposes,” says SP Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/his-golden-jubilee-plans-go-haywire-98538
13-06-2020||Mukerian ||Hindu bodies protest against ‘police inaction’||Members of the Sarva Dharma Satkar Samiti and various Hindu organizations today staged a protested demanding action from the police against the derogatory pictures of the Hindu Gods and Goddesses posted on Facebook. A memorandum giving ultimatum till June 16 was presented to the SDM Mukerian Ashok Sharma for taking strict legal action against the accused.The activists said that about three months ago the complaint was lodged in Mukerian against two youths who had taken to the social site for the aforementioned instance. Along with it, the screenshots of the posts were also handed over to police but no action was taken. As a result, due to the dilly-dallying nature of the cops, Maharana Pratap’s statue was vandalised earlier this week. Moreover, the police officials tried to close the issue by framing an insane man as the culprit. They warned that if the situation remains the same against the people involved in the said incident till June 16, then large-scale protests would be held for which the officials would be solely responsible.Ex-IAS officer flays govt’s ‘discriminatory’ policiesPhagwara: Former senior IAS officer, Sucha Ram Ladhar, has alleged upon Punjab Government for discrimination with the Scheduled Castes(SC) in selection of PCS (Judicial) Officers in the state. Talking to The Tribune here today, Ladhar said he had written a letter to the Governor against this discriminatory attitude of the state government against the Scheduled Castes.Ladhar, on behalf of Phule-Ambedekeri Gauravshali and Adarshwadi Muhim (PAGAAM), said Punjab had the highest percentage of SC population(31.96%) who were being discriminated at every level socially, economically and politically. He alleged that the state government seemed to be playing a partisan and prejudicial role against the interests of the people belonging to the SC category.He alleged that only 25 per cent reservation was being provided to SCs which was an open violation of the Article 16,4 of the Constitution.Ladhar said the selection of SC candidates of PCS (Judicial) had gone down from 25 per cent to 10 per cent to 15 pe rcent in the discriminatory policies of the state government. Ladhar further alleged that Punjab Government had divided the SC people in two categories viz Balmiki/Majhabi and SC others against the spirit of the Constitution to create a social divide among the SC people for political gains only. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hindu-bodies-protest-against-police-inaction-98539
13-06-2020||Our CorrespondentPhagwara||Food Department collects 11 samples||In a two-day checking drive, that concluded on Thursday, a team of Food Administration, Kapurthala, headed by Dr Harjot Pal Singh, Assistant Commissioner, Food, along with Satnam Singh, Food Safety Officer, who checked various hotels, restaurants, dhabas, milk dairies, departmental stores, bakeries collected a total of 11 samples, including desi ghee (2), mustard oil (1), spices( 2), fruits (3), pulses (2), edible salt (1).The samples will be sent to the State Food Laboratory, Kharar, for analysis. Asst Commissioner, Food, Dr Harjotpal Singh said, since curfew and the lockdown was imposed all of a sudden taking into consideration the threat perception posed by the Covid-19 , so businessmen operating the food business, didn’t get much time to sale the stock of sweets and other food items, so all food business operators (FBO’s) are directed to ensure that : Food Items (a) gone stale, (b) spoiled by way of fungal /microbial growth or otherwise, (c) expired/passed best before date and (d) other such food items, which the FBO himself considers that using it as a part of food may pose threat to human health in one way or the other.He said, at present, only take away and home delivery was allowed from restaurants, dhabas, sweet shops and other eateries and dine-in ie serving inside the premises is strictly not allowed. However, hotels are allowed to serve food to the guests in the room facility, as allowed by the state government and district administration Kapurthala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/food-department-collects-11-samples-98540
13-06-2020||Our Correspondent||'Punajb govt to reissue 9,000 cancelled Blue Cards’||Phagwara, June 12The state government has announced to reissue nearly 9,000 cancelled Blue Cards of the Phagwara Assembly constituency, which was lauded by Chairman of Punjab Agro Industries Joginder Singh Mann who said many people of the Phagwara constituency were complaining about the cancellation of the blue cards.He had also discussed the matter with the departments concerned before the Covid-19 pandemic and said many needy families had been deprived of government facilities after which Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had reissued 9,000 blue cards of the constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punajb-govt-to-reissue-9-000-cancelled-blue-cards-98541
13-06-2020||Hoshiarpur||2 mobiles seized from Central Jail||3 Arrested for stealing 2 goatsHoshiarpur: The police on Friday arrested three persons on charges of stealing two goats. They were produced in a court and were sent to judicial custody for 14 days. ASI Haragopal of Mehtiana police told that a check point near Ajnoha Canal proved effective in the capture of the accused. The three men were coming on a bike with goats. On seeing barricades, they tried to flee from the spot. Hence, the chase was on and the accused rounded up. Upon questioning, they conceded that they had stolen the goats from the courtyard of a bazigar from Roorkee near Phagwara and they were going to sell them in Kotfatoohi. An FIR was then lodged against Naresh Kumar alias Lakha, Shaukat Ali — both hail from Ranipur district in Kapurthala — and Riteish alias Sunny, who lives in Sodhi Pind, district Jalandhar. OCAuction of plots, shops concludesHoshiarpur: Residential, commercial plots and shops were auctioned by the Improvement Trust Hoshiarpur through eAuction. Chairman Rakesh Marwaha said: “As many as 50 persons had registered to buy different plots and 44 bidders participated in the auction. The trust received a revenue of Rs 1.50 crore in the auction. This amount would be spent for the development of various residential and commercial schemes of the trust and soon the process would start for auctioning the remaining sites so that the trust could contribute to the city’s development.” OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-mobiles-seized-from-central-jail-98542
