13-07-2020||ARUN AGGARWAL||‘Sports goods industry has suffered maximum impact of Covid lockdown’||How did lockdown impact your business?I would say that the worst impact of the lockdown has been seen on sports goods. Owing to the closure of sports institutes, coaching centres, grounds, the sports industry has suffered a setback. Also, no sports activities are being held, all these factors have hit the business badly.Now that you have started the unit, are you seeing any progress?We started operations on May 1 at 50 per cent staff capacity. Currently, the demand is only for indoor sports goods like carrom boards, dumbbells, but outside games are totally stopped, so the problem still stands there.How was the business last year at this time? Tell us the gravity of the problem.The best period for the sports industry is from March 15 to June 30 when students of schools and colleges have taken the exams. Then they are free and get enough time to play. Maximum sale is witnessed in this season. So, we can say that as compared to the previous year, only 10 per cent work is being done.Did you also face any labour problem?We had stopped our migrant labourers from going to their native places. We had arranged food and every other essential thing for them, so they didn’t return to their native states. Even now, they don’t say that they want to go back. So, we didn’t have to face any labour problem.Did you have any expansion plans that got hit or delayed?We were going to establish a shoe factory in Jalandhar, but it would get delayed. We were going to start the work in May but now the plan has got postponed.How do you plan to do business in future?Now that people have stopped going to markets, we are thinking of changing our method of business according to online methods. We are planning that we would sell our products on online portals like Amazon and Flipkart.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sports-goods-industry-has-suffered-maximum-impact-of-covid-lockdown-112324
13-07-2020||Jalandhar||Two held with  50-gm heroin||BJP OBC morcha chief appointedJalandhar: Advocate Davinder Lubana Dimpy has been appointed as the district president of BJP’s OBC morcha. Ashwani Sharma, Punjab BJP president; Rajinder Bitta, president OBC morcha, Punjab; Sushil Sharma, Jalandhar BJP president, announced this here. A social worker and a former student activist, Lubana has been reportedly rendering services to the party for the past 14 years and even worked with the ABVP, the student union of the RSS. He has also worked as the general secretary, OBC morcha. As a social worker, Lubana has been providing free legal aid to the needy from many years. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-with-50-gm-heroin-112313
13-07-2020||Avneet Kaur||Changing lifestyle: Added screen time taking toll on health of Jalandhar residents||Jalandhar, July 12As the Covid-19 pandemic has turned our home into our workspace, complaints related to backache, neck pain, eye strain and associated sleeplessness have witnessed a surge.For online classes and office work, both students and the work-from-employees have been using laptops and mobiles for prolonged hours these days. Instead of using a table and chair to study or work, they rather prefer sitting on sofa, couch or bed in order to work amid the comforts of home.Dr Navjot Dahiya, a city-based Orthopedic Doctor, said, “With all the stay-at-home activities, our screen time has increased exponentially. Our online activities have also increased. But there is a dire need to understand its flip side. It is having a detrimental effect on our eyes and is also affecting our overall health.”He said making use of bed or sofa for a long time while watching TV, working or studying, weakens and tightens muscles, stiffening the back, shoulders and neck. The cases of cervical, backache and neck pain have increased manifolds these days, owing to the sedentary lifestyle of people.Tanishtha Kaura, a social media marketer, who has been working from home these days, said it has become difficult to handle work from home considering the impact it has on our health. “I developed severe back and neck pain after working from my bed and constantly looking down at the laptop for long hours. We should adopt ergonomic postures to enhance our work efficiency and guard ourselves against several ailments,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/changing-lifestyle-added-screen-time-taking-toll-on-health-of-jalandhar-residents-112314
13-07-2020||Ajay Joshi||Garbage mounds turning bigger sans waste management plant||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 12With the Mandi Board officials failing to find a contractor to handle the proposed bio-mining project at the Maqsudan sabzi mandi, heaps of garbage at the main dumping sites are only becoming bigger and taller.Since last year, the marketing committee of the Mandi Board had conceived a plan to set up a Solid Waste Management (SWM) plant at the mandi, which is considered as one of the largest vegetable markets in the region. However, even after several months, the SWM plant couldn’t come up at the mandi. As per the earlier announcements, it was scheduled to be constructed by November, last year, but it kept on stretching and now, the execution of the proposed project still remains a far-fetched dream. To stop the foul smell emanating from the piling up garbage on a daily basis, the processing unit was to be constituted inside a closed room at the city’s largest mandi. The plant was stated to be installed on a 15,000 sq m area.Due to the lack of sufficient dumping place at the mandi, surrounding areas are now being utilised by the fruit and vegetable dealers to get rid of their trash. The waste piled up at the mandi has now become an eyesore for residents and vendors. Owning to incessant rains and winds, the disposed garbage spreads to a larger area. When garbage gets mixed in water puddles, it becomes a breeding ground for mosquitoes and insects, claim migrants residing at the mandi.Officials of the Mandi Board said dumping sites in the district are inadequate to occupy mandi waste. So, it can’t be relocated from there.Kamal, a fruit vendor, said: “They don’t have any specific area for dumping waste. So, they throw it out in the open, where every vendor disposes of his garbage. Sanitary workers of the Municipal Corporation, too, forget to lift the mandi waste at times.” Vendors demanded that another bin be installed around the entrance of the mandi, so that they could dispose of their garbage at a particular place.Sukhdeep Singh, secretary, Mandi Market Committee, said: “The SWM project is apparently lying pending due to the unavailability of favourable bidding. We have been receiving bids above the fixed cost. The plant will not only process the accumulated waste, but also segregate plastic and non-biodegradable waste. Hence, we are waiting for the contractor who will bid less and reap profit from the treated waste,” Sukhdeep said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/garbage-mounds-turning-bigger-sans-waste-management-plant-112315
13-07-2020||Residents say sub-standard products manufactured by dubious pharma companies are a cause for concern||Govt must check sale of ‘adulterated’ sanitisers||Unscrupulous traders misusing itIf used repeatedly, methanol in hand sanitiser is quite harmful for skin. It makes the skin dry and causes itching and if there are cracks in the skin it can get absorbed and result in systematic side-effects. Because of Covid-19 scare in the minds of people, many unscrupulous traders are misusing it, particularly in Himachal Pradesh. FDA Punjab has already cautioned the Himachal Government about it. Washing hands with soap and water is a better option. Both alcohol and soap-water are solvents of fat, which has a covering for Covid-19. Formaldehyde is synthesised from methanol. Also known as methyl alcohol, its formula is CH3OH. Formaldehyde was used to store the organs from bodies after post-mortem. If methyl alcohol is taken orally, it can cause blindness because of optic atrophy as we had seen in states such as Bihar, UP and Gujarat. Then, there are higher degrees of alcohol like ethyl alcohol, also called ethanol with formula C2H5OH, isopropyl alcohol C3H8OH, butyl alcohol C4H9OH. The latter two give lesser kick than the first one.Dr JS WadhwaQUESTIONEven as the UGC insists that exit exams are a must, the Punjab Government, which had already announced cancellation, is now pleading before the Centre for a rethink. In the tussle between the Centre and the state, who do you think is right?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk @tribunemail.com by Thursday (July 16).Ensure availability of genuine productsWith the Covid-19 outbreak, health authorities across the world have emphasised the importance of social distancing, home quarantine and personal hygiene norms such as safety precautions. The FDA has recommended frequent hand washing with plain soap and water. In the absence of these, in clinical settings and other work and public places, it has advised the use of alcohol-based hand rubs (ABHRs) having 60 per cent ethanol or isopropanol because these are more effective and convenient for prevention of infection. But due to the coronavirus multiplying exponentially, there has been a sudden surge in market demand for reputed brands of hand sanitation products leading to severe shortage in their supply. Amid hoarding, sky-high prices and overcharging, a consequent sharp increase of sub-standard products manufactured by dubious pharmaceutical companies and their ease of availability in the market has raised grave safety concerns. Being vigilant and wary of their false, misleading and unsubstantiated claims about their quality and curative potential, the FDA has warned consumers against the use of hand sanitisers containing methanol, a toxic substance that severely damages different organs of human body. Unfortunately, a majority of consumers are either not aware of this anomaly or are dissatisfied with the current dysfunctional national regulatory framework at all stages of the product journey. The government should ensure regular access to genuine self-hygiene material at reasonable rates and take strict action against willful violators of safety norms.DS KangUnscrupulous people making easy moneyWith the outbreak of Covid-19, one of the major precautions advised was to sanitise hands to check its spread. Any brand of soap or hand-wash liquid with antiseptic ingredients through minimum 20 seconds of indulgence could have done the job of sanitising the hands, but the public rushed to buy hand sanitisers which were in short supply. Unscrupulous manufacturers and traders took the occasion as an opportunity to make easy money. The government failed to check the quality and price of such sanitisers, the use of which was not familiar in most of Indian homes. It is laudable that the FDA has now taken steps against the use of deadly methanol in manufacturing hand sanitisers, but still, it needs to be clarified that there is no need to buy such sanitisers for home use. Sanitisers may be used in commercial or official establishments and where the facility of running water is not feasible.Jagdish ChanderChemists should not hoodwink customersConsumers who have been exposed to hand sanitiser containing methanol should seek immediate treatment. Exposure to methanol can lead to nausea, vomiting, headache, coma, permanent damage to nervous system or death. Public health agencies have reported that methanol is unable to kill viruses when compared to other alcohols, but can be toxic to humans. Methanol is used as an industrial chemical and fuel source. Ethanol and Isopropanol are two alcohols that can be safely and effectively used to sanitise hands and to disinfect surfaces. Mostly people are not aware of chemical substances and they have a blind faith on chemists. It is the responsibility of a chemist to provide consumer only that sanitiser, which contains ethanol and isopropanol and not even a single drop of methanol. Only one thing they should keep in the mind is human life is vital than money.Saahil HansFDA’s decision has come too lateManufacturers and the traders took undue advantage of the situation while the government failed to ensure both quality and price of such sanitisers. FDA’s latest action against the use of methanol is too late as the damage has already been done. While it is the utmost responsibility of the government to ensure the supply of quality sanitisers, there is also an urgent need to sensitise the public to the proper use and efficacy of ordinary handwash liquids.Shashi KiranWhy play with lives of innocent people?According to the WHO and FDA warnings, the extensive use of methanol in hand sanitisers can prove to be extremely detrimental for our health. What took them so long to take this decision? There has to be some scrutiny. I doubt if there was any regular check on the chain of manufacturers and sellers! The innocent people of our nation have been left high and dry. We have to introspect and look for lasting solutions to take our nation on the path of progress, prosperity and glory.Simranjeet Singh SainiBan hand sanitisers containing MethanolGiven the present scenario, the demand of hand sanitiser in the market is very high. Methanol is a toxic substance, which may even lead to loss of life. The pharmaceutical companies in India come under the Ministry of chemicals and fertilisers. It is now the responsibility of ministry to take stringent action against those pharmaceutical companies which have been using methanol in hand sanitiser. Any pharmaceutical company using methanol in hand sanitisers should be banned by the ministry.Shailja Thakur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-must-check-sale-of-adulterated-sanitisers-112312
13-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj ---||WhatsApp groups to keep farmers alert over locust threat||Tribune News Service  Jalandhar, July 12  The district Agriculture Department has been organising mock drills and keeping farmers updated on the current location and chances of locust attack in various areas.  The department is on alert and has formed various WhatsApp groups. Around 250 progressive farmers from the district are a part of these groups. These groups keep farmers updated about the latest agriculture techniques and locust attacks. Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Surinder Singh said another group would also be formed. “Several progressive farmers have been added in the group, who will further provide the information to other farmers to make them aware of the situation. Otherwise also, we are constantly tracking the speed and direction of wind and location of locusts to know where they can go,” the officer said.  He said all arrangements were in place to tackle any kind of untoward incident. As per the information, the highly prone areas in Jalandhar were Shahkot, Mehatpur and Lohian, but farmers in the entire district should remain cautious.  “At present, the locusts have attacked Sirsa in Haryana, Moga and Faridkot in Punjab, which are close to the Lohian area of Jalandhar. So, the threat of locust attack here also looms large,” the Chief Agriculture Officer said. Recently, mock drills were also organised for which the department formed various teams of experts who made the farmers aware of harmful insects and their impact on the crop. The teams asked the farmers to be aware and inform the district administration in case they saw the swarms. As per the experts, this insect often flies in swarms and given the favourable circumstances, it can even travel up to 80 to 200 km. Dr Sanjiv Kataria, entomology expert, PAU, had earlier told the farmers that the insect tends to sit on higher side, ie, trees etc during evening time and this period spray of pesticides should be carried out. Dr Kataria said the female insect lays eggs in abundance beneath the soil and after the eggs hatch, the nymph eats the whole vegetation within hours.  As per department officials, locusts attack can happen on any crop. “A locust has a lifespan of 50-60 days. And the insect has three stages — egg, nymph and adult. They also fly in a gregarious way and thus destroy the vegetation,” an official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/whatsapp-groups-to-keep-farmers-alert-over-locust-threat-112301
13-07-2020||---||Mohinder Singh Kaypee among 28 test +ve, tally rises to 1,206 in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 12Congress leader and Chairman of the Punjab State Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training Mohinder Singh Kaypee on Sunday tested positive for Covid-19. He is among the 28 persons who tested positive in the district, taking the total number of cases to 1,206. The fresh cases include five children aged 4, 5, 10 and 14 years.After a district-based judge, an SSP, an SDM and an RTA official, Kaypee is the fifth high-profile personality to test positive in the district. Reported with mild Covid symptoms like fever and bad throat, he has been admitted to the district IMA facility.Those who tested positive today included three patients from Rani Baag, two from Model Town, five from Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar and others from Basant Avenue, Basti Gujan, Deep Nagar, Daroli Kalan, Sanjay Gandhi Nagar, Gandhi Camp, etc, include those tested positive in the district today.After various key members of the bureaucracy tested positive or met with those who were infected with the virus, the district administration on Sunday ordered the sealing of all offices from where a person had been reported positive for a period of 72 hours.Staff attendance will be on a 50-50 basis and the ADC will immediately issue duty as per a 14-14 day roster for the staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mohinder-singh-kaypee-among-28-test-ve-tally-rises-to-1-206-in-jalandhar-112302
13-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||Offices with +ve cases to be sealed for 72 hrs||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 12A day after The Tribune highlighted the vulnerability of the DAC complex after several key officials tested positive for Covid-19 within a span of a few days, the District Administration has ordered the sealing of all offices, from where officials tested positive, for 72 hours.Detailed instructions have been released by the DC in view of the dramatic rise in Covid cases in the district.RTA services closed till wednesdayAs the Secretary, Regional Transport Authority, Jalandhar, was found to be infected with the virus on July 11, the RTA office in the district has been closed till Wednesday. The RTA office and driving test track (Jalandhar) will also remain closed. All allied appointments for driving licences (for learning and driving tests), scheduled for this week, will now be shifted to the next week. No public dealing will take place at the office till Wednesday.Jalandhar DC Ghanshyam Thori has directed that the work places of all those officials who have tested positive in the district shall be sealed for 72 hours, so that the infection doesn’t spread.The detailed set of guidelines state that the entry of visitors to the DAC complex shall be restricted to minimum and all demand letters, memorandums and postal material to the DC office shall henceforth be sent via email. Not only this, all offices in Jalandhar shall have mandatory sanitisers at the entry.It also states that hand sanitisers should be kept at the entry gates of all offices in Jalandhar district and Class IV employees should be deputed to ensure that employees or visitors are allowed to enter only after sanitising their hands. All demand letters being given by various groups shall be accepted by the DC office only via email.The ADC (G) has also been directed to prepare a backup plan to ensure the work of any PCS or other official, who tests positive due to Covid-19. All fresh posts to the office of DC Jalandhar shall henceforth be sent only via email. The post shall be marked to the department concerned with facsimile signatures. Staff attendance shall also be distributed on 50:50 basis and the ADC (G) will immediately issue duty as per a 14-day roster for the staff.What the order says...“The common public is being requested to mail their requests to the office concerned rather than personally visiting the office of the DC or other departments. Applicants can email their requests at dc.jal@punjabmail. gov.in. Only in very important or urgent cases, can applicants come personally and submit their requests to the PA of the DC. The steno to the DC can forward it to the departments concerned under facsimile signatures after due consultation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/offices-with-ve-cases-to-be-sealed-for-72-hrs-112303
13-07-2020||---||With four fresh cases, count touches 200 in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, July 12 The district reported four fresh cases on Sunday.  Civil Surgeon Jasvir Singh said two Covid-19 positive persons belonged to Bhogpur in Jalandhar district. Of them, one is 30-year-old man and the other is a 5-year-old child. Their samples were taken at the Tanda health centre on July 10.  Besides, the report of a 48-year-old person of Seehwan village under the Health Centre, Posi, in Garhshankar subdivision, came out positive. He had come from Andhra Pradesh. And a 29-year-old woman of Kalota village in Mukerian subdivision, was found positive in Gurdaspur.  The Civil Surgeon said samples of 137 persons with flu-like symptoms were taken. Out of the 17,342 samples taken so far, reports of 16,528 had come out negative and reports of 601 were awaited. He said the results of 30 samples were invalid. The number of positive cases has increased to 200, of which 12 are active cases.  DC Apneet Riyait said the Covid-19 disease could be vanquished only by adopting precautions and spreading awareness among others under the Mission Fateh. “Till now, 181 patients have recovered and been discharged. It should be ensured that the instructions given by the Punjab Government are followed strictly to make Punjab a Covid-free state,” said the DC. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-four-fresh-cases-count-touches-200-in-hoshiarpur-112304
13-07-2020||---||Covid no deterrent for this govt schoolteacher||Jalandhar, July 12  Jyoti Jaitley, a mathematics teacher at Government Model Senior Secondary (co-ed) Smart School, Ladowali Road, was given an appreciation letter by the District Education Officer (DEO) here.  Reason: Her contribution in content development and online classes amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The appreciation letter offered by the state Education Department is being provided to teachers who are presently taking extra efforts in providing classroom-like environment to students of government schools attending online classes. Jyoti, who has been working as a government teacher for the past four years, has been providing all kinds of study material to students and conducting online classes, so that students can continue with their studies.  From explaining mathematical concepts through easy techniques to conducting online quiz, the teacher was all out to help her students. Claiming it an honour, Jyoti said: “Since students were sitting idle most of the time these days, so continuing with the studies was the only option in keeping them busy. Before joining the government school, she has taught at several private and convent schools in the district.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-no-deterrent-for-this-govt-schoolteacher-112306
13-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Man held with pistol, heroin in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, July 12,Acting on a tip-off, a team of the anti-narcotics cell of the district police arrested a man and seized fire arms and heroin from him, while two of his accomplices riding another car escaped the spot.The police recovered heroin from the absconding suspects’ car. According to information, ASI Ajay Kumar, in-charge of narcotics cell, in his complaint to the Bullowal police said that they had laid a naka near Randhawa Barota village and signalled the suspects to stop cars.Two suspects riding a car left their vehicle behind and fled the sopt, while third suspect riding another car was arrested. He has been identified as Harman Singh, alias Billa, alias Happy, a resident of Lammen village. During search, a 7.65 mm pistol and 34 bullets were found from him.The police also seized 50 gm of heroin from each car during search. The absconding suspects have been identified as Jasmeet Singh, alias Jasbir Singh, alias Lakki, a resident of Raipur, and Sunil, alias Monu, a resident of Hajipur village in Garhshankar subdivision. The police have impounded the cars and registered a case under the NDPS Act.Two are absconding||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-held-with-pistol-heroin-in-hoshiarpur-112307
13-07-2020||Our Correspondent---||Tempo union seeks reopening of entry point||Talwara, July 12 As the Talwara police closed the entry point at the Punjab and Himachal border near the Shah Canal Barrage on the Talwara-Santhana road since July 4, following the orders of the Punjab government, there has been a lot of anger among people of the border areas of both the regions. A protest demonstration was held at the Punjab and Himachal Pradesh border, under the leadership of Thakur Satish Kumar, Ajay Kumar, Pravesh Kumar Sharma and Kishori Lal of the Three Wheeler Tempo Union, Talwara. Protesters said people were facing a lot of problems due to the closure of the entry point. It was also adversely affecting the life of people living in the border villages of neighboring Himachal Pradesh, along Talwara. The protesters said due to the closure of this road, people of bordering Himachal villages, who have to travel to Talwara for work or to the BBMB Hospital here for treatment or medicines, have been facing a lot of trouble, so the road should be opened immediately.  Due to the closure of road, people living on both the sides of the border in both the states have been facing many difficulties. They asked Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh to give orders to reopen the road immediately. They warned that if the road was not opened in a day or two, they would be forced to intensify the stir. Three Wheeler Tempo Union Talwara chief Thakur Satish Kumar and others demanded the DC Hoshiarpur and SSP Hoshiarpur to reopen the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tempo-union-seeks-reopening-of-entry-point-112308
13-07-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi ---||Strong winds cause losses worth Rs38 lakh to PSPCL||Hoshiarpur, July 12  Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has pegged the losses due to bad weather on Saturday night at Rs 38 lakh. The strong winds damaged electric poles, transformers and cables. The power supply was also badly hit but was restored in almost all areas by Sunday evening. PS Khamba, Deputy Chief Engineer, PSPCL Distribution Circle, Hoshiarpur, shared the details here today. He said due to storm and rains, the power infrastructure in Hoshiarpur distribution circle had been severely damaged and due to felling of trees in many places, the transformer and wires have also been damaged. The staff worked continuously to restore the power supply, he said. “There are a total of 319 feeders under Hoshiarpur circle, out of which 169 feeders had been badly affected. As many as 142 poles and 38 transformers had also been damaged. Even then, barring a few feeders, power supply has been restored with the cooperation of farmers and employees. After heavy rains, the PSPCL suffered a financial loss of about Rs 38 lakh,” said Khamba.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/strong-winds-cause-losses-worth-rs38-lakh-to-pspcl-112309
13-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||No classes, Punjab students toil in fields to help parents||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 12Phillaur-based Sukhwinder Singh, a BSc (Non-medical) student, was preparing for his final semester exams when the Covid-19 pandemic hit and the lockdown was imposed.Now, he is working as a labourer and transplanting paddy seedlings in fields. After the pandemic affected the earning source of his family, Sukhwinder, son of a labourer, thought of helping out his father by starting work in the fields. Otherwise, he had planned to move abroad to pursue a diploma course after graduation.“Everyone was surprised when they saw me working in the fields,” he said. “I don’t think that this is something that should be looked down upon. I am proud of it as I am doing it for my father and family,” said Sukhwinder, who has so far earned Rs 9,000.Belonging to Kadiana village in Phillaur, Sukhwinder also went to work in other villages like Nagar and Hashnoor. “I had never imagined that I would work like this. I am happy that I could help my family,” he said.Ajay Kumar is another youth from the village who started working in farms due to the pandemic-induced slump. He passed Class XII two years ago and was planning to pursue a course in the Industrial Training Institute, Nawanshahr. His father is a small farmer who owns two acres. “I worked in fields of other farmers to earn and support my family,” said Kumar.Paramjit Kaur, who quit as a mid-day meal cook at a government school even before the lockdown was imposed, is also working as a labourer along with her husband, who was earlier employed with a private company.“We were in dire straits due to the lockdown. So, we had to work anywhere to earn money so that our daughters could study. Recently, my husband got a call from the company he was working with and I hope he will rejoin it soon,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-classes-punjab-students-toil-in-fields-to-help-parents-112141
13-07-2020||---||Punjab Mandi Board blacklists supplier for GST fraud||Chandigarh, July 12Rs 30L fine imposedOn October 3, 2019, The Tribune had highlighted how a Jalandhar-based firm ‘Amit Traders’ had supplied stationery and printing material to the board at inflated rates and charged higher GST than the prescribed taxA penalty of around Rs30 lakh has been imposed on the company for overcharging GSTA Jalandhar supplier of stationery and printing material to the Punjab Mandi Board has been blacklisted and a penalty of around Rs 30 lakh has been imposed on him for overcharging Goods and Services Tax (GST).Last year, on October 3, The Tribune had highlighted how a Jalandhar-based firm ‘Amit Traders’ had supplied stationery and printing material to the board at inflated rates and charged higher GST than the prescribed tax.Following this, the board had initiated an inquiry into the material supplied by the firm for the year 2017-18.In the past six months, the firm sought various extensions in hearings before the inquiry committee. However, various offices of the board, including DGM (Chandigarh), DGM (Ludhiana), DGM (Jalandhar) and Assistant Commissioner, GST (Jalandhar), sent their reports to the board.In an order issued on Saturday, board chairman Lal Singh said it had been established that the firm’s act of charging higher GST and selling stationery items at inflated prices had caused financial loss to the market committees of the board. So, he had ordered not only to blacklist the firm for any future business but also freeze of bank guarantees and securities of Rs 10 lakh submitted to the board by the firm.Significantly, The Tribune had highlighted how a computer that should have cost just around Rs 40,000 in the market had been purchased for Rs 82,000. On several items, the supplier had charged 28 per cent GST against the prescribed rate of 18 per cent.Amit Gupta, owner of Amit Traders, said he was yet to receive any official intimation in this regard. “We have already been given a clean chit by the GST authorities. We will challenge the decision at the appropriate platform,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-mandi-board-blacklists-supplier-for-gst-fraud-112149
