13-12-2020||Amritsar||Role of Asr cop under scanner||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/role-of-asr-cop-under-scanner-183715
13-12-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Former Ranji player is nurturing kids to make it big in gentleman’s game||Hoshiarpur, December 12A left arm spinner, Vijay Kumar, well-known as Vijay ‘Gatta’ (60), is a renowned name in Hoshiarpur sports world.This former Ranji player, who has the experience of playing under the captaincy of legendary Kapil ‘Bhaji’, now shares his hard-earned experience with budding players.He can be seen guiding them in excelling in the gentleman’s game daily in the morning and evening at his academy being run on the playground of DAV Senior Secondary School, Hoshiarpur. He faced really tough time in his early years, as the family was poverty stricken. His father used to sell ‘gatta’, a traditional soft sugar candy rolled on a wooden stick, on his shoulder by moving on foot in city’s street ringing a brass bell. Thus he earned the epithet ‘Gatta’ from his father’s profession and Vijay is known as Gatta Bhaji in the city and elsewhere.“In 1972, when I was 12 years old, I started playing cricket for my school. It was difficult to make both ends meet for my father alone and all of us — my siblings and I — used to help our father in making ‘gatta’ besides carrying on our studies and yet I continued to play,” Vijay told The Tribune.He played for the next five years for the team of SD School, Hoshiarpur. Despite all odds, he continued with his practise and balanced his work and studies. He played for the Panjab University in 1977, 1978 and 1979-80 while doing his graduation at SD College, Hoshiarpur. These were the years, when he had a chance to play under the captaincy of legendary cricketer Kapil Dev. Recalling his memorable stint at the All-India Charan Dass Soni Memorial Tournament in Ludhiana, he says: “It was a memorable innings. I bowled 16 overs and took 3 wickets by giving just 17 runs and this led my path for Ranji. I played Ranji for Punjab in 1980-81.”He even played the Australian Premier League and for Punjab veterans’ team for 15 years. Vijay joined Bank of India in 1982 and started with Sidharth Cricket Academy in 2008. Now, after retirement, he devotes his time completely to cricket by helping budding players to nurture their game.“I am working to make the dreams of budding players come true. I wish the little champs of my academy make it to Ranji and international cricket making Hoshiarpur proud. I try my level best not to make the coming generations of players suffer what we had to during our early years,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/former-ranji-player-is-nurturing-kids-to-make-it-big-in-gentlemans-game-183691
13-12-2020||---||Bike rally held in 100 villages||Jalandhar, December 12Kisan unions held a motorcycle rally in solidarity with farmers’ protest against the three agri laws on Saturday.The march was held across 100 villages in Nurmahal, Nakodar, Phillaur, Mehatpur, Shahkot, Lohian and Kartarpur.Santokh Singh Sandhu, member, Kirti Kisan Union, said, “Tinno kheti kanoon churo choor, Es ton ghat nahi kujh manzoor” (we won’t accept anything less than repealing of the three farm laws).Hans Raj Pabwan, a member of Pendu Mazdoor Union, said protests will continue until the Centre revokes the controversial laws.He condemned Agriculture Minister’s statement that farmers left the talks and the latter shouldn’t have expanded the movement when talks were on.He said that the Centre must prioritise farming and give a clarification on farmers’ issues.The duo said farmers would not relent and the talks failed due to adamant attitude of the Central Government. They said the Centre was trying to defame farmers and the entire movement.Reliance stores forced shut in Jalandhar, staff assures cooperation Jalandhar: In solidarity with farmers’ protests, members of Sikh and Dalit organisations on Saturday asked the staff to close Reliance stores in Jalandhar. Leaders of the Sikh Talmel Committee, Ambedkar Sena, Gurdwara Chenvi Patshahi Dusht Daman and Dal Khalsa also got the Reliance Jewels and Reliance Trends stores near Guru Nanak Mission Chowk closed. Managers of both showrooms relented to the request and assured the members of the organisations that they shall convey to their higher ups to keep the stores closed until the demands of farmers were met. Members of the organisations also raised slogans in support of farmers outside the stores after they asked them to close it. Hapreet Singh Neetu, member, Sikh Talmel Committee, said: “We asked the staff to close the Reliance stores in the city yesterday. Today, we got to know that while the main gates of these two stores were closed, they were continuing with their business via the rear entrances. Thus we got it closed. The managers supported our demands. We are also finding out all other Reliance and allied stores in the city. We shall get all others closed too. We won’t allow opening of stores until farmers’ demands are met.” Tejinder Singh Pardesi, member, Sikh Talmel Committee, said: “We are not against any employee or worker. But as long as farmers’ issues are not addressed, we will not allow the opening of any Ambani or Adani store. Farmers are fighting for their livelihood and for our food sustainability. We request all Punjabis to support farm stirs beyond caste and religion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bike-rally-held-in-100-villages-183692
13-12-2020||---||Couple jumps in front of moving train, dies||Jalandhar, December 12Depressed over parents’ objection to their relationship, a couple, including a minor, allegedly committed suicide by jumping in front of a moving train in the district on Saturday.They took the extreme step after their parents did not agree to their marriage, the police claimed.The deceased have been identified as 16-year-old Kirandeep Kaur, a resident of Basti Danishmanda and 22-year-old Manpreet Singh of Safipur village, Lambra.The duo went missing from home on Thursday.“The teenagers were found dead on Saturday on the Jalandhar-Kapurthala railway track. The incident was reported to us by some locals at 5:45 am. Prima facie it appears to be a case of suicide. However, nobody saw them jumping in front of the train, nor was a suicide note recovered. The matter is under investigation,” said Jatinder Singh, Assistant Sub-Inspector, Ground Railway Police (GRP), adding that no written complaint was filed by the parents of the couple. The girl’s parents had reported her missing complaint at police division 5.While the boy’s body was found lying on the track, the body of the girl was found at a little distance.Surjit Singh, sarpanch of Safipur village, said the boy, a graduate, was a carpenter. “Disapproving to the couple’s demand of marriage, their parents had asked them to wait until the girl turned 18. However, upset over opposition from their families, they eloped before taking the extreme step,” the sarpanch said.Reportedly, the couple knew each other for the past over 10 months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/couple-jumps-in-front-of-moving-train-dies-183693
13-12-2020||---||4 fall prey to virus, 83 fresh cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, December 12With 83 new Covid-19 cases reported in Jalandhar on Saturday, the total number of positive cases in the district reached 18,992. The health authorities reported four Covid deaths today. With this, toll reached 602.The active cases in the district were 829. As many as 17,561 people have been discharged while 537 people were under home isolation in Jalandhar.Meanwhile in Kapurthala, nine persons tested positive for the virus on Saturday.Jalandhar round-upSamples collected 4,18,820Negative 3,80,057Positive 18,992Active 829Discharged 17,561Deceased 602Sample inappropriate 3,432Results awaited 2,973Home Isolated 537||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-fall-prey-to-virus-83-fresh-cases-in-jalandhar-district-183694
13-12-2020||---||DC: Expedite pace of MGNREGA works||Jalandhar, December 12 Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Friday asked the officials to ensure that the ongoing projects of developing 55 model playgrounds, 55 model ponds, and repair or construction of walls in 128 schools complete within timeliness so that the people of the district were benefited from it. Chairing a meeting at the District Administrative Complex along with Additional Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal, the Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori reviewed the ongoing works started under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). He said that in Jalandhar, 128 works including repair and construction of boundary walls cost Rs2.79 crore have been approved under the MGNREGA scheme and 50 works have already been started. Besides, he added that 60 model playgrounds have also been approved at a  cost of Rs2.43 crore, and work on 34 sites have been started. Similarly, the project of 55 model ponds is also underway and construction has also begun on 33 sites at a cost of Rs4.29 crore. He said that these ponds would ensure recharge of depleting groundwater tables and using treated water for the irrigation purposes through the eco-friendly method. The officials said that tenders had already been floated for the remaining works and these would start within next week. The Deputy Commissioner also asked the officials to accord top priority to the works of public welfare so that benefits of the pro-people and development-oriented policies of the state government were percolated to the people at the grassroots level. He said that for this the officials should dedicatedly work to make sure that the underprivileged and weaker strata of society could avail the benefits of state government’s policies. Batting for optimum utilisation of funds under the government schemes, he said that it would ensure that money was spent in the right direction. Prominent amongst others present on the occasion included Additional Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal, SDMs Rahul Sindhu, Gautam Jain, Dr Jai Inder Singh, Vineet Kumar, Sanjeev Kumar Sharma, besides several heads of the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-expedite-pace-of-mgnrega-works-183695
13-12-2020||---||Martyrs’ kin, artists join hands to collect 90,000 units of blood||Jalandhar, December 12The National Integrated Forum of Artists and Activists (NIFAA) started ‘Samvedna’ an international blood and plasma donation awareness campaign. The campaing aims to set up 1,500 blood donation camps across the country and gather 90,000 units of blood on the 90th martyrdom day of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Rajguru, Sukhdev, on March 23.Pritpal Singh Pannu, chairman of NIFAA, said apart from the families of all three martyrs, including Abhay Singh Sandu, nephew of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Satyasheel Rajguru, nephew of Shaheed Rajguru, and Anuj Thapar grandson of Shaheed Sukhdev, will be part of the campaign. Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, too, has joined the campaign and certicificates with digital signatures of celebrities would be provided to donors.In India, blood donations have drastically diminished due to the implementation of social distancing, cancellation of various blood drives and low donor turnout due to fears associated with the Covid-19. This disruption has impacted accessibility of blood for emergency surgeries, thalassaemia, sickle-cell disease and cancer patients. —Pritpal Singh Pannu, Chairman, NIFAAPannu said, “In the last few years, the country has seen an improvement in blood assortment ranging from 9.8 million units in 2012-13 to 11.45 million in 2017-18. Despite this, India gazes at blood shortage of a whopping 1.95 million units per year. Several myths keep individuals at bay from donating the blood.”He said, “In India, blood donations have drastically diminished due to the implementation of social distancing, cancellation of various blood drives and low donor turnout due to fears associated with catching disease from hospitals and blood banks. Despite the massive burden of trauma and surgeries in the current situation, several hospitals in almost all the states and the union territories have been struggling to meet the daily requirements of blood in the past few months. This disruption has impacted accessibility of blood for emergency surgeries, postpartum hemorrhage cases, thalassemia, sickle-cell disease, and cancer patients.”Launched as a nation-wide blood donation campaign, ‘Samvedna’ has also received support from Non-Resident Indians and now it would also be organised in the United States, Canada, UK, Australia, New Zealand, Mauritius, UAE and Fiji. NRIs will donate on the same day to pay homage to the martyrdom of the three martyrs.Pannu said a dedicated website and mobile app would be launched.List of all blood donors of India would be available on both options and any one in need of blood would be able to find out a volunteer donor by searching the city and blood group in the app.Parvesh Gaba, general secretary, NIFAA, said they wouod join hands with other social organisations to carry forward this campaign and furthermore incorporate other incredible personalities of the country.This campaign after effectively coordinated will also be included in the Guinness Book of World Records with the goal that this campaign of India should be discussed globally and becomes a beginning of the awareness of blood donation not only in India but all over the world.The city-based social workers associated with blood donation, including prominent social activist Sukhdev Singh, Jagmohan Chawla of the Ma Bhagwati Sewa Samiti, Jatinder Singh and Manpreet Singh of the Akhri Ummeed Welfare Society, Sukhjit Singh, Manish from the Blood Donors Welfare Society, Shivam Arora and Harshdeep of the Life Line Welfare Society also attended this meet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/martyrs-kin-artists-join-hands-to-collect-90-000-units-of-blood-183696
13-12-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Penned by Surjit Patar, recited by NRI lyricist||Tribune News ServicesJalandhar, December 12A poetry penned by Padam Shri awardee poet Surjit Patar and recited by a city-based NRI on farmers’ protest has gone viral on social media.Having announced to return his award, Patar had also penned a poetry expressing the sentiments of farmers which appeared in Punjabi Tribune.Australia-based shayar and lyricist, Shammi Jalandhari, read the epaper, found the poetry very touching, choose to recite it in his own style and shared it on social media. The voice that he has lent to the poetry has won a million hearts and has been shared on social media platforms.Some lines in the poetry go like this:“Hai jithon tak nazar jandi,Te jithon tak nhi jandi,Ehde vich lok shamil ne...Ehde vich vartmaan, ateet naal bhawikh shamil hai,Ehde vich Hindu, Muslim, Budh, Jain ate Sikh shamil hai...Eh hai ik lehar vi, sangharsh vi, par jashan vi te hai.Ehde vich roh hai sadda, dard sadda, tashan vi tan hai”.Video on farmers’ protest takes social media by stormI consider this as my contribution to the protest of farmers. I shifted to Adelaide from Jalandhar around 18 years ago, but Punjab and Punjabi poetry remain my first love. When I read Patar sahib's poetry, I immediately fell in love with it and decided to recite and make a video. —Shammi Jalandhari, NRI based in adelaideShammi Jalandhari said sitting miles away in Adelaide, he considers this poetry recitation as his contribution towards the protest of farmers. “I shifted here from Jalandhar around 18 years ago, but Punjab and Punjabi poetry remain my first love. When I read Patar sahib’s poetry, I immediately fell in love with it and decided to recite and make a video. I worked on it for a few days practising the narration, pauses and voice modulation. I have my own studio recording set up here and recorded my voice myself and added a simple video to it and shared it on social media around six days ago. Even Patar sahib has appreciated it,” he said.Shammi Jalandhari has already penned lyrics for Bollywood films, including ‘Woh’and ‘Raja Abroadiya’ and Punjabi movie ‘Kache Dhage’. He has written several poetry books, including a collection ‘Pehli baarish’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/penned-by-surjit-patar-recited-by-nri-lyricist-183697
13-12-2020||Jalandhar||Webinar held on accreditation||A webinar on ‘outcome-based education and accreditation’ was organised by IK Gujral Punjab Technical University here on Friday. Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma, Vice Chancellor, IKGPTU, said, “Accreditation is important to improve the student enrolment in terms of quality and quantity. It also helps the institution in securing necessary funds and helps in developing their own resources. This is the right time for technical institutions to get accreditation from National Board of Accreditation (NBA).” The webinar was jointly organised by Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University (MRSPTU) and National Board of Accreditation (NBA). While addressing, the chairman of the NBA, Prof (Dr) KK Aggarwal, stated that a certification by NBA is essential for every educational organisation. It helps an institution to realise a number of benefits such as knowing its strengths, weaknesses and opportunities. “Also, institutions turn towards innovation and become capable to adopt modern methods,” he added. Prof Buta Singh Sidhu, Vice Chancellor, MRSPTU, said, “Quality of education is of paramount importance and the goal of education should be enlightenment, empowerment and entrepreneurship.” Dean Academic IKGPTU, Prof Vikas Chawla, introduced the resource persons. Dr Anil Kumar Nassa, member secretary, NBA, informed about the assessment methodology, guidelines, benefits, quality initiatives and Washington Accord Membership. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-held-on-accreditation-183698
13-12-2020||Our Correspondent---||Pig farming can offer additional source of income, says expert||Hoshiarpur, December 12 A five-day piggery training course was conducted at veterinary polyclinic, Hoshiarpur, in collaboration with farm-tech and government pig farm, Kheowal. A new pig breed, Hampshire, which has been recently introduced at the farm was a centre of attraction for farmers who came to attend the training from various parts of Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh.  Dr Rana Preet Gill, veterinary officer, Bajwara, said the pig market was a growing sector in Punjab and to encourage them for diversification, such trainings are implemented by the Animal Husbandry Department, Punjab.  Dr Dheeraj, in-charge of Government pig farm held practical demonstrations for the farmers guiding them about the management of farms and piggery practices. Dr Ashuma Vasudev, Dr Manmohan Dardi and Dr Harsimran Kaur held lectures on the diet and nutrition of the piggery.  India has a population of about 5 million pigs which is less than one per cent of the world population. Annual production of pork and pork products is about 50,000 tonnes which is less than 10 per cent of total meat produced in the country. The demand of increased pig meat in North-East region has led to the proliferation of piggery farms in Punjab. These piggery farms meet the home consumption as well supply pork to other states in the country. Apart from the regular crop cycle, the attendee farmers were also encouraged to open new technology piggery farms. Piggery farming is becoming lucrative as the initial investment is low, the litter size is large, pigs are resistant to many diseases. It can provide an additional source of income for farmers. Government also provides a reasonable subsidy on the opening of pig farms to encourage individuals. Sanjeev Vasudev, MD of Innovative farm way advised farmers to go for diversification by investing in pig farms to increase their economic prospects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pig-farming-can-offer-additional-source-of-income-says-expert-183699
13-12-2020||Jalandhar||3,758 cases settled in  lok adalat||Following the directions of the National Legal Services Authority and the Punjab Legal Services Authority, a National Lok Adalat was held in Jalandhar, Nakodar and Phillaur to dispose of various civil, criminal and other cases on Saturday. The National Lok Adalat was led by Rupinderjit Chahal, District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman, District Legal Services Authority, Jalandhar. In-charge, District & Sessions Judge, Manjinder Singh took stock of the working of the lok adalats on the occasion. Jaapinder Singh, CJM-cum-Secretary, District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Jalandhar, formed 40 benches at Jalandhar, three at Nakodar and four at Phillaur. Cases pertaining to civil, criminal, matrimonial and financial matters pending in courts and matters of banks, companies, departments, comprising pre-litigative matters were taken up by these benches. A total of 3,758 cases amounting to Rs 7,95,96,616 were settled. Jaapinder Singh, CJM-cum-Secretary, DLSA, said, “The decision of the lok adalat was final and no further appeal can be filed. Secondly, the court fee affixed by the person filing the case is refunded. Moreover, an amicable solution of a dispute promotes brotherhood among the litigants. Today’s national lok adalat was presided over by the Presiding Officer, Industrial Tribunal, all Additional District Judges, the Chairman, Permanent Lok Adalat (PUS), and all the civil judges posted at Jalandhar, Nakodar and Phillaur.” On the occasion, GS Lidhar, president of the Bar Association, Sandeep Singh Sangha, secretary, Harleen Kaur, Parminder Beri, Rupinderpreet Bal, KDS Randhawa, Anil Verma, Ram Tirath Gupta, Jagpal Dhuppar, Ritu Midha, Yugdeep Kaur, Sushma Handoo and SK Julka were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-758-cases-settled-in-lok-adalat-183700
13-12-2020||Hoshiarpur||2 succumb, 24 new cases in Hoshiarpur||The district reported two more Covid-19 fatalities on Saturday, taking the death toll to 279, while 24 new cases increased the infection count to 7,325. Giving this information, Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh, said the total number of samples taken in the district has touched 2,12,474 with the 1,462 new samples of people with flu-like symptoms today.According to the reports received from the lab, 2,03,856 samples are negative, while reports of 2,742 samples are awaited and 149 samples are invalid. The number of active cases is 181, while the number of patients who have recovered is 6,865. Out of Saturday’s 24 positive cases, seven are related to Hoshiarpur city, while 17 are from rest of the health blocks in the district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-succumb-24-new-cases-in-hoshiarpur-183701
13-12-2020||Jalandhar||Uninterrupted power supply to all sectors in the offing||Preparing six months ahead of the 2021 paddy season, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited claims to have chalked out a comprehensive plan to ensure an uninterrupted power supply to all sectors.Stating this here on Saturday, Chairman-cum-Managing Director (PSPCL) A Venu Prasad took stock of the preparations in the regard while interacting with senior officials of the North Zone at Shakti Sadan. The CMD directed the officials to ensure that the repair/maintenance works of transmission lines/grids, sub-stations and transformers would be completed at the earliest.A Venu Prasad instructed them that overloaded transmission lines/grid substations would be de-loaded on priority so as not to cause any inconvenience to consumers regarding supply position or any other issue. The CMD pointed out that directions had already been issued to field officers to complete development works by January 15 to solve the problems of transmission lines/transformers and tree cuttings well in time.Prasad said the overloaded transformers supplying power to tubewells should be de-loaded in advance without any delay before the start of the paddy season to facilitate consumers in rural areas. The CMD said during the VDS scheme for AP consumers the overloaded transformers would be augmented before December 31 so that the percentage of damaged transformers could be reduced. He emphasised that the officials to expedite the recovery of arrears of bills from erring consumers since PSPCL was a commercial organisation, which required financial resources on a day-to-day basis for providing reliable and uninterrupted electricity to 96 lakh consumers in the state.The CMD appealed to the consumers to deposit their electricity bills well in time to avoid disconnection in case of default in making payment. Prasad urged the consumers to facilitate PSPCL in controlling the menace of power theft by providing effective feedback in the regard. He asked people to share information on theft on 96461-75770 and the identity of those providing information regarding power theft to PSPCL would be kept strictly confidential.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/uninterrupted-power-supply-to-all-sectors-in-the-offing-183702
13-12-2020||Jalandhar||DD official honoured||Fit India Prabhat PheriThe NSS volunteers of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised ‘Fit India Prabhat Pheri’ under ‘Fit India Campaign’. For the success of the campaign, the volunteers organised ‘Prabhat pheris’ along with their neighbours. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen addressed the volunteers and said that a healthy mind develops in healthy body. She said that all the young volunteers are full of enthusiasm and energy. “All should work for the development of society and country. Our country needs dedicated and loyal volunteers like you. NSS not only develops your character but also gives you a sense of discipline, working in coordination and helps you to identify your strength and weaknesses” she said congratulating the volunteers for the success of this campaign. She encouraged the volunteers to take part in such campaigns in future also. On this occasion, NSS Programme Officer Veena Arora, Dr Anjana Bhatia, Harmanu, Pawan Kumari and Dr Meenu Talwar also encouraged the NSS volunteers.Workshop on blended learningThe department of management of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Technical Campus, organised a workshop on ‘Blended Learning for Enhancing Class Room Interaction’. The resource person was Prof Ravi Kiran, Prof and Head, Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Patiala. Dr Ravi Kiran stated that ‘Blended learning’ is the need of the hour. It is the culmination of technology/digital media and traditional classroom instructor-led teaching to provide flexible teaching learning environment for the students. She highlighted on the new techniques of blended learning that can be employed by teachers as well as students for teaching-learning. The event was coordinated by Dr Manisha Dhir. Sukhbir Singh Chatha (Director, Academic Affairs) stated that the current environment has enhanced the need of blended learning. Dr SK Sood (Director) congratulated the faculty members for organising such events. Dr Inderpal Singh (HoD, Management) presented the vote of thanks.Foundation programmeKanya Maha Vidyalaya (KMV) has taken an innovative initiative to strengthen the intellectual foundation of the all new entrants of the college by launching a new programme. This programme aims to bridge the gap between the school and higher education. Principal Prof (Dr) Atima Sharma Dwivedi addressed the students on the inaugural session of the programme. The title of her talk was ‘The Human Story’. Through it, she laid stress on developing the qualities of compassion, empathy and to be more humane. She talked about the need to be more confident, aware and enable the students to take the right decision in their lives. She further maintained that we all need to learn some lessons from Covid-19 pandemic and should try to be more compassionate to each other, should respect and preserve our mother nature and also respect the natural resources available to us.CT honours frontline warriorsSaluting the frontline warriors who have played a significant role in tackling Covid-19 outbreak, CT Group hosted a thanksgiving ceremony titled ‘Abhaar: a salute to frontline warriors at Hotel Fortune Avenue. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori was the guest of honor. In the ceremony, 50 frontline warriors from the Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar(MCJ), district administration, Police Commissionerate and medical field were honoured for their selfless services. The names of warriors included Ramesh Kumar, sweeper: Mandeep Singh, superintendent; DCP Headquarters Arun Saini; ASI Surinderpal; Senior Constable Amandeep Singh; SP Rural Manjit Kaur; Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla; Dr Poonam Sekhri; Jagjit Singh; Dr Navin Chitkara from NHS Hospital; Dr Damanbir Chahal from Kidney Hospital; Dr SPS Grover from New Ruby Hospital along with 34 medical officers from 10 teams who collected samples of Covid-19.Human Rights Day observedInnocent Hearts Group of Institutions organised a debate competition on the occasion of Human Rights Day. The objective of the event was to aware students regarding human rights and to enhance their confidence in public speaking. Topics given to the students were: Is there a possibility of free education for all? Should human rights be gender- based? Happiness is more important than money. Is democracy the best political system to protect basic human rights? Four teams were shortlisted for the competition. Each team was consisting of six members out which three speakers expressed their views in favour and other three against the motion. Each speaker exhibited great oratory skill. The judgement of the competition was done by Asst Prof DivakarJoshi and Asst Prof Purshottam from management and hotel management department respectively. The winner of the event was the team of Ashish Katyal, ShivamSuri, Sejal, AlizaSubba, Ankush Sharma and Manjot Kaur. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dd-official-honoured-183703
13-12-2020||Garhshankar||‘Will address issues related to Khuralgarh Sahib soon’||Advocate Pankaj Kirpal, Co-Chairman, PPCC Legal Cell, paid obeisance at Shri Khuralgarh Sahib along with his associates on his appointment as trustee of Shri Guru Ravidas Foundation by the Punjab Government.The managing committee of Khuralgarh Sahib under the leadership of president Dr Kewal Singh presented a siropa to Pankaj Kirpal. He said he would fulfil the responsibility given by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. The managing committee demanded installation of drinking water tubewell, bridge on the way to gurdwara and check dam outside gurdwara. He assured that the three issues of the Khuralgarh Sahib Management Committee would be resolved soon. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/will-address-issues-related-to-khuralgarh-sahib-soon-183704
