13-11-2020||---||83 food samples seized during drive||Jalandhar, November 12A Health Department team, led by Harjot Pal Singh, Assistant Commissioner, Food, and Food Safety Officers Satnam Singh and Mukul Gill, has seized 83 food samples during the checking drive which is on for the last over a month.The samples mainly included sweets and dairy products from different parts of the district to check adulteration in food items. The team has also destroyed about 75 kg of coloured sweets (prepared using unpermitted food colours). They have also checked cold stores and other such places that are likely to be used to store sweets and has also checked railway stations to check the arrival of khoya or other such items likely to be transported from other states.All food business operators, particularly those dealing in milk, sweets and milk products, were directed to ensure the usage of quality raw material and prepare food items under hygienic condition. The Assistant Commissioner, Food, sought cooperation from all Food Business Operators so that safe, pure and healthy sweets and other food items were made available to the general public during the festive season and festivals were celebrated in its true spirit.The team said the drive was being carried out under the directions of state Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and Commissioner Food and Drug Administration, Kumar Rahul. Meetings have been held with the representatives of sweet shops, dairies and other food business operators at various places of the district, in Phagwara, Kapurthala city, Kala Sanghian, Sidhwan Dona, Sultanpur Lodhi and Subhanpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/83-food-samples-seized-during-drive-170073
13-11-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Watery, itchy eyes? Blame it on farm fires||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 12It’s been quite a few days when city residents are waking up to a thick blanket of smog. Driving, especially for two-wheeler riders, has become a task. Two-wheeler riders were the worst hit on Thursday, as most of them said they faced a burning sensation in their eyes.Some said their eyes had become watery after sitting out in the open for a short while.Divya Sethi, a young city woman, said: “I was out with my two friends for some work on my scooter. We went around the city just for 30 minutes in the afternoon. When we reached home, all of us felt a lot of discomfort, with our eyes getting watery for good 5-10 minutes. We got relief only after we washed our eyes.” Experts blame it largely on allergens and pollutants.As per the data of the Punjab Pollution Control Board, farm fires have been on the rise since the past three years from September 21 to November 11 (Kharif season). As per the satellite data, there were only 1,081 farm fires in 2018 in Jalandhar district. The figure jumped to 1,512 in 2019 and 1,749 this year. The data clearly shows that the attempts of the Agriculture Department and the PPCB to raise awareness against stubble burning have fallen flat so far.In Kapurthala, there were 652 farm fires in 2018, which rose to 1,333 in 2019 and further up to 1,616 this year. Even Hoshiarpur saw a steady rise from 168 incidents in 2018 to 295 in 2019 and 399 cases this year. Nawanshahr has so far been the only district of Doaba, which has seen a fall in the number of farm fire cases. There were 207 fire incidents in 2018 in Nawanshahr, which increased to 265 in 2019 and have remained low at 190 this year.Environmentalist Balbir S Seechewal said: “I fail to understand why farmers are hell bent on destroying the soil of their own fields, killing farmer friendly organisms and affecting the health of their own family and children by continuing to set their fields on fire. I also fail to understand why families are still buying crackers from the market when our whole atmosphere is getting suffocated due to smog. Why can’t people, who think they have surplus money to waste on crackers, use it for planting trees and for the welfare of needy? We have lived in a confinement for months owing to Covid. Why do farmers and others want to go into a yet another self-inflicted confinement due to pollution that, too, in the times of a pandemic?”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/watery-itchy-eyes-blame-it-on-farm-fires-170074
13-11-2020||---||There’s no stopping them even during a pandemic!||Jalandhar, November 12 The ongoing pandemic seemed to have had no impact on people flocking to buy utensils, gold and automobiles on Dhanteras. The city markets remained chock-a-block as people came out in large numbers to buy stuff for home for the festive season. All markets, including Rainik Bazaar, Sheikhan Bazaar, Atari Bazaar, Bartan Bazaar, Phagwara Gate market and Model Town, remained jam-packed with two-wheeler riders finding it hard to maneuver ahead.  Amit Mittal of Lovely Autos said Covid has had absolutely no impact on the sales of vehicles. “Our sales were even better than the last year. In 2019, we sold 150 cars and 200 bikes, but this year the sales jumped to 200 cars and 300 motorbikes. Most orders were for Brezza and Bajaj Platina.” Even as the gold price were on the higher side on Thursday, compared to the past few days touching Rs51,000, it did not have much impact on buyers, who turned up in large numbers at jewellery shops. In utensils, copper-coated kitchenware and grills remained the hot selling items.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/theres-no-stopping-them-even-during-a-pandemic-170075
13-11-2020||---||Jalandhar district sees 74 new cases, 2 deaths||Jalandhar, November 12The district on Thursday witnessed 74 fresh cases of Covid-19. With the new cases, the district tally has risen to 15,963. The district also reported two deaths due to the contagion. As many as 14,772 patients have been discharged in the district so far. Now, there are 698 active cases while 401 patients are under home isolation in the district.12 infected in KapurthalaIn Kapurthala, 12 people tested positive for the Covid-19 disease. The district also reported two deaths due to the virus.30 test +ve in HoshiarpurThe number of positive patients increased to 6507 after 30 new people tested positive in Hoshiarpur district. They include nine cases from Hoshiarpur and 21 from various health blocks of the district.No death due to Covid was reported on Thursday. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said after 1563 new samples taken today, the number of samples taken in the district has reached 1,73,228 so far.Of these, 1,66,190 were negative, while the reports of 1,716 were awaited and 133 were invalid. So far, there have been 226 deaths due to Covid. The number of active cases is 189, while the number of patients who have recovered is 6,092. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-sees-74-new-cases-2-deaths-170076
13-11-2020||Statues help us revisit the history and keep the past alive. Situated in the middle of the bustling city are the statues of intellectual giants of an era gone by. Standing tall across the streets||Remembering visionary men of yore||Jathedar Gopal Singh QaumiHe was an active member of the Gurdwara Reform Movement. A Ghadarite, he later became the president of the Shiromani Akali Dal. Gopal Singh Qaumi’s epitaph on his statue near the Skylark Chowk reads: Gopal Singh Qaumi remained in confinement during the Freedom Struggle for 13 years in the Lahore Fort, Mainwali, Multan and Sialkot jails. He took an active part in the Simon Commission Boycott, ‘Quit India Movement’, Guru Ka Bagh Morcha and went on a 64-day hunger strike in jail. He was awarded Tamra Patra by the Government of India on August 15, 1975.Bhagat SinghBhagat Singh is one of the most popular and revered freedom movement icons till date. His name recently surfaced again during the farmers’ protests. Located at the city bus stand, the statue of this towering figure is dressed in bronze. It was inaugurated by former CM Parkash Singh Badal on October 24, 2007. Bhagat Singh remains the most popular political icons celebrated by the masses till date. Khatkar Kalan, his ancestral village, remains a potential centre of politics.Swami VivekanandBorn in 1863, the towering spiritual Guru became the bridge that took the Vedanta philosophy to the West. A disciple of Ramkrishna Paramhansa, a thorough intellectual, his address and presence at the Chicago Parliament of Religions in 1893 (when he had gone to represent Hinduism) won him great recognition. His Jalandhar statue established by the Bharat Vikas Parishad, with the cooperation of the Municipal Corporation was inaugurated on April 18, 2010, by the then Local Bodies Minister Manoranjan Kalia and Mayor Rakesh Rathour.Beant SinghBeant Singh’s statue has been installed at the BMC Chowk. Ex-Chief Minister of Punjab, he was born on February 19, 1923, in Bilaspur district of Ludhiana. He graduated from Government College, Lahore. He won as an independent candidate to Punjab Vidhan Sabha in 1971, from Payal Constituency. He also served as the PPCC president and was the Chief Minister of Punjab from 1992 up to his death. He had to pay a heavy price for wiping out terrorism from the state. His epitaph goes as, Mar ke bhi na niklegi mere dil se vatan ki ulfat; Meri mitti se khushboo-e-vatan ayegi.Udham SinghA Ghadarite revolutionary, Udham Singh was among the legendary freedom movement icons of Punjab, who, like Bhagat Singh, commands great respect among the youth. He shot dead Lieutenant Governor of the Punjab, Sir Michael O ’Dwyer on March 13, 1940, to avenge the Jallianwala Bagh Massacre. His statue lies at the Udham Singh Nagar near Doordarshan and was inaugurated by the then Mayor.Capt Roopendra Singh GarchaCapt Roopendra Singh Garcha is another valiant son of Jalandhar, who lost his life during a combat with insurgents. Capt Roopender Singh Garcha was born on October 29, 1974, in Jalandhar. He did his schooling from Kendriya Vidyalaya-II, Jalandhar Cantt, and graduated in computer sciences from Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, in 1995. He was commissioned into the Indian Army on September 5, 1997. On June 30, 2000, he was assigned the task of neutralising militants in the Ghat Tokum village in Pulwama district. He sustained fatal injuries in an encounter with militants, thus attaining martyrdom.Lal Bahadur ShastriA white-stoned statue of Lal Bahadur Shastri, the second Prime Minister of India, and a seasoned politician, is located at the bustling Shastri Chowk. His bust was inaugurated by former President Giani Zail Singh, the then CM of Punjab, on May 22, 1976. He gave the slogan of “Jai Jawan Jai Kisan.” He was a man of integrity and competence.Mahatma GandhiBorn as Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, he was the man whose non-violent resistance against the British eventually sounded a death knell for the colonial empire of the British in India. Teaching the path of non-violence (ahimsa) to the world, his style of protest is still deemed to be the most effective for the civil rights activists raising their voice against atrocities across the world. Gandhi also visited the Harivallabh Sangeet Sameelan in Jalandhar in 1919. His white statue, is quite synonymous to peace and harmony that he advocated throughout his life.Major Raman DadaMajor Raman Dada of the 11th Battalion, Sikh Regiment, on the night of May 12, 1999, led a raid on an NDFB hideout in thick jungles and mountainous terrain of the upper Diring near Assam-Arunachal Pradesh border. Major Raman’s party reached the hideout. Two of the militants who had opened fire were shot dead by him. Thereafter, an encounter began lasting for an hour. He attacked another militant and killed him. In the due process, he was also critically injured. Bleeding profusely, he refused to be evacuated and shot dead another fleeing militant before succumbing to his injuries.Dr BR AmbedkarAn architect of the Indian Constitution, a staunch critic of caste discrimination, Dr BR Ambedkar’s message remains embedded in the ethos of Jalandhar. Ambedkar came to Jalandhar addressing several congregations in 1951. His conversion to Buddhism also led a wave of Buddhist conversions in the region, a tradition still observed by many families. He is also a reverberating symbol of the contemporary Dalit consciousness and protest discourse in the region.Pt Kishori LalThe statue of veteran freedom fighter Pt Kishori Lal was inaugurated by Chaudhary Jagjit Singh, the then Minister for Local Bodies on May 22, 2005. Pt Kishori Lal, was an associate of Bhagat Singh and a member of the revolutionary Hindustan Socialist Republican Association (HSRA). He joined the Naujawan Bharat Sabha in 1928 and was a part of the HSRA bomb making unit (at 69 Kashmir Building, Lahore). Courting arrest, while in jail, he was part of a hunger strike with the HSRA members and served an 18-year jail sentence across Lahore, Multan and Montgomery jails. Eventually influenced by the Marxist ideology in jail, he went on to join the Communist Party in 1942 and was elected Punjab President of the All-India Trade Congress Union (AITCU) in 1948 and was a committee member of the CPI (M) in Punjab for many years. An active member of the Desh Bhagat Yadgar Committee, he died on July 11, 1990, following a road accident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/remembering-visionary-men-of-yore-170077
13-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Police recover Rs 3.78 lakh looted from bank||Hoshiarpur, November 12The police have recovered Rs 3.78 looted from the Punjab & Sind Bank branch at Bhagowal here. The money was looted on September 4.The police recovered the money after they extracted this information from two accused involved in bank robberies in the district by bringing them on production warrant from Tihar Jail in Delhi. Also, the case of robbery of Rs 80,000 from Gram Suvidha Kendra (money changer) at Rehana Jattan village has also been solved.SSP Navjot Singh Mahl told mediapersons that a police team, led by SP (Investigation) Ravinder Pal Sandhu, recovered the amount from accused Satpal Singh, alias Satta, and Gurinder Singh, alias Ginda, both residents of Ludiyani.Both the accused were also involved in UCO bank branch robbery case in which they and three others had looted Rs 5.97 lakh from a bank branch based at Kalra village in Adampur (Jalandhar) on October 15. In this robbery, the bank guard was shot dead. They were arrested on November 3 by the Crime Branch, Delhi.Mahal said the district police brought the duo from Tihar Jail and after their interrogation, they recovered Rs 3.78 lakh and scooters used in the crime. It was revealed that both the accused along with Surjeet Jeeta, a resident of Adamwal, had robbed Rs 80,000 from Gram Suvidha Kendra (Money Changer), Rehana Jattan, on August 23. Three accused involved in the bank robbery case had already been arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-recover-rs-3-78-lakh-looted-from-bank-170081
13-11-2020||In 2010 when she became the Principal of the Nehru Garden Girls Senior Secondary School||Grappling with challenges, her school saw a dramatic rise in admissions||The fact that it is a government school, how have you managed such a big number?I have always believed the student strength of any school depends a lot on goodwill. It was 2,559 last year, increased to 2,835 this year despite 850 outgoing students of Class XII. In fact we have been consistently working on admissions each year because every year a sizeable number of Class XII students go out. We have consistently been producing state toppers every year. At least two to three merit positions and many students scoring above 80 per cent marks. Our teachers are diligent and students have bagged amazing placements - not to mention a list of illustrious Alumni. So, naturally when hefty fee caused many to opt out of private education, ours was the first choice.What are the major challenges Covid posed?While digital classes had been started early on, staff and students have been apprehensive about schools opening. Our prime concern was their health. The pandemic indeed caused a great set back. With general reports of some students opting out of education due to digital classes, we did a lot of brainstorming to ensure we retain our students and how to start classes again in the smoothest fashion. We commenced with caution and all proper protocol; attendance at first was thin but gradually picked up pace with the school even seeing 100 students attending some days ago. However, it has dipped again. On Tuesday, only 19 students came. Hopefully things will get better with time.How are online sessions faring amidst regular classes?Our teachers continue online classes as usual. There has not been any break as majority of the students are attending classes from home. There is also an attitude among some that they don't need to come to school provided online lessons are there. However, teachers make sure they diligently lend sessions to those who are unable to make it, especially those who have no means to come. Side by side physical classes are also being held separately regardless of the number of students.Given most of the government school students are from underprivileged sections. Does this pose problems in the pandemic?A majority of our students are financially weak as is the case with any government school. We have to counsel many to come. Teachers keep checking with them. It is true that digital classes are difficult for some. Another problem is the fares they have to pay for auto-rickshaws since many students come from far, the prices pose a problem. Amid the pandemic, the charges have been hiked to Rs20. So, their families can't afford to pay Rs40 per day for transportation. Some even stay farther in the land and have to pay over Rs40 on a daily basis.So, how is the school managing equal education amid these troubles?Our teachers are very dedicated. Every year they visit students right in January for admissions. During the crisis, teachers have been in touch with parents and have been mobilising them to ensure wards' education and now to send them to school. We are also helping many even after passing out. The school mobilised money for a former student who made it to NIT Jalandhar recently. While she couldn't pay college admission fee, teachers pitched in with money from their own pockets and some NGOs also provided help after the school hit hard times. We have an illustrious list of doctors, engineers, UPSC and IAS candidates among students who made it big.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/grappling-with-challenges-her-school-saw-a-dramatic-rise-in-admissions-170086
