14-05-2020||Ajay Joshi---||Man who dragged cop on car’s bonnet gets bail||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, May 13 Additional Sessions Judge Parminder Singh Grewal today granted bail to the youth who dragged a policeman on his car’s bonnet at Milk Bar Chowk in Model Town. The city police had registered a case under Section 307 of the IPC against the 20-year-old suspect, Anmol Mehmi. He was released on bail from the jail this evening. On May 2, Anmol, a son of the owner of Mehmi Electricals, located at Nakodar Chowk, had gone to Model Town on his car to buy some groceries. However, when ASI Mulakh Raj asked him to stop the car at Milk Bar Chowk, he allegedly drove off his car. The ASI was trying to stop the accused by jumping atop the car bonnet. The youth dragged the policeman for a considerable distance and stopped only after other police personnel chased down the vehicle. The suspect was arrested after registration of a case at the police station division No 6 under Section 307 of the IPC and relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act. Confirming the bail orders of Anmol, Mandeep Singh Sachdev, one of his lawyers said: “We had appealed in our bail application to the court that the man could not be involved for the offence punishable under Sections 307, 332, 353, 186 and 188 of the IPC, Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act (1857) and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, as there was no intention of the accused to commit any offence. To prove his claims, the lawyer also cited the District Commissioner and Chief Minister’s statements in which they had given relaxations to residents to venture out only from 7 am to 11 am in non-containment zones amid curfew. The incident had happened around 8 am. Besides, he added as per the High Court’s instructions, bail has to be granted to the suspect booked under non-serious offences amid the pandemic. Meanwhile, within days of his arrest, a social media campaign was also initiated by residents, stating that “looking at his age, the police should exempt him from Section 307 (attempt to murder) as his future was dependent on the FIR, which is liable to be cancelled. The suspect is at present pursuing BBA at a city college. Sachdev added that the case would further be proceeded after the filing of the charge sheet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-who-dragged-cop-on-cars-bonnet-gets-bail-84623
14-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||26 asymptomatic patients refuse to take food at isolation ward||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 13As many as 26 patients housed in the isolation ward at the Civil Hospital today refused to take food, claiming they were being kept at the hospital despite being asymptomatic. All of them had tested positive in the past.Videos of these patients, who were seen refusing to have food even as stacks of packed food and water bottles were lying piled up on a chair) were also sent to the media.Later, two doctors were sent to coax patients into eating food and the matter was resolved. Several days ago, three Nanded Sahib returnees also became adamant, refusing to leave the meritorious school after they tested positive. The reason for their refusal was the tests delayed by 10 days.With district cases rising to 198 today and a sizeable number of 166 active cases lodged at the isolation centre, restless patients are posing new challenges to a team of doctors grappling with the patient inflow.While the 14-day period is too much for patients to bear, many patients who had already tested positive have also misconstrued Centre guidelines, wondering why they are not being discharged even though they are asymptomatic.Sources said: “Many patients get sceptical about staying at the hospital when they are otherwise healthy and fine. They blame the authorities for keeping them in too long. Also, they expect to get straight to home once the 14-day quarantine period is over. But we can only let those people go who have tested negative. There are patients who have tested positive on their second repeat tests. We cannot let them go. They might be Covid carriers. But it is difficult to explain this to them."So far, repeat samples of as many as 63 persons in the district have tested positive.Doctors said many were throwing tantrums."They demand hot milk. Some don’t want to eat rice and some don’t want curd. Some want it. They also ask for fruits. We are torn between their desires. However, we try to supply as much as we can with a lot of help from NGOs."With another case reported today, the total number of cases in the district have reached 198. A 66-year -old Basti Shiekh resident is the new case in the district.Today 14 reports in Jalandhar have also tested negative. As many as 26 persons have recovered in the district so far.Meanwhile, another case was also reported in Kapurthala today after which the total tally rose to 27. The Kapurthala patient is a 14-year-old returnee from Hazur Sahib, staying on the PTU campus, the patient is originally a resident of Narangpur village in Bholath. Having arrived a few days ago, the patient had not returned home yet as he was under quarantine. MS Dr Harinder Pal didn’t pick despite repeated attempts.26th patient recovers in districtThe 26th Covid patient from Jalandhar was discharged today. The patient, Sunita, a resident of New Raseela Nagar in Basti Danishmanda, was admitted to the Civil Hospital on April 23 and on May 7. Her sample was found negative on retesting. Again on May 10, her sample was sent for confirmatory test, which was again tested negative.Hoshiarpur: With one more person testing positive, the number of Covid patients in the district has reached 93. Samples of three persons, who had returned from Maharashtra two days ago in Khuralgarh village of Garhshankar, were taken. One of them, Inderjit Singh (32), was tested positive today. The trio came to Khuralgarh on May 11. — OCCount reaches 93 in Hoshiarpur districtWith one more person testing positive, the number of Covid patients in the district has reached 93. Samples of three persons, who had returned from Maharashtra two days ago in Khuralgarh village of Garhshankar, were taken. One of them, Inderjit Singh (32), was tested positive today. The trio came to Khuralgarh on May 11Writer, son die of Covid in EnglandMahilpur: Punjabi litterateur Kultar Singh and his son Inderpreet Singh, who hailed from Ghumiala village in Mahilpur, died of Covid in England. Kultar’s nephew Jaswant Singh Khabra, who lives in Ghumiala, said Kultar Singh (86) was living in Slough town of England since 1964. Some time ago, Kultar and his son Inderpreet were found Covid-19 positive and were undergoing treatment at a hospital there. On May 9, Inderpreet died and later on May 10, Kultar also breathed his last. Kultar had written six books and his contribution towards the spread of Punjabi was widely accepted. On Wednesday, the news of their death triggered a wave of grief among relatives and literature lovers of the area. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/26-asymptomatic-patients-refuse-to-take-food-at-isolation-ward-84624
14-05-2020||Jalandar||Electronic, hardware shops open in Jalandhar||Shops dealing in hardware, auto-repair, mobiles, computer, electrical goods and stationary remained open today from 7 am to 3 pm, as per the directions of the administration.However, social distancing was not followed at some places as people in large numbers thronged the shops. Police force was deployed at Phagwara Gate, Shastri Chowk and other locations to avoid rush.Taking preventive measures, shopkeepers had kept sanitisers at the entrance. Gagan Dhawan, owner of ‘Wheel Care’ showroom at Shastri Chowk, said they also did thermal scanning of all customers.Amit Sehgal, president of the Jalandhar electrical traders’ welfare association, Phagwara Gate said: “There are 400 electrical goods shops in the area, and for smooth functioning on the basis of odd-even formula, we manually numbered all shops. The administration and senior police officials also supported us. The market witnessed good sale”Gagan, who deals in tyres, said, the first day of the relaxations went smooth and they made an average sale. “To my surprise, I managed to sold 10 tyres, although it’s only 10 per cent of the average sale on regular days,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/electronic-hardware-shops-open-in-jalandhar-84625
14-05-2020||Our Correspondent||UP migrants deny boarding Shramik Express||Phagwara, May 13A total of 37 natives of Uttar Pardesh, and seven kids residing in Phagwara besides 19 belonging to Kapurthala and Sultanpur Lodhi , who were willing to return to their native villages were sent to Amritsar without bothering the social distancing in a special PRTC bus, which started from Phagwara on Wednesday morning .SDO water supply Phagwara Pardeep Chottani checked all required documents of the migrants before their boarding in the bus.Nodal Officer-cum-Tehsildar, Sultanpur Lodhi, Seema Singh who accompanied the migrants, said here on Wednesday evening that the migrants were dropped at Amritsar railway station to board a special Sharmik Express train, but the railway authorities refused to accept all because there was no space in the train keeping in view the social distancing. Eight of them have to return to Phagwara in the same bus today. Now they will return some other day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/up-migrants-deny-boarding-shramik-express-84626
14-05-2020||Our Correspondent ---||Mann examines police personnel at checkposts||Nawanshahr, May 13  Dr Kulwinder Mann, PCMS and State Executive Member of Indian Medical Association, Punjab, accompanied by his assistant, Kuldeep Singh, has been relentlessly working to examine the frontline Corona warriors. He visited a number of police checkposts today and police stations in the district to medically examine policeman on duty.  A total of 70 traffic policemen and among other police personnel were examined and given health tips to protect themselves from the Coronovirus.  Rattan Singh, in-charge Traffic Police, lauded the gesture of Dr Mann and thanked him.  Notably, Dr Kulwinder Mann, was also the first among the staff of the district Health Department, who volunteered his service at the isolation ward set up here at the district hospital in wake of the outbreak of Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mann-examines-police-personnel-at-checkposts-84627
14-05-2020||---||4 farmers booked for burning wheat straw||Jalandhar, May 13Taking a strict action against farmers involved in the burning of wheat straw, the Maqsudan police have registered a case against four farmers in Mirpur village of the district.An FIR under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and 51 (B) of the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, has been registered against Karanvir Singh, Soorma Singh, Tarsem Singh and Avtar Singh of Mirpur village.Chief Agriculture Officer (CAO) Surinder Singh said a team of the Agriculture Department, led by Agriculture Development Officer (ADO) Danish Kumar, visited the spot and the Maqsudan police were intimated about the incident.Dr Singh said Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Magistrate Varinder Kumar Sharma had imposed a ban on the burning of wheat straw under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, and National Disaster Management Act, 2005.He said the burning of wheat straw produces several poisonous gases which causes harm to health of people and pollutes the environment. The burning of the straw causes irreversible damage to the texture of soil and also kills nutrients in it.He said it also creates problems in the movement of traffic due to thick layer of smog and could cause road mishaps.Chief Agriculture Officer (CAO) said in the prevailing situation arising due to the pandemic, burning of straw might create more health problems to Covid-19 patients.Karan Randhawa is NRI honorary coordinatorThe Punjab Government has appointed Karan Singh Randhawa, general secretary for Indian Overseas Congress (IOC), Australia, (Punjab Chapter), as NRI honorary coordinator in Australia. The orders were issued by the Department of NRI Affairs on May 11. As per the letter, his main job will be coordinating with NRI department, Punjab State Commission of NRIs, Indian High Commission and Mission abroad.Randhawa will also be expected to promote the activities of Punjab Government in respective countries, will interact with Punjabi diaspora and highlight their problems as well as issues to the government. He will be required to coordinate the visit of chief minister, NRI minister and arrange meetings of dignitaries with Punjabis living there.Son of a senior educationist Dr Jaspal Singh Randhawa, Karan originally belongs to Jalandhar and is living in Australia for the last 15 years. He is a telecommunication engineer by profession. Randhawa had recently shared a proposal with NRI Affair Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi in which he talked about investments in Punjab by NRIs, employment opportunity for Punjabi youth and opening of overseas help desk by the government etc.Randhawa said, “I assure the CM and NRI affairs minister that I will put my 100 per cent efforts to perform duties assigned to me faithfully and diligently.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-farmers-booked-for-burning-wheat-straw-84628
14-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Mixed response to  economic package||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 13The much awaited speech by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday had not received much appreciation by the MSME sector. While some termed it only a ‘loan package’, others said we should wait for some days to know what exactly the MSMEs had got.Though, the minister has announced the loan of Rs 3 lakh crore for MSMEs, the industrialists feel this is not a ‘relief’ but loan package’ for the MSMEs.Raju Virk, a leather industrialist, said this was the time when some relief was required for the industry. There should have been rate cut on GST, he said.Ravinder Dhir, convener, Khel Udyog Sangh, said the units were lying closed since last two months and after listening to the Prime Minister’s address on Tuesday, a ray of hope was there that the MSMEs would get something, but today’s speech was an utter disappointment. “The initiative of giving the loan is a good step, but will the government pay the interest,” he asked. “Bank interests should be reduced in coming three years, because it will take a year for the units to get back on track,” he said.Young industrialist Arvinder Saggu said industry had a mixed reaction on the announcements made by the Finance Minister. “It is not clear that how the MSMEs will be benefitted. We have some questions which will get cleared in a day or two,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mixed-response-to-economic-package-84629
14-05-2020||---||Construction of approach roads to Partappura mandi begins||Jalandhar, May 13 The Punjab Mandi Board on Wednesday began construction of approach roads to the Partappura vegetable and fruit market. The work was started in the presence of the chairman of Market Committee, Jalandhar Cantonment, Harbhupinder Singh Samra; the District Mandi Officer, Davinder Singh Kainth, and other officials. Samra said the new fruit and vegetable market was made functional on May 6 to decongest the one at Maqsudan. The huge rush at the Maqsudan mandi was a cause of concern, he said. The chairman said the new market would service farmers and people from Nakodar, Shahkot, Kapurthala, Jalandhar Cantonment and other adjoining areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/construction-of-approach-roads-to-partappura-mandi-begins-84630
14-05-2020||Phillaur||Two held with poppy husk||MNREGA workers seek regular jobsNurmahal: MNREGA workers, led by Karamchari Union, on Wednesday staged a dharna in front of the office of the Block Development Officer here. District president Satnam Singh said in fight against pandemic workers were on the forefront but they were being forced to do work without any mask and sanitizer. He demanded that the government should accept their pending demands, including regularisation. A memorandum was handed over to the Punjab Rural Development and Panchayat Minister TS Bajwa. OCEngine of goods train derailsPhillaur: A rail mishap was averted when an engine of a goods train, stationed at Nurmahal, derailed on Tuesday evening during routine shunting. The train was loaded with food grains. Soon after few wheels of the engine slipped the track at 6.30 pm, the loco pilot pulled the break immediately. Later, a team was called in for the repair work. Nurmahal Station Master Dhiraj Kumar said an inquiry had been ordered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-with-poppy-husk-84633
14-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Principal Secretary inspects hospital, Rayat Bahra Covid relief centre||Hoshiarpur, May 13Jaspal Singh, Principal Secretary, Planning, on Wednesday visited the Civil Hospital and the Covid relief centre setup at Rayat Bahra campus here. Later, he held a meeting with the district officials to take stock of the Covid relief measures. Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait was also with him.Jaspal Singh visited the isolation ward, flu corner and micro lab in the government hospital to take stock of the arrangements. During this period, he encouraged the medical staff and said: “Their dedication towards duty in this critical period is praiseworthy”. He visited the Covid relief centre at Rayat Bahra campus and praised the arrangements made there. He directed the officials concerned that people coming from other states should be quarantined. Singh said in the wake of Covid-19, special arrangements have been made by the Punjab Government to deal with the situation arising. He also held a meeting with officials at the District Administrative Complex.  Taking stock of the PPE kits, N-95 masks and other necessary accessories, he said  there was no shortage of medical supplies across the state to fight Covid-19 outbreak.  The Deputy Commissioner said the instructions being issued by the state government in view of the coronovirus were being made sure to be fully followed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/principal-secretary-inspects-hospital-rayat-bahra-covid-relief-centre-84634
14-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Learned horse rider and cop, he is honing his hidden talent||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, MAY 13Sub-Inspector Youngbir, who is in-charge of the horse riding wing of the PAP, is spending his time writing poems, gardening and at the stable.The SI is also the in-charge of the horse riding team that has been taking part in national tournaments since 1990.Everyday as part of his duty, he makes sure that he visits his horses and checks the temperature. He also ensures that the horses get massage daily. “We don't allow any civilian to enter the stable. Only our staff come and they also enter after washing their hands. The time of practice of horses have also been reduced. We have stopped training civilians. Every staff member remain in the stable wearing mask,” he said.Youngbir goes to the stable at 6.30 am. “I have also started doing yoga. And this is the new addition in my routine to remain fit,” he said.The SI said apart from performing his duty, he has been doing gardening, which he couldn't do earlier because of busy schedule. He has been growing vegetables in a small garden in his home these days. “Gardening is one of my interests, which I was not able to do because of work, but now I am doing it properly,” the learned horse rider said.Apart from this, Youngbir informed that he is into writing poems these days. “Dosto aajao ik sallah banaiye, corona di afat nu gall toh laiye, aap bachiye te apneya nu bachaiye," reads a few lines of the poem he has written. Youngbir said he had also noticed that adopting norms such as social distancing and hand washing could save you from other normal flu and infections too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/learned-horse-rider-and-cop-he-is-honing-his-hidden-talent-84640
14-05-2020||Industry and Lockdown||‘Dry fruit biz got a big blow, govt must chalk out a revival plan’||BK Bajaj, managing director of KBB Nuts Private Limited, a company, which is involved in importing and exporting dry fruits, besides their processing and packaging, discusses the current scenario for the trade during the Covid-19 pandemic in an interview with Neeraj Bagga. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted your dry fruit import, export and processing units?The dry fruit trade is of international nature. It was severely affected due to the lockdown in India and abroad. So, several orders were cancelled at the national and international level. I honoured all import orders as per the laid down norms. However, export contracts of my firm saw massive cancellations. I import almond and walnuts from the US, almond from Australia and various other varieties of dry fruits from the Middle East and Afghanistan.Do you expect resumption of your business in near future?It will take a lot of time for the business to get back on track as dry fruits fall under the category of exotic eatables. The lockdown hit the income of people and their purchasing power hard. It will take, at least, a year for the revival of the trade. Even I have doubts over its revival during Diwali. Leading economists indicate that India will see 0.5 per cent growth in the GDP and European economies will register negative growth. So in this scenario, how can I expect the demand to reach soon at the previous level?How are you dealing with the issue of workers’ salaries?I have over 2,000 employees, who work in my all units. I paid the salaries for March and April. It cannot be sustained like this for a long. I will have to reduce all kinds of expenditures wherever possible. If I have no sale, I will cut down on production. Therefore, I do not need so much staff even. In this way, it will affect all in the chain.What is the share of online trading in your profession?Online trading has only 10 per cent share in the entire spectrum of the business. Modern retail houses and e-commerce firms buy products online.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?A big recession is likely to follow after the lifting of the lockdown. The demand is likely to remain lethargic in various sectors. We should be conservative towards our finances. It will be tough for companies who are under massive debt to survive.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?It is really a challenge to run a firm. My company is in all major departments of a business. We import dry fruits from the US, Australia and Middle East. After processing and packaging them, we sell the same in the domestic market.What are your expectations from the government?The Centre and the state government must adopt a positive approach towards businesses and industries. These must be offered congenial atmosphere like rebate in taxes and soft loans to help rejuvenate the business.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dry-fruit-biz-got-a-big-blow-govt-must-chalk-out-a-revival-plan-84641
14-05-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||His business shut, Jalandhar councillor spends Rs 4 lakh for welfare of his ward||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 13For the past nearly two months, his business of readymade garments and currency exchange has been lying shut. But 35-year-old first-time councillor from ward no. 50 Paramjit Singh aka Sherry Chadha is undeterred with these losses. Instead, he has gone ahead with spending nearly Rs4 lakh for the welfare of ward residents.From providing free ration to getting his entire ward repeatedly sanitised, Chadha has been doing every bit to ensure that families in his ward are not inconvenienced in the ongoing fight against the coronavirus.“I have been trying every bit to ensure that people stay at homes, get all provisions on their doorstep and maintain social distancing norms. For poor families, my team of 10 youngsters and I have been providing free grocery and ration. But for those who can afford stuff, we have been ensuring that they get necessary items in time and they do not have to step out of their houses,” said Chadha.Councillor’s visuals of riding a tractor for a joint sanitisation exercise with MLA Rajinder Beri in Rainak Bazaar and helping vegetable sellers sell their produce in congested mohallas while strictly ensuring 2-meter distance between everyone had gone viral. These were widely appreciated in the city.On being asked how he was managing all expenditure, Chadha said, “I am not just a councillor but also a businessman. I have earned a lot for my family in the past few years. Now, it is time to do something for my people who trust me and love me. Several people have joined me with their small donations making my mission bigger and more achievable.”He said, “My cousins who live close by are very supportive. It was my uncle and ex-councillor Joginder Tony from whom I draw all the inspiration. He had worked intensely for people and served them as a councillor for over 20 years. I wish to follow his path and I pray that God gives me more strength to serve humanity in these tough times.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/his-business-shut-jalandhar-councillor-spends-rs-4-lakh-for-welfare-of-his-ward-84643
14-05-2020||Sunder Sham Arora||‘Youth must set up small industrial units’||The present adverse situation has led to many challenges and the challenges led me to do more than what I was already doing. All those who work day and night for serving society deserve respect and in this crisis, they have done a lot. Their selfless service should be applauded. To thank them, I saluted police personnel going to nakas and health workers at hospitals.Providing food to the needy during lockdown was a great challenge. Hence, I introduced project ‘NOSH’ (No One Sleeps Hungry). Under it, cooked food was being served to 15,0000 persons in Hoshiarpur district as well as hospitals across Doaba. Foodgrains and uncooked food packets were provided to over 40,000 persons. Playing a major role in providing cooked food, Guru Ram Das Sahib Ji Langar Sewa Society was provided Rs 25 lakh by me, with the help of a few contributors. I have ensured that no needy person would have to sleep hungry in Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr and Phagwara.As the Industries Minister, I have made attempts to provide relief to labourers as well as entrepreneurs. I have tried my level best to facilitate the labourers so that they do not face any difficulty, which may drive them to leave the state, which would further create problems for industries post lockdown.Now, I am planning to bring back labourers who have left the state. We would encourage setting up new industries, especially small units to provide more employment and opportunities to youth. My endeavour is to encourage youth for setting up smaller units for self employment so that they don’t have to go abroad for green pastures. Those who were staying abroad and have returned to the state will be encouraged and facilitated to set up units. We are looking forward to setting up units at a large scale as industries are shifting from China and we are trying to bring them to the state.(As told to Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-must-set-up-small-industrial-units-84644
14-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||No SMS, workers crowd rly station||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 13Shailender, a migrant, packed his bags three days ago and left his quarter. In the desperation of going back, he went to the checking centre without even receiving any confirmatory SMS of rail ticket. After spending hours outside the centre, he returned to work. His fellow workers refused to work with him and even the quarter owner didn’t allow him to stay because of fear of contacting the virus. It was a double whammy for him.In Jalandhar, several labourers like him are thronging checking centres where medical screening of those with confirmation to board trains is being done.Officials said the labourers were putting themselves to high risk.An owner of a pipe fitting manufacturing unit said three of his workers left work without even telling him, and after spending some hours at the checking centre, they came back. “Their fellow workers said they didn’t want to work in their presence because they thought the workers who had left and spent several hours amid thousands of other migrants might have been infected,” he said.Jasbir Singh, Additional Deputy Commissioner (General), said lakhs of the migrants had applied to go back, but the availability of the transportation was limited. “It is not possible to accommodate everyone at a time. They should wait for their turn,” he said.1.1 lakh reach home via trainsChandigarh: The state government said it had been facilitating the return of migrants to their native states. More than 90 trains have left from Punjab taking 1,10,000 migrants to their respective states. The state government has spent more than Rs6 crore to fund the movement of migrants till now. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-sms-workers-crowd-rly-station-84490
14-05-2020||Avneet Kaur||No money for rent, families put up on roads in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, May 13Atul Kumar, a 34-year-old construction labourer from Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh, says he hasn’t slept properly for days. Forced to live on the footpath after his landlord evicted him from the rented accommodation, he yearns for his family back home.Without food and money, he has been putting up on the footpath near the Kacheri road here. “I have applied for Shramik train, but I haven’t received the confirmatory SMS of my rail ticket yet,” he said.Like Kumar, there are many others stranded in the city without any mean of sustenance.Ram Niwas, a freight loader and UP native, says he is running short of money to pay rent. “I have decided to live on the road near a farm on the Pathankot bypass. There, migrants who have received the rail ticket on SMS are medically screened. So, I will remain in touch with officials and get the update about my rail ticket,” he said.What are the eating? “Sometimes, NGOs serve us food. Otherwise, we sleep on an empty stomach,” Ram Niwas said.Additional Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal said: “The arrangements for migrant workers are in place, but they are too eager to return home. They are not following the directions of the district administration.”7 lakh registerLudhiana: About 7.29 lakh migrants here have applied for Shramik trains. Around 30,000 migrants have already gone back to their native places via 25 trains during the lockdown. The Karkhana Mazdoor Union said it was estimated that 20,000 labourers from the city had moved to UP and Bihar on foot and bicycles. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-money-for-rent-families-put-up-on-roads-in-jalandhar-84495
14-05-2020||Vijay C Roy||Covid cripples Rs 1,200-crore Jalandhar sports industry||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13Stumbling BlocksClosure of markets, malls, stadiums, gymsThe cancellation of sports events across the world amid coronavirus pandemic has cast shadow over the Jalandhar sports industry. In March, Indian cricket saw the series against South Africa abandoned. IPL was also cancelled. The Indian Super League final (football) was held in an empty stadium in Goa on March 14. The I-League season was called off with 23 matches left. Similarly, The All England Championships, which concluded on March 15, was the last event in which India’s major badminton stars participated. In tennis also, India was to take on Latvia in a Fed Cup playoff on April 17-18 but that too has been postponed.The industry, which was banking on demand generated by these events, is clueless about future and foresees no signs of revival in next 1-2 years. The industry, dominated by around 500 units in MSME sector, is battling for survival with payments stuck and virtually no orders in hand.The lockdown was announced at a time when the industry was gearing up for the demand which is common during March-October. Especially, summers are considered as the peak season because of summer vacations when many cricket academies open and summer camps are organised across the country.“Our stocks are lying with us. We are uncertain about the future. Even if we want to commence production, there are no signs of demand as markets are closed, stadiums not accessible to masses and major sports activities have already been cancelled,” said Munish Chopra, proprietor, Chopra Synthetics.He said the biggest buyers — schools, universities, gymnasiums and sports clubs — are shut, resulting in virtually no uptake of sports goods. The losses of manufacturers are mounting as they are yet to receive payments but have to pay fixed electricity charges despite their units being closed.Punjab and Meerut in Uttar Pradesh are hubs of sports industry, with former contributing 60% to total sales. The Rs 1,200-crore sports industry of Jalandhar contributes around 30% to exports from the country.“Though there is no demand, even if we want to start operations, labour is hardly available as a large number of migrants have left,” said one of the manufacturers.“The cancellation or deferment of exports and domestic orders has started biting the industry. The extension of the lockdown will give a major jolt to the industry. Sports goods don’t come under essential items. This will delay the revival of our industry and it will take at least 1-2 years,” said Ashish Anand, CEO, Anand & Anand and chairman of Sports and Toys Manufacturers Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-cripples-rs-1-200-crore-jalandhar-sports-industry-84401
