14-11-2020||Aparna Banerji||This artist breathes life into metals||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 13Harano Sur – The Lost Melody — an exhibition of garden sculptures – work of artist, sculptor and painter Basudeb Biswas regaled audiences at the Virsa Vihar in Jalandhar. The exhibition, on till tomorrow, also artfully captures expressions of several students and faculty members of the Apeejay College of Fine Arts.On display are also photographs clicked by veteran photographer and faculty member Anil Gupta, paintings of faculty members and students, lino-cuts, etc.However, the highlights at the exhibition of the exhibition are long necked, oblong-faced, figurines – very feminine and tribal in their appeal – and the lime green sculptures — put together by Biswas during the pandemic.Biswas’s work is inspired by Ritwik Ghatak’s film Ajantrik, Biswas. He said, “In the film, a man mourns his car. It is a scrap now. It is no good but he can’t let go of his attachment to the machine. That evoked feelings in me too. I have asked my neighbours, scrap dealers and friends not to discard pieces of scrap. For them, it might be a waste. But for me, it is a brilliant piece of brass, which evokes several emotions. A piece of scrap that tells a story in itself. So, it was with my ‘Ajantrik’ series that the story started. I sought solace in my art work, which comprises sculptures made of material salvaged from scrap shops. But they bore the perfect additions to that missing part which would lend mu new sculpture harmony.”Created mainly out of brass – the sculptures are a step ahead of the tall, elongated, stick like figurines Jalandhar has previously witnessed from Biswas. With his early works heavily influenced from his early days at Andamans, these new works also feature tribal ethos. However, these move a step ahead to fantastical forms, mainly denoting women with buns and pouts, some almost alien-like in form.Also featured during the exhibition are birds, clay sculptures that Biswas has been busy creating. Wonderful tapestries, lino-cuts, photographs and paintings also dot the Satya Paul Art Gallery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-artist-breathes-life-into-metals-170320
14-11-2020||Tanda Urmar||Father-son killed in accident, 4 injured||A father-son duo, riding a scooter, were killed in a road accident that took place near Harsi Pind on the Jammu-Jalandhar National Highway this morning. The accident happened when a private company’s bus, which was going from Delhi to Jammu, overturned.  Besides, four passengers travelling in the bus also suffered serious injuries. The accident occurred around 6 am when the bus carrying passengers suddenly overturned as the driver lost control of it due to high speed. The bus hit Kashmiri Lal and his son Vipan Kumar who were going on scooter from Tanda to Alampur village. Both were killed on the spot.  The four bus passengers who were injured have been identified as Bal Kishan, son of Hans Raj, a resident of Basoli (Jammu), Rakesh Kumar, son of Dundi Ram, a resident of Ram Nagar (Jammu), and Subhash Chandra and Sakshi Devi, both residents of Kathua.  On receiving the information, Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Society jathedar Davinder Singh Moonak reached the spot with volunteers and rushed the injured to Government Hospital, Tanda, from where they were referred to a specialty hospital after providing first aid.  Tanda SHO Bikram Singh also reached the spot along with a police party. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/father-son-killed-in-accident-4-injured-170321
14-11-2020||---||Seeing festival in new light||Jalandhar, November 13Diwali was celebrated in various parts of the city on Friday. People from all walks of life took part in festivities held in different parts of the city.Lighting up life of the needy at the Apahaj AshramDiwali was celebrated at the Apahaj Ashram in Jalandhar with great fervour. The event was presided over By Dr Girish Bali, IRS, Additional Commissioner, Income Tax, Rajinder Beri, MLA, Dr Vijay Mahajan, MD, Tagore Hospital, former Cabinet Minister Manoranjan Kalia and Sadhu Ram Mittal.The Additional Commissioner congratulated Tarsem Kapur, chairman of the Apahaj Ashram, and appreciated the steps taken by the management for creating a happy environment among the inmates of the ashram on Diwali.He further said such functions must be celebrated with the elderly as well as differently-abled to boost their morale. The Apahaj Ashram has elderly inmates as well as handicapped and differently-abled residents for whom such special events are organised to bring cheer, amid the festival. Sunita Kapur (Co- Chairperson) and Lala Ram Kishore Kapur Viklang Sahita Trust explained the importance and the reason of celebrating Diwali in India and the role of Lord Rama while in exile.Punjab Institute of Medical SciencesJalandhar: The Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) has decided to celebrate Diwali in an eco-friendly manner. Amit Singh, resident director, said the doctors and interns celebrated green Diwali by planting trees in the campus. The institute also distributed plants to patients and public and encouraged them to plant trees and look after their surroundings.Dr Kulbir Kaur, director principal, said these days, people were health conscious and concerned about their well-being, so it would be wise to celebrate a pollution-free Diwali. By adopting preventive measures of limiting the sound decibel of crackers, discouraging potassium chlorate products, promoting better alternatives for decorations, the festival could be enjoyed better, she said.Lyallpur Khalsa CollegeDiwali was celebrated with great enthusiasm at Lyallpur Khalsa College here on Friday. Wishing 'Happy Diwali' to the staff and students Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra elaborated the socio-cultural significance of the festival. He said that Diwali was also celebrated as the 'Captives Release Day' as on this day the sixth Guru of the Sikhs, Guru Hargobind, got released 52 kings from the fort of Gwalior. Lamps were lit then to celebrate their arrival. He said that it was the duty of all to celebrate green Diwali so as to minimise environmental pollution. He also urged all to celebrate the festival following the safety guidelines for Covid-19. On this occasion, Fine Arts students of the college prepared landscapes, posters, sketches and rangoli etc.KCL Institute of Mgmt and TechnologyThe cultural committee of management department of the KCL Institute organised Diwali on virtual mode for all students on the theme of green Diwali. Various events were organised including rangoli, collage making, thali decoration and cardmaking on theme of green Diwali. Students participated with great enthusiasm in these events.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/seeing-festival-in-new-light-170322
14-11-2020||---||Man strangles wife, kills self by jumping off water tank||Jalandhar, November 13A man committed suicide soon after murdering his wife in Kapurthala today. Rajkumar (45), a resident of Jalaulkhana at Kapurthala, committed suicide after murdering his wife .Climbing atop a water tank at Shalimar Bagh, the man also broadcast a video of the incident on Facebook live. After seeing the video of the incident, cops visited his home. SHO City Kapurthala, Deepak Kumar said, “The man climbed atop a tank at about 5 pm. It was at the same time that we came to know about the murder of his wife. We received calls about a woman’s murder simultaneously. When the police team reached his house, his wife was found dead. As per preliminary reports, the man strangulated his wife earlier today after which he climbed atop the tank. We are further verifying the case and the cause of the drastic act.”As per the initial reports, the man murdered his wife on the suspicion of an illicit relationship. The man named eminent persons and held a Facebook live video right before he climbed atop the tank. Notably, the man warned the police hours before committing the suicide. While a net was laid to save him, yet he could not survive the fatal fall. Taken to the Kapurthala Civil Hospital, he was declared brought dead. The couple is survived by a 12-year-old son and a 16-year-old daughter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-strangles-wife-kills-self-by-jumping-off-water-tank-170323
14-11-2020||Hoshiarpur||Special Covid ward opened in Hoshiarpur||Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora on Friday got the Covid-19 isolation ward inaugurated by a sanitation worker at the Civil Hospital. Arora said construction of Hoshiarpur Medical College would commence in January.He said the 50-bed ward was equipped with ultra- modern facilities, including ventilator-enabled beds, separate ward for senior citizens and children care facility.“Elaborate arrangements, besides doctors and other staff have been made at the ward to facilitate Covid-19 positive patients,” said the minister. He said the construction work of Hoshiarpur Medical College would start in January 2021. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/special-covid-ward-opened-in-hoshiarpur-170325
14-11-2020||---||Club pitches for green Diwali||Jalandhar, November 13The Zoology and Environment Club of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, celebrated green Diwali. Online competitive events such as decorative diya, rangoli, decorative plant and greeting card with slogans were organised. Around 100 students of all streams enthusiastically participated in the event. Principal, Dr Ajay Sareen, congratulated the Environment Club for taking the initiative of celebrating green Diwali. She further gave the message of pitching for 'Vocal for Local' and celebrating a 'Swadeshi Diwali'. She concluded by saying that this Diwali, we must make an endeavour to bring smiles on everyone’s face.Dr Seema Marwaha, Head of zoology department and coordinator of Environment Club explained about the initiative of celebrating Green Diwali taken by the Environment Club which was the practice of this club for the past many years. The club also organises awareness campaign, including celebration of organic Holi, eco-friendly Rakhi, minimising use of plastic and other measures for environment conservation and sustainable development.Dr Anjana Bhatia, Head of botany department and co-coordinator of Environment Club emphasised on the use of diyas, gifting handmade cards, boycotting the use of crackers which are the worst enemy of our environment and particularly planting trees. Videos on conservation of environment by celebrating green Diwali were also shown to students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/club-pitches-for-green-diwali-170326
14-11-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||They will remain in line of duty so that we enjoy a safe Diwali||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 13Sacrificing their family lives and celebrations, hundreds of policemen, doctors, paramedics and firemen will be on toes on Diwali night. On the other hand, city residents will be celebrating a safe and happy Diwali due to them.There are 87 personnel of the Fire Department who will remain alert on duty for 24 hours without any break. Fire Department officials have deputed staff with fire extinguishers at various locations in the city from tomorrow afternoon. These places are Pathankot Chowk, Lamma Pind Chowk, Leather Complex and Wadala Chowk.ADFO VK Bhagat said, “We have 16 fire tenders, all of which will be deployed at important places across the city. We have 11 regular firemen and 76 contractual staff who too would be deputed with these machines. For congested markets like Attari Bazaar and Sudan Chowk, we will use fire extinguishers mounted on motorcycles and Tata 407 vehicles. We have a water tank with a capacity of 50,000 litres there and our water pipelines have already been laid for a quick and easy action.”Cops will remain deployed in all bazaars, religious places and at important intersections to ensure that everyone can enjoy a safe Diwali. We have also deployed anti-riot police teams in bazaars. —Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, Jalandhar CommissionerBhagat said, “He has put in 26 years of service so far and has never celebrated Diwali with his family. This is one day when no one from the staff can be allowed to enjoy holiday and working hours often stretch up to 24 hours. All of us understand it and that is why we are here.”Dr Mandeep Kaur, Medical Superintendent, Civil Hospital, said, “We will have full emergency, including a separate Covid emergency with doctors working on a four-hour rotation basis. I have given full freedom to the staff to adjust their duties in such a way that they all are able to enjoy Diwali for some hours at home and sometime in the hospital so that everyone gets a fair time to celebrate and perform duty too. However, all doctors, including specialty doctors, have been instructed to remain available on call in event of any exigency.”Jalandhar Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar too said cops would remain deployed in all bazaars, religious places and at important intersections to ensure that everyone could enjoy a safe Diwali. “We have also deployed anti-riot police teams in the bazaars with tear gas shells and anti-riot control vehicles and CCTV mounted vehicles to maintain digital eye on all anti-social elements,” said the Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/they-will-remain-in-line-of-duty-so-that-we-enjoy-a-safe-diwali-170327
14-11-2020||---||3 succumb, 113 fresh cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, November 13A day before Diwali, Jalandhar reported 113 positive cases on Friday. The district tally reached 16,076 with new cases. Three deaths were also reported in Jalandhar today.As many as 14,830 people have been discharged in the district to date. Active cases in district witnessed a jump from 698 (Thursday) to 750 (Friday). At present, 427 people are also under home isolation in the district.This is substantial spike as the Covid tally had been under 100 for the last many days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-succumb-113-fresh-cases-in-jalandhar-district-170328
14-11-2020||Jalandhar||Students take part in series of activities||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-take-part-in-series-of-activities-170333
14-11-2020||---||Two days of sales before Diwali is all they need to keep hearth burning||Jalandhar, November 13Geeta, 40, awaits a customer as her grandson clings to her. “They asked us to leave the spot. We usually sit a week ago but this time they wouldn’t let us,” she speaks of cops trying to force her and her likes out on Thursday. “We are poor people. This is our only earning around festive season. How are we supposed to earn a livelihood?” Geeta reasoned officials; hot tears welled up, ready to scald her eyes.It’s been 20 years since she has been selling neon coloured, ‘pom-pom belled’ little terracotta mandirs (temples) during the Diwali on a pavement here at the Jyoti chowk. This time around, the sellers of such items have found it really hard to go about their work, like everyone. As if the pandemic’s harshness wasn’t enough, on Friday, the policemen, too, asked them to vacate the spot citing it was ‘causing a traffic jam’. “They even broke some of my diyas,” she tells. Satya, her 70-year-old mother-in-law, assists her in the job.Majority of these women are domestic helps doubling up as bangle sellers around the year. Following a stand-off, the women, however, managed to stay put – after much persuasion – on the same pavement. Most have been selling clayware around the ‘festival of lights’ for generations. The result is: mothers, grandmothers, aunts and relatives — all lined up next to each other.Chindo, one of them, remembers, “Bahut roye asi. Sade dive torte. (we cried a lot. They broke our lamps.) It was a public-drawing episode; as people gathered around, soon, the media raised the numbers. “But no one lent us help. It is after much persuasion that we have been allowed to sit. Our question is, if you say the poor man’s clay pots are causing jams, what about these big malls?”The erstwhile Naaz cinema and Jyoti theatre (one-screen cinema halls razed after multiplexes came up) have given way to plush malls and crystal-chandeliered showrooms here. “No one closes their shop…the cars choke the road. We don’t understand how our dainty earthern lamps could block it,” she asks.The old-world charm of the chowk is seemingly enlivened by these pavement hawkers. The scenes, especially at this point of year, retain a semblance of the past. Clay-coloured orange basic diyas (earthen lamps), flecked with sparkles, decorative and painted diyas, terracotta mandirs and dry fruits (cashew, walnut, almonds) comprises majority of the products they spread out.Mamta, daughter of Meena Rani, says, “The malls earn crores. The least they can do is let the poor man earn his livelihood in peace for two days.” The officials uprooted two vends and for days the lot kept wandering, hanging around in parks. The mother chimes in: “The virus already affected livelihoods and now our only earnings on Diwali have also been hit. We are only hoping the sales pick up, we have until tomorrow. Otherwise it’s going to be a dark Diwali for us.”Mamta quit school after Class VII. Since, majority of the women’s husbands are daily wage labourers, who are enmeshed in their own workaday life, the onus of managing sales of earthen pots and lamps rests on their shoulders. So, most of them sit along with their children to have a helping hand beside them. Chindo tells why. “What will they do at school? We don’t have the money to send them there. We can’t pay, its better they help us.”The women also alleged they were asked to pay some amount to be allowed to sit. But, SHO police station 4, Rakesh Kumar, clears the air, “They have been sitting on the spot for two days ahead of Diwali. The police never asked them to pay. That’s a blatant lie. We had only asked the women not to put up permanent stalls. They hold up the road and the busy stretch is also prone to accidents. We were just maintaining security, doing our job to give residents a smooth drive through the road.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-days-of-sales-before-diwali-is-all-they-need-to-keep-hearth-burning-170334
14-11-2020||Jalandhar||112: A helpline that rarely helps||Even as the Punjab Police claim to have scaled up emergency helpline number 112, it seems to be of little help for residents.Despite dialling a number of times in the day, the operator was not available even once for listening to the grievance. Every time Tribune reporter tried calling on this number from the cell phone, the automatic system directed her to press #1 to stay connected. On pressing #1, the automatic system kept on repeating, “Please hold while we try to connect you.” Finally, the call hung up after a message, “All call takers are busy.”The same procedure was repeated for a number of times and no complaint could be lodged on the system. This despite the fact that the Punjab DGP has been maintaining that the staff on the emergency number remain alert for a quick relief at the time of any emergency. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/112-a-helpline-that-rarely-helps-170337
14-11-2020||---||7 yrs on, no registrar at IK Gujral Punjab Technical University||Kapurthala, November 13It’s been nearly seven years now since IK Gujral Punjab Technical University had a regular Vice Chancellor.Dr HS Bains, who moved to Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University, Bathinda, was the last registrar and served till January 22, 2014.Ever since he moved, the university has had four officiating registrars and all of them have held the post as an additional charge. After Dr Bains, Dr Rajneesh Kant Sachdeva was the officiating registrar for a year; Dr Amanpreet Singh held the charge for three years and Dr SS Walia served for two years. At present, Sandeep Kazal is serving on the post.The university had held interviews and shortlisted candidates, but the process got stalled after one of the candidates challenged the procedure.The university is also without a regular Controller of Examination and regular Finance Officer after Dr SK Mishra moved to the Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology as the registrar. The post of Dean Research and Development is also likely to get vacant next month, as Dr AP Singh is set to retire. The posts of other deans are either vacant or have an acting officer on the post.University’s Vice Chancellor Dr Ajay Sharma said: “Owing to certain glitches, we have not been able to strengthen our faculty. For the same reason, we have not been able to get 12 B approvals from the UGC or apply under the National Assessment and Accreditation Council.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-yrs-on-no-registrar-at-ik-gujral-punjab-technical-university-170353
