14-12-2020||---||Covid-19: 1 dies, 72 test positive in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, December 13The district reported one more Covid-19 fatality on Sunday, taking the death toll to 603, while 72 new cases pushed the infection count in the district to 19,064.The active cases in the district are 782 to date.As many as 17,679 patients have been discharged, while 502 are under home isolation in the district.Meanwhile in Kapurthala, 26 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-1-dies-72-test-positive-in-jalandhar-district-184022
14-12-2020||---||Argument over property takes ugly turn in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, December 13In less than a month, another firing incident was reported in the city on Sunday. The incident reportedly took place at a house on Kala Sanghian Road after a minor argument between two brothers took an ugly turn.As per the police, the younger brother, Amritpal Singh (32), fired at his elder brother Jaswinder Singh (38).However, the bullet accidently hit his sister-in-law, Suminder Kaur (35), who had a narrow escape after it pierced through her right ear. After seeing his wife in blood, Jaswinder Singh, alias Raja, fainted and later died of shock at a private hospital.Both brothers got embroiled in a dispute over their ancestral property after their father passed away. They both were running a plywood factory ‘Inder and Sons Complex’ at Kala Sanghian. The incident was reported at around 11 am at their residence.SHO, police division 5, Gagandeep Sekhon, who reached the spot immediately after the incident, said the accused used his licenced revolver to shoot his brother.“Prima facie, no one died from the bullet, as the accused lost his aim. Besides, there were no injury marks on the deceased. While the body has been sent for a postmortem, the probe is on to establish the exact reasons for Raja’s death,” the SHO said.A case under Sections 304 and 307 of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act was registered against the accused, who is still absconding.The deceased is survived by his wife and two sons. Suminder is under treatment at a private hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/argument-over-property-takes-ugly-turn-in-jalandhar-184023
14-12-2020||---||New ROB to come up at PAP Chowk next year||Jalandhar, December 13With bids opening on December 22, the construction of a new three-lane railway overbridge (ROB) at the busiest traffic junction of the city — PAP Chowk — is set to commence next year. The project is expected to complete within six months of the commencement of the construction.Divulging the details, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the new flyover, constructed at a cost of Rs 30 crore, would ensure smooth traffic flow at this busy junction where traffic from multiple districts and states converge every day. The Deputy Commissioner said that the tender for this project was floated by the National Highways Authority of India, which is going to open on December 22.Ghanshyam Thori, Deputy Commissioner The new flyover, to be constructed at a cost of Rs 30 crore, will ensure smooth traffic flow at this busy junction, where traffic from multiple districts and states converge every day. The tender for this project was floated by the National Highways Authority of India, which is going to open on Dec 22.Thori mentioned that presently there are two two-lanes ROBs at PAP Chowk, and this would be the third flyover with a three-lane capacity.The Deputy Commissioner said the project, besides fulfilling the long pending demands of the city residents, would facilitate hundreds of commuters to get direct access to Amritsar road from BSF Chowk. Presently commuters have to travel extra about 1.5 kilometers by first moving towards Rama Mandi Chowk and then to take a u-turn for the Amritsar road, he added. The project entails two ramps alongside the new ROB which would ensure hassle-free entry and exit into the Jalandhar city from and towards Amritsar road.The project director of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) Yashpal Sharma said that the tender for this flyover was already floated and the bids were scheduled to open on December 22. The work to be completed within six months after commencement, he added. The project director further added that the new ROB project to start early next year.The Deputy Commissioner also mentioned that another project to improvise traffic junction at PAP Chowk was underway, which would cost around Rs 7 crore. He said that to ensure smooth flow of inbound and outbound traffic at PAP Chowk, and minimize road accidents, a massive roundabout was under construction at the junction. As a part of the beautification project, different types of trees and plants were also planted at the roundabout, which would give this chowk a mesmerising look.The Deputy Commissioner said that a modular rainwater harvesting system was also developed beneath the roundabout, which as per highway authorities was the first of its kind in Punjab as it would recharge all rainwater of surrounding areas. The DC further mentioned that construction of a new drainage system, and service lanes was also a part of this junction improvement plan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-rob-to-come-up-at-pap-chowk-next-year-184024
14-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||When a 2,000-vehicle convoy headed to Singhu border||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 13“2024 tak date ranhange – jad tak kale kanoon radd nahi hunde, asi nahi hilde” (we’ll stay till 2024, we won’t budge as long as these black laws are not withdrawn), said a farmer at Singhu border.On December 11, when farmers of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee headed for their journey towards the Haryana border to participate in their leg of protests, little did they know that the number of farmers and vehicles joining them would far exceed their own estimate. While it was expected that 70 vehicles will go from the district, by the time everyone turned up, there was a caravan of 250 to 300 vehicle already.We expected 1,200 vehicles in all, maximum 70-80 vehicles from Jalandhar. But we received a flood of vehicles. We had to reorganise all over again because so many farmers came in. We expected only one trailer from a village, but they sent in two. Many villages shocked us with such enthusiasm. Many more are still coming. Everyone is keen on getting the laws repealed. It is a question of our future. Major Singh, of Bara Jodh Singh villageFrom across the state, 1,200 vehicles of the union were expected to go on the same day, but on Sunday morning at 2.30 am, a 2,000 vehicle-strong caravan landed at the Singhu border.Amid farmers’ protests and the current deadlock between farm leaders and the government over the three farm laws, there is a surge of enthusiasm among farmers to head to the protest site at the Delhi border. While unions are flooded with jathas going from all cities, an overwhelming number of private vehicles and farmers, eager to join, are also heading to the protest site.Our 2,000-vehicle caravan reached at 2.30am. It took two days of organising, stopping over, coordinating and deliberations for all of us to finally reach. We never expected so many people to turn up. From every village, people are eager to come. People came in packed tractor-trailers, many women and children also accompanied us. As many as 250 of our trailers are there already. They are yet to reach the protest site as they are stuck. It has also been very hectic for us, we haven't slept for two days. But the enthusiasm is infectious. Salwinder Singh Jania, district president, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee While a thief was trying to sneak out iron planks off a truck at Singhu border, Salwinder Singh Jania, district president, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee after taking care of it said: “Our 2,000 vehicle caravan reached at 2.30 am. It took two days of organising, stopping over, coordinating and deliberations for all of us to finally reach. We never expected so many people to turn up. From every village people are eager to come. People came in packed tractor trailers, many women and children also accompanied us. As many as 250 of our trailers are back there. They are yet to reach the protest site as they are stuck. It has also been very hectic for us, we haven’t slept for two days. But the enthusiasm is infectious.”Salwinder adds: “We have come with all ration, provisions, beds and mattresses. We shall stay till 2024 if need be. None of us are relenting until the laws are withdrawn. On Friday, at least 1 lakh of us came here in 2,000 vehicles from Jalandhar, Frozepur and Tarn Taran. More from Jalandhar, Gurdaspur, Amritsar and other places are ready to come. We are here for the long haul. Many of us keep coming and going back.”Major Singh, a resident of Bara Jodh Singh village in Jalandhar, says: “We expected 1,200 vehicles in all, maximum 70-80 vehicles from Jalandhar. But we received a flood of vehicles. We had to reorganise all over again because so many farmers came in. We expected only one trailer from a village, but they sent in two. Many villages shocked us with the enthusiasm. Lakhs of people have come in. Earlier jathas of our union have been sitting since the beginning of protests. People have come in trucks, tractor-trailers. Seventeen jeeps came in from Jalandhar alone, 20 to 50 people come in single vehicle. Many more are still coming. Everyone is keen on getting the laws dismissed. It is a question of our future.”Farmers said their relatives and kin and neighbours have readily agreed to take care of their crops, animals and families, as they are away to the protest site. “We have forgotten our crops. Our brethren will take care of it,” quips Major Singh.Farmers to protest outside Phagwara ADC’s office todayJalandhar: A huge movement of the farmers is already being witnessed in Delhi where farmers have reached from almost every corner of the state. Farmers have been going to Delhi and coming back to Jalandhar and Nawanshahr to meet their family members and for other their domestic works. Some farmers on Sunday returned to Doaba to hold a protest against the government. Davinder Singh from Nawanshahr reached at 5 in the morning on Sunday. He said a huge protest would be held on December 14 outside the Additional Deputy Commissioner’s office in Phagwara where scores of farmers would gather and protest. “I will be going back tomorrow again to join my fellow farmers at the Singhu border. This is what we are dedicated to for now. We want justice and nothing else,” he said. Randeep Singh from Phillaur said that it was very tiresome to commute daily. “I had gone with farmers 18 days ago when the protest started. I remained there for eight days and came back to take along some essentials with me. After taking rest, I again went back and had to come to Phillaur today to join the protest in Phagwara tomorrow,” he said. The farmers have also asked the maximum number of fellow farmers to join them in the protest tomorrow. “We will be meeting at the grain market in Phagwara and then will march towards the ADC’s office,” a farmer said. To express solidarity with the agitating farmers against the contentious farm laws, the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party in Punjab have also announced to hold separate state-level protests on December 14. Both parties have said that they stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the protesting farmers and will leave no stone unturned to get their demands fulfilled. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/when-a-2-000-vehicle-convoy-headed-to-singhu-border-184025
14-12-2020||Open House||Punish those taking traffic rules for a ride on Jalandhar roads||Stop favouring contractorsThe main cause of the accidents in India often is the poor condition of roads. Potholes, uneven road surface, broken concrete and cracks on the road can be the reasons for the imbalance of the vehicles resulting in serious accidents leading to in slip disc and major head injuries. Both the government and the people share a collective responsibility in maintaining the roads. Carpeting and repair work should be done from time to time. There should not be any traffic violation, strict laws and heavy penalty should be imposed on violators. There should be separate lanes for the pedestrians and for school buses. The government servants should stop favouring contactors and value human lives.SHASHI KIRANNot a country for pedestriansIn developed countries, the pedestrians on the roads are treated like kings, whereas in developing countries like ours, the same are treated like beggars who are not welcome on the roads. This pathetic treatment of pedestrians in our country needs to be reversed for making commuting on city roads rather a pleasurable experience. Both sides of city roads should be provided with continuous and adequate sidewalks, free from encroachment or any other types of disruptions. Busy or congested places should be designated as vehicle-free zones supported with free and convenient parking facilities. Road crossing areas used most frequently by pedestrians should be marked with zebra lines. As a long term strategy, the provision of building subways or skyways in most congested places should be a priority area in urban planning. Overall, city traffic discipline as per rules should be strictly enforced by the police.JAGDISH CHANDERDo away with VIP culture on roadsThe traffic rules should be uniform for everybody. But the truth is many people violate the rules with impunity due to which road accidents have been increasing day in and day out. Many times, drivers can be seen entering into an altercation with the policemen if they are stopped for checking. In our state, intimidating the cops by referring to MLAs, councillor etc is also quite prevalent. Hence, they keep breaking the traffic rules. This type of VIP culture needs to be done away with.Saahil HansConstruct bike lanes and flyoversThe rapidly rising cases of road accidents resulting in injuries, permanent disabilities and deaths in the cities and towns of Punjab have raised serious concern among residents, courtesy population explosion, enhanced economic activity, higher vehicular growth rate, unplanned, congested urbanisation and lack of traffic sense and strict enforcement of traffic rules. It calls for a concerted, collaborative and consistent multi-pronged approach by engineers, planners, police, public health professionals and educators to address the prevailing traffic chaos and make urban road infrastructure safer and more sustainable for commuters and pedestrians. We should adopt the following measures to achieve the desired goals: increasing road capacity by repairing and widening roads and building new ones; removing encroachments by shopkeepers; opening separate bike lanes; providing accessible, continuous and protected footpaths with fixed bollards; delivering enough space for parking; constructing flyovers, underpasses and overbridges; ensuring adequate street lights on roads and traffic signals at crossings; and proper road marking, fixing the automobile speed limits and delivering traffic-calming infrastructure like humps, chicanes and raised zebra crossings. We should spread awareness about road signs, mandatory traffic rules and benefits of helmet and seat-wearing among people, and impose heavy fines on violators. They should be encouraged to drive at a slow, safe and steady speed, or go around walking and cycling. Besides, a good quality public transport system, traffic-free or vibrant shared roads or launching car-free days as in the West will help in making our roads more commuter and pedestrian-friendly. These initiatives will also save fuel, improve air quality and reduce climate change emissions.D S KangDon’t take road rules for a rideTo create awareness among residents and commuters, sessions on road safety and rules should be organised at schools, colleges, taxi stands and other public places. Some people say 'Rules are meant to be broken'. People do not wear helmet on roads unless they spot a policeman. Basically, they are not worried about themselves. They take their own life for a ride. Some rich brats behind the wheels can be seen boasting about their parents' status. Parents should be held responsible for this behaviour. If any minor is found behind wheels, their parents' licence should be cancelled for six months. This is the only way to tackle the situation.Shailja ThakurMark lanes, fill potholed roadsThe condition of city roads pose a continuous threat to commuters and pedestrians. Ultimate measures should be taken under the Smart City project to make roads of our city safe for all commuters. Proper maintenance of the roads, including filling the potholes on time, putting up street signs which are not hindered by any tree branches and equipped with radium can improve the safety and driving experience of the commuters to a great extent. Neat lane markings should be laid for safe commuting at night and regularly maintaining those markings as they fade out with time. Regulate the traffic signals as per traffic density at each roundabout and moreover keeping away the stray animals from the roads as they pose a threat to commuter and pedestrian traffic as well.Gurmanjot SinghSet up ramps for the disabledBeing aware of the traffic rules and road safety lessens the chances of accidents and injuries. The city roads can be made safer for commuters and pedestrians by following the give ways:- Every road should have a wide footpath at sides. The roads should be made disabled-friendly. They should have a ramp to facilitate the people with wheelchairs. Special road- signs can be made to aware the commuters from the coming traffic. Pedestrians must be facilitated with proper and visible Zebra- Crossing. City roads must have working traffic lights. There should be no electric poles on footpaths so that people can walk safely and disabled do not face any problem with their wheelchairs. Speed limit should be set near schools. Traffic policemen should be on duty at dispersal time of schools.Gunreet KaurThose in power often misuse traffic rulesGlobally, road accidents are the leading cause of death. If we look closer home, so many people lose their lives on roads every year due to rash driving, minors behind the wheel, drunken driving and countless other factors. Stringent actions are prerequisite to curb violation of road safety. Hefty fines should be charged whoever flouts the rules. Rules are same for all, but in Punjab there is a trend of VIP culture. For instance, if someone is a kin of any minister, MP or an MLA, he can jump the signal and no action is taken against them. Politicians and rich brats misuse their position and whenever allegations are made against them, they always get a clean chit. This only shows how hollow the system is and how politicians think they have the right to exploit anything.Saahil HansPotholes dot city roadsI am a resident of Amritsar and there are massive potholes. Commuters face a lot of problem while commuting on the potholed stretches, especially during monsoon. There should be a separate committee for recarpeting the roads. The government should make a concentrated effort for maintenance of roads in the city and in rural areas as well.Izleen QUESTIONWith the Covid threat looming large and farmers out on the roads in large numbers, should the Central government expedite talks and resolve the agri crisis at the earliest?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (December 17).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punish-those-taking-traffic-rules-for-a-ride-on-jalandhar-roads-184026
14-12-2020||---||Rallies held in villages||Mehatpur, December 13To mobilise peasantry and farm labourers to protest against the farm laws, motorcycle rallies were held in various villages of the city on Sunday.On the lines of bike marches held on Saturday, various rallies and marches were also held by members of farmer organisations.Mazdoor rallies were also held in various villages by the Pendu Mazdoor Union (PMU) and the Kirti Kisan Union.Addressing migrant labourers at the Sanghowal village, PMU state president Tarsem Peter and Kirti Kisan Union leader Munberdar Ajaib Singh Randhawa said farm labourers would be the worst hit due to these laws.With land going into the hands of corporate establishments, labourers will get no employment opportunities. Today, farm labourers are dependent on farms for their food, vegetable and animal fodder needs, which are currently fulfilled by farms and the plight of farmers will go worse if these laws come into force.To assert their rights to decent livelihoods, leaders exhorted farm labourers to extend full support to the protest at the district headquarters on Dec 14. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rallies-held-in-villages-184027
14-12-2020||---||Now, English of government school students to be polished virtually||Jalandhar, December 13Considering a good response response to the English Booster Club (EBC) — the Education Department’s new initiative among students and teachers at government schools — virtual ‘Stars Get Together’ would be organised at block level in different districts up to December 28. The activity is stipulated to enhance the knowledge of the subject among students, who have enthusiastically been taking part in various activities being conducted under EBC.This will the second such initiative by the State Education Department after ororganising virtual “ Get Together of Teachers” underEnglish Booster. Chander Shekhar, State Resource Person ( English and Social Studies) said that the activities being organised under the aegis of the English Booster Clubs in different schools as well as block and district level had been proving a boon to hone language skills especially building conducive environment to raise confidence level to communicate in English.“The EBCs have been motivating students to come forward and show curiosity to learn the language,” he further said while adding that the students’ speaking competency had improved and they no longer possess any shyness or anxiety while conversing in English.Hence, with a view to giving fillip to the confidence level of the students, the Education Department has planned ‘Stars’ Get Together’. Under this activity, about 16 to 20 students belonging to class 9th to 12th along with their guide teachers from each block across the state would participate in the activity.They would speak on different topics including - “I love my India’’, “Punjab of my dreams’, ‘Views regarding EBC’, ‘Self Confidence’, ‘Cleanliness is a bliss’, ‘View in favour / against use of mobile phone’, ‘Sports Keep us Fit’ , “Think Before You Speak’, ‘Manners are the basis of humanity’, ‘I like my new book — Welcome Life”, “If I were an English Teacher”. The duration of speech would be 45 to 90 seconds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-english-of-government-school-students-to-be-polished-virtually-184028
14-12-2020||---||Training camp held for BJP functionaries, volunteers||Jalandhar, December 13To strengthen the Bharatiya Janata Party, training camps will be organised at the mandal level. As a part of this series, a training camp was held at mandal 1 and 2 of the Jalandhar North constituency today. The programme began with the lighting of the ceremonial lamp at the beginning of the camp.State Prant She Sanyojak Training department Yagyadutt Aeri, former district rural president Deepak Sharma, Punjab BJP SC morcha spokesperson Kapoor Chand Thapar, IT cell Punjab President Rakesh Goyal among others addressed party workers.They spoke about the people's policies and schemes run by the party. All workers were also asked to be active in their respective areas in preparation for the 2022 Vidhan Sabha elections.All state office-bearers, district and mandal functionaries and workers participated in the programme. BJP district president Sushil Sharma, former MLA Jalandhar North KD Bhandari, Ravi Mahendru, Minta Kochar, Vivek Khanna among others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/training-camp-held-for-bjp-functionaries-volunteers-184030
14-12-2020||---||Hockey doyens visit coaching camp in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, December 13Ever since a coaching camp has been started in the city, various hockey doyens have visited the camp to encourage the budding players there.Commissioner of Police, Jalandhar Gurpreet Singh Bhullar also shared his life experiences of hockey with the buddying players attending ongoing Surjit Hockey Coaching Camp and motivated them.Apart from him, Olympian Padam Shri Pargat Singh, Olympian Gundeep Kumar, Olympian Harpreet Singhal Mander, international player Daljit Singh and Olympian Sanjeev Kumar dang have already visited and interacted with the players.On the completion of the 80th day of the ongoing coaching camp at the local Surjit Hockey Stadium, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, a national level hockey player of his time, joined the hockey camp. Remembering his time at Anda Camp (Egg Camp), he said he too had learned hockey by participating in such camps. He said he was always proud to be a hockey player.He further said the Surjit Hockey Society was organising India's grade-I hockey tournament for the past 37 years and had also started a hockey coaching camp for the children in the age group of 14 and 19 years, which will make a significant contribution in the promotion of hockey in state as well as to the Indian hockey.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hockey-doyens-visit-coaching-camp-in-jalandhar-184031
14-12-2020||Jalandhar||Illegal colonies: Panel meets Mayor||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/illegal-colonies-panel-meets-mayor-184032
