15-06-2020||Phillaur||Villager booked for cheating||43 ETT teachers promotedTarn Taran: The office of the District Education Officer (DEO) (Elementary) has promoted 43 ETT teachers to the post of head teacher (HT). The orders of the promotion with the place of postings were handed over to the teachers concerned here. The orders were released by DEO (Elementary) Varinder Prashar. As many as 64 teachers were to be promoted. Twenty-one teachers did not avail the chance. They said the promotion did not affect us financially. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/villager-booked-for-cheating-99417
15-06-2020||Jaspinder Singh||‘There should be no interest on working capital loan for a year’||How has the lockdown impacted your business?The Covid-19 pandemic has broken our backbone and in this business raw material is purchased mostly from Ludhiana-based firms on one-month credit. The sale of finished products is also on credit. The problem is that buyers are releasing payments and suppliers are demanding their dues. If we go to bank for loan, we have to pay interest, which will only add to expenditure.Do you expect business activity to start running in the near future?There is no plan for any expansion in a scenario where demand is non-existent.How are you dealing with the issue of releasing salaries?My employees have been working with me for a long time, so it is my duty to work for their betterment . I am paying workers on a weekly basis and the unit is functioning with only 25 per cent of the total capacity.What is the share of online trading in your profession?There is no scope of online trading in the profession as dealers prefer to buy products after ensuring their quality.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?I feel one should never do business on the faith of the government. No matter how many reserves you may have, in a manufacturing unit you will always feel the pinch when the Covid-like pandemic occurs.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?It’s a big challenge to continue with production while saving workers and myself from the pandemic.What are your expectations from the government?The government should give us one month working capital loan on the basis of the previous year sale figures. There should be no interest charged on the loan for a year. Governments world over are helping private organisations get back to work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/there-should-be-no-interest-on-working-capital-loan-for-a-year-99419
15-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||‘e-learning to stay post pandemic’||Jalandhar, June 14Sunil Kumar Sood, Director, KCL Institute of Management and Technology, is a busy man these days, organising webinars on career counseling, getting video modules prepared and conducting live classes to make students aware of the gravity of the Covid crisis.Talking to The Tribune, he said the day lockdown was announced, he had a meeting with teachers and chalked out plans to continue with the classes and complete the syllabus. “Around 80 per cent of the syllabus in almost all the courses was complete even before the lockdown 1.0 was announced. The remaining, we completed via group video calls and by providing e-content, videos messages and PowerPoint presentations to students.”He said during the lockdown, he also organised E-tech Symphonic, an event in which around 1,300 students from across the region participated. “The last three months were very crucial for students. Covid-19 has affected them mentally. I made it my priority to engage them in activities other than academics. As it was important to boost their morale, I worked in liaison with career experts from other nations and scheduled webinars on career counseling, post-lockdown opportunities, scope of digital marketing and mental health.”Besides, in the last three months, he said he planned strategies on how to run the college post lockdown. “As the upcoming academic session is expected to start from August or September and students are also likely to start attending classes from then, it will be a difficult task to ensure social distancing. So we have thought of continuing with the online classes even after the lockdown. Initially, only those who do not have access to technology or are facing issues with the e-learning concept will be first called to attend classes,”said the director.He said arrangements for thermal screening at the entrance, hand sanitisers in classes, corridor, parks and other places have been made. Besides, there would be a set limit on the number of students allowed inside the cafeteria, labs, seminar halls or other such places. “Amid the pandemic, the safety of students is our main concern and no compromise would be made on this part. As we have to learn to live with the coronavirus, so schools and colleges also have to follow and adjust with the 'new normal',” he said.Dr Sood said vocational courses in various subjects such as interior designing, software development, web designing, digital marketing and artificial intelligence would have a great scope in the years ahead. He said the college had planned to introduce such courses from the new session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/e-learning-to-stay-post-pandemic-99420
15-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||Overtime on gadgets spurs sale of spectacles||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 14Beating lockdown blues by spending long hours in front of gadget screens and working class being exposed to digital screen overuse due to work from home are among the major factors that have led to a sharp rise in the sale of anti-glare zero power spectacles at most of the optical showrooms in the city recently.Dinesh Verma, owner of Verma Opticals located at Jyoti Chowk, said, “After suffering huge losses in the peak sale months, we have started making profits. At present, most of the customers are those whose eyesight is weak and need glasses. Besides, sunglasses were sold in large numbers during March and April only. After the relaxations in the lockdown, demand for glasses has started soaring with children studying online, people using mobile phones, laptops and TV for work and entertainment feeling their need.”“Undoubtedly, we are receiving a number of enquiries for growing children as buyers ask us to make normal (zero power) spectacles that can be used by their wards while attending online classes for hours. Apart from that, customers visit our store for getting their spectacles repaired,” added Verma, who has been running the shop since 1970. He deals with both retail and wholesale eye accessories. He has 70 per cent retail customers and 30 per cent wholesale buyers.Though the sale is gradually picking up pace at most of the stores, opticians say this is the first time in decades that they have seen such a big slump in businesses.Verma said, “Earlier, besides enquiries, over 20 customers used to visit his shop daily to purchase glasses, but now the number has reduced to only 8-10. These days, the sale is 60-70 per cent.”During the lockdown, terming glasses as an essential commodity, members of the Optical Association, Jalandhar, had demanded the opening of their stores as they had been receiving requests from their regular customers for new spectacles and repairs of earlier ones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/overtime-on-gadgets-spurs-sale-of-spectacles-99421
15-06-2020||Govt should reduce tax burden||Realty sector needs incentives to come out of doldrums||Buyers should wait, keep watch on marketConstruction and sales activities have come to a complete halt in the entire real estate sector due to the lockdown imposed due to the Covid-19 outbreak. From several sites, construction workers have returned to their native places. The real estate sector will not be viable under these conditions. I want to lay emphasis on the fact that prospective buyers would wait for clarity before making a final decision on purchase of properties. Sale of houses might see a drop in the aftermath of the virus outbreak. Now, the prospective buyer is in a state of dilemma whether to buy the same or not. It would be best for the buyer with capital to wait for a couple of months and keep a close watch on the liquidity situation of the market. — Saahil HansQUESTIONby Thursday (June 18).Govt should safeguard stakeholders’ interestIndia’s real estate industry has been under tremendous stress for the past few years. The significant demand slowdown in commercial and residential segments has adversely impacted sales, new project launches and price growth, courtesy strict RERA regulations, flawed GST, demonetisation and benami property law. While the situation was slowly improving, the coronavirus pandemic and nationwide lockdown virtually brought all construction and sale activities to a grinding halt and deepened the prevailing crisis. Since realty business is the second largest employment generator and one of the top contributors to the nation’s economic growth, the government has recently taken various initiatives to salvage it. It has allowed the resumption of limited construction activities with proper safety protocols. But the shortage of cash flows, essential raw materials and labour, fear of economic losses due to increasing cost of construction and drastic drop in sales and job insecurity and salary reduction have caused negative builder and consumer sentiments. No doubt, higher tax breaks, reduced lending rates by banks and non-bank financial companies, devaluation in the rupee, lower returns from mutual funds and stocks, favourable demographics, increasing urbanisation and rising aspirations will improve demand and affordability. But amid sluggish economy and uncertainty over coronavirus containment, the property business will take quite some time to consolidate. The government should safeguard interests of all stakeholders. — DS KangPotential buyers must go for purchasesThe real estate plays a vital role in our economy. But due to the lockdown, it has witnessed a massive fall. In the present situation, potential buyers need to understand that if they really want to buy a new house, they should go for it. There is no point in delaying the same as the pandemic will stay for one year or more. Due to the lockdown, builders are facing liquidity issues. Patience is the need of the hour as once the situation normalises, regular transactions will start taking place in the realty sector. — Shailja ThakurGive low-interest loans to homebuyersThere is a slump in businesses all around. The aviation, hospitality and realty sectors have been the worst hit. In the past few years under this BJP government at the Centre, the whole country is suffering in one way or the other. Except politics and elections, this government is doing nothing for the welfare of people. In the realty sector, there are no buyers for land or even constructed buildings or flats. People have no money to spare and spend on them due to the Covid-19. Either the sector should diversify itself or the government should reduce tax burden. Banks should provide loans at low interest, which will put more cash in the hands of buyers to increase their purchasing power. — Dr JS WadhwaOpen construction activities in phasesIn the commercial world, realty sector is one of the worst casualties of the Covid-19 outbreak that began in the last week of March in India. However, the government can boost the sector in these ways — expediting phase-wise opening of construction activities with due precautions, solving the crisis of liquidity crunch in the market in coordination with financial institutions and economic-relief measures, relaxing and deferring statutory norms as prescribed under RERA, downward revision of circle rates along with falling market rates and last but not the least, relief in taxation obligations under various real estate operations.Jagdish Chander||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/realty-sector-needs-incentives-to-come-out-of-doldrums-99422
15-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||Illegal movement of private buses goes unabated in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 14Though the inter-state movement of buses is completely suspended due to the Covid-induced lockdown, some private buses are plying illegally in the district. Some buses having tourist permits mostly operate in the night and charge hefty fares to ferry passengers.Plying of pvt buses illegal, says Navraj BatishNavraj Batish, General Manager at Depot-1 office of Punjab Roadways, confirmed that any movement of private buses across the state was illegal and only those buses which had state carriage permits and Covid E-passes were allowed to move.Vikas Kumar (25), a migrant worker, after failing to board Shramik Special train earlier and now regular trains to Bihar due to non-availability of seats, paid around Rs 4,400 on Saturday to book a seat in a private bus. He paid Rs 2,200 each for himself and his father to board a bus for Hazipur. The ticket was issued to him by Armaan Travel. Similarly, there were many other passengers who paid extra money to reach their homes in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Nepal.In the absence of inter-state buses, private bus operators search for stranded passengers in the vicinity of the local bus stand. Bus operators have also erected temporary kiosks outside the bus stand to issue tickets to passengers. Tickets for travelling in these illegal buses can also be booked online. Besides outer circles of the city, illegal buses ferry passengers from Garha Road, opposite the local bus stand.Rakesh, a worker of Sandhu Transport, said, “They were charging passengers according to the number of kilometres travelled and over 25 passengers are ferried in one bus. For reaching Palia Kalan, they move via Karnal, Moradabad and Lucknow. “Sleeper seats are provided to passengers after the booking of tickets and with passengers from Amritsar on board, buses reach Jalandhar in the evening,” added Rakesh, who claimed that he took the permission of the Regional Transport Authority (RTA), Amritsar, for the inter-state movement of buses.Likewise, Vishal Kumar of Vijay Bus Services, said, “They ferry passengers from Jalandhar to Delhi at 4.30 pm and 8.30 pm. The charges of their sleeper buses vary from Rs 1,200-1,500.”Navraj Batish, General Manager at Depot-1 office of Punjab Roadways, confirmed that any movement of private busses across the states was illegal and only those buses which had state carriage permits and Covid E-passes were allowed to move.Meanwhile, Barjinder Singh, who recently took charge of the RTA, Jalandhar, said he had no information about the movement of private buses so far. The RTA did not have the power to issue Covid passes for the inter-state movement of buses, he said.The illegal movement of sleeper buses in the state was another major concern. Batish said as per the transport clauses, sleeper buses were banned by the government due to the safety concerns of passengers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/illegal-movement-of-private-buses-goes-unabated-in-jalandhar-99408
15-06-2020||---||Indo-Canadian bus service incurs Rs 6-cr loss||Jalandhar, June 14Even as the bus and taxi services have been resumed in the state, the luxury Indo-Canadian bus facility from Jalandhar to the Delhi international airport continues to remain suspended.As many as 40 buses of the company remain off road. The service is mostly availed by NRIs from the Doaba region. Besides, international students and those from other states studying here at Lovely Professional University (LPU) and other institutions choose to travel via these luxury buses to further board their flights from the Delhi airport.Jaskaran Sharma, who is currently overseeing operations at the local office, said, “Owing to the lockdown, the Indo-Canadian company has suffered a loss of over Rs 6 crore. This is the first time that the company has witnessed such a major setback. As we have no idea when international flights will resume, to cope with the losses incurred, we are planning to operate the buses in the state only and the company is chalking out local routes.”The fully air-conditioned buses has both sleeper and business class seats with Wi-Fi, TV and even massage facility. The fare ranges from Rs 2,000-Rs 3,500 per seat.Mishu Atwal, a worker in the admin block, said all bookings done in the last two months had to be cancelled. “This is usually the peak season when a large numbers of bookings are done due to May and April intake in international universities. Besides, private universities are also visited by international students for admissions,” added Atwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/indo-canadian-bus-service-incurs-rs-6-cr-loss-99409
15-06-2020||---||Clinical Establishment Act draws flak||Jalandhar, June 14Members of the IMA, Jalandhar, in a show of strength on Sunday met MLAs and MPs (present and former) of all political parties at their respective offices and residences to sensitise to the “draconian” Clinical Establishment Act. The IMA members along with office-bearers of the IMA Jalandhar 2020 were on roads since 8 am today to keep their appointments with elected representatives. They met at least 18 key MLAs, political leaders and officials to mark the first day of their agitation against the Clinical Establishment Act. Members met MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary, present and former MLAs Rajinder Beri, Pargat Singh, Bawa Henry, Sarabjit Makkar, Pawan Tinu, KD Bhandari, Sushil Rinku, Manoranjan Kalia, Laddi Sherowalia, Gurpratap Singh Wadala, Dr Daljeet Singh Cheema, Dr AS Thind, Surinder Chaudhary, Mohinder Singh Kaypee, Balwinder Kumar, JBrar and Bobby Sehgal.Various MLAs and MPs (present and former) were presented with memoranda against the CEA ordinance, which the govt is planning to impose on the doctors from July1, 2020. Along with the memorandum, a copy of the ordinance was also presented to all the MLAs and MPs.Speaking on the occasion, IMA members said, “In these trying times of Covid-19 pandemic, the state government, instead of giving a helping hand, has made the task of fighting against this disease,for the doctors, even more difficult by introducing the Act through an ordinance. This ordinance is not doctor friendly; nor is it going to be beneficial for the general public. The IMA Jalandhar stands by the entire doctor fraternity and the IMA Punjab in opposing this ordinance.”Lawmakers claimed: “The state government has introduced this Act in Punjab through an ordinance which will come into effect July1, 2020. The act has been brought out to register and regularise all doctors and hospitals in the state”. The Indian Medical Association, while opposing the ordinance, said: “The government does notwant to improve the public health system run and owned by them but wants to control private doctors and hospitals. We all know the poor state of the various civil hospitals and government health systems.The government intends to sell its stake in old and prestigious government hospitals like Rajindra Medical College and Hospital, Patiala. It is trying to escape from its duty of providing affordable healthcare to the lower strata of the public, but wants to regulate private doctors and hospitals by moving back to Inspector Raj. The Act dictates multiple upgrades in the already successfully running hospitals and clinics. These upgrades will mean more investment and expenditure by individual doctors and hospitals. The cost of all these upgrades will be passed on to the general public”.President, IMA Jalandhar, Dr Pankaj Paul; finance secretary Dr Munsih Singhal and honorary secretary Dr Ashmeet Singh were among other members of the IMA present on the occasion.IMA flays clinical ActPhagwara: A deputation of doctors from the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Phagwara chapter, led by Dr Mamta Gautam, on Sunday met Joginder Singh Mann, Chairman of Punjab Agro Industries Corporation, at his residence here. The IMA doctors opposed the Clinical Establishment Act being implemented from July 1.They also submitted a memorandum in this regard. Dr Gautam said memorandums were also being submitted to Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal and Union minister Som Parkash.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/clinical-establishment-act-draws-flak-99410
15-06-2020||Our Correspondent ---||Rally to raise awareness on Covid precautions flagged off||Jalandhar, June 14 Deputy Commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma and PUDA Estate Officer Navneet Kaur Bal on Sunday flagged off a week-long awareness campaign, under Mission Fateh, to make people aware of precautions to be taken against Covid-19, at the District Administrative Complex here on Sunday. DC Sharma said as part of the campaign, around 60 vehicles would disseminate information among the people by visiting villages and cities across the district. Divulging details of the week-long campaign, the DC said on June 15, the district administration would felicitate ‘corona warriors’ and June 16, a door-to-door sensitisation drive would be carried out by Anganwadi workers. A similar sensitisation drive would be carried out by sarpanches on June 17. On June 18, an awareness event would be organised by the Public Relations Department. From June 19 to June 21, sensitisation drives would be carried by NGOs, the Police Department and resident welfare committees.  Soliciting support and cooperation from people for the cause, the DC said the war against coronavirus could be won by making the norm of social distancing an integral part of our lives. He urged the people to stay at their homes, wear masks in public places and wash hands with soap or sanitiser frequently.  Among others present on the occasion included District Guidance counselor Surjit Lal. DC inaugurates blood donation camp Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma today inaugurated a blood donation camp under the ‘Mission Fateh’ campaign to mark the World Blood Donor Day in Red Cross Bhawan on Sunday. Addressing the gathering, he said the donors are the real life heroes as they play a key role in the society. “Blood donation is the biggest service that an individual could render to the society as it helps in saving many precious lives,” he said, before adding: “Every youth must realize that every blood donor was a hero and should regularly donate blood after every three months.” During the function, he talked to the donors and provided them with appreciation certificates. Apart from this, Sharma also asked them to motivate their peers to become regular voluntary donors to ensure sufficient stock of blood is there as it can prove to be essential in routine and emergency treatments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rally-to-raise-awareness-on-covid-precautions-flagged-off-99411
15-06-2020||---||13 more cases in Jalandhar, tally 342||Jalandhar, June 14With 13 more patients testing positive in Jalandhar on Sunday, the district tally has reached 342. With one death, the number of deaths has risen to 12.Report of a patient, who died on June 11, was received on Sunday. The 38-year-old, a resident of Kot Sadiq, is the second person in his 30s to die in the district. The first was a 30-year-old patient with chronic kidney disease who died in Ludhiana. Others who tested positive include three patients from Nijatam Nagar, two from Friends Colony and one from new Jawahar Nagar.Migrant labourer among 2 found positive in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: Two persons were found Covid positive in the district on Sunday. One of them is a migrant labourers from Bihar who worked with Sarabjit Singh, a farmer of Garhshankar’s Moranwali village.Sarabjit Singh said on June 10, a bus had brought 30 labourers from Bihar. They were divided into five to six groups and were living in the village.The second patient was a resident of Mohalla Kainthan in ward number 11 of Dasuya town. SMO Dr SP Singh said the patient had gone to Civil Hospital, Dasuya, on June 11 due to breathing problem and was referred to the Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital. Later, he was referred to SGL Hospital, Jalandhar, where he was found positive on Sunday.Delhi man tests +vePhagwara: A 34-year-old man was tested positive for Covid-19 in the Bhagatpura locality here on Saturday. Senior Medical Officer, Phagwara, Dr Kamal Kishore, said the man was a resident of Delhi and had come here to meet his in-laws on June 11. Five other members of the family have, however, tested negative. Dr Kishore said the entire locality had been sealed and the man had been shifted to the Covid centre at Meritorious School, Jalandhar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/13-more-cases-in-jalandhar-tally-342-99412
15-06-2020||---||86-year-old's death: NCW chief alleges negligence, writes to Punjab CM||Jalandhar, June 14The chairperson of the National Commission for Women (NCW), Rekha Sharma, has written a letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh alleging negligence in the treatment of an 86-year-old man who died of Covid a few days ago. The letter has been posted by her on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn. Sharma also said she shall be writing to the Governor on the issue.Alleging government negligence in treatment, Sharma said while her uncle and others who had lost their lives due to negligence won’t come back, she was writing the letter “as I don’t want others to lose their loved ones because of medical negligence and state government’s apathy”.Dev Dutt Sharma, who died of Covid in Jalandhar, was reported to have received treatment at a private hospital from where he was referred to the Civil Hospital. From there, he was taken to the IMA facility, where he died. Sharma’s letter also raises questions on the lab which tested him.In her letter, Sharma writes, “He (her uncle) had suffered a minor heart attack. He was shifted to a government hospital but no medication was given to him. Even the daily medicine was not given to him even when his sons requested the hospital staff to let them handover the medicine to their father.”Speaking to The Tribune, Rekha Sharma said, “There was negligence in the treatment of my uncle. The letter’s aim is to ensure that this shouldn’t happen to anyone else.”Civil Surgeon, Jalandhar, Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla, said, “So far, a complaint hasn’t reached me through any patient for from the social media but if it comes, we shall definitely look into it and order an inquiry. I am personally not aware of any such negligence and shall have to ask the treating doctors about this.”The case||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/86-year-olds-death-ncw-chief-alleges-negligence-writes-to-punjab-cm-99143
