15-04-2020||Jalandhar||Coronavirus travel curbs: NRIs stuck in Punjab long to return home, say 'waiting for solution'||On a visit to connect with family and friends in Punjab, NRIs settled in the US, UK, Canada and Europe are finding it difficult to cope with the unplanned stay necessitated due to coronavirus travel restrictions worldwide.Thousands of Non-Resident Indians usually visit Punjab during winters London-based NRI Satnam Singh Birring, who came to meet his parents in Jalandhar on January 23, was all set to return on March 25 but a spike in coronavirus cases and restrictions on travel put a brake on his plans.“My wife was also planning to come to India on March 16 as we had plans to go back together. Neither could she come, nor was I able to go back to London. I even approached the British High Commission in India and the Indian High Commission in the UK for a ticket in the chartered flights arranged by the UK government but all the tickets were sold out within 15-minutes! I am eagerly waiting for some solution”, he said.US-based Avtar Singh Dhillon, who came on a 28- day leave to attend a wedding in Punjab in February, is among those stuck.“My family is stuck in Tracey city in California while I am staying with my parents. Thankfully, I didn't come on a return ticket as my father was unwell but I had plans to go back by April end but now I am stuck here. Even my family is living under lockdown in the US due to COVID-19 cases”, he added.US-based Sukhvir Singh said that his mother had travelled to San Francisco to attend his wedding and was planning to go back to India in April but was stuck now.“My brother back home in Jalandhar is eagerly awaiting my mother's return”, he said through email.NRI from Greece Ram Lubhaya, who is in Jalandhar to meet his family, said, “I came to India on January 28 and my return flight was on March 21 but by that time the Indian government imposed a ban on international flights"."The Greece government has announced some measures to assist its workforce and I could not even avail that,” he said.Another Jalandhar-based family, Rakesh Mahi, the father of Punjabi singer Ginni Mahi has been stuck in Rome since March 4. Mahi said that he was accompanying his daughter on a musical tour in Europe when the situation turned bad.“We would have landed in India by April 13 but all plans were changed due to COVID-19 pandemic...We are eagerly waiting for the situation to improve”, he shared through email.However, some NRIs were lucky enough to reach their destination well on time. Simran Kaur, who came from Canada to meet her parents in Hoshiarpur district in February, returned to Vancouver on March 15, the time when the Canadian government announced a ban on international travel.     “I am glad, I reached well on time and was able to resume my work too”, she quipped.Countries across the world including India have imposed travel restrictions to contain the spread of coronavirus. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/coronavirus-travel-curbs-nris-stuck-in-punjab-long-to-return-home-say-waiting-for-solution-71542
15-04-2020||Jalandhar||Illicit liquor seized, 2 held||Woman gets burn injuriesPhagwara: Anjani, a resident of the Rattanpura locality, here, sustained burn injuries when a youth, Deepak Kumar, a resident of Sukhchain Road, entered her house and put petrol on her and set her afire. He escaped from the spot after committing the crime. The victim raised the alarm following which some neighbours took her to the local Civil Hospital. The victim’s husband was not present at home during the incident. SHO (City) Onkar Brar said the police had registered a case under Section 326-A of the IPC against the suspect. The reason behind the incident was not known yet. ocMiscreants burn scooter, bikePhagwara: Some unidentified persons set a scooter and a motorcycle on fire on Sunday which were parked on the premises of JCT School. The burnt vehicles were seen by an employee, Saleem, a resident of Johal village, near Goraya. The police have registered a case under Sections 435 and 427 of the IPC against unknown persons and are investigating the matter. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/illicit-liquor-seized-2-held-71371
15-04-2020||Avneet Kaur---||Nawanshahr issues helpline for children suffering from stress||Nawanshahr, April 14 Amid concerns that children might suffer from depression due to the ongoing curfew, which has been imposed to prevent the spread of Covid pandemic, the administration has launched helpline numbers (98772-45768, 97794-71804, 97794-55125 and 1098) through which psychiatrists, pediatricians and a team of Women and Child Development officials will provide consultations to kids.   According to DC Vinay Bublani, as children are staying indoors and can’t go outside to play due to the present scenario, there are chances that they may suffer from stress and depression. So, the helpline numbers will help the children, their parents and caretakers to deal with such situations.      The DC said, “People must contact District Child Protection Officer on her mobile number 83607-1709 to report about abandoned children, those going through a trauma due to family issues and are in dire need of security and legal counsel. The District Women and Child Development Department has been working hard so that children putting up in slums and orphanages can get due care.”   Kanchan Arora, District Child Protection Officer, said due to the ongoing situation, children might be stressed due to several reasons. She said there might be chances that cases of child abuse and or any other crime go unreported. Therefore, these helpline numbers would help people contact the officials concerned easily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-issues-helpline-for-children-suffering-from-stress-71370
15-04-2020||---||Ambedkarites, scholars flay arrest of Dr Teltumbde||Jalandhar, April 14Ambedkarites, activists, intellectuals and scholars condemned the arrest of Dr Anand Teltumbde and Gautam Navlakha in the Bhima Koregaon case, here today. While intellectuals and Ambedkarites have been seeking his release in the case, today they took to social media platforms to raise the concern amid the lockdown.Members and functionaries of the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall and conveners of various state cultural platforms and groups condemned Teltumbde’s arrest. They raised questions over his arrest when he is over 60 years of age amid an already initiated process of freeing many prisoners during the Covid-19 crisis. Professor Teltumbde, the grandson-in-law of Dr BR Ambedkar, is an eminent research scholar and passionate Ambedkarite who has penned 30 books. He is among Dr Ambedkar’s handful of relatives who are carrying forward his legacy.Dr Teltumbde had also been invited to the Mela Ghadri Babeyan Da in 2018, unable to come then, he had addressed crowds at the Yadgar Hall here during an event held to commemorate the foundation day of the Ghadar Party on April 21, 2019. Organisations such as the Sikhiya Abhiyan Manch Punjab, Jamhoori Adhikar Sabha, Punjab Lok Sabhiacharak Manch, Inquilabi Kendar Punjab, Lok Morcha Punjab, Jamhoori Morcha Punjab, Desh Bhagat Yadgar Committee, and Operation Green Hunt Virodhi Front condemned the arrest.From their homes, many activists also observed a hunger strike during the day and many posted pictures on social media holding posters reading ‘Supreme Court Must Withdraw its order asking Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumde for the arrest’. Bhagat Singh’s nephew Jagmohan Singh and scholar Prof Chaman Lal also extended solidarity to the protest from their homes.Amolak Singh, member of the Desh Bhagat Yadgar Committee and president of the Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch, said: “During the lockdown and on the birth anniversary of Dr Ambedkar, his close relative and a noted scholar is being arrested. We condemn the arrest of Dr Teltumbde during the lockdown.”“Dr. Teltumbde and Gautam Navlakha are eminent and respected scholars who have been raising people’s issues. When no gatherings are being held in the country during the lockdown, they are being arrested at a time when people can’t even take to streets to raise objections against the arrest,” he said.Gurmeet, general secretary of the yadgar committee, said: “We condemn their arrest as on one hand the country is facing the crisis and on the other the economy is already hit due to the lockdown. The act is an attack on the democracy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ambedkarites-scholars-flay-arrest-of-dr-teltumbde-71369
15-04-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||His love for gardening revived, again||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 14Jaspal Singh Randhawa, principal of GNDU College, Nakodar, has been spending his time in the lockdown by looking after flowers and plants in his garden. Randhawa, who has been into the field of education for decades, said, “I really enjoy my time when I see the growth of saplings. This is something I was not able to do for a long because of my schedule.”But Randhawa has been missing giving lectures, managing college affairs, and interacting with students, which have become an indispensable part of his life. “I am in constant touch with my staff and my students,” he added.He also threw light on the online learning portal of GNDU College, Nakodar, ‘ClassLine’.“All teachers as well as students of our college have actively been participating in the initiative, ‘study from home’, so that the current situation does not harm the study of students,” he said.“Teachers have regularly been providing students with the study material with the help of the Internet. They have also been taking regular updates from them through discussion groups,” Randhawa added.Besides, he said he was also reading several books and was watching several old serials.People must coordinate with the authorities at this time of crisis. “If we don’t follow the guidelines, we won’t be able to overcome it. People should not believe in rumours. One should not worry or depress by paying heed to rumours,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/his-love-for-gardening-revived-again-71368
15-04-2020||Ajay Joshi||Youth strives to ensure residents’ safety||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 14From visiting every household to feeding all health and administrative workers on duty, Sumit Basra (31) along with his 20-member team has become a saviour for residents of Virk village.On March 25 when the village reported its first Covid-positive case, followed by three others in the same week, the small village, having a population of 5,000, was in utter shock as every other resident was seen as a suspect.However, Sumit, famously known as Laddi, made sure that residents are not left panicked during the contact-tracing process. After the arrival of a team of doctors, Asha workers and policemen, Sumit’s main concern was to persuade every villager to comply with the health team’s guidelines and supply all essential commodities to them.“For the assistance of villagers we gave them our contact numbers. Besides, our main concern was that there wasn’t any shortage of food and medicine. For the past 20 days, we have been providing food packets to the underprivileged and migrants who don’t have any source of earning. People having health issues were given medicines on their doorstep and every villager was given mask and sanitiser for personal safety,” said Sumit Basra.He along with Ashok Bangar, chairman of the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Young Sports Lok Bhalai Club, and its members daily prepare and distribute 400 packets of dry ration, including 5-kg wheat, rice, mustard oil, refined oil and spices, to the needy.Besides, they provide tiffin boxes to health workers and food wrapped in poly bags to 40 homes in the local basti.Working as a gas distributer in the village, Sumit ensures that there is not any shortage of cooking gas cylinders and groceries in any household. Sumit said after a girl was tested positive in LPU, their next task was to trace all villagers who worked in the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-strives-to-ensure-residents-safety-71367
15-04-2020||---||With new case, district's count 25||Jalandhar, April 14The district on Tuesday reported another Covid case, taking the count to 25. Old city areas reported their 19th case, leading to panic among residents. A 72-year-old man from Guru Ravidass Nagar of Basti Danishmandan on Tuesday tested positive.  His son works in the same office from where a person had tested positive on Monday. The patient had reportedly gone to a private diagnostic centre at Kapurthala Chowk for check-up a few days ago where the staff reportedly did not take precautions while attending to him.While old city areas, including Nizatam Nagar, Mitha Bazaar, Old Sabzi Mandi and Raja Garden, already had reported Covid patients, the new case was reported from a new pocket of the old Basti areas. Of the 25 cases in the district, six have been reported from peripheral areas, including Virk village of Phillaur, Kotli Heran village of Shahkot and Lohian. Two persons from Jalandhar have died of Covid this month.Owing to emergence of new cases, residents have become extra cautious. The number of people venturing out on roads in the day has also reduced. Almost all colonies of the old city areas have closed access to the outsiders in their areas. Residents have placed obstructions in almost all inner lanes of the colonies. Volunteers stand guard in almost all localities.Chemist shops to remain open for 3 hrs todayHoshiarpur: DC Apneet Riyait has allowed opening of chemist shops on Wednesday from 6 am to 9 pm in Hoshiarpur. During the three hours, only one member of a family will be allowed to visit the nearest medical store. No one will be allowed to commute on vehicles to the chemist shop. Besides, shopkeepers will ensure people maintain social distance and they avoid crowd. The DC has also given permission to wholesale and medicine vendors in urban and rural areas to supply goods to retailers from 10 am to 4 pm on Wednesday. Vehicles for the purpose will not need curfew passes. The curfew pass issued by the DC and SDM offices to chemists and grocery store owners will be considered valid till April 30. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-new-case-districts-count-25-71366
15-04-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Gurdaspur patient’s deceased brother was not Covid+, say kin||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 14The 60-year-old Gurdaspur man, who tested positive today, had met his Jalandhar-based brother (now deceased) on March 22 and had even attended his last rites on April 4. But family members insist that the Covid report of his deceased brother had come negative on April 7, even three days after his death, and that they are not able to correlate any connection between the two cases.Sukhjit Singh, son of deceased Subedar Major Loga Singh (65) of Birring village, Jalandhar, here, says, “My father used to go to our native Bhaini Paswal of Gurdaspur every fortnight or so. He had gone there on March 22 and met my uncle that day. But it was on March 31 that my dad started feeling unwell. He felt shivering and had fever. We observed him for two days but since he was not improving we took him to a private hospital on April 2.”He added, “The doctors at the private hospital said that they suspected it to be a case of Covid and wanted to rule it out by getting him tested at the Civil Hospital. We too did not want to take any chances as my dad had been a heart patient and was suffering from diabetes too. We immediately shifted him to the Civil Hospital, where he died on April 4 even before the test report was to come.”He said his dad always wanted his last rites to be performed in his village. So with the doctor’s permission, they took his body to Gurdaspur. “I and my cousin (son of Gurdaspur’s Covid-positive case) performed the cremation following the guidelines of the doctors. The body was not given a bath. We covered our faces with masks and wore gloves in our hands. My Gurdaspur-based uncle attended the cremation, but we made him stand at some distance as he already was complaining of being unwell. After everything got over, my dad’s test report came negative on April 7. But today my uncle has tested positive. We really are not able to correlate how it could have happened and if there was any connection in the two cases”.343 held in 3 weeks for violating curfewJalandhar: The police on Tuesday said as many as 343 persons were arrested since March 23 for the violation of curfew imposed to contain the spread of Covid. Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said apart from policemen, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles were also keeping a close eye on the violators. He said till date, 256 FIRs, including 38 for not wearing masks, were registered at various police stations. Besides, 5,433 challans were issued and 447 vehicles were impounded. Bhullar said strict action would be taken against curfew violators in the coming days as well. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gurdaspur-patients-deceased-brother-was-not-covid-say-kin-71365
15-04-2020||---||‘ESI should pay wages to workers during lockdown’||Jalandhar, April 14Industrialists under the banner of the Pathankot Road Manufacturers’ Association have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said MSMEs were not so strong to pay workers from their own pockets. They have requested that the Employee State Insurance (ESI) should pay the wages to the workers during the lockdown.The letter reads, “Our MSMEs are not strong that they are capable of paying to the workers during the lockdown period. However, the MSMEs are still paying some amount to their workers, along with the ration, and are ensuring that they are at ease and there is no shortage of essential items.”In the letter, they said the ESI had crores of rupees, which was lying in the form of FDRs with banks and the government. “The ESI is collecting money from workers and the industry on the account of insurance. Since Covid is a medical emergency, the ESI should come forward to help the insured workers from whom the ESI is collecting some contribution,” the letter further reads.Shant Kumar, general secretary of the association, has also mentioned in the letter that it has been declared by the government that the PF contribution would be borne by the government where the total number of employers is less than 100. “It is requested that all the MSMEs should be given this benefit so that the MSMEs are able to survive. It is to be mentioned that EPFO is having an unclaimed fund to the tune of thousands of crores and this fund should be used to pay the workers and thus helping MSMEs,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/esi-should-pay-wages-to-workers-during-lockdown-71364
15-04-2020||---||Society felicitated for serving food to needy||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, April 14BJP national vice-president Avinash Rai Khanna presented the Corona Warrior Commendation Letter to Dhan Guru Ramdas Ji Langar Seva Purhiran, for serving langar to 1.5 lakh people daily. Khanna said the letter was handed over to the society on the recommendations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP national president JP Nadda. The manager of Dhan Guru Ramdas Ji Langar Seva Purahiran, Gurliakat Singh Brar received the commendation letter.Khanna thanked Baba Manjit Singh and Bhai Gurdeep Singh America, the guardians of Guru Ramdas Ji Langar Seva Purhiran and said the service done daily by the trust in Hoshiarpur was unmatched. It was a matter of pleasure that the society was serving food to needy persons in the entire Doaba region, besides Ropar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot and the PGI, Chandigarh.Khanna said the people and the organisations, who had contributed in different fields in this time of crisis, were being awarded with the Corona Warrior Commendation letters by the Central leadership of the BJP. The chief manager of Dhan Guru Ram Das Ji Langar Seva Purhiran, Gurliakat Singh Brar, and others showed to Khanna the project and gave detailed information about the preparation and distribution of the langar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/society-felicitated-for-serving-food-to-needy-71363
15-04-2020||Our Correspondent ---||Medical teams deployed to screen passersby at nakas||Nawanshahr, April 14 To identify the suspected patients of Covid-19, the Nawanshahr police have started deploying medical teams at the inter-district police nakas from Monday. Divulging the details, SSP Alka Meena, said to ensure that there was no influx of Covid-19 symptomatic persons in the district, strong nakas have been put up, along with a medical team to check every person entering the district. “A record will be maintained for all those entering the district and any persons showing symptoms will be sent to the Civil Hospital for further checkup and sampling,” she added. She said after setting up the medical team at Mehli naka, tomorrow onwards, four more inter-district nakas to be strengthened with medical teams. The nakas which will be covered on priority basis, includes Rahon-Phillour Road, Rahon-Machhiwara Bridge across Sutlej River, Asron from Rupnagar side and Garshankar Road from Hoshirapur side. While rest of all nakas would be covered soon, she further added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/medical-teams-deployed-to-screen-passersby-at-nakas-71362
15-04-2020||---||Online competitions, webinars keep pupils engaged during curfew||Jalandhar, April 14 After digital classes, city colleges have now switched to virtual activities to keep students engaged during the lockdown period.  Teachers said online competitions and webinars were being organised to enhance the skills of students.  Recently, ‘E-volve’ was conducted by the department of commerce and management studies, DAV College, to motivate students to do something creative on the ‘Save Mother Earth’ theme.  Students are also being given options such as cooking, article writing, best ways to utilise time, best out of waste, slogan writing, poster making and online presentation.  The department head said besides keeping the students academically occupied through e-classes, efforts were being made to channelise the creative energy of the students. Around 130 students participated in the virtual event and the best entries were given prizes. Similarly, the CT Institute of Architecture and Planning today conducted a webinar on ‘3DS max software’. The objective was to improve the software skills of the students, who also learnt the design interface of the software and a variety of tools, commands and options to design any 3D model with specific metric measurements.  Around 47 students of the architecture department attended the digital lecture.  Shruti H Kapur, HoD, Institute of Architecture and Planning, said the interaction was focused on a holistic development of students. Digital practicals would help them understand the implications in the field work.  MD, CT Group, Manbir Singh said digital learning platforms could be utilised immensely for keeping the students motivated during the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-competitions-webinars-keep-pupils-engaged-during-curfew-71361
15-04-2020||Tribune Reporters||Rapid coronavirus testing begins in Mohali, Jalandhar||Chandigarh, April 14Taking its battle against Covid-19 to the next level, the Punjab Government on Tuesday launched rapid testing facility from two districts of the state with an aim to eventually cover all 17 hotspots in a phased manner.840 tests in SAS NagarMohali district, which has the highest cases of Covid-19 in the state, has tested as many as 840 persons so far. The Health Department has even tested 11 deceased, who had reportedly died of other reasons, for the virus, as a precautionary measure. The department said every contact of the positive patient was tested for Covid in the district.The facility was launched by the state’s Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu at Subdivisional Hospital, Dera Bassi.ACS Vini Mahajan said the state government had received 1,000 rapid testing kits today from the ICMR. SAS Nagar (Mohali) and Jalandhar have been given 500 kits each to start the testing process, she said, adding the facility was likely to be extended to other districts, according to the situation of suspected cases and availability of rapid testing kits.The testing would initially be done for all patients attending flu corners of government health facilities, who have symptoms for more than seven days. The test is done with a single prick to take a blood sample and the result is available in 15 minutes.Instructions have been given to districts to submit daily reports of the tests conducted along with the results. A portal has been created by the Department of Health — www.covid-19punjab.in —for gathering real-time information on testing and recording patients’ profile.The state government has ordered 10 lakh such kits from the ICMR, with enquiries raised for another 10,000 in the open market.However , even two weeks after the state government announced to ramp up testing, nine of the 22 districts couldn’t even touch the mark of 100. Though the overall testing in the state has increased, some districts seem to be lagging.The worst districts in testing are Ferozepur, Fazilka and Tarn Tarn. Worryingly, Ferozepur has tested only 11 persons for Covid-19 while Taran Tarn has tested just 17. Ferozepur Civil Surgeon Navdeep Singh said they had tested all suspected patients so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rapid-coronavirus-testing-begins-in-mohali-jalandhar-71279
