15-08-2020||Avneet Kaur||Quadriplegia fails to subdue spirit of this braveheart||Jalandhar, August 14Manpreet Singh, who hails from Lasara village in Jalandhar, was like any normal kid until he turned six in 1989, when he felt a severe pain in his left hand and was rushed to a nearby hospital by his family. He was prescribed some medicines and told by doctors that he would be okay within a day or two. But who knew his wait to recover will never see the light of day.Manpreet says the worst days of his life weren’t when his pain in left hand started spreading to other parts of the body (from the neck down) and when he lost control over all four limbs and got bedridden, but it was when he turned 15 that he faced the really tough times and thought he might die anytime soon.“I was eight year old when my body below the neck stopped functioning. My family and relatives then took me to every hospital in Punjab and also other states to get me the best treatment, but all went in vain as no doctor was able to ascertain the root of my illness,” he said.“When I turned 15, my condition deteriorated further and I suffered from breathing issues, high fiver and unconsciousness. It was then that my mother took me to a local clinic to get me medicine for fever, but, surprisingly, the doctor, within seconds, found the cause of sickness and asked my mother to get the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of my neck done,” said Manpreet, adding that it he was then diagnosed with Stage III neck tumor.He said he was then referred to PGI, Chandigarh, for treatment but all the while, he had no idea about what was going on with him as his family never informed him about his critical condition. “I actually overheard doctors who were discussing my case outside my room. I then got to know I had a tumor. I asked my parents if I am going to die but all they assured me that I will be fine soon.”And life changed“My surgery was successful and doctors saved my life but my cervical spinal cord nerves were completely pulverised, paralysing me from the neck down for life. The doctors then declared that my condition was incurable and I would remain in this state for all my life,” he said, adding that he was devastated and felt like there was no light at the end of the tunnel and he was falling into an abyss. “But I refused to accept this feeling and decided to not give up at any cost,” he said.Manpreet said over the years, he had come to terms with his condition and had realised that if he can live with quadriplegia, nothing is impossible in life for him. “I requested my mother to buy me a computer and the first thing she asked me was how I would use it. Also, we could not afford it, so she denied my request. But luckily, one of my uncles gifted me a laptop and then I started learning video editing and mixing. For the past many years, I have been working on editing marriage and others videos,” Manpreet said.A die-hard optimistManpreet said he felt in each one of us lies a spark of fire which lights up in the darkest hour of adversity. “All that lies behind us and all that lies in front of us is too little in comparison to what lies within us. We can always overcome all our hardships and turn our dreams into reality. All you have to do is never give up.”Biggest supporters: Gurbani and motherHe said living with a body paralysed from below the neck was not an easy task.“At times, I get bedsores and suffer from other related problems, but my mother (Avtar Kaur) has always come to my rescue and motivated me to cross every obstacle by reciting Gurbani. I really can’t thank her enough,” he said.Uses computer with mouthWhen asked how he operates computer and edits videos, Manpreet said he used computer or laptop with mouth and pressed the keyboard keys using a small ‘wooden neem stick’. “It took a lot of time to learn to use computer this way, but I never gave up,” he said, adding that three years ago, he had opened a small cyber cafe near his house and was also taking free computer classes of school students of his village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/quadriplegia-fails-to-subdue-spirit-of-this-braveheart-126851
15-08-2020||---||Extortion racket busted in Jalandhar, ASI among 7 held||Jalandhar, August 14The commissionerate police busted an extortion racket with the arrest of seven persons, including an Assistant Sub-Inspector here on Friday. The police team also recovered Rs 29.70 lakh from their possession.The accused have been identified as Paramjit Singh, who was the kingpin, Ranjit Singh of Urban Estate Phase-1, Kulwinder Singh of Begampur, Vinod Kumar of Kaki Pind and Kuldeep Singh of Qazi Mandi, Bachittar Singh and ASI Paramjit Lal.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said Shishpal Singh, a resident of Urban Estate Phase-II, had registered a complaint alleging that Paramjit Singh along with others had come to his office and demanded financial aid for a cancer patient. They took Rs 45,000 from the complainant to extend help to the patient suffering from cancer. He said Paramjit along with his accomplices constantly kept an eye on Shishpal to know about his financial health. Bhullar said later Paramjit Singh started meeting Shishpal frequently and hatched a conspiracy to extort money from Shishpal with the help of his accomplices after finding the latter to be financially sound.The Commissioner of Police further stated that later on the pretext of selling a plot worth Rs 1.5 crore for Rs 1 crore, the accused, Paramjit Singh, called Shishpal near the Lakkar Wala bridge near the GRP police station for signing a deal on July 26 following which the complainant along with his son Harleen went there with Rs 50 lakh.Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said when Shishpal and his son reached there, Paramjit along with accomplices and the ASI were present and he started threatening the complainant with dire consequences that he had already served 12 years in jail and then grabbed his bag containing the cash.Bhullar said after receiving the complaint, CIA staff-1 was kept track of the culprits and arrested Paramjit from Ludhiana’s Machhiwara and others on his revelations. The Commissioner of Police said the Paramjit had been sentenced to life imprisonment by a Hoshiarpur Court in 2008 in a kidnapping and extortion case registered by the Tanda Police in 2005.He said he was released on parole on January 8, 2019, for three weeks but he jumped the parole period and never returned. He was declared a proclaimed offender and nowadays, Paramjit Singh was living in Machhiwara by changing name as Manpreet Singh.He said a case under Sections 386, 420 and 120-B of the IPC was registered against the accused at the Navi Baradari police station.Modus operandiThe Commissioner of Police said on the pretext of selling a plot worth Rs1.5 crore for Rs1 crore, the accused, Paramjit Singh, called Shishpal near the Lakkar Wala bridge for signing a deal following which the complainant along with his son Harleen went there with Rs50 lakh. When Shishpal and his son reached there, Paramjit along with accomplices and the ASI were present there and grabbed his bag containing the cash||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/extortion-racket-busted-in-jalandhar-asi-among-7-held-126852
15-08-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||11 real life bravery stories – of the kids, by the kids, for the kids||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 14On occasion of the Independence Day, a bunch of children supported by a city-based litterateur Nupur Sandhu have come out with a book titled ‘Young Brave Hearts’ which binds 11 real life, inspirational stories of brave children.Running a platform ‘Yayavar’ to promote literary skills among children, Sandhu says, “I am a co-author of the book which is actually by the children, of the children and for the children. The other author is my friend’s son based in Delhi Srrot Jha.”Each of the stories has an accompanying poem written by a Jammu-based girl Esna Malhotra. “Whom I came in contact with a recently held online literary fest for the kids,” he adds. The stories have accompanying illustrations made by Ludhiana-based girl Dea Bassan. Sandhu is just someone behind the curtain. “I am basically an anchor for all of them doing more of a coordination and compilation work for them all,” she says.A Serenity Surrender therapist (registered with Deepika Padukone’s Live Love Laugh Foundation), aiming to make kids psychologically strong, Sandhu shares that the stories include a mix of old and new ones. “The oldest is that of the first bravery award winner Harish Chandra Mehra, who was a scout and prevented Jawahar Lal Nehru’s tent from burning. The first PM of India was watching Dussehra from underneath a tent which accidentally caught fire from a fire cracker. Showing his presence of mind, the 14-year-old boy had climbed up the pole of the tent and removed the piece of burning cloth”, she shared, adding that she had narrated some stories to her co-author Jha and told him to jot these down in the simplest manner for a primary class child to read.An Army officer’s wife based at Jalandhar Cantt here, Sandhu adds, “The stories also include my childhood bravery experience, even though I was not an awardee.”It’s about the time she and his father, an IAF officer, shifted to national capital from Kolkata. “I was just seven and along with a group of other children, we had walked down to Janakpuri with small pocket money to make few purchases. There I got separated and was left behind with a five-year-old boy,” she says. Here comes the thriller. A stranger on his bicycle tied their hands and took them along through some lanes. “Though the place was near my house, I was not familiar with the route. All of a sudden we reached a temple where I had come a few days ago. At that point, I gathered strength, managed to free myself and my groupmate from the shackles of the stranger and ran homewards,” she narrates.Having already penned three books, released an audio book and an anthology, Sandhu says that through this work she aimed to guide the young readers on tactics to slip under from an ugly situation. “Through stories, I have told them how shouting and raising decibles can shake the confidence of the assaulters in critical situations and help save lives. My stories are also based on the heroic acts of those who helped save others’ lives but lost their own. The children will also enjoy colouring the accompanying black and white illustrations,” she says. The book cover would be released tomorrow and the book in online and printed version would be available in the next two-three days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/11-real-life-bravery-stories-%E2%80%93-of-the-kids-by-the-kids-for-the-kids-126853
15-08-2020||---||6 fatalities take Jalandhar district toll to 98||Jalandhar, August 14With a huge spike of 124 cases, the tally reached 3,751 in the district today. As many as six deaths were also reported in the district, taking the total number of deaths totally has reached 98. A pharmacist also recently died in the district due to Covid. The police staff includes those testing positive for Covid today.Those testing positive included from areas such as Nakodar, Avtar Nagar, Krishna Nagar, Model Town, Sarih village among other areas. In Kapurthala district today, 25 persons tested positive for Covid. A Kapurthala man, a resident of the Bhulana village also died due to Covid today.Hoshiarpur reports one death, 20 new casesHoshiarpur: The tally of Covid-19 positive patients reached 784 with 20 new Covid-19 positive patients in the district on Friday. A 66-year-old Covid-19 patient living in Rorian village has died. Civil surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said out of the 20 new positive cases reported in the district, 2 are from Bhunga, 4 from Mukerian, 1 from Garhshankar, 2 from Jahan Khelen, 1 from Mehtiana, 1 from Mand-Pandher, 3 from Dasuya, 1 from Pandori, 3 from Hoshiarpur, including one patient each from Gautam Nagar, Guru Govind Singh Nagar and Tibba Sahab while 2 positive cases are from Jahan Khelan. The 66-year-old woman who died today was tested positive for Covid-19 on August 11. With this, the death toll has increased to 23. In the district, 1,043 new samples of people with suspected flu symptoms were taken on Friday, taking the total number of samples in the district to 38,775 and according to the reports received from the laboratory, 34,694 are negative, while 3,315 reports are still awaited and 57 are invalid. The number of active cases is 161 and 600 patients have been cured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-fatalities-take-jalandhar-district-toll-to-98-126854
15-08-2020||Jalandhar||1,000 cops deployed to ensure security on I-Day||The Jalandhar Commissionerate Police has put in place an elaborate security arrangement for the smooth conduct of the Independence Day celebrations tomorrow at the local Guru Gobind Singh Stadium. Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar who held a review meeting with police officials here on Friday for finalising security arrangements, said the commissionerate police was fully prepared with a foolproof security system for the I-day functions in the city. He said security had already been beefed up and the entire area around the venue of the main event had been cordoned off by the police. Around 1,000 police personnel had been deployed to keep a strict vigil on activities in the city. The Commissioner of Police said CCTV cameras had been installed at the venue for keeping a regular check in and around the stadium. Likewise, he said security had also been enhanced to check any type of anti-social activity. Bhullar said a round-the-clock vigil was being kept for which various police patrolling parties had been set up. Senior officials had been instructed to conduct night domination to keep a vigil on the law and order situation. He said a control room had been set up at the stadium by them to regularly monitor the situation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-000-cops-deployed-to-ensure-security-on-i-day-126855
15-08-2020||---||MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary opens rail underpass in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 14Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary today inaugurated the underpass at the railway level crossing C-4 in Surya Enclave. He was accompanied by Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri and Mayor Jagdish Raj Raja.This subway, having a width of 5.5 metres and height of 3.6 metres and suitable for low height vehicles, has been constructed at a cost of Rs 2.10 crore.Speaking to the media after inaugurating the under bridge, MP Chaudhary said it was a long standing demand of the local people to have an underbridge at the crossing C-4 since due to regular closing of gates to let the trains pass leads to heavy traffic congestion in the area. He said this railway underbridge would provide relief to the people of Surya Enclave, Bashirpura, Guru Gobind Singh Avenue, Kamal Vihar, Chogitti, Bharat Nagar and other areas.The Lok Sabha MP stated that two deep wells also have been constructed with rain harvesting systems to drain storm/rainwater. Municipal councillors Manmohan Singh Raju, Shelly Khanna and Manu Birring, and Surinder Singh Bhapa were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-santokh-singh-chaudhary-opens-rail-underpass-in-jalandhar-126856
15-08-2020||---||Shiv Nagar, New Guru Nanak Nagar cry for metalled roads||Jalandhar, August 14The same trouble prevails in Shiv Nagar and New Guru Nanak Nagar. The kutcha roads have not been metalled for years.The former falls under ward No. 78 and had come under the Municipal Corporation (MC) around 15-20 years ago, but until now there has been no action taken. The story is more or less the same in case of New Guru Nanak Nagar. Even after laying sewerage pipes around four years ago, the roads have not got built yet.The concerns mushroom during the monsoon. The areas become muddy and slippery making it hard to commute. Though the MC has provided water facilities apart from electrifying these areas, but the residents are far from convinced when it comes to conditions of roads. Even their relatives refrain from paying a visit, for it can prove costly.Pawan Kumar, one of the residents, says, “The problem is there in these areas for years and it seems like a never-ending tale of woes. During the rains, water accumulates outside the houses becoming a safe haven for several insects and mosquitoes. It could result in contraction of dangerous diseases.”It doesen’t stop here. There are other issues as well. Heaps of waste, sewer problems, pathetic site of cleanliness to name a few. “People have now become accustomed to these problems and are tired of raising their voices,” laments an elderly.Jagdish Samrai, councillor of ward, said that he was working hard to find a solution and just like other facilities were provided, the problems of these areas shall be resolved soon. “The estimate of the construction of the roads has already been made and the talks are also going on with the Bawa Henry, MLA Jalandhar North constituency, to kickstart the project,” Samrai tells.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shiv-nagar-new-guru-nanak-nagar-cry-for-metalled-roads-126857
15-08-2020||---||SDM honours frontline warriors on I-Day eve||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, August 14Frontline Covid-19 warriors were felicitated by the district administration on the eve of 74th Independence Day here at the Civil Hospital. SDM Dr Amit Mahajan visited the hospital to felicitate officers and staff of the Health Department. He said the health workers were at the forefront of the fight against the epidemic and they deserved the honour. The Health Department has not only made people aware of the coronavirus but also treated and cared for the victims risking their lives.On the occasion, Dr Jasbir Singh, Civil Surgeon, said, individuals who come in contact with positive patients should observe complete isolation at home.Dr Jaswinder Singh, SMO, appreciated the services rendered by all health workers. Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr Pawan Kumar, Dr Satpal Gojra, nodal officer Dr Shalesh Kumar, officials and staff of the Health Department were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sdm-honours-frontline-warriors-on-i-day-eve-126858
15-08-2020||---||NIT signs two MoUs||Jalandhar, August 14Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology (NIT) has signed memorandum of understandings (MoUs) with Oorja Energy Engineering Services Hyderabad Private Limited and The Green Builders, Jalandhar, to build industrial partnership through Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB).The project is titled ‘Experimental Investigation on Tower Type Hybrid Vapour Compression Refrigeration and Humidification-Dehumidification Desalinisation Plant’.Prof LK Awasthi, director, NIT, signed online MoU with R Madhusudan Rao, MD, Oorja Energy Hyderabad. Prof Awasthi signed another MoU with Ashraf A Bhatti, MD, The Green Builders, Jalandhar.The Oorja Energy is engaged in sustainable solutions for industrial and commercial heating and cooling. The Green Builders works on energy efficiency and environment-friendly houses and eco-home concept, water proofing, insulation of roof slabs and interior decoration.On Friday, the NIT also launched ‘Reuseable Easy Breathe Facemask’ for protection against coronavirus, developed by Prof Vinay Midha and Prof A Mukhopadhyay of the department of textile technology. Prof Awasthi informed that the technology for the mask was patented and was transferred to Singla Engravures Private Limited, Ghaziabad, and Meditex Industries Private Limited, Jalandhar, in June. Within two months time, the companies have made the product available in the market. Dr Vinay Midha, head of the department, informed that the mask would be available at all chemist stores and online through Amazon, Flipkart and Nyka. Mukhopadhyay has informed that the mask is designed by optimising the protection and breathing resistance of the facemask, so that the mask can be worn by users for longer duration of time. The community facemask is a breathable, low cost and reuseable product that can be used effectively to control the transmission of coronavirus.Dr Awasthi said that a total of 300 publications of faculty members had come up in international journals in the last five to six months including those on Covid-19. “The institute has also conducted more than 10 webinars for enhancing and improving the awareness about various aspects of technology for the societal benefits. The institute has also conducted 35 short-term courses and faculty development programmes online.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nit-signs-two-mous-126859
15-08-2020||---||‘Extend C form deposit date by year’||Jalandhar, August 14In a letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the Federation of Jalandhar Industrial and Traders Association has requested him to extend the date for submission of C-forms by one year. The industrialists have been requesting the government to at least pay attention to the problem of the traders and manufacturers. Members of the association said that due to the pandemic, business have been affected badly. “Either there is a complete slump, or it is running with limited capacity,” they said.Gursharan Singh, president of the association, said to promote trade in the country, government intervention was required for every aspect. “We request the government to postpone the last date for submission of these forms for the period of one year,” he said.The request letter sent by the association reads, “The inter-state transportation system is also not opened fully to general public, due to which it is not possible to collect C-forms from the market. Also in most of the states, C forms are not even available with Sales Tax Departments.”The Khel Udyog Sangh had also condemned the Excise and Taxation Department for issuing of notice to deposit C forms from 2013-14 to 2016-17 and had demanded its immediate withdrawal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/extend-c-form-deposit-date-by-year-126860
15-08-2020||Jalandhar||Woman falls prey to snatching||Union protests Cong manifestoJalandhar: The Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan/ Mid Day Meal union on Friday held a protest in front of the office of MLA Jalandhar Central Rajinder Beri. They also gave manifesto of the state government in a picture frame as a protest. The union has been demanding regular jobs for long. The protestors said the teachers appointed under the SSA in 2018 were regularised by the government, but the non-teaching staff that was appointed much earlier was still working on contractual basis. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-falls-prey-to-snatching-126862
