15-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Property tax: Nearly Rs 3 crore recovered in last two months by Jalandhar MC||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 14File before July 31The Municipal Corporation has recovered a total of Rs2.85 crore as property tax from defaulters in the city in the last two months. The recovered amount is from May 21, 2020, when the department started working after the lockdown.From May 21 to June 30, the corporation recovered Rs2.05 crore under one-time settlement scheme and from July 1 until now, it has recovered Rs75 lakh.Bhupinder Singh, superintendent, property tax department, said a meeting was held by the Joint Commissioner on Tuesday, in which she appealed to the general public to make sure that they deposit the property tax till July 31 under one-time settlement scheme.In November last year, a scheme had come, under which those persons who had failed to deposit the house tax or property tax, could deposit the principal amount in lump sum with rebate at the rate of 10 per cent of the amount being deposited as a one-time settlement.Earlier, the deadline of the policy was till March, but after the lockdown was imposed, the deadline was extended till July 31.According to the order, people who still fail to deposit the due amount as stated above within the period and the manner specified, will be liable to pay a penalty at the rate of 20 per cent on the amount due along with interest at the rate of 18 per cent from the date it became due till the date of its realisation.Under the procedure of taking action against defaulters, the inspectors of the property tax wing first visit the areas to recover the tax. The defaulters who have not paid the tax are served notice under Section 112, to which they have to give a reply within three days, failing which another notice of sealing the property is served under Section 138.“The department is also conducting survey nowadays. If anyone fails to deposit the property tax until July 31, strict action will be taken against the defaulter. Once the property is sealed, it will only be handed over to the owner after the payment is made,” the superintendent said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/property-tax-nearly-rs-3-crore-recovered-in-last-two-months-by-jalandhar-mc-112944
15-07-2020||---||Petrol pump owner fined Rs 7 lakh for power theft in Hoshiarpur||Jalandhar, July 14 Enforcement team of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has imposed a penalty of Rs 7 lakh on a petrol pump owner for theft of electricity and an FIR has been registered against the consumer under Section 135 of the Electricity Act.  Ranjit Sharma, deputy engineer, enforcement wing, PSPCL, said the accused was a big commercial consumer and was running a petrol pump in the Saila Khurd area,  Hoshiarpur.  A team of the enforcement wing led by engineer Dharminder Kumar raided the premises of the petrol pump and detected that the main meter of the pump was tampered. During further investigation the engineer found that for the slow capturing of readings, the gears inside the meter were removed. Following this an immediate action was taken against the petrol pump owner and a case of power theft had been registered against him. The police are on the toes to arrest the accused” , stated Sharma.  The enforcement officials further informed that the power theft cases were on the rise in the area and monthly over 50 cases were being reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/petrol-pump-owner-fined-rs-7-lakh-for-power-theft-in-hoshiarpur-112945
15-07-2020||---||Virus snuffs out 65-year-old’s life, 63 fresh cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, July 14The district reported the death of a 65-year-old woman from Model Town due to the Covid-19 disease on Tuesday. Besides, as many as 63 more persons have contracted the infection.Bishop Franco Mulakkal was among those who were declared positive. The areas from where new cases were reported are Bhoor Mandi, Lamma Pind, Sahla Nagar (Malsian), Sanjay Gandhi Nagar, Rasta Mohalla, Tagore Nagar, Deol Nagar, New Jawahar Nagar, New Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Nagar, Hargobindpura, Rani Bagh, Reru Pind, Avtar Nagar, Mehsampur, Sanghowal, Akbarpur Khurd (Nakodar), Satkar Nagar, GTB Nagar, Golden Avenue, Dhand Mohalla, Preet Enclave, Surya Vihar, New Rattan Nagar, Ali Mohalla, Gopal Nagar and New Dashmesh Nagar.A total of 63 more patients, including 19 from the Covid Care Centre in Government Meritorious School, nine from the local Civil Hospital, three from the IMA facility centre were discharged after recovery.These patients were being treated at the Covid Care Centre and the Civil Hospital under the observation of dedicated teams of doctors and nursing staff led by Senior Medical Officers Kashmiri Lal and Jagdish Kumar. Three patients were undergoing treatment at the IMA centre in Shahkot.Meanwhile, 32 patients completed their home quarantine period today. These patients were directly quarantined at homes under the supervision of the Health Department. Upon discharged, the patients lauded the services rendered by the doctors, nurses and health workers during the course of treatment in the Covid Care Centre and the Civil Hospital. They said at great personal risk, doctors and nursing staff used to come and check their health status during treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virus-snuffs-out-65-year-olds-life-63-fresh-cases-in-jalandhar-district-112946
15-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Jalandhar judge among 3 found +ve in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, July 14A civil judge posted in Jalandhar was among the three persons found positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday in Hoshiarpur district.Hoshiarpur Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said of 142 reports received from different labs in the district, two persons tested positive, while another sample tested with a TrueNat machine at the Civil Hospital in Hoshiarpur was also found positive.He said among those who tested positive on Tuesday include Hoshiarpur city’s Mohalla Kamalpur resident posted as civil judge in Jalandhar; a person belonging to Bengalipur village of Dasuya subdivision and another belonging to Dadiana Khurd village of Hoshiarpur. Both of them had been in contact with the patients already found positive. So far, 18,497 samples have been taken, of which 593 samples were taken on Tuesday. The report of 1,100 samples is still awaited and 30 samples have been found invalid. He said total 210 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the district and the number of active cases is 21.Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said out of the samples taken so far in the district, samples of 17,142 persons have been found to be negative and 182 persons have recovered of the coronavirus. As many as 135 teams have been deployed by the district administration to check people quarantined at home in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-judge-among-3-found-ve-in-hoshiarpur-112947
15-07-2020||Hoshiarpur||1 arrested with 1.5-kg poppy husk in Hoshiarpur, 2 on run||The Sadar police on Monday arrested a person on charge of smuggling 1.5kg of poppy husk, while two managed to escape. The suspect is identified as Gurpreet Singh Bains, a resident of Shergarh village.  Investigating officer Dharampal said the police had laid a checkpoint near the Bajwara bypass on the basis of a tip-off. Accordingly, the car was stopped and the two persons aboard managed to flee, while the third was nabbed. Upon searching, the said amount of poppy husk was seized. “The absconding ones are identified as Suraj Grewal alias Sodi, a resident of Bilaspur village, and Gurcharan Singh, a resident of Hoshiarpur,” the SI revealed. The suspect was produced before a court and was brought on two-day police remand for further interrogation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-arrested-with-1-5-kg-poppy-husk-in-hoshiarpur-2-on-run-112948
15-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Passing-out parade: 64 female constables get inducted in BSF||Hoshiarpur, July 14The passing-out parade of 64 female recruits of Border Security Force (BSF) was held on Tuesday at Sub Training Centre (STC) BSF, Kharkan, around 15 kilometres from the district headquarters.The recruits underwent grueling training for 44 weeks which covered various subjects, including field craft, weapons, tactics, map reading, intelligence, internal security duty, human rights and physical endurance training.In the parade, the recruits took oath of allegiance to the Constitution and country. During the parade, the Covid-19 protocol was fully followed by the recruits and the personnel present.IG BSF STC Jharkan Sanjeev Bhanot was the chief guest on the occasion. The chief guest was received by Cammandant, Sub-Training Centre BSF SS Mand and 2IC Training Ravi Bhushan.The chief guest inspected the parade. The recruits who performed exceptionally well in various indoor and outdoor subjects were awarded medals. Commandant SS Mand congratulated the recruits on the successful completion of training and exhorted them to serve the country and perform their duties with dedication and commitment.Addressing the parade, IG Sanjeev Bhanot lauded the remarkable contribution and achievements of BSF as the first Line of Defence of the country. He appreciated the diligent efforts put in by trainees and the team of instructors at STC BSF Punjab in shaping and molding the recruits into physically tough and mentally strong constables. He blessed the recruits with a bright future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/passing-out-parade-64-female-constables-get-inducted-in-bsf-112949
15-07-2020||---||CBSE CLASS XII RESULTS: Students light up results!||Jalandhar, July 14Students of Jalandhar schools shone in the CBSE Class XII exams bringing laurels to their institutions.Sanskriti KMV SchoolSonika scored 97.8% (medical stream), Chahatpreet Singh 96.6% (commerce) and Ritika Malhotra scored 95.6% (non-medical). Chander Mohan, president and Atima Sharma, manager, Sanskriti KMV School, congratulated Rachna Monga, principal, students and their parents.Innocent Hearts SchoolMore than 65 students of Innocent Hearts School scored more than 90 per cent marks in the Class XII CBSE board exams. Isha Jindal topped the school by scoring 98.6% marks in commerce stream, while Rishika Khurana got 97.2% marks, Manik Sehgal topped in the non-medical stream with 96.6% and Saizal Arora topped with 95.4% in the medical stream. Dr Anup Bowry, chairman of Innocent Hearts Group, congratulated the students and their parents on their achievement.St Soldier schoolStudents of St Soldier Group of Institutions excelled in the results. Chairman Anil Chopra, vice chairperson Sangeeta Chopra, informed that in the medical stream Shaurya Malhotra scored 96% marks, Sanchita Kapoor 96%, Sachpreet Singh 95.2%; in non-medical stream, Harpreet Kaur scored 95.6% marks, Harmanpreet and Shruti 95% marks. In humanities, Indeera Sharma scored 96% marks and Vanshika 94.2%. In commerce, Ramandeep Kaur scored 93.2% marks and Rajveer 92% marks.Mayor World SchoolKartik Kuckreja of Mayor World School scored 96.5% marks in the science stream and bagged the first position, while Ribhav Chopra and Vansh Jain got the second position with 96% marks. Mehr Dandiwal secured the third position with 95.8% marks. In commerce stream, Sugam Dhawan secured the first position with 98.3% marks, closely followed by Aayush Jain with 97.5%. The third position was bagged by Abhiraj Singh with 97.3% marks. In humanities stream, Vani Khanna bagged the first position with 97.8% marks, while Tanvi Mohindru secured the second position with 97%.Shiv Jyoti Public SchoolShiv Jyoti School student Abhishek Gupta secured the first position in commerce stream by scoring 97.6% marks. Parag bagged the second position by scoring 97.4%, while Ushali Gupta and Somil Sharma shared the third position and scored 96.4% marks. In medical stream, Ridham Sharma bagged the first position with 92% marks. In non-medical stream, Pragati Kohli secured the first position by scoring 95.4% marks and Rajanya Joshi scored 94.6%. In humanities stream, Hitakshi got the first position with 97.4% marks.State Public School, Jalandhar CanttAmrita Shergill stood first by scoring 95 % marks. The president of Group of State Public Schools, Dr Narotam Singh, vice-president Dr Gagandeep Kaur, and principal Savina Bahl congratulated the parents, students and teachers.Seth Hukam Chand SD Public Sr Sec SchoolStudents of Seth Hukam Chand SD Public Sr Sec School brought good news for the school. Sanigdh Budhia (commerce stream) secured the first position by scoring 96.4% marks, while Khushi Aggarwal bagged the second position (commerce stream) with 96% marks, Trannum Atwal got the third position with 95.8% marks and Aditya Chopra stood fourth and secured 94.4% marks. Principal Priyanka Sharma congratulated the students.Ivy World SchoolIvy World School has registered a 100% passing per centage in the examinations with all students securing first divisions. Harleen Kaur topped with 97.2% marks (commerce stream), followed by Kirandeep Kaur with 97%, Prabhnoor Singh with 95.8%. Nilesh scored 95.8% in non-medical stream, Arshpreet Kaur 93.2% (medical stream) and Gaurav Jain 93% in non-medical stream. Principal S Chauhan shared her happiness with the students and their parents.Swami Sant Dass Public School, JalandharAs many as 28 students of Swami Sant Dass Public School scored above 90 per cent marks. Sharuti got 96.6 per cent, Simran 96.2 per cent and Sukhman Kaur got 95.8 per cent marks in commerce stream. In non-medical stream, Navdeep scored 95.2 % marks while Frica and Jashan scored 94.4 %.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cbse-class-xii-results-students-light-up-results-112950
15-07-2020||Phagwara||Phagwara students bring laurels, do proud||Saffron Public SchoolStudents of Saffron Public School, Phagwara, have excelled in Plus Two results. In the commerce stream, Archita Jain secured 98.2 per cent marks, Arpita Jain achieved 97.4 per cent, Salil Bhatia got 97 per cent and Harleen Kaur Walia carved out 92.6 per cent. In the non-medical stream, Priyanshu was the topper with 94.6 per cent, Maanya scored 93.2 per cent. Meanwhile in the medical stream, Muskandeep got 93.2 per cent. Dr Sandeepa Sood, Principal, said she was immensely proud of the achievements of her students.Swami Sant Dass Public SchoolAs many as 31 students of Swami Sant Dass Public School secured above 90 per cent marks. In the commerce stream, Nikita Tugnait topped by securing 97.4 per cent. She is followed by Ajay Aeri and Krishan Kumar Rally sharing the same position with 95.6 per cent and Gracejeet with 95 per cent. In non-medical stream, Kunal Sharma secured 96.6 per cent, followed by Narotam Singh Virdi with 96.4 per cent and Shuchi Gupta with 95.8 per cent. In medical stream, Nandini Bedi had 95.4 per cent followed by Isha with 94.2 per cent and Harkirat Singh Chana and Harleen Kaur with 94 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-students-bring-laurels-do-proud-112955
15-07-2020||With two of its head offices based in Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur||‘It’s really hard to predict when our business would resume’||How has the lockdown impacted your business?As the government has been laying more stress on the safety of public than revenue losses, the business in these four months has been severely affected. The ban on operations during the lockdown period has caused significant financial losses to the operators and even as the roadways and private buses have started operating in the state, the revenue collection has been much below the pre-lockdown level. And with the physical distancing norms in force and passengers avoiding travelling due to the rapid spread of Covid-19 pandemic, we feel business would not improve in the near future. The monthly revenue of the bus stands has reduced to just 10-20 per cent. In fact, measures such as social distancing and frequent cleaning have put an additional burden on us, which have further weakened the chances of long-term sustainability of the company. We have four parking lots at the Jalandhar bus stand and since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, only one parking lot is operating and there has been a sharp fall in our earnings. Earlier, we used to earn thousands of rupees daily, but now our earnings have come down to a trickle of Rs 500-800. Similarly, lakhs of rupees earned as monthly revenue from the 84 kiosks and dhabas has also dropped to just Rs 15,000-20,000.Do you expect your business to pick up in the near future?Looking at the situation, it's really hard to predict when our business would resume. The revenue is completely dependent on the volume of passengers visiting the bus stand. Unless passengers are back, the business won't pick up the pace. The bus stand provides employment to several people, however this year we are facing many new challenges that we never thought of.Did you pay salaries to workers during the lockdown period?We have a staff of over 25 people, 30 security guards who work day and night and a few sanitation workers who are still working with us. Therefore, there were no lay-offs and salaries were paid regularly to all the staff members.What are the lessons you have learnt from the lockdown?Undoubtedly, the lockdown has taught us many things. We have become more tech-savvy. Besides, after revisiting our contract documents, we learnt that we are not obliged to pay any monthly taxes and revenues to the government if the bus stand remains non-functional for more than 15 days.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge?Definitely, it is more like a challenge, but we did not waste our time on pondering over it, instead we worked on how to bring out the best from it. We are devising new plans and strategies and drawing out plans as to how to provide better services to passengers at the bus stand. We utilised the lockdown period for renovation of the bus stand.What are your expectations from the government?Considering the losses suffered due to the pandemic, company contractors like us hope that the government would not recover any revenue from us. Owing to the lack of business during the lockdown and even now, we have submitted a memorandum to the government to temporarily terminate their contact. On a quarterly basis, we pay around Rs 18,10,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/its-really-hard-to-predict-when-our-business-would-resume-112956
15-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Swimmers in the pool of blues, weigh other options to keep fit||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 14Cricket is back on track as England is hosting West Indies in the ongoing Test Series. Major soccer leagues kicked back into action as early as May. As sports around the world is squeezing back into resumption, still, the Covid outbreak looms large over many others, both internationally and nationally.Coming back to the scenario in Jalandhar, the sports city of India, some sporting activities have resumed, while others are still awaiting their turn. Swimming is one of them. The closure of pools, which was long before, have left the swimmers drenched in blues. With local swimmers — who compete in various national and state-level championships — left with no other option but to find alternatives to keep their fitness levels up when the championships come calling, they have taken to other sports such as badminton and other indoor games.Starting from April till August, these are touted as peak practicing hours for the swimmers and maximum workout is dependent on the pool. But now, as things things stand, they are looking for other ways. Some have even opted for cycling, running, walking, and other core exercises.Anuja Sharma, a national level swimmer who also provides training to others, says, “I now play badminton and make sure that I walk 14km everyday.” She also adds that it was very important that the energy in the body gets utilised properly and fully. “This shall now remain a new normal,” Anuja feels.Anuriti Kodan, who has several achievements in her kitty, narrates, “Swimming provided endurance and flexibility, I have been losing both as the times have made it impossible to swim.” But the national gold medallist has taken up other activities to keep in shape. “Cycling and running has been keeping me active throughout,” she shares.Umesh Sharma, swimming coach at a sports college, says that now the ground exercises were the only options left. He has been keeping in touch with his players and asking them to do core exercises to gain strength.“These exercises help in strengthening muscles. These include push ups, crunches etc. which can be worked out at home,” he says. “There is a stretch cord also that also allows players to perform the same movements of swimming, but to some extent.”Speaking out I team up with other swimmers and we all together are utilising the time by waking up early in the morning and cycling. This is how the routine shall remain as of now. — Manik Soni, national-level swimmerIt is massively important to indulge in other exercises. Every year I used to provide training in swimming at this period of summertime, but all of that has stopped now. — Anuja Sharma, swimmer, trainerIt is very important for a swimmer to be in contact with the pool, and 75 per cent of the workout depends on swimming while rest on ground exercises, but now, the focus is to maintain the endurance. — Anuriti Kodan, national-level swimmerIt is not right to open swimming pools right now because anyone's saliva can infect other persons. So, it is better to take precautions at this point for performing better in future. — Umesh Sharma, swimming coach||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/swimmers-in-the-pool-of-blues-weigh-other-options-to-keep-fit-112957
15-07-2020||Avneet Kaur||Realty nightmare: Nine years on, possession a far cry for JIT plot owners||Jalandhar, July 14Residents of the Surya Enclave Extension here are up in arms against the Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT). They said despite having spent lakhs of rupees on buying a plot in the Surya Enclave Extension, a scheme launched by the JIT in 2011, the plot owners are yet to get the possession of their land till date.Besides, they complained that their entire area has been converted into a dumping ground and that the Municipal Corporation workers, after collecting garbage from all over the city, dump it here in their empty plots.Talking to the Tribune, ML Sehgal, president of the Surya Enclave Extension Welfare Society, said the JIT had miserably failed to remove unauthorised encroachments from their area which is the main hurdle behind allottees not receiving possession of their plots yet. “There are a number of encroachments in the ‘C and D’ block of the complex and in the society park. Also, there is a slaughterhouse in the complex, which despite repeated complaints, has not been removed,” he said.Besides, overhead high tension wires of the PSPCL over the allotted plots, have also not been removed. “There is no proper water or sewerage system and even roads are also not constructed in the area,” Sehgal said.He further said migrant workers from South India and Uttar Pradesh have illegally occupied residential plots that belong to various allottees. “There are a total of 16 allottees, who had paid around Rs 40 lakh to Rs 50 lakh each, but till date they have not got the possession as these encroachers refuse to clear the area and even the JIT had failed to take any action against them,” Sehgal said.“Apart from this, the JIT is yet to clear encroachments on the Maharaja Agarsain road (120 feet road lying unconstructed) which gives a very shoddy look to the colony. There is a factory falling in between and some migrants have built their kuccha houses on the road, which needs to relocated,” said Naresh Gupta, General Secretary, Federation of Residents and welfare Societies, adding that the residents since long have been demanding the construction of a 120-ft road connecting to the Damoria Railway Overbridge with National Highway via Surya Enclave Extension, but the authorities concerned paying no heed.According to a residents of Surya Enclave Extension, they have on several occasion paid visits and handed over memorandums to the officials of MC, JIT, MLAs, MP regarding the garbage and debris being thrown into the area, problem of encroachments and the non-development of the scheme, however, nothing concrete has been done officially to deliver the results.Meanwhile, JIT, Chairman, Daljit Ahluwalia, said, “Encroachers were demanding to be accommodated to some other area, so we were in contact with the higher authorities, but now we have received permission to allot them two marlas residential land outside the Surya Enclave Extension. So, from next week onwards, we would start clearing the encroachments,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/realty-nightmare-nine-years-on-possession-a-far-cry-for-jit-plot-owners-112958
15-07-2020||Jalandhar||Bishop Franco Mulakkal of Jalandhar Diocese contracts infection||Even as the local Health Department authorities today confirmed that the nun rape case accused, Bishop Franco Mulakkal of Jalandhar Diocese, had tested Covid positive, most people following his case in the Kerala court are finding it hard to believe as the report came hours after non-bailable arrest warrants were issued against him.Also read: Christian body comes out in support of Bishop FrancoSOPs not followedHis report came in hours after his bail plea was rejectedNo sanitisation or contact tracing has been done in the Bishop HouseMulakkal tested positive late last evening. His bail cancellation and orders to issue warrants of arrest also came yesterday, after the prosecution lawyer told the court in Kerala that he was not living in any containment zone in Jalandhar and that he had misled the court.Mulakkal was learnt to be unwilling to shift to a hospital and had been pleading that he be allowed home quarantine at the Bishop House in Civil Lines area here. Several priests, who are siding with the victim nun, have said the sequence of events — his previous false submissions in the court and the fact that he cannot be taken to Kerala anytime soon — made them suspect that this could be a part of another plan to evade arrest. “Our suspicion is based on the fact that even as Mulakkal tested positive last evening, no one from the Health Department reached out to anyone in the Bishop House. No sanitisation or contact tracing, as per the procedures, has been done. The drivers kept going in and out the whole day today and no one stopped them. The administrative Bishop who lives in the same House, Bishop Agnelo Rufian Gracias, organised an ordination ceremony at Patti in Tarn Taran today. Five other priests and nearly 30 staff members in the Bishop House too were seen shuttling in and out throughout the day,” a close follower stated.Jai Inder Singh, SDM, Jalandhar-1, said health teams would visit the Bishop House tomorrow to do the testing and follow other protocols as per the SOPs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bishop-franco-mulakkal-of-jalandhar-diocese-contracts-infection-113028
15-07-2020||Jalandhar||Two arms smugglers nabbed in Jalandhar||The Punjab Police have busted a gang of international arms smugglers with the arrest of two gangsters — Gurpreet Singh, alias Gora, and Germanjeet Singh.A large number of arms and ammunition has been seized from the gangsters, who were allegedly involved in the smuggling of weapons from across the border.One of them PO in 13 casesGangsters Gurpreet Singh, alias Gora, and Germanjeet Singh were arrested by the Jalandhar (Rural) police from BhogpurThe cops seized from them a .455 bore pistol, two 9 mm pistols with four live cartridges, one pump action 12 bore rifle, one .32 bore revolver, one .30 bore pistol and live cartridgesGora is facing criminal charges in 14 cases in various districts of Punjab, including attempt to murder, assault, snatching, dacoity, gang war and others. He has already been declared a proclaimed offender in 13 casesThe duo was arrested by the Jalandhar (Rural) police from Bhogpur. The cops seized a .455 bore pistol, two 9 mm pistols with four live cartridges, one pump action 12 bore rifle, one .32 bore revolver, one .30 bore pistol and live cartridges, DGP Dinkar Gupta said, adding that the Hyundai Verna car they were travelling in was also impounded.Gora is facing criminal charges in 14 cases in various districts of Punjab, including attempt to murder, dacoity, gang war and others. He has already been declared a proclaimed offender in 13 cases, said Gupta.Navjot Mahal, SSP, Jalandhar (Rural), said they had got a tip-off that Gurpreet Singh of Batala and his aide Germanjeet Singh of Tarn Taran were going towards Behram in a Verna car and were planning to commit some crime. A special surveillance was quickly organised and the duo was apprehended.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-arms-smugglers-nabbed-in-jalandhar-113045
