15-10-2020||Jalandhar||Armed men kill guard, loot Rs 6.5 lakh from bank in Punjab’s Adampur||Armed robbers on Thursday afternoon stole cash worth Rs 6.5 lakh, and gunned down a guard at UCO Bank branch of Kalra village in Adampur.As the assailants tried to enter the premises, the guard—Surinder Singh—resisted their entry. The robbers snatched his weapon, and took out the bullets.The guard continued to fight, during which, the three other robbers reportedly tried to terrorise the manager, staff, and customers present at the spot with their revolvers.They asked the cashier to handover the cash.The assailants were reportedly leaving the premises with the cash when the guard continued to fight them.The robbers allegedly first shot at his legs, and then fired another shot at his forehead, leaving him dead on the spot.Senior police official reached the spot, and began interrogating the eyewitnesses and the staff.They also looked through the CCTV footage to identify the robbers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/armed-men-kill-guard-loot-rs-6-5-lakh-from-bank-in-punjabs-adampur-156186
15-10-2020||Jalandhar||Patwari caught taking bribe in Kapurthala||Fire at showroom, goods guttedJalandhar: Goods worth lakhs was gutted at a shoe showroom in Model Town on Wednesday. A sudden fire erupted on the upper floor of the famous, Arora Punjabi Shoe store, around 5.30 am on Wednesday. Raw material and other items worth lakhs of rupees was destroyed in the fire. A fire tender took over two hours to douse the flames, but most of the goods had burnt. Luckily, the fire did not reach the lower floor and adjacent shops else damage could have been even greater. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/patwari-caught-taking-bribe-in-kapurthala-156117
15-10-2020||Even as the pandemic pushed the educational institutions to shift to digital mode to prevent students from skipping their studies||‘There is an equal need of classroom teaching’||What are the measures taken by your college to tackle the challenges?The whole online education concept came as a challenge for us. Initially, we lacked technical support to reach out to a large number of students. Teachers were not well acquainted with the concept, hence it was a major problem for us to not only hold classes but also apprise them with the digital realm of education. We subsequently took help of our technical staff and computer teachers to make other staff members tech-friendly. Faculty development programmes were also organised for the same. Apart from that, we have also formed groups among students who would help their peers to complete their syllabus.Are online examinations equally beneficial for the students?Undoubtedly, conducting physical examinations are more credible than the online ones. Though the teachers diligently frame question papers, the students remained a worried lot. As the average scorers were getting marks equal to good scorers, hence there was a feeling of discontentment among the toppers. Consequently, I suggested teachers to put more emphasis on the previous scores of students to evaluate the performance. The digital exams only feel like a formality. Teachers send the question papers to the students on their phones and ask them to submit the answers shortly. Unfortunately, some students couldn't appear for their exams.What will be your concern once the classroom teaching begins?Apart from the health and safety of the students, we will have to do work harder and focus on completing the syllabus. As of now, we have planned to allow 50 per cent students in the college and for practicals only six students in a laboratory or workshop will be allowed to enter. More stress would be laid on hands-on training programme so that practicals could be completed. The classes will be conducted only two days in a week and theory part will be conducted online only.What infrastructural changes have been made for the digital sessions?We have installed internet devices with better bandwidth in the college. Projectors and screens were installed in labs so that teachers can easily take their classes. Besides, teachers sans gadgets were given all the equipments.Do you think the current shift is here to stay?Well, I believe that due to the pandemic the education sector was suddenly forced to change the way of functioning and depended largely on digital conduct of classes. But there is an equal need of classroom teaching as these are more interactive. And as far as sustainability of online education is concerned, it will take a long time as students and the faculty needs to be equipped with all the technical support needed for digital classes. Besides, hands-on experiential learning is equally important for which students have to be present at the campus. Also, we can't deny the fact that the experience of teachers in classroom teaching, as well as technology, could be used to bring out the best in students.How were the admissions this year?Fortunately, the pandemic couldn't affect the admission process this year. We have better number of admissions this year compared to last year. The process has also been extended up to November 15, which was till August 15 last year. In addition, the restrictions on travel also had an impact this year. Instead of wasting a year, students opted to take admissions in diploma courses or subjects with lesser fee structure. Students took admissions in almost all the courses but pharmacy remained popular among them.Is the teaching of technical classes going well?Since the beginning of the classes, technical education remained our prime focus. For timely conduct of lectures teachers were asked to pre-record lectures, which were reviewed by their HOD's. Therefore, teachers also took the online education more seriously. The classes for technical subjects were organised even during holidays and guest lectures of experts from industries were also held. The evaluation remained the major drawback during the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/there-is-an-equal-need-of-classroom-teaching-156120
15-10-2020||It has been a week since farmers in Nawanshahr have been protesting against the farm laws at Behram Toll Plaza. Davinder Singh||Undying protesting voices at Behram plaza||Farmer shells out Rs2,500 for burning stubbleA farmer was charged Rs2,500 in Mirpur Jatta village for burning paddy straw. Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Raj Kumar said after the instructions of SDM, Nawanshahr, a team inspected the fields of the farmer and found that he was indulged in stubble burning. Thus, he was fined. After this, the SDM asked farmers not to burn stubble, as they would also have to suffer with the same punishment in future. Teams formed by the district administrations have been checking fields almost every day.It’s clear — 50 per cent staff in Nawanshahr!While the authorities in Jalandhar were still not sure on the number of schoolteachers to be present in schools, the Nawanshahr District Education Officer said 50 per cent of the school staff would remain present from October 15. He said: “DC Nawanshahr has issued guidelines that 50 per cent of staff will attend the school and apart from this, online classes will also continue.” He said detailed instructions might come from the Education Department, but for now, they would continue with the orders passed by the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/undying-protesting-voices-at-behram-plaza-156121
15-10-2020||---||5 succumb to virus in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, October 14As many as 37 positive cases were reported in the district on Wednesday taking the tally to 14,178. With five more deceased, the district toll rose to 446. As many as 12,969 people have been discharged so far, while 763 are still active and 669 people are under home isolation in Jalandhar.Jalandhar round-up Active:  763Discharged: 12,969Deceased: 446Meanwhile in Kapurthala, 39 people tested positive for Covid. No death was reported.1 dies, 46 +ve in HoshiarpurThe district received the reports of 1,873 samples on Wednesday, of which 46 people, including seven from the city, tested positive. The total number of positive patients in the district has increased to 5,193. With the death of one more patient, the district toll from the virus has increased to 190.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said the total number of samples taken till date has increased to 1,29,389 with 1,722 new samples taken today of people with suspected flu like symptoms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-succumb-to-virus-in-jalandhar-156108
15-10-2020||Avneet Kaur||Ladowali Road: Bumpy ride poses risk to commuters’ lives||Jalandhar, October 14One of the busiest roads — Ladowali Road (from BSF Chowk to Madan Flour Mill Chowk) — is lying in an utterly poor condition for the past several years.A quick tour revealed that it has been broken from several places and there are countless pits on the road, especially towards the Alaska Chowk side, posing a grave threat to the lives of commuters.The road is also the main route to the District Administrative Complex, SSP (rural) office and residential colonies and has a government school as well as a number of commercial businesses based on it, but still, no one bothers about its maintenance. Moreover, the condition of the road belies the tall claims of Municipal Corporation (MC) and represents the sorry state of affairs of the so-called Smart City Jalandhar and its beautification.According to Surinder Saini, secretary, Jalandhar Welfare Society, who has his residence on Ladowali Road itself, said this road was repaired in 2014 during elections, after which nobody bothered to have a check on it or cared about its maintenance.“Recently, the MC laid gravel on both sides of the road and said the construction of the middle path of the road will begin soon. However, we doubt as to when the work would begin,” he said.He said apart from the poor condition of the road, the encroachments on the footpath and in parking areas by car scrap dealers was another big problem for residents, shop owners and visitors.“The MC must remove these encroachments as these, too, act as big hurdles why the re-carpeting on the stretch doesn’t last very long,” he said. “At many times, vehicles get stuck on broken roads. Potholes add to the woes of commuters. People riding two-wheelers were injured on this road in the past. On a rainy day, rainwater gets accumulated for a long time. There is no use lodging a complaint with the MC, as we know nothing will be done,” said Manoj, a shopkeeper at Alaska Chowk.Surinder Singh, who has his car batteries shop on the road, said no repair work has been executed since long and the complete stretch of the road has worn away, leading to an uneven road surface.“Even drivers face a tough time while driving, as the road is covered with potholes and stones scattered on its surface,” he said.Singh said he had many times witnessed how glass doors at their shops or car glasses have broken and even people have been hit as an occasional scattered stone darts into the glass panes or vehicles. “Besides, the dust entering shops further adds to our woes and make our lives miserable,” he said.Many people have also met with accidents on this road in the past. Narinder Singh, who recently fell from his bike after being hit with a pothole on the road said: “When a vehicle suddenly comes from the opposite direction, you take a turn in haste. The same happened with me. I took a turn in haste and got hit by a pothole and injured my hand,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ladowali-road-bumpy-ride-poses-risk-to-commuters-lives-156109
15-10-2020||---||‘Disaster mgmt set-up should be strengthened’||Jalandhar, October 14Science City organised a webinar on ‘Disaster Risk Governance’ to celebrate National Disaster Day.Resource person Ravi Kumar Pandita, Commandant, 7th Battalion National Disaster Response Force, Bathinda, said: “India is a hazard-prone country where floods, droughts, landslides, snowstorms, hurricanes and cyclones occur regularly. Among these earthquakes, floods and drought risk are extremely high. These hazards threaten millions of lives and cause large-scale financial, infrastructure, agriculture and productivity losses that seriously hinder India’s overall development. In the last two decades, 95 per cent of the 1.3 million people have been killed and the 4.4 billion have been affected by disasters in developing countries. However, fewer than 2 per cent of global deaths from cyclones have occurred in countries with high levels of development.”He said poor socio-economic conditions combined with these calamities make things worse in India, where 80 per cent of the geographical area was vulnerable to cyclones, floods, tsunamis, droughts, landslides or earthquakes. “Integrated Disaster Management Organisation should be established at national and state levels, which can reach out to people in villages and cities immediately at any time of disaster. Punjab and Haryana have just taken the first step in this direction by setting up a Disaster Management Cell,” he said.Dr Neelima Jerath, director general, Pushpa Gujral Science City, said disasters disrupt the progress and destroy hard-earned development efforts, often pushing nations, in quest for progress, back by several decades.“Whatever type of a disaster it may be, whether natural or man-made, it is the community itself that is the first to cope with it. It is what people should know, so that they are able to lead the first line of action in the prevention of a disaster or in reducing its impact. Indigenous knowledge and risk management strategies are valuable and must be integrated into disaster preparedness and response programmes,” she said.Director Science City Dr Rajesh Grover said disaster management should be made a part of our educational curriculum at all levels in some way or the other. By conducting frequent talks, seminars and training programmes, we should involve our children and youth to combat disasters, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/disaster-mgmt-set-up-should-be-strengthened-156110
15-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||7-day-old baby tests positive for dengue at Jalandhar's PIMS||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 14In a rare case, a 7-day-old child has been diagnosed with dengue at the PIMS Hospital.Brought to the hospital with severe rashes and pus points in the neck, the baby tested positive for dengue. After several days of treatment, the baby was discharged on Wednesday. Doctors said it was the first time that horizontal (directly caused by mosquito bite to child) dengue infection had been diagnosed in an infant as it was usually seen in elder children and mostly adults.They said a horizontal infection is still rarer in days’ old babies. Throughout the treatment, the mother tested negative for dengue.Dr Jatinder Singh, neo-natologist at PIMS Hospital, said: “This is an extremely rare case. The baby was brought to us six days ago with severe infection. While the child was delivered at a private hospital, he developed severe infection within days of his birth. The platelet count of the child kept fluctuating between 55,000 and 20,000. At final count he had only 20,000 platelets, which is very less. So, we ran dengue tests and he was found dengue positive. The mother and child were discharged today. The baby has now recovered and is healthy.”Dr Singh said: “This case sets a benchmark of sorts because anyone can be affected by dengue. A horizontal infection in a baby is a very rare things to see. This also accentuates the dangers which can be posed by dengue. People should take adequate precaution and protect their children and loved ones during dengue season.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-day-old-baby-tests-positive-for-dengue-at-jalandhars-pims-156111
15-10-2020||---||Goraya MC acquires land for sewage treatment plant||Jalandhar, October 14 Former Punjab Youth Congress president and Phillaur Assembly constituency in-charge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary said that the land for setting up a sewage treatment plant (STP) in Boparai village had been acquired and the work would begin soon. The land has been acquired by the Municipal Council, Goraya, at a cost of Rs80 lakh. An amount of Rs3.91 crore has been released by the state government for installation of the STP, he said. Vikramjit said to provide better sewerage and waste disposal infrastructure to keep pace with the growing demands of the population, a new STP is being constructed in Boparai village.  Tehsildar Tapan Bhanot, Goraya Municipal Council president Kamaldeep Singh Bittu, Market Committee Chairman Dara Singh Rai, BDPO Rampal Rana, EO Randhir Singh, Goraya city Congress president Manish Jain, vice president Sanjay Atwal, Rurka Kalan block Congress president Rakesh Duggal, senior Congress leader Ram Lubhaya Punj,  Municipal Councillors Jiwan Das, Rajeev Punj, Anil Joshi, Shakti Joshi and Harjiwan Jain were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/goraya-mc-acquires-land-for-sewage-treatment-plant-156112
15-10-2020||Kapurthala||IKGPTU begins distance course admissions||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has recognised the courses of Open and Distance Learning Programmes of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU) and allowed it to continue with admissions for the academic session 2020-21, starting from July 2020 to January 2021. After receiving a written communique, the varsity has begun admissions open under ODL Programmes. Dr Ajay Kumar Sharma, Vice-Chancellor IKGPTU said that the university had received the recognition for various admissions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ikgptu-begins-distance-course-admissions-156113
15-10-2020||---||Rs 26.41 crore benefit for over 18k labourers||Jalandhar, October 14 A total of 18,330 construction workers of the district have been benefited with financial aid worth Rs26.41 crore in the district under Construction Workers’ Welfare Schemes, said Jabbar Khan, member, Punjab Construction and Other Workers’ Welfare Board.  Holding a review meeting with Assistant Labour Commissioner Jatinderpal Singh, Khan said it was our duty to take good care of the weaker sections of society, especially in these difficult times. The Board member said the scheme covered various aspects to help the families of construction workers, including stipends, LTC, shagun at marriage, ex-gratia grant, help for cremation, pension for the mentally disturbed, delivery benefit, financial help for cremation and various treatments.  Besides, a sum of Rs13.28 crore has been approved for the stipend of children of 16,589 construction workers. Similarly, Rs1.6 crore for 521 shagun cases, Rs9.99 crore for 343 ex-gratia cases, Rs97 lakh for 493 funeral cases, Rs2.25 lakh for 113 LTC cases, Rs32.78 crore for 128 surgery cases, Rs5.09 lakh for six dangerous disease cases, Rs2.16 lakh for maternity cases, Rs11.73 lakh for FDR applications, Rs25,601 for dental treatment and financial aid of Rs1.6 lakh has been given for the welfare of mentally disabled children.  Khan said all approved cases were being referred to the Punjab Building and Other Construction Workers’Welfare Board for the payment and the benefit amount was directly transferred into the beneficiaries’ bank accounts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-26-41-crore-benefit-for-over-18k-labourers-156114
15-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||Two magazines, followers carry forward Ambedkar’s legacy||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 14The ‘Pravartan divas’ on October 14, 1956, when Dr BR Ambedkar embraced Buddhism at Deekshbhoomi, Nagpur, along with 60,000 of his followers, sparked a revival of the religion in Punjab.One of his oldest living associates, Lahori Ram Balley, began publishing the Bheem Magazine in 1958. It is the legacy of these Ambedkarite Buddhists which continues in the state even after all these years.However, of the 37 per cent Dalit population in Doaba, very few are Buddhists. An event held at Ambedkar Bhawan to commemorate the event today saw a gathering of 40 to 50 people.As many as 5,000 people embraced Buddhism at a huge event frequented by Ambedkar’s associates at Chak Hakim village in Phagwara on June 17, 1963.Lahori Ram Balley, who himself embraced Buddhism at the 1963 event, said: “After that, a ceremony in such huge numbers hasn’t happened. Buddhism is the voice of rationality and logic which Babsaheb advocated.”Balley added: “A handful of loyal Buddhist Ambedkarites carry forward the message. But it is a trying time for minorities in the country and Buddhists also undergo a similar crisis.”Ramesh Sidhu (75), an Ambedkarite Buddhist and editor/publisher of Bodh Dharm Pracharak (started in 1987), said: “There was a Buddhism revival following Ambedkar’s embracing of the religion. The Dalit Ambedkarite identity is intact. But it would be wrong to say the Buddhist Amedkarite legacy is doing as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-magazines-followers-carry-forward-ambedkars-legacy-155791
