16-04-2020||Jalandhar||Coronavirus: Jalandhar reports 6 new cases, district tally rises to 31||Jalandhar on Thursday reported six new coronavirus cases, taking the total in the district to 31.The husband of the deceased Shahkot woman, who had tested positive on Sunday, also tested positive for the disease. Sixty-six people had attended her cremation.Also read: 51-yr-old woman dies less than month after daughter’s weddingAnother man tested positive for the deadly disease on Thursday. He is a resident of Qila Mohalla and was an associate of the son of the deceased Mitha Bazaar man.Four other people, all contacts of covid patients, also tested positive for the contagion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/coronavirus-jalandhar-reports-6-new-cases-district-tally-rises-to-31-72002
16-04-2020||---||Tributes paid to Dr Ambedkar||Jalandhar, April 15Office-bearers of the Budh Vihar Trust, Sofi Pind, celebrated Dr BR Ambedkar’s 129th birth anniversary on Tuesday. They assembled at the residence of advocate Harbhajan Sampla, secretary of the Trust, and paid tributes to Bharat Ratna Dr Ambedkar. They garlanded his picture and delivered short speeches.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal exhorted people to fight against Covid-19 in the same manner as Bharat Ratna Baba Saheb Ambedkar had fought against social evils.The officials, who paid floral tributes to the chief architect of the Indian Constitution on Tuesday at the District Administrative Complex, said: “Babasaheb had shown us the way and with that willpower and dedication we could surpass any challenge in life.” They said at a time when coronavirus was posing a major challenge for all, the path shown by the great leader would help people in overcoming it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tributes-paid-to-dr-ambedkar-71877
16-04-2020||Phagwara||Phagwara MLA donates PPE kits||Local MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal on Tuesday donated 50 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits to the Phagwara Civil Hospital. SMO Kamal Kishore appreciated the efforts of the MLA.The SMO said health teams were working hard to medically examine all 3,200 persons, including 1,700 students. Kapurthala DC Deepti Uppal said samples of 39 close contacts of the 21-year-old Covid patient were taken. She said all of them came out negative. Earlier, 23 students had also tested negative. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-mla-donates-ppe-kits-71876
16-04-2020||---||HMV offers e-content to educational institutions||Jalandhar, April 15In a first-of-kind its initiative, Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya (HMV) has offered other institutions to make use of its e-content developed during the lockdown period.Principal Ajay Sareen said the HMV had been running its own e-media centre and e-learning centre for the past two years and had been involved in the online teaching even before the lockdown period. However, during the lockdown, the institution relied totally on online teaching. Dr Sareen said 95.6 per cent students of the college were taught via online mode during the period and students expressed satisfaction over the completion of syllabus and revision done via online mode.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hmv-offers-e-content-to-educational-institutions-71875
16-04-2020||Phagwara||Valuables stolen from factory||ASP selected for awardNakodar: Nakodar Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Vatsala Gupta is among 25 Punjab Police officers who have been selected for the coveted ‘Director General of Police Honor for Exemplary Sewa to Society’ award for their exceptional community service on the front lines of the Covid-19 operations and response activities in the state. Punjab Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta has selected theses officers. Press release said Vatsala Gupta did pioneering work in reaching out to the poor and underprivileged slum dwellers of Nakodar town. The awardees include four SPs, one ASP, one DSP, six inspectors, four sub-inspectors, three ASIs, two head constables and four constables. ocOfficials donate to Covid fundJalandhar: On the call given by CM Capt Amarinder Singh, law officers and staff of the office of District Attorney, Jalandhar, contributed Rs 1.29 lakh to the Chief Minister Covid Relief Fund. Law Officers Vishal Anand and Minakshi Sharma, contributed their 10-day salary. Law officers and staff members also voluntarily contributed their one-day or three days- salary to the fund. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/valuables-stolen-from-factory-71874
16-04-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Councillor working tirelessly to ensure sanitation||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 15At a time when people are confined indoors to stay safe amid the Covid outbreak, this woman warrior steps out of her house as early as 7 am and returns home late in the evening.Out to help despite tragedy in familyDespite a tragedy in her family, councillor Aruna Arora has not let her service for residents get disrupted in any way. She shared her personal grief: "My father passed away in Noida last week. He was unwell for the past two-three years. But I could not go and attend his last rites. I had met him weeks before his demise and my mother told me to avoid coming in these days. I sat down at home, remembered him and prayed for him for a few hours before resuming my work from the very next day. People called me up saying that they wanted to visit me to express their condolence, but I told them not to and just pray for the departed soul from their homes.”Donning a mask and gloves in her hands and taking along six safai karamcharis whom she has hired on her own, municipal councillor Aruna Arora goes out in streets of posh localities of Model Town, Lajpat Nagar and New Jawahar Nagar falling in her Ward No. 27. She makes it sure that all streets are cleaned and the garbage piles are lifted well in time before they start scattering.She says, “I have personally hired some garbage collectors who work in my area for an hour or so every morning. They bring in their carts and pick all waste piles from alongside the roads. By 9 am, my entire ward is spic and span.”Aruna said hiring personal safai employees, other than the four regular MC workers, had really helped her. “It is not just me, even the residents of the Mall Road Welfare Society have hired two safai karamcharis. We pay each of them Rs 2,000 a month as they work for us for 1.5 hours every morning. We have provided masks and gloves to them so that they too stay healthy. I feel that at the time of pandemic, keeping the environment clean really help combat most problems”, she quips.After having breakfast with her family, it is time again for Aruna to go out in her ward. Till the afternoon, she remains engaged with sanitisation work. “I and my team ring the bell outside each house and ask them if they want to get their house sanitised. All those who agree can get their places disinfected. We cover three-four lanes of a road daily”, she said.Before she goes home for lunch, it is time to distribute cooked food to the poor people. “I and my supporter in this project Sandeep Anshal get 200 packs of cooked food from a dera daily. There are some construction labourers and caretakers of houses of NRIs whom we distribute food in our two separate vehicles,” she said.In the evening, Aruna along with her team members, including Seema Miglani, Prince Malhi, Karan Malhi, Ahuja and Soni, go out to distribute dry ration to the poor families. “We are especially taking care of 160 poor families at Latifpura. In this project, we are not concentrating only to help people from our own wards. If we get calls from Abadpura, Mithapur and other surrounding areas for help, we get a personal assessment of the house done before beginning to help them out,” she adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/councillor-working-tirelessly-to-ensure-sanitation-71873
16-04-2020||Avneet Kaur||Thinking about post curfew days leaves him worried||Jalandhar, April 15Lockdown might be a time for countless celebrities, elite and privileged residents to cherish forgotten moments with their families and pursue their hobbies which they had left long back. But for labourers and daily wagers, it is only the beginning of misery and helplessness.For Barinder Kumar (40), who puts up at Chougitti and earns Rs500 to Rs600 per day by making straw mats and cooler grass pads, there is not going to be miracle for a better future as his peak season has gone in vain due to Covid."This is the time when I used to make some profit and busy preparing my orders of mats and cooler pads. Unfortunately, this pandemic has ruined everything," he said."I spent my savings that I had with myself to buy raw material for preparing mats in stocking up some grocery items for the survival of my family. These days, I wake up, roam around in my area, watch television at my neighbour's shanty and then go to sleep," Barinder added.On being asked that he has got time and why don't he prepare mats and sell these once situation normalises, he said he prepares these on orders. "As of now, I don't have any order or raw material. Even if I arrange it, what is the surety that people will need mats by then?"He said one year ago, he was unanimously made the 'pradhan' (chief) of his slum locality due to his good oratorship skills. However, he feels that the skill too seems to be of no use as he has failed to arrange two square meals for his area people, who showed trust on him."Everyone here is tense. I go to console them being their leader, but inside I am also afraid," he added."The moment I wake up, I am lost in thoughts for the rest of the day. I keep thinking of aftermath of the lockdown. At present, after every week or two, volunteers from some NGOs or people from gurdwaras come to give us ration. But when there will be no help, how will we survive?" asked Barinder, the father of three children. He said he spends his time in looking after their kids as his wife is stuck at her parents' place in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/thinking-about-post-curfew-days-leaves-him-worried-71872
16-04-2020||Nakodar||Three held for violating curfew||The police have arrested three persons to ensure strict compliance of the lockdown and curfew norms. Nakodar ASP Vatsala Gupta said the city police on Tuesday registered one FIR and arrested one person in this regard.She said the Nurmahal police registered two FIRs in this connection on Tuesday and arrested two persons, adding that they were roaming, thus violating the curfew orders. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-held-for-violating-curfew-71871
16-04-2020||Hoshiarpur||10 hands-free washbasins installed in mandis||The district administration has made special arrangements for the safety of farmers in mandis. The administration has come up with a mechanism that will ensure that farmers wash their hands without touching the tap and soap.Automatic hands-free washbasins have been set up in mandis that come under all five market committees of the district so that farmers first clean their hands thoroughly to protect themselves and others from the coronavirus.DC Apneet Riyat said 10 such washbasins had been installed in the mandis — two in Hoshiarpur, one each in Garhashankarand Sailakhurd, two each in Tanda, Dasuya and Mukerian.She said for these washbasins, separate large water tanks had been installed. The DC added that there are two points on the right and left side under the washbasins. Pressing the right point with the foot releases water and pressing the left point produces liquid soap so that the farmers can wash their hands properly using water and soap as per the requirement. In this way, the farmers can clean their hands without touching anything.District Mandi Officer Tejinder Singh said besides 10 special washbasins in the mandis, sanitisers have also been arranged for the safety of farmers in the mandis. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-hands-free-washbasins-installed-in-mandis-71870
16-04-2020||Ajay Joshi||Procurement begins, but no wheat arrival in mandis on Day 1||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 15Wheat not arrived in mandis today on the first day of procurement as the crop in the region is yet to mature.In the ongoing lockdown period, farmers are apparently having a tough time not only due to shortage of labourers but also unavailability of combine harvesters, which may hit the harvesting of their crop.The machines, which look like tractors, are designed to carry out three important harvesting tasks — reaping, threshing and winnowing. However, farmers in several villages of the district claimed that the machines had failed to reach their villages.Even as arrangements have been put in place by the administration for procurement of Rabi crops, wheat growers in many villages of the district are mainly concerned about the timely availability of the harvesting machines.Gurpreet Singh Atwal, a farmer from village Charke in Bhogpur, said in the absence of combine harvesters we were unable to harvest our crop that is ready.“Getting a combine harvester had never been a problem for us as every year three harvesters were sent to our village well in advance, but due to the curfew we could not receive them even as harvesting days are on. Small farmers having are likely to face more problems as with the limited number of combines, only big farmers are going to be benefitted. Labourers for harvesting and loading the crop is also inaccessible, leaving to option to rely on,” added Atwal while demanding from the Agriculture Department to take stock of the situation.Sandeep Singh, a resident of Momandpur village, who has grown wheat on around 100 acres, said till last year, combine harvesters were sent to them from Bathinda and Malwa prior harvesting but the lockdown this time has taken a toll on the smooth transportation of the machines. Rana Singh, a farmer from Lidhran village, also has a similar story to tell.Operators unapproachableAlong with each harvester an operator is also hired who knows how to operate the machine and more importantly, got the ability to repair the same, which frequently breaks down during the harvesting process. However, scare of catching coronavirus has forced operators to remain indoors.Meanwhile, District Chief Agriculture Officer Surinder Singh said the department would supply combine harvesters shortly in all villages and assured that enough machines were available in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/procurement-begins-but-no-wheat-arrival-in-mandis-on-day-1-71869
16-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||51-yr-old woman dies less than month after daughter’s wedding||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 15The 51-year-old Shahkot woman, who tested positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar on Sunday, died on April 9 less than a month after her daughter’s wedding in the Kotla Heran village.While 18 samples of her relatives, contacts and two maids have been sent for testing, health teams surveying Kotla Heran village are piecing together the hefty contact list of over 150 persons who attended the wedding and the last rites of the woman in the village. With relatives claiming she had minimum contact with outsiders following the wedding, contacts from both wedding and those who attended the last rites are being sampled.As many as 18 persons have tested, 13 placed under isolation at the Civil Hospital here and 39 homes at Kotla Heran village have been placed under quarantine by the administration so far.Only a Covid-19 suspect when she died, Covid protocol was not followed during her last rites – which was attended by 66 people in the village. Villagers attended and many women from the neighbourhood helped in carrying out her last rites. While the woman tested positive on April 12, she had died on April 9 and was tested later. Her daughter’s wedding took place at a gurdwara in Kotla Heran on March 18 and was attended by 90 persons. The deceased was also a diabetic.Her brother-in-law Pargan Singh, who attended both ceremonies, said: “We are a joint family. My brother (the woman’s husband) returned from Dubai days before the wedding. My parents also came from England a month ago. A daughter of my sister-in-law had also returned from Italy in January. None of us went out much after the wedding because the protocol was implemented soon. We were not informed after her death that we had to abide by the Covid protocol for the last rites. We are all staying at home. Relatives from abroad can’t go back because flights are cancelled. All of us have been tested. Right now, none of us has any Covid symptom.”While her daughter left for Nanded, Maharashtra, with the family soon after the wedding, she was informed about her mother’s demise. Some relatives from Kapurthala left after the wedding. A guest list has also been sent to the district administration – to alert guests from neighbouring districts as well as other states. Kotla Heran village has a population of 701 persons (165 houses).Surjit Singh a resident of Kotla Heran village, said: “The local gurudwara was decked up and nearly 100 people attended the wedding. It saw the presence of NRIs and relatives from Kapurthala and England along with about 15 members of the groom’s family from Maharasthra.”Dr Amardeep Singh, SMO, Shahkot, said: “The woman was taken straightaways to the Jalandhar Civil Hospital. She died as a Covid suspect. The village is at present a bit apprehensive. More wil be clear after arrival of the test reports of the 18 persons. We are also tracing her remaining relatives and contacts. A sister, who attended her wedding from Kapurthala’s Bhullar village, has also been alerted by the Jalandhar administration.”Dr TP Singh, Nodal Officer, Jalandhar, Covid-19, said; “She had been sent in a body bag as per Covid norms. But was tested later.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/51-yr-old-woman-dies-less-than-month-after-daughters-wedding-71868
16-04-2020||---||MLA seeks action against private varsity||Jalandhar, April 15Kapurthala Congress MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh has demanded action against a private university in Phagwara after a student staying in its hotel tested positive.Saying that over 2,000 students were staying in the hostel, the MLA wrote to Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare, and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in this regard.BJP leader Vijay Sampla to has demanded action. Both Sampla and Rana Gurjeet questioned why the district administration was not informed about the presence of the students in the university’s hostel.University additional director claimed that the authorities had no option to send the students back home after the lockdown was clamped in the entire country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mla-seeks-action-against-private-varsity-71602
