16-07-2020||Avneet KaurJalandhar||Maanya tops in Jalandhar with near-perfect score of 99%||Meet the young achievers of the district, who believe in a holistic approach to learning. According to them regular studies and their resolve to stay away from social media helped them in securing top ranks. Standing at an important threshold of their career where they would be opting for a particular stream, the toppers of Class X are well-focused on their goals.“I want to be a PCS officer to pay back to society,” said an ecstatic Maanya Sekhri, who topped the district with 99 per cent marks.A student of MGN Public School, Maanya, secured a perfect 100 in social studies and information technology, 99 in English and mathematics and 97 in science. “I maintained an easy timetable. I was a regular student in school and dedicated three to four hours to self-study each day. I have now opted for non-medical in Class XI,” she said.The second position in the district was bagged by Swapnil Chhibber of Police DAV School and Arushi Midha of Swami Sant Dass Public School, who scored 98.8 per cent marks. The third spot in the district was shared by four students — Anupama of Sanskriti KMV School, Jai Shree of Army Public School, Pranjal Setia of Cambridge International School for Girls and Arshdeep Pawar of Police DAV School — who scored 98.6 per cent marks.“I’m not at all active on social media. I don’t remember the last time I used Facebook,” said Swapnil, whose father Sandeep Chhibber is a marketing executive and mother Anu Chhibber, a teacher. He said self-study, regular revision and consistency is the only key to success. “I never studied for fixed hours, as I strongly believe that you cannot correlate the number of study hours with the output,” he said, adding that he had now taken non-medical as he wants to become a computer science engineer.Arushi Midha shared that staying away from social media was one of the pledges that she made before exams, but she used a little bit of WhatsApp to chat with her friends or exchange notes. “I took no tuitions and I feel proud to say that my result is all based on self-study and classroom learning. I am very much interested in computer science, so I have taken a non-medical stream now and am looking forward to being a successful computer engineer one day,” she said.Inspired by doctors who are risking their lives during Covid-19, district’s third ranker Anupama has decided to take medical.“I want to pay back to society by contributing in the medical field, especially by helping the poor and downtrodden. I also have a record of 100 per cent attendance in school since LKG,” she said, adding that she has performed many times at Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan and that she gives equal importance and time to her extracurricular activities.“Do not study under pressure,” says Pranjal Setia, who was on cloud nine after seeing her results. She said she always wanted to make her teachers and parents proud. The smilethey had on their face after my result was announced was so satisfying. I am grateful and owe my success to my mentors and family.” She said she had now taken commerce plus mathematics in Class XI and she is eyeing to be a business woman in future. Jai Shree said: “I had a fixed routine and followed it till the very end. I used to learn in the morning and revise at noon and night. Refreshing yourself is equally important, so I used to take small breaks in between,” she said, adding that she was fond of reading non-fiction books and never stopped her reading habit even during exams.Daughter of BR Singh, an Army Officer, Jai Shree has now taken non-medical and wants to crack the JEE to be an engineer in future.Sharing her success mantra, Arshdeep Kaur Pawar, said her active participation in the class helped her score well. “Another thing I focused on was obeying teachers and listening to whatever was being taught properly. I followed a simple schedule and have not put any pressure on myself for marks.” She said she has now opted for a non-medical stream and wants to be an engineer.Hear it from the cbse class x toppersI want to become a PCS officer so that I can pay back to society. I maintained an easy timetable. I was a regular student in school and dedicated three to four hours to self-study each day. I have now opted for non-medical in Class XI. — Maanya Sekhri, a students of MGN Public School, Adarsh Nagar. I'm not at all active on social media. I don't remember the last time I used Facebook. I never studied for fixed hours, as I strongly believe that you cannot correlate the number of study hours with the output. I have now taken non-medical as I want to be a computer science engineer. — Swapnil Chhibber of Police DAV School, PAP Jalandhar.I took no tuitions and I feel proud to say that my result is all based on self-study and what I learnt in classroom. I am very much interested in computer science, so I have taken non-medical and am looking forward to becoming a successful computer engineer one day. — Elated Arushi Midha of Swami Sant Das School. I want to pay back to society by contributing in the medical field, especially by helping the poor and downtrodden. I also have a record of 100 per cent attendance in school since LKG. I have performed many times at Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan and give equal importance and time to extracurricular activities. — Anupama of Sanskriti KMV School. Do not study under pressure. I always wanted to make my teachers and parents proud. The smile they had on their face after my result was announced was so satisfying. I am grateful and owe my success to my mentors and family members. — Pranjal Setia, a student of Cambridge International School for Girls. "Active participation in class helped me score well. Another thing I focused on was obeying teachers and properly listening to whatever was being taught. I followed a simple schedule and have not put any pressure on myself for marks. I have opted for non-medical and want to become an engineer. — Arshdeep Kaur of Police DAV School, PAP Jalandhar.I had a fixed routine and followed it till the very end. I used to learn in the morning and revise at noon and night. Refreshing yourself is equally important, so I used to take small breaks in between. I am fond of reading non-fiction books and never stopped reading even during my exams. — Jai Shree||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/maanya-tops-in-jalandhar-with-near-perfect-score-of-99-113663
16-07-2020||Jalandhar||Basti Guzan health centre gets piped oxygen supply||The Community Health Centre (CHC), Basti Guzan, has now been equipped with piped oxygen supply, which is being developed as the Level-2 Covid Care Centre.On the directions of Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, the administration had initiated the work for a 100-bed facility in three urban CHCs a few days back. On Wednesday, Dr Vandana Saggar, SMO Basti Guzan, along with others inspected the work.On installation of piped oxygen supply at the CHCs, Thori said the move aimed to meet any exigency in future, if the trying circumstances of the pandemic call for. “The work of piped oxygen supply will be completed in Dada Colony and Khambra CHCs soon, which will also act as Level-II Covid care facilities,” he said. He said this health infrastructure was being upgraded by roping in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds at the said CHCs.The DC said it was the need of the hour to adhere to the guidelines such as wearing mask, washing hands frequently, maintaining social distancing issued by the state government and the Health Department as preventive measures against the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/basti-guzan-health-centre-gets-piped-oxygen-supply-113664
16-07-2020||Jalandhar||DSP, RTA staff among 92 test positive in Jalandhar||Days after a judge, an SSP, an SDM, a former minister, the secretary at the RTA office and a Bishop tested positive in the district, a DSP and six employees of the RTA office are among the 92 persons who tested positive on Wednesday in the district.With the 92 new cases, the tally of cases has risen to 1,433 in the district. There are four women employees among the six persons of the RTA office who tested positive. Notably, the RTA office had already been sealed for 72 hours after the secretary of the office tested positive.With six employees of the RTA office tested positive, the RTA office and the driving track would further be closed until Friday. The office and the track will now open on Monday.The District Administrative Complex has already been under the scanner with the DC already issuing orders restricting the number of visitors to the office after the last spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in Jalandhar.Of the 92 fresh cases, 49 are contacts of previous positive cases and 43 are new cases. A number of cases were reported from Kartarpur and others from Randhawa Masandan, Shahkot and other areas.Two cops, 1 NRI among five new cases in HoshiarpurThe number of patients affected by the coronavirus in the district has increased to 215 with the arrival of five new positive cases in the district.Among the new patients are two policemen and a person who returned from abroad.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 31-year-old woman of Seehwan village and a 32-year-old NRI of the area under PHC Hajipur have been found positive. Also, two policemen and a person from the area under PHC Chakkowal have been found positive. He said 588 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken on Wednesday. Five persons were reported positive out of the 551 reports received from the lab today. Dr Singh said total 19085 samples have been taken so far and according to the reports received from the lab, 17,702 samples have been reported negative, while the reports of 1,160 samples are still awaited. As many as 30 samples have been found invalid, 183 patients have cured, while active patients are 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dsp-rta-staff-among-92-test-positive-in-jalandhar-113666
16-07-2020||Jalandhar||Three arrested with  225-kg poppy husk||The Shahkot police on Wednesday arrested three persons, identified as Malkit Singh, alias Kaka, of Bajwa Kalan, Shahkot; Amarjit Singh of Bajwa Kalan in Shahkot and Mohammed Altaf of Anantnag in J&K and seized 225 kg of poppy husk from them.A Swift car was apprehended near Salaicha Bridge. The police found 125-kg poppy husk hidden in five plastic sacks. Malkit Singh and Amarjit Singh said they got the sacks from Mohammed Altaf, who was standing near Malsian Bridge with his truck. On this, the police reached railway crossing Malsian, from where Altaf Mohammed was also apprehended with his truck. During search, the police seized 100 kg of poppy husk kept in four sacks. The three arrested persons will be produced in court on Thursday, the police said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-arrested-with-225-kg-poppy-husk-113668
16-07-2020||Jalandhar||Meet Jhanvi, a national-level Jalandhar swimmer and 88.6% scorer||Coursing through her studies swiftly as she does her butterfly stroke when she swims, 16-year-old Jhanvi Sharma, a city-based national-level swimmer, has done her parents and school proud by striking the perfect balance between her studies and game as she scored 88.6 per cent in the Class X CBSE results announced on Wednesday.“I was under a lot of stress in the beginning to perform in studies too. But as time advanced, I managed to survive the pressure through my dedication, time management and consistency,” Jhanvi, who is a student of DAV Police Public School, shares.She has five to six national championships in her kitty and is rated among the top swimmers of the district. Having a knack for tasting victory, she is a winner of gold and silver medals in several championships, including, Sub-Junior Swimming Championship held in Mohali, CBSE National Swimming Championship, Tandrust Punjab, CBSE cluster-level Championship, National School Championship among others. “Parents and teachers remained a great source of motivation and support. I neither took sports nor studies as burden. I devoted equal time to both,” she says.While she practiced swimming for four to five hours daily, self-studying in academics helped her obtain a good score, but she had been expecting a much better outcome. “I have always scored above 90% marks in my previous results. I was expecting a better result,” says Jhanvi, who started her day early for swimming and ended it late with studies.She is the daughter of Mohinder Pal, a swimming coach and a Punjab Police employee. She is full of praise for her parents’ guidance both on-field and off it as well. “With the help of my mother and father, I focussed on carving out dedicated time for studies when out of on-field schedule and engaged in art and craft too to relieve stress,” she says.She added more feathers to her cap when she won a gold in a national-level tournament last year. With over 100 medals and several trophies, she is also the sports captain of her school.“I will carry on the groove in the future too,” she pledges, before adding, “I sure have an eye on achieving the satisfactory result come next board examinations.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/meet-jhanvi-a-national-level-jalandhar-swimmer-and-88-6-scorer-113669
16-07-2020||Phagwara/Kapurthala||Ravneet, Ansh top in Kapurthala||Ravneet Kaur of Lord Mahavir Jain Public School, Phagwara, and Ansh Kalra of DAV Public School, Kapurthala, were on cloud nine as they topped the district with 98.4 per cent marks in the CBSE Class X examinations, the results of which were declared on Wednesday. Their aggregate total was 495 out of 500.Besides being an avid orator, Ravneet has won several declamation and debate competitions. She scored a perfect 100 in social science, 98 in English, 96 in science, 99 in computers and 95 in Punjabi. Besides, she scored 95 marks in maths that she considered as the most difficult subject for her.Sharing her success mantra, Ravneet said, “I never followed a particular time-table for my studies, but kept myself focused on self study and through revision. Regularity in classes and understanding all the NCERT topics helped me a lot in my preparations for the subjects. Another thing I focused on was obeying my teachers and listening to whatever being taught in the class.”Ravneet, whose father works in a government health department, aspires to become a doctor. Seeing her excellent marks in the exams, she has decided to join the medical stream.Similarly, Harshit Tara, a student of MGN, Kapurthala, scored 97.4 per cent marks to bag the second position. “I dedicated three to four hours to study each day. Consistency and regularity in the studies is what matters most to score good marks. Besides, I spent hours on my studies and it helped in covering the vast syllabus.I would suggest my juniors to remain consistent and do hard work if they want to score good marks in exams,” said Harshit, who credited his success to his parents and teachers. Aiming to become a drug inspector, Harshit, whose father is a pharmacist, has opted for the medical stream in the next class.Following Ravneet and Harshit, Gautam Anand, a student of Lord Mahavir Jain Public School, bagged the third spot in the district with 97.4 per cent marks. Harleen Kaur, a student of Kamla Nehru School, Phagwara, secured the fourth position with 97.2 per cent marks, followed by Harnoor Kaur of Cambridge International School Phagwara with 97% marks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ravneet-ansh-top-in-kapurthala-113670
16-07-2020||Jalandhar||CM lauds Hoshiarpur girl on getting admitted to Oxford University||On getting admitted to Oxford University, the CM congratulated Hoshiarpur girl, Pratishtha, who is physically disabled but full of potential. The CM not only bucked up the girl’s confidence but also ensured of providing assistance in the future. “I couldn't believe when I got to know the Chief Minister wants to talk to me on phone,” said Pratishtha.76 from MGN score above 90%As many as 76 students of MGN Public School, Adarsh Nagar, scored above 90 per cent marks. City topper Maanya got 99 per cent marks, Manisha got 98.2 per cent, Samarth got 97.4 per cent and Jigyasu 97.4 per cent.Police DAV Public SchoolAs many as 35 students from the school scored above 90 per cent marks. Eight students scored 100 marks in social science, two students scored 100 marks in mathematics and seven students scored 100 marks in Punjabi. Swapnil Chhiber got 98.8 per cent, Arshdeep K Pawar 98.6 per cent, Srijan Sehgal 98.4 per cent, Priyansha 97.6 per cent and Mannat 96.8 per cent.Sanskriti KMV SchoolAnupama scored 98.6 per cent marks. The other students who excelled in the examinations were Gunpriya 97.8 per cent, Dhriti Pandey 97.4 per cent, Sargunpal Kaur 96.8 per cent, Lovish Bansal 96.8 per cent and Navjot Kaur 95.4 per cent.Swami Sant Dass SchoolArushi Midha has brought laurels to the school by scoring 98.8 per cent marks. Mankirat Singh got 97.4 per cent, Prabhnoor Kaur 97 per cent, Pritika 96.2 per cent and Anshita 96 per cent.MGN Public School, Urban EstateNearly 26 students of the school got above 90 per cent marks. Gurmehar scored 98 per cent marks, Kajal Dhanjal 96.6 per marks and Sehajpreet Kaur 96.2 per cent.Delhi Public SchoolAs many as 23 students got above 90 per cent marks. Uday Arora topped the school with 96.8 per cent followed by Ananya Mayor and Bhavya Jain who secured the second and third positions with 96.4 and 96.2 per cent marks, respectively. Five students scored a perfect 100 in different subjects.Apeejay SchoolAs many as 58 students scored above 90 per cent marks. Sarthak Kapoor got 97.6 per cent marks, Aarush Mahajan 96.4 per cent, Anmol Garg 96.2 per cent and Aditya Chauhan 96 per cent.Innocent Hearts SchoolMridul Gupta topped the school with 97.4 per cent marks. As many as 82 students got more than 90 per cent marks. Kanan Pathak secured second position with 96.8 per cent marks. Paramvir Singh and Sneha got 96.6 per cent marks each to bag the third position. Prakriti Sharma and Sahil Goswami secured 96.4 per cent and Anushka Chodha and Ekampreet got 96 per cent marks.St Soldier SchoolManinder Singh of St Soldier School bagged 97 per cent marks. Chairman Anil Chopra and vice-chairperson Sangeeta Chopra congratulated all the students.Mayor World SchoolNimish Mahajan and Sarisha Arora secured 97 per cent and 96.8 per cent to bag the first and second positions, respectively. On the whole, 37 students scored 90 per cent and above.Eklavya SchoolNine students got above 90 per cent marks. Parmeet Kaur topped the school with 96 per cent marks. The management, principal and staff congratulated the toppers.Shiv Jyoti Public SchoolMoksha topped the school with 96.8 per cent. Twentyfour students got 90 per cent and above marks.Dayanand Model Sr Sec School, Dayanand NagarRishabh Mital topped the school with 92.6 per cent marks followed by Muskan Nayyar, Prince and Pinak Gupta who secured the second position with 91.8 per cent marks. Gurasees Kaur secured the third position with 89.2 per cent marks. The principal congratulated the students and their parents and wished them a bright future.DRV DAV Centenary School, PhillaurAs many as 13 students got above 90 per cent marks. Priyal Arora scored 96.4 per cent and Harpinder Kaur 96.2 per cent marks. Principal Yogesh Gambhir congratulated the toppers.DAV School (Nawanshahr)Armaan Singh and Kashish Markanda got 95 per cent marks each.Cambridge International School (Nawanshahr)Anika Dugh topped the school with 94.2 per cent marks while Radhika secured the second position with 92.8 per cent marks. Navdeep Kaur and Vishal Jain got 91.2 and 91 per cent, respectively.Cambridge International School (Phagwara)Harnoor Kaur topped the school with 97 per cent marks. Akashvi Chauhan and Samridhi secured the second position with 94.8 per cent marks each followed by Sreejan and Ansh Arora who secured the third position with 94.6 per cent marks. Principal Jorawar Singh said the excellent results reflected the perseverance and hard work of the students and the faculty. Out of the 97 students who appeared in the exams, 17 students secured 90 and above marks. Sixtyfive students got 75 and above marks.Swami Sant Dass Public School (Phagwara)Out of 129 students who appeared in the examination, 19 scored 90 per cent marks. Hiya Syal topped the school with 96.8 per cent marks followed by Aryan Gaba who secured the second position with 95 per cent and Lokesh Sharma third position with 94 per cent.Kamla Nehru Public School (Phagwara)Harleen Kaur, Harshdeep and Tanvir Kaur secured the first, second and third positions with 97.2 per cent, 94.6 per cent and 89.4 per cent marks, respectively. Seventy-three students out of the 114 scored above 90 per cent marks in different subjects. Principal PK Dhillon congratulated the achievers.— TNSCIS Dasuya students shineHoshiarpur: Students of CIS Dasuya brought laurels to the school in the CBSE Class X results that were declared on Wednesday. Sohvat Saini came first with 97 per cent marks, Arin Aggarwal, Anureet Kaur Dhatt and Bhavya secured the second position with 96.6 per cent marks and Anureet Kaur and Harshit Chaudhary shared the third position with 96 per cent marks. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cm-lauds-hoshiarpur-girl-on-getting-admitted-to-oxford-university-113680
16-07-2020||AMIT MEHRA||‘Will start getting a good volume  of biz from beginning of next year’||How has the lockdown impacted your business?We were badly impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic as we are running a 100 per cent export house. All our clients are based in the US, France, Germany, Scotland, Canada, Brazil, Russia and other European Union countries. We lost a few potential customers and orders of some of them were badly affected. Some of our shipments were on the way and we still don't have any idea whether we get payments for that or not. We have many orders which are yet to be shipped but customers have put these on hold as the market situation continues to remain very bad in the US and Europe. So, a huge stock of blankets is piled up in godowns and factories.Do you expect any of your businesses to start running in the near future?Of course, I am very positive and feel that this pandemic would help provide a huge market for Indians as China has been throughout the world. I am sure we would get a good volume of business in the beginning of the next year. New enquiries from various countries, which were previously buying Chinese products, have started pouring in. So, my future outlook is positive.Did you pay salaries to your workers during the lockdown period?We are a tech-savvy company and paid salaries on time to all the employees. We even helped our employees by providing groceries, food items, medicines, face masks, sanitisers to them during the lockdown. Each and every employee is enjoying health insurance policy for Covid-19 in addition to ESI benefits. We even paid advance to those employees who were in need. We can grow if our employees are happy and satisfied.What is the share of online trading in your profession?We are into bulk exports, so sometimes customers reach us through our website and in the near future, we are planning to start an online trading platform. In the wake of the pandemic, innovation is the mantra for achieving sustained customers, employee engagement and growth.What are the lessons you have learnt from the lockdown?We should make new strategies and start new products. The government should develop infrastructure so that parties' orders could be reached to them on time. Understanding customers' mood and taste, we should focus on product innovation. We should keep innovating and communicating with our customers. Cash flow is very important so we should have alternate roadmap to meet this cash flow and capital shortage.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?It seems to be a crisis for the moment but I am very positive that the future of the Indian industry is very bright. We can acquire Chinese export share if we unite, change our mindset and commit to giving quality, consistency and shipments on time. We should promote 'Make in India' logo on every shipped product and I am sure we would cover our all losses incurred during the lockdown period.What do you expect from the govt?It should adopt a practical approach to revive the industry and export incentives like GST refunds and others should be released soon so that exporters do not have to run from pillar to post for them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/will-start-getting-a-good-volume-of-biz-from-beginning-of-next-year-113682
16-07-2020||Jalandhar||In Jalandhar, Maanya tops with 99% marks||Maanya Sekhri, a student of MGN Public School, bagged the first position in the district with 99 per cent marks. She secured a perfect 100 each in social studies and information technology, 99 each in English and mathematics and 97 in science.Read also: Maanya tops in Jalandhar with near-perfect score of 99%Daughter of a doctor couple, Vineet Sekhri and Poonam Sekhri, Maanya is fond of reading books. “I dedicated three to four hours to self-study each day. My parents were supportive and always motivated me to study for being successful in life, not for securing good grades,” she said. However, not interested in the stream in which her parents were topper, Maanya said, “I do not like biology much. I am interested in mathematics and I have now taken the non-medical stream in Class XI”. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-jalandhar-maanya-tops-with-99-marks-113417
16-07-2020||Jalandhar||Ration stocked at MLA aide’s hotel, Oppn leaders fume||While the Opposition has already been raking the issue of siphoning off of ration and its selective distribution, a video of ration kits supplied by the Centre for distribution among poor being found from a local hotel has further added fuel to the ongoing controversy.The video surfaced last evening and the ration kits were found in a hotel owned by an aide of Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri. The MLA went on record saying that he had got the ration, meant for distribution in his constituency, stocked at the hotel.SAD and AAP leaders have already been alleging that the Congress leaders have been getting the ration distributed in the wards of their favourite councillors and were ignoring areas which have more supporters of the Opposition parties.Former minister Manoranjan Kalia has also demanded action against his opponent Beri for openly confessing that he had kept the ration supplies in his custody.AAP leader Dr Sanjeev Sharma said, “We have been raking up the issue that the deserving poor were not getting their actual share from 450 metric tonnes of supplies that Jalandhar has got. With this video, our stand is vindicated.”Meanwhile, MLA Beri said: “We have been distributing all ration, including the stock we got from NRIs and donors, from this hotel. The distribution has been fair and the Opposition cannot cite a single instance when we indulged in any favouritism.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ration-stocked-at-mla-aides-hotel-oppn-leaders-fume-113418
