16-09-2020||Avneet Kaur||Govt apathy forced this visually impaired cricketer to quit game||Jalandhar, September 15Every time his cell phone rings, Tejinder Pal Singh (35), a tailor’s son at Guru Nanak Pura here, answers at the first beep.Reason: He’s expecting an important call from the Punjab Sports Department, but each time he is disappointed.Tejinder was the only player from Punjab, who got selected in India’s blind cricket team in 2014 that won the Blind Cricket World Cup in South Africa in 2014 and the England World Cup in 2015, but despite this, his achievements and efforts never got recognised. At present, he does not even have money to buy a bat of his own.No help from govt so farOn being asked whether he tried approaching the Punjab Government, Tejinder said, he approached the officials of the Sports Departments many times in the past, but to no avail. “I urged them to at least provide me a job, if not any monetary benefit so that I can keep on promoting blind cricket in the state, but leave alone a job, I didn’t even get a reply,” he said.He said though his counterparts in states such as Haryana and Delhi got Rs25 lakh to Rs50 lakh each along with government jobs, he was still awaiting help from the Punjab Government. Besides, it’s been five years now that he has quit the game. Reason: lack of rewards and recognition from the state Sports Department. “I belong to a poor family and after losing my eyesight, making a career in sports was the only option left with me to support my family and make them proud, but it seems even after proving my mettle in the world of cricket, I failed as a son and I’m not able to financially help my father.”Tejinder said unlike other cricketers, it was never a run for name, fame, recognition, glittering award ceremonies and loads of financial opportunities. For him, it was a lone struggle to fight for his existence in this world and not be a burden on his family. “I always thought that if I win the World Cup one day, I will be offered a government job and then I would finally retire my father from his tailoring job, but unfortunately, my dreams are still dreams and I am now working as a Class III employee in PAP here to make both ends meet,” he said.Down memory lane...On being asked how he lost his vision and what all challenges he faced as a blind cricketer, Tejinder said he lost his eyesight at the age of six, when a medicine given to him by a doctor at Nawanshahr had an adverse reaction. “My family after that took me to a number of hospitals. I even got a lot of surgeries done, but doctors said my vein in the retina has been blocked and my eyesight could never be restored now,” he said.Sharing his cricket journey, he said since his childhood, he was interested in cricket and had this aim to make a career in cricket only. “After I lost my vision, someone suggested that I take admission to a blind school in Dehradun. And, it was there, my game found a vision, and I started playing district, state and national-level cricket tournaments. Also, while studying at DAV College in Chandigarh, I represented the state twice in various tournaments. Besides, I also had the opportunity to play from Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.”Talking about challengers, Tejinder said, the biggest challenge for him was to carry forward the game, when there was no governing body for the blind in the state.“During every international tournament, instead of concentrating on my practise sessions, I had to spend time knocking at the doors of various industrialists and politicians to sponsor my kits and my air tickets. It was only due to the NRIs, among other persons, who sponsored my air tickets that I could play in the Cricket World Cup,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-apathy-forced-this-visually-impaired-cricketer-to-quit-game-141899
16-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||A testimony to Partition, Bhargo Camp still awaits development||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 15Bhargo camp came into existence during the Partition in 1947 to provide relief to those, who were hurt, bruised, terrified and depressed because of it.The air here is still dense and heavy with thousands of stories replete with the pain of Partition. When future was hazy and every hope of living was dying, when people after going through various tragedies, suffering tragic losses came here without having any knowledge of where to go and what to do, Bhargo Camp not only provided them shelter, but they also found solace here.Sardari Lal, a MonagenarianThe Donald Thinks D-Day Is About HimThere used to be fields, where Bhargo Camp was built. We used to wake up with sand all over us because initially, we used to sleep on the ground. Initially, there was no water, electricity and toilet and people used to go outside to answer a call of nature. After some years, two dispensaries - one of the Municipal Corporation and another Civil Hospital's dispensary - and two schools were opened and when I became the councillor for the first time, the sewerage was laid.The area was made after the name of Dr Gopi Chand Bhargava, the then Chief Minister of Punjab.Before 1949, some barracks of 12 quarters each were set up here in the camp, one quarter was 10 ft wide and 35 ft long. Sardari Lal, 90, the former three-time councillor of Bhargo Camp and who was one of the members of the allotment committee that would provide survivors with ‘atta’ and food is the eldest one in the area, who has seen it all. Even today he remembers everything, although, he forgets years and dates.He was 17, when he came here after the Partition from Sialkot. After living in camps in Burlton Park for some time, Lal recalls how all people got shifted to quarters in Bhargo Camp that were especially built by the government for people who came here after the Partition.“There used to be fields, where Bhargo Camp was built. We used to wake up with sand all over us because initially, we used to sleep on the ground,” Lal said.He said initially at that time there was no water, electricity and toilet and people used to go outside to answer nature’s call. After some years, two dispensaries — one of the Municipal Corporation and another Civil Hospital’s dispensary — and two schools were opened and when he became the councillor for the first time, the sewerage was laid.“I ensured that every household got a toilet, so that no one goes outside to relieve themselves,” Lal said. He also shared the old picture of Darshan Singh Kaypee, when he visited Bhargo Camp after getting elected as an MLA. Lal, however, couldn’t recall the year and said it was a decades-old picture.Quarters became homes, but development still elusiveAs time passed, people started working and with their hard-earned money, they made their homes. The families of a few survivors went to other places in the country or abroad, but some families here still seem to be in need of help. Due to the closure of hundreds of micro and small-scale manufacturing sports and surgical units in the recent years, thousands of workers, primarily migrants, have suffered. Bhargo Camp in the Jalandhar West constituency has the highest vote bank, but the area is without development, as when one walks in streets, one hardly sees any sign of development. Sardari Lal, said the sewerage lines that were laid decades ago were still the same and hadn’t changed. There’s a problem of limited water supply in some areas of Bhargo Camp, roads are in a bad shape and sometimes people also deal with water contamination problems. Residents said the other infrastructural development was also amiss. They said Bhargo Camp was seen as an opportunity to gain votes by leaders, who come here during elections and then forget about the place. Vishal Kumar, one of the residents, said as per his knowledge there used to be around eight parks for children as told by the elderly in his family. “But I have seen only one park,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-testimony-to-partition-bhargo-camp-still-awaits-development-141900
16-09-2020||Our Correspondent---||Seven lose Covid battle, 141 +ve in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, September 15 On Tuesday, 141 people tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of positive patients to 3,099 in the district. With the death of seven patients, the toll also reached 97. With 1,648 samples of persons with suspected flu-like symptoms taken in the district today, the total number of samples reached 79,927 in Hoshiarpur. According to reports received from the laboratory, 75,715 samples were negative, while 1,448 reports were awaited and 109 samples were invalid. The number of active cases in the district is 1,050 and 1,952 patients have recovered so far. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh said seven people belonging to Hoshiarpur district died on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/seven-lose-covid-battle-141-ve-in-hoshiarpur-141901
16-09-2020||---||Day 2: Farmers block Delhi-Amritsar NH||Jalandhar, September 15Around 15,000-20,000 farmers of 11 different farm unions on Tuesday blocked the Delhi-Amritsar National Highway for over two hours here. Demanding immediate withdrawal of the three agricultural ordinances introduced by the Central Government, they assembled on the national highway in Phagwara. Vehicular traffic remained suspended till the protest was lifted. A large number of policemen were deployed on the road. They diverted the traffic.Farmers from the Doaba region had arrived on the highway at 12 noon and concluded the protest around 3 pm. Worried over the possibility of discontinuation of the minimum support price (MSP) system, farmers, farm labourers, including women, under the Doaba Kisan Union, Bharatiya Doaba Kisan Union, Bharatiya Kisan Union, Kadiyan, Dandewal, Janduri Kisan Union and other farm outfits raised anti-government slogans and expressed their resentment against the ordinances passed by the Modi government concerning the agriculture sector.The farmers demanded the rollback of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020.Apparently, the passing of a resolution to reject these ordinances in the Punjab Assembly on August 28 and Capt Amarinder Singh declaring the ordinances against the interests of the farmers, landless workers and the state agriculture marketing system only added fuel to the farmers’ anger.The protesters threatened that if the ordinances were passed in Parliament, they would launch “Delhi Chalo” campaign. Manjit Singh, president, Doaba Kisan Union, said the government had forced them to hit the roads. “The government is trying to destroy the agriculture sector which is already plagued by anti-farmer policies. If the ordinances are passed, we would also ban the entry of local ministers to our villages and would boycott the elections.”Similarly, another member of the union, said they would also oppose the Electricity (Amendment) Bill as it would adversely hit free power to farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/day-2-farmers-block-delhi-amritsar-nh-141902
16-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||Swiftly passing on the baton||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 15Like father, like son. The wildlife photographing duo has been turning heads around for a while now with their talent.The pandemic year has been a double delight for them. Clicking rare animal breeds and species of birds, 12-year-old Arshdeep Singh has been awarded with the Asian Wildlife Photographer of the Year 2020 for his image of colugo taken in Malaysia. Meanwhile, father Randeep Singh also won accolades for his image of a crab spider.A businessman and exporter Randeep has spent over a decade pursuing his passion across various terrains and countries. Having scaled 75 countries across the world on business trips, he always keeps the last days (or weekends) of his exposures for snapping. His collection boasts of thousands of clicks from jungles, forests, national parks and sanctuaries of Madagascar, Kenya, Panama, Brazil, Ecuador, Vietnam, Malaysia, Holland, France, Germany, Poland, Romania among other countries and wildlife parks including Jim Corbett, Ranthambore among others across India.Next generationWhile Randeep is well-versed with the thrill of the wild and has escaped several close shaves, his son, whom he encouraged to get in the line, too, has learnt as much in a little time with him.The father, having started landscape photography in 2008 and 2009, has been charged at by a tusker at the Jim Corbett National Park in Uttarakhand. While a hot pursuit by wild dogs in sub-zero temperatures in Ladakh near the Tso Kar lake was equally fretting.Speaking of his close shave in Ladakh, he shares, “I along with two of my friends were chasing a cape hare near the Pso Moriri and Tso Kar lakes and we went pretty deep into the wilderness. Just when we were planning to call it a day we realised the company — feral dogs had surrounded us. We knew we couldn’t outrun them. So, the only option was crossing a nearby stream. We quickly entered the biting stream and crossed over, finding a road through which we made our way back to the resort.” However, with time the passion for photography has only grown. He now schools his son. “My son knows already what I learnt in all these years. When he began, I gave him my DLSR telling him that it’s new. Starting with the garden, he’s now adept at clicking and has won more awards than me,” Randeep beams.Both also share deep ecological concerns, “The Punjab Kajli Wetland supported a huge forested are, now greatly reduced. The green cover is lesser, water is polluted and birds are no more. We need to conserve wildlife to give our children a better world to live in,” he concludes. Rising son!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/swiftly-passing-on-the-baton-141903
16-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Giloy — a wonder herb in high demand amid pandemic||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 15The pandemic has made people realise the importance of things which they never ever bothered about. Those who never derived the benefits of giloy, are now advising others to have its concoction or tablets. The plant, which was seen in almost every park and every nook and corner, is hardly present there now, as more and more of it is being consumed by locals and it has become hard to find it now.Helps remove toxins, purifies bloodEven experts swear by this immunity booster. District Ayurvedic Officer Dr Joginder Singh said: “Giloy has a definite role in treating any fever. The stem of a giloy plant is a great immunity booster. The stem is boiled in water and a concoction is consumed. A lot of research has been carried out on this plant and there is no doubt about the fact that the plant can do wonders.”He said when you have fever your platelet count generally decreases, but this plant doesn’t let that happen. “The vapour of the concoction does local action, which means it goes straight into the nose and the throat and acts. It stops the virus to multiply. The problem generates when the virus gets multiplied in the body. So, when the process of multiplication is stopped, further complications automatically ends,” he said.Now, everyone knows about the herb which is in great demand these days. Not only this, consuming a lot of warm water, gargling with saline water, yoga and pranayam has become a part of the lives of people which was not common before the pandemic hit, he said.On Sunday, the health ministry also released some guidelines for those dealing with post-Covid related problems, in which it was advised to drink adequate amount of warm water, daily practise yoga, do pranayama, have balanced, nutritious diet apart from having a spoon of chyawanprash every day in the morning.Shivani Aneja (32), a fashion designer, said it was during the pandemic, that she got to know about the herb and now, she ensures that she gives the concoction to her children on regular intervals, so that they remain healthy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/giloy-%E2%80%94-a-wonder-herb-in-high-demand-amid-pandemic-141904
16-09-2020|| ---||MLA Pargat, councillors call on civic body officials||Jalandhar, September 15 Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh, along with 10 councillors of wards falling in his constituency, met with officials of the Municipal Corporation and raised various issues lying unaddressed for long. At the meeting, the MLA said problems discussed during earlier meetings with the MC officials had not been looked into. Talking to The Tribune, he said: “Many important issues have been awaiting attention of the MC officials. I don’t know what is happening and when things will improve.” Rohan Sehgal, Ward No. 26 councillor, said the demand of streetlights in his ward has been lying pending for a long time. There are only 10 safai karamcharis in his ward which is half the required strength of 20, he said. The councillors have been raising the issue of unequal distribution of safai karamcharis in 80 wards of the city for the past two years, ever since the Congress took charge of the civic body. He also raised the issue of non-lifting of waste at Model Town garbage dump.  Sarabjit Kaur, councillor of Ward No. 25, said patchwork in her ward has been lying pending for long.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mla-pargat-councillors-call-on-civic-body-officials-141905
16-09-2020||Our Correspondent---||Protest on Beas bridge in Hoshiarpur too||Tanda Urmar (Hoshiarpur), September 15 The protest started by the Peasants-Workers’ Struggle Committee, Punjab, on the bridge over the Beas (on the Tanda-Sri Hargobindpur road) continued for the second day here on Tuesday.  The farmers kept sitting throughout the night blocking the bridge in protest against the three agricultural ordinances issued by the Central Government and the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020. The protest was held in support of various farmer groups of the country and the Bharatiya Kisan Union Ekta Ugrahan, who are protesting against the Central Government. Various speakers spoke against the Central and state government’s anti-farmer and anti-labourer policies during this demonstration led by state vice-president Savinder Singh Chautala, district president Kuldeep Singh Begowal, Gurpreet Singh Khanpur, Ranjit Singh Kaler, Ranbir Singh and Gurpreet Singh. On the occasion, Savinder Singh Chautala, Kulbir Singh Kahlon, Savinder Singh Rupowali, Baksheesh Singh Multani, Sohan Singh, Paramjit Singh and Harjit Singh said the farmers were constantly struggling to get the bills withdrawn and the government should revoke these bills in the current parliamentary session.  They asked the state government to pay the dues of Rs681 crore to sugarcane farmers along with interest and make sure that the farmers have a firm ownership of the land.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/protest-on-beas-bridge-in-hoshiarpur-too-141906
16-09-2020||Jalandhar||‘My Waste, My Responsibility’ drive launched||The Jalandhar Municipal Corporation launched ‘My Waste, My Responsibility’ campaign based on 3Rs — reduce, reuse and recycle — principal under Swachh Survekshan-2021 on Tuesday.  Residents have been asked to use their creative mind to make judicious use of waste under the ‘Trash to Treasure’ activity. They have been asked to upload the post on Facebook (video/ photo) of anything they have created out of waste and have been asked to tag #mcjalandhar & #cleanupjalandhar. Swachhta Pakhwada celebrated The regional office of the State Bank of India, Jalandhar, participated in Swachhta Pakhwada at the Handicapped Ashram, Jalandhar, and distributed fruits, besides planted trees on the premises. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/my-waste-my-responsibility-drive-launched-141907
16-09-2020||Dr Sat Pal Gojra||‘Testing early key to protecting yourself’||“It was on July 26, when I woke up feverish. I fetched a thermometer and checked my temperature. It was 102°F. Not only this, I had an upset stomach, too. I thought of getting tested for Corona and I went for it. My test was done at Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital on a TrueNat machine and lo, I was found Covid positive. Since I have my elderly parents and daughter at home, I opted for institutional isolation at the Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur, for their safety and prevention of spread of the infection.Commissioner, Hoshiarpur“I went through a different kind of an experience and my books, especially some religious ones, were my companions during my 18-day stay at the hospital. For the first 3-4 days, I had high fever - 102°F - with severe bodyache, headache and infection. Then, for the next four days, it was around 100°F and then it remained 99°F for a couple of more days and I finally recovered from it.“The stay at the hospital was quite comfortable as the Health Department provided almost all required facilities. The food was nice, the care, medical facilities including regular check-ups by doctors and medicines, too, were provided at regular intervals. I had a pulse oxymeter with me and I regularly monitored my oxygen level thrice a day. Luckily, it was around 96-97 per cent always, so I didn't need artificial oxygen. After staying at the hospital for 18 days, I tested negative and returned home. My books gave me the requisite strength, boosted my morale and helped me in staying focused towards getting out of it with a healthy mind along with a healthy body. It is important to be mentally prepared for your stay in isolation if you are tested positive. A positive attitude is a must. So, stay positive if you are tested positive because it's going to help you a lot. Another thing that is extremely important is that early testing can help stay safe and keep your family and friends safe, too! Most of the deaths are being reported just because people don't come out for testing at an earlier stage. Please keep in mind that in most of the serious cases, there were almost no symptoms except a fall in oxygen level and if tested on time, oxygen may be given to patients to save their precious lives. So, the key to secure yourself is gettign testing at the earliest.” (As told to Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/testing-early-key-to-protecting-yourself-141909
