16-10-2020||Jalandhar||22 youths get jobs after drug rehabilitation||It takes long for a drug addict to shun drugs and in many cases, addicts never get back to their normal lives. Giving out a positive picture in society, the efforts of the Kapurthala district administration have borne fruit with 22 drugs rehabilitated youths getting jobs and finding place in training courses in a mega job fair. Of them, 13 selected candidates are girls.The 6th mega job fair, held in Punjab recently, was special for Kapurthala, where 22 former drug addicts were selected. The candidates who are former drugs addicts and were rehabilitated in different OOAT clinics in the district were called in District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE), Kapurthala, for counselling and a session on how to face an interview. Kapurthala DC Deepti Uppal said the aim was to bring drug rehabilitated candidates into the mainstream. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/22-youths-get-jobs-after-drug-rehabilitation-156581
16-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||Caution before! Nakodar Road preceding the 4-laned highway poses threat||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 15Before it’s a smooth ride, you will have to go through a real rough patch. A new four-laned highway on the Jalandhar-Nakodar road makes life of the citizens taking to the road from here all the way to Nakodar and beyond (to Moga-Barnala) much easier than it was years ago. However, right before this thoroughfare begins a patch of unkempt, dangerous stretch on the Nakodar highway has been making people’s lives miserable for ages.A much frequented highway for the city goers, villagers, Nakodar residents, traders as well as the real estate magnates (who have been colonising the area with new apartment buildings every year), the area starting right by the Khambra Gate poses a huge risk.Ashwani, a resident of a colony nearby the road, says, “For the past three years the road has not been repaired. Many accidents take place near the Khambra Gate. It is very difficult for us to tread the area. With the winters coming, the foggy weather will makes things worse. There have been times that the road is covered up with mud or pebbles but it also raises dust and makes things worse. While rest of the road all the way to Nakodar has been made recently, due to this stretch, which is at a crucial spot just at the entrance of the city, both highway travellers and residents approaching their homes, remain a harried lot.”Being prone to accident and difficult to navigate at night, it is a cause for the patients of the two hospitals on the stretch. Dr Chander Bowry, who works at the Innocent Hearts Multi Specialty Hospital, says the hospital is bearing the effects as the gaping pothole in vicinity is life-threatening for its patients. “Every week at least three to four of our patients report accidents due to the stretch. We provide critical healthcare but we can’t provide a road. It is a huge risk for serious patients. Two-wheelers can’t even ride smoothly on the stretch because the potholes are so big. The stretch is an invitation to accidents,” he says.While a brilliant road has been made for the NH 2 further down the road, it is bizarre that the stretch immediately preceding it has been left to the elements.Ashok, a shopkeeper at the Gakhal market, adds, “There are welding, marble and tools shops here and for all of us this stretch is a huge problem. Sometime ago some men threw sand and gravel into the holes. Since then things have only aggravated. Clouds of dust come up every time a vehicle passes. We have stopped dusting our shops because the dust is everywhere.”RESIDENTSPEATKThe road has not been repaired for the past three years. Many accidents take place near the Khambra Gate. It is very difficult for us to tread the area. With the approaching winter season, foggy weather will make things worse. There have been times when the road is covered up with mud or pebbles, but it also raises dust and makes things worse. —Ashwani, a resident of a colony nearby The hospital is bearing the effects as the gaping pothole in vicinity is life-threatening for its patients. Every week at least three to four of our patients reported accidents due to the stretch. We provide critical healthcare, but can't provide a road. It is a huge risk for serious patients. Two-wheelers can't even ride smoothly on the stretch because the potholes are so big. It is an invitation to accidents. —Dr Chander Bowry, from Innocent Hearts Multi Specialty Hospital||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/caution-before-nakodar-road-preceding-the-4-laned-highway-poses-threat-156326
16-10-2020||---||Schools told to reopen from Monday||Jalandhar, October 15Clearing the air over the reopening of educational institutions in the state, the state Education Department on Thursday issued a fresh circular, directing the District Education Officers (DEOs) to open the schools (both government and private) in their respective districts from October 19 onwards.The installation of a Covid care centre in all the schools is among the mandatory guidelines to be followed by all the school heads. After a gap of over seven months, the schools were expected to reopen from October 15 onwards, as per the earlier announcement of the state government. However, in the absence of the standard operating procedures (SOPss), the schools could not unlock their gates for the students today.In most of the schools, only teachers and other staff members marked their attendance. Sunita Randhawa, Principal, Government Co-ed School, Ladowali Road, said only staff members came to the school on Thursday. We were expecting that the students would also join us, but we were informed that students could enter the schools only if the guidelines would be released by the Education Department.Similarly, in other schools as well only digital classes were conducted and administrative work was done in most of the schools. Meanwhile in the evening, the Education Department released the guidelines to be followed by the schools to prevent students from contracting the virus. DEO (Secondary) Harinder Pal Singh said the Education Department was waiting for the SOPs to be approved by the state Health Department.The decision to reopen the schools was made immediately after receiving the nod from the Health Department. “In the first phase, the schools will remain open for students of Classes IX-XII only and students will have to get the permission in writing from their parents for attending the schools,” said the DEO. Schools in the state have been shut since March this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, online classes are being conducted.SOPs to be followed by headsOfficialspeakThe Education Department was waiting for the SOPs to be approved by the state Health Department. In the first phase, the schools will remain open for students of Classes IX-XII only and students will have to get the permission in writing from their parents for attending the schools. —Harinder Pal Singh, DEO (Secondary)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/schools-told-to-reopen-from-monday-156327
16-10-2020||---||Decks cleared for 52-km cycle track||Jalandhar, October 15Deliberations have begun between the Smart City officials and the Jalandhar traffic police on setting up a 52-km cycle track within the city to boost a growing number of health-conscious residents who have taken to cycling in the ongoing pandemic.A meeting in this regard was held between Smart City CEO Karnesh Sharma and DCP Jalandhar Arun Saini and their teams. It has been decided that the civil and police administration teams will soon take out a joint tour to finalise the 26-km stretch of road on which the track would be set up. Covering both sides of this road, a track of 52-km would be finalised.The route plan for the track would be finalised in a week’s time, said Sharma, adding that the cycling time from 6 am to 8 am will be allotted to the riders. “A separate track will make cycling accident-free and give them an all new experience”, he said. During a joint route plan finalising exercise, the officials will also earmark sites from where encroachments need to be removed and roads need to be widened.The roads which are already wide and are likely to be included in the plan include 66-feet road, 120-feet road, Skylark Chowk to Model Town and Surya Enclave locality roads. As of now there are no cycling tracks even in areas like Focal Point, Industrial Area and Gadiapur, where labourers move in large numbers for work in factories every morning and evenings.There also are plans to have rental cycle system wherein users will be able to take cycles on rent from places like bus stand towards Rainak Bazaar, Sabzi Mandi and other areas, the officials said.Anthem released Jalandhar: 'Mera Sheher Jalandhar, Mere Dil De Andar' swach Jalandhar anthem was released on the completion of month-long campaign 'My waste my responsibility' on Thursday. A cycle rally was organised on the occasion and the officials of the Municipal Corporation also attended the same. Several competitions such as declamation contest, singing competition were held. In the month-long campaign, city residents were asked to separate dry and wet waste and then give it to the safai karamcharis. Under the campaign, residents were asked to manage the waste to make city clean and beautiful. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/decks-cleared-for-52-km-cycle-track-156328
16-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Debt-ridden farmer ends life||Garhshankar, October 15Unable to pay his loans, Kulvir Singh (60), father of Congress district secretary Balwinder Singh Bindu, committed suicide by swallowing some poisonous substance as he was receiving loan recovery notices.Kulvir Singh of Tutomjara village had taken loans from PADB Bank, Mahilpur, and Agricultural Cooperative Society, Tutomjara, besides other banks. He was continuously paying loan instalments till 2016, but after the announcement of loan waiver for small farmers by CM Capt Amarinder Singh, he stopped paying the money. Hence, the debt continued to grow.Loan amountThe debt was also not waived off despite the fact that he had less than one acre of farmland. When his loan waiver hopes were dashed, Kulvir again started paying instalments. During the lockdown, he stopped paying instalments and after the end of moratorium, the banks served recovery notices. Troubled over it, he swallowed some poisonous substance last evening. His family members took him to the Civil Hospital, Mahilpur, from where he was referred to the Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur. He died late last night. Kulwinder Singh, brother of victim, said had the CM not announced the loan waiver, he would have never committed suicide. After the announcement, he stopped paying instalments.” Victim’s daughter Gurinder Kaur said, “We only have 1 acre land and my father had taken a loan of Rs3.5 lakh which grew to Rs7 lakh. Moreover, he was upset due to loan recovery notices. We have no hope that the government will waive off the loan to soothe his soul.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/debt-ridden-farmer-ends-life-156330
16-10-2020||Kapurthala||Opening doors of financial relief to women entrepreneurs||To give an impetus to women entrepreneurs through Self Help Groups (SHGs) and ensure proper marketing, a ‘Bebian Di Dukan’ (women’s shop) has been started here on Thursday.The things prepared by women or SHGs would be sold out here and special attention would be paid to the quality of product.DC Deepti Uppal inaugurated the shop near the BDPO office and became the first customer after she purchased desi ghee and biscuits from the shop. She also enjoyed delicious cheese chat and others products.The DC said the district had 188 SHGs and out of the 1,992 members, 1,400 are women, who not only prepare domestic items, but also work for stitching suits. She said this shop would empower women economically as this would provide a better marketing platform to them in the city.Harpreet Kaur, Women Development Officer, who is the key person behind this shop, said green vegetables grown in the nutri kitchen garden would also be sold. She said these products would be organic and healthy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/opening-doors-of-financial-relief-to-women-entrepreneurs-156331
16-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Modi govt has insulted farmers by not holding talks: Harpal Singh Cheema||Hoshiarpur, October 15Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab senior leader and Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema addressed two gram sabhas under the party’s flagship “Gram Sabha Bulao, Pind Bachao-Punjab Bachao” campaign at Chohka and Manjhpur villages here on Thursday.Addressing a gathering at the gram sabha session here, Harpal Singh Cheema said at this critical juncture when the beleaguered farming community was trying to fight back the three farm laws, some malicious anti-farmer forces were working to torpedo the farmers’ struggle.Harpal Singh Cheema said the only way forward to protect ‘annadatta’ from the disastrous ramifications of the laws was to convene gram sabhas and pass resolutions against the deadly laws being pushed by the Modi government at the Centre. He said the abrogation of these laws would help strengthen the farmers’ struggle to save not only the farmers but the farm sector as a whole.Yograj comes out in support of protesting farmersAlthough the Central Government has been declaring the new agriculture laws farmer friendly but the farmers are not at all satisfied with the laws. The farmer organisations have demanded reversal of the new agricultural Acts. Well-known Punjabi cinema actor Yograj Singh said this here on Thursday.He was here in support of farmer organisations against the new laws at the Chandigarh road toll plaza near Nangal Shahidan village. The farmer struggle got a boost today when Yograj Singh reached out to them. Encouraged by his visit, the farmers raised slogans against the Union government.Talking to mediapersons, Yograj said, “I understand the sufferings of farmers because I belong to a famer family and I know the plight of the farmers”. While taking a dig at the Central Government, he said the laws passed by the Centre were totally anti-farmer and would affect labourers, working class and other sections of the business community.He said that if the government was really working in the interest of farmers then it should not talk to the farmer organisations in a closed room but in front of farmers and media to find a concrete solution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/modi-govt-has-insulted-farmers-by-not-holding-talks-harpal-singh-cheema-156334
16-10-2020||Jalandhar||27K intoxicating tablets seized||78th EME Corps Day celebratedJalandhar: The Vajra Eagles celebrated 78th Electronics and Mechanical Engineers (EME) Corps Day at Jalandhar Cantt on Thursday. In a solemn ceremony, Brigadier Atulya Bamzai, Brigadier, EME Vajra Corps, paid homage to the craftsman of corps of EME who made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty by laying a wreath at Vajra Shaurya Sthal. Covid-19 has brought out the best of Vajra Eagles. During the pandemic times, the synergised and proactive response from all EME units of the corps ensured that the critical high-tech medical care equipment was proactively repaired and numerous innovative solutions developed for the Armed Forces and the nation to combat the pandemic. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/27k-intoxicating-tablets-seized-156339
16-10-2020||---||Know your limits & defy them: Himanshu Bhardwaj||Poonam BindraJalandhar-lad Himanshu Bhardwaj has been in the entertainment industry for over eight years, having worked in various television shows. He is also acting in Pollywood movie Bol Mere Kukda Kukdu Ghadoon and is all set to release a Punjabi single soon. Let’s get up close and personal with the Punjabi boy …Push yourselfThere is no fitness mantra. It is very simple and logical— Know your limitations and then defy them. I feel it is essential to push myself to achieve my goals and hence from regular yoga to hard exercises, I push myself to do it all.For a happy lifeFitness is important as it heals the mind and body. I do yoga every morning which keeps me active throughout the day. Workout releases stress, keeps me fit, boosts my metabolism, ensures better digestion and brings positive energy. So many benefits for a happy and successful life, so why not?Oh! This lockdownThe lockdown has been a very hard teacher. I was stressed out. Only yoga and meditation eased all the tension during that period. It taught me to remain calm and control my restlessness.Feel-good factorCardio training is the best way to get healthy skin. Cardio exercises help you regulate all parts of your body and hence all impurities from the body are removed and that gives a glow to the skin.Diet the main heroI make it a point to eat healthy food. I take salad most of the time, green tea once in a day and 10-12 glasses of water. I try not to eat anything after 9 pm.Mom’s cooking is the bestI love my mother’s dishes. In case I want to binge, I tell her to make something special for me.Start nowFor all my friends and colleagues I suggest—Start now, this is the time. Avoid stress, enjoy life, eat healthy, train hard and live happily.Stay motivatedYes, I feel your attitude matters a lot. A positive attitude will give you the motivation to attain your goals.Patience is a virtueI strongly feel that anybody who keeps on trying with dedication will surely be rewarded with the positive outcome. A fit physique is not achieved overnight.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/know-your-limits-defy-them-himanshu-bhardwaj-156518
16-10-2020||---||Guard shot, Rs6.5 lakh looted from UCO Bank||Jalandhar, October 15Four armed assailants today shot a UCO Bank branch guard and robbed Rs 6.5 lakh in cash at Kalra village in Adampur here today.As the armed men, who came on a motorbike and an Activa scooter, walked up to the bank manager, guard Surinder Singh approached them and an altercation ensued. Surinder, an ex-serviceman, was overpowered by three of them, who snatched his rifle and shot him before fleeing with Rs 6.5 lakh from the bank.A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 399 (commit dacoity) of the IPC and 25 (bring/taking out of arms) and 54 (possession of prohibited weapon) of the Arms Act has been registered against the four, who are at large.The CCTV footage of the incident showed four masked men inside the bank, with one pointing a gun at visitors and bank staff. The guard’s turban came off as he attempted to fight off the assailants.“The guard tried to thwart the robbery right till the end. They opened fire, killing him on the spot,” said the SHO, Adampur police station. The police said one shot was fired at Surinder in the chest.The SHO said the CCTV footage of the bank and the road was being scoured. Sources, however, said the CCTV camera outside the bank entrance was not functional.Adampur DSP Harinder Singh said: “Surinder’s body had been sent for postmortem. He was found in a pool of blood. The guard approached the men when he heard them shouting at the manager. On seeing his rifle, they overpowered him and killed him.”He said the CCTV camera outside the bank was functional but was obstructed by a flex board. “We have the requisite footage,” he added.SSP (Rural) Sandeep Kumar Garg said: “A case had been registered against the suspects. We are looking at several leads.”Family planned moving to USSurinder Singh, 50, had served as a jawan in the Army for 35 years. He had been employed at the UCO Bank branch for the past eight years. His family was planning to shift to the US this year but was stuck due to the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/guard-shot-rs6-5-lakh-looted-from-uco-bank-156453
16-10-2020||Jalandhar||Online studies make it worse for special children||The pandemic-induced shutdown of educational institutions has made things difficult for students of all ages and groups, but the children with special needs are the worst-affected.Volunteers working under the “Inclusive Education for Disabled” initiative say teaching such students requires the use of various props and sign language, but that is very difficult to do via online mode. Ranjit Kaur, mother of 13-year-old special child Simarjit Kaur, says, “I try to help out my daughter in studies, but with not much success. She suffers from cerebral palsy. I want schools to reopen so that she could go and enjoy studying there.”Daily wager Joginder Singh’s son Amarjit Singh (15) can’t speak properly and also has an eye trouble. “For several months, Amarjit has not studied properly. He has also not been able to complete the work assigned by his teacher,” Joginder said.Special child Kirandeep Kaur’s father Manga said, “My 13-year-old daughter cannot study on her own. Her teacher keeps in regular touch, but online education isn’t possible for Kirandeep.”There are 153 cerebral palsy-afflicted students in the district, while 176 are hearing impaired and 895 face mental disability.Several parents said they were noticing behavioural changes among their children. Charanjit Kaur, one of the Inclusive Education Resource Teachers, said, “Such students used to understand lessons and follow us in the class, but now they are facing various issues.”District Special Education Teacher Neelam said “Our volunteers/teachers make calls to the parents of such students every day. It is true that online teaching is tough for such students, but this is how we can keep in touch with them these days. We also encourage parents to have fun activity sessions with their children.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-studies-make-it-worse-for-special-children-156345
