17-08-2020||Our Correspondent||I-Day celebrations remain a low-key affair in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, August 16The 74th Independence Day celebrations were held in the city on Saturday after following Covid-19 SOPs and limiting the attendance of the public and special invitees.The celebrations were restricted to the unfurling of the national flag by Cooperation and Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, his address and honouring of ‘Covid Warriors’, who contributed wholeheartedly in this battle against the novel coronavirus despite a spike in Covid cases.A total of 35 corona fighters from the Health, Police, MC departments and various walks of life were felicitated at the local Guru Gobind Singh Stadium here for their remarkable contribution to society in these trying situations arising out of the pandemic.In his address, Randhawa said country would always remain indebted to all these medical professionals, cops, sanitation employees and others who remained on the frontline and risked their lives in the battle against the pandemic by performing their duties religiously.He said these corona warriors were soldiers without uniform and their hard work was playing a pivotal role in combating the contagion.Rs 25L upgraded ICU facility unveiled at Civil HospitalPunjab Cooperation and Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa inaugurated projects worth Rs152 crore for Jalandhar to boost district’s development on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day.Randhawa inaugurated six projects of water supply and sanitation in Gohawar, Gurka, Bhagwanpur and Jalandhar West, Adampur, and a new sweeping machine worth Rs5.96 crore Jalandhar city. He formally unveiled the upgraded ICU facility at the Civil Hospital for Covid patients, which have come up at the cost Rs25 lakh approximately.The Cabinet Minister also announced a slew of development projects worth Rs145.44 crore, which includes the construction of new 50-MLD STP and rehabilitation of existing 100-MLD STP in Pholriwal worth Rs68.59 crore; sewer scheme in Dhina, Sansarpur, Alaidinpur, Nangal Krar Khan, Khusropur, Rehmanpur, Sofi Pind, Khambra, Deep Nagar and Alipur villages worth Rs66.91 crore; widening of the Nakodar-Malsian link road via Sihariwal to Shala Nagar worth Rs2.5 crore and a new 66.KV power sub-station worth Rs7.44 crore.The minister said: “Despite the battle against Covid-19, the state government led by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder will fulfil its every promise to ensure comprehensive growth of the state and prosperity of its people. He said no stone would be left unturned to usher in an era of unprecedented growth and development in every nook and corner of the state.He said the government was fully committed to fulfil every promise made to people of Punjab. He said these projects worth more than Rs152 crore would give the much-needed impetus to the development of the city.The minister said no doubt Covid-19 had hit the government badly, but there would be no dearth of funds for development in the state, adding that the state government had already done adequate planning for the holistic development of the urban and rural areas of the state.He said the development in the state would get a major push in the coming months.Honour for frontline workersJails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, accompanied by Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, Additional Deputy Commissioner Jasbir Singh, honoured Superintendent Grade-1 Anil Kumar Kala; Medical Officer Dr Harneet Kaur; staff nurse Narinder Kaur; health assistants Satpal, Jagjit and Tarlochan; ward attendant Sunil Kumar; Manjit Kaur; Bhogpur MC accountant Lavkesh Kumar; Kartarpur MC clerk Rahul; Nakodar MC Sewadar Uma Shankar; Improvement Trust Driver Kartar; Inspector Aman Saini; ASI Harnek Singh; Head Constable Rajveer Singh; lady constable Manroop Kaur; sanitation employees Raj Kumar, Balviro, Vikas, Rajinder Kumar and Geeta; Meritorious School accountant Harish Kumar; Sub-inspectors Ravinder Kumar and Shashi Pal; ASI Traffic staff Jasvir Singh; ASI Kewal Singh; ASI Jagdish Chand; ASI Paramjit Singh; Sub Fire Officer Varinder Kumar; Assistant Health Officer Dr Raj Kamal; SDO Public Health Gagandeep Singh; and clerks Vishwanath, Anil Bhardwaj, Gaurav Jain and Gurbinder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/i-day-celebrations-remain-a-low-key-affair-in-jalandhar-127116
17-08-2020||Our Correspondent||MLA: Punjabis played a key role in freedom movement||Hoshiarpur, August 16After hoisting the National Flag at the Police Lines ground, Industries and Commerce Minister, Punjab, Sunder Sham Arora said Punjabis played a pivotal role in giving a momentum to the freedom struggle movement, thus paving the way for India’s freedom from the British imperialism, as more than 80 per cent freedom fighters were from Punjab.Arora said the entire nation would be indebted to the great martyrs, brave freedom fighters and valiant soldiers, who made supreme sacrifices to defend country’s unity and integrity. To provide homes to freedom fighters, the state government had increased the existing 2 per cent fixed reservation for freedom fighters to 3 per cent in auction by PUDA and GMADA schemes.The state government has also taken care of the next of kin of the families of the martyrs, who lost their lives while safeguarding the country’s integrity and sovereignty in line with their duty. He said the state had provided more than 50 government jobs to the next of kin along with the financial help under the scheme. The minister also announced that the Government Senior Secondary School, Jiyan, in Chabbewal had been made a smart school. Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait and SSP Navjot Singh Mahal presented a memento to the minister. Those present were ADC (G) Amit Kumar Panchaal, ADC (D) Harbir Singh, SDM Amit Mahajan and Commissioner MC Balbir Raj Singh and GA Kirpal Veer Singh among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mla-punjabis-played-a-key-role-in-freedom-movement-127117
17-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||New protocol amplifies private hospitals’ worries in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 16The Jalandhar district administration has directed private hospitals not to refer their level-III patients to the Civil Hospital. It asked private hospitals to refer serious (Covid) patients to the level-III units of their own hospitals instead of the Civil Hospital.The August 9, 2020, letter mentioned that the direction was being issued to curb the referral of serious patients to the Civil Hospital from private hospitals. It also mentioned that it had been seen that some patients died on the way or due to some other reason when they underwent delayed referrals to the Civil Hospital after getting serious.Private medical sector, which was initially wary of letting in Covid patients about two months ago, is a major stakeholder in the battle against Covid today. With over 26 Jalandhar hospitals currently providing level-II or III Covid facilities or playing host to common Covid centres elsewhere, the beds at private hospitals rapidly filled up as the district witnessed an almost 100-case spike a day in the last fortnight.The spike is accompanied by increasing number of deaths, which have risen to an average of three to four per day in the last two weeks. So far, 108 people have died in the district.While hospitals began with setting up triage centres and special enclosures, OPDs, wards to host and separate Covid patients initially, until now some of these have been adept at hosting Covid patients on a regular basis. Amid worsening community spread fears, all new patients are viewed with scepticism.At the Gulab Devi Facility (set up on the lines of the IMA facility in the beginning of August), too, a steady stream of patients fills up the available beds. Even though a majority of Covid deaths have been taking place at private hospitals or other district referrals, the private sector has had to rapidly adapt to Covid protocol and procedures.In addition, the district administration’s recent directions on no referrals to government level-III facilities also make private hospitals’ responsibility binding.Dr Navjot Dahiya, president, IMA, Punjab Chapter, said: “From the initial days to now, costs have escalated manifold. Capping rates as per government directions in only possible for hospitals which have 30 or more patients. The rest who have four to five patients can’t sustain capping. For every single feature, costs have been massively escalated. Even for biomedical waste, private companies are asking for Rs30,000 per month. The waste segregation itself costs us thousands per patient. For one patient’s waste, Rs10,000 per month is the cost from segregation to disposal. Over 125 people have been admitted to our hospital alone. Besides, once a symptomatic Covid positive patient reports, we can only keep them in the ICU. We can’t afford compromising the rest of our wards. To my mind, the city needs a common government facility, where all symptomatic patients can be kept. Since Covid is a huge health emergency, for which we have to pool in, we are all doing our job anyway.”Dr Vijay Mahajan, CMD, Tagore Hospital and Heart Care Centre, said: “In a month-and-a-half, we are approaching a very critical period. This period will require extreme degree of caution from all people. Right now, they aren’t that serious about the virus. They take it lightly and there is a casual approach about social distancing. Even the young end up transmitting the virus to the elderly. With case spike, the scenario is also reflected at hospitals. It’s getting more difficult to tell who might have Covid. Even random diarrhoea, heart disease or other asymptomatic patients might be carriers. Separated triage areas is the only possible solution to keep larger infections at bay. There is increased frequency of cases everywhere. While we supervise the establishment set up for Covid at the Gulab Devi Hospital, all hospitals are likely to see a spike given rise in cases.”“Private hospitals are operating as per the prices capped by the government. The maximum brunt is likely to be felt by the poor and underprivileged patients for whom medical treatment will be out of bounds. While the government price capped is fairly reasonable, the government health sector shall have to watch out for poor patients also government employees who can’t afford medical costs.”DoctorspeakFrom the initial days to now, costs have escalated manifold. Capping rates as per government directions in only possible for hospitals which have 30 or more patients. The rest who have four to five patients can't sustain capping. For every single feature, costs have been massively escalated. Even for biomedical waste, private companies are asking for Rs30,000 per month. The waste segregation itself costs us thousands per patient. For one patient's waste, Rs10,000 per month is the cost from segregation to disposal. Over 125 people have been admitted to our hospital alone. Besides, once a symptomatic Covid positive patient reports, we can only keep them in the ICU. We can't afford compromising the rest of our wards. — Dr Navjot Dahiya, president, IMA, Punjab ChapterIn a month-and-a-half, we are approaching a very critical period. This period will require extreme degree of caution from all people. Right now, they aren't that serious about the virus. They take it lightly and there is a casual approach about social distancing. Even the young end up transmitting the virus to the elderly. Private hospitals are operating as per the prices capped by the government. The maximum brunt is likely to be felt by the poor and underprivileged patients for whom medical treatment will be out of bounds. While the government price cap is fairly reasonable, the government health sector shall have to watch out for poor patients, also government employees, who can't afford medical costs. — Dr Vijay Mahajan, CMD, Tagore Hospital and Heart Care Centre||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-protocol-amplifies-private-hospitals-worries-in-jalandhar-127118
17-08-2020||Open House||Reckless move that wreaked havoc on flora & fauna||A haste and careless decision by excise deptThe recent incident of dumping lahan (molasses), raw liquor, before distillation to promote fermentation covered under the Section 13A of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914, from villages of Bholewal Jadid and Rajjapur into the Sutlej is a sheer act of negligence and deliberate misconduct by the police officials. The act of disposal did not account for the potential damage it can cause to the aquatic life and groundwater levels of toxicity. The Punjab Irrigation Department working under the Department of Water Resources, Punjab, should have sought guidance vide Circular No. 30 of 2019 under the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs for disposal of waste, raw material through distilleries in liquor production. The state government must impose monetary and relief measures to restore the river. Why were the authorities hasty and negligent to dispose the material uncalled for? This incident highlights the urgent need by the Supreme Court, in consultation with the National Green Tribunal (NGT), to establish certain stringent protocols for the public authorities to follow in accordance with the World Health Organization’s (WHO) guidelines for safe disposal of unwanted pharmaceuticals in and after emergencies.Pahul SondAquatic life exposed to dangersSaddened and stunned to read the news of throwing 2.5 lakh litres of lahan into the Sutlej. If the substance was dangerous for humans to consume, it will also pose a threat to the lives of water animals. They have polluted the water badly which is also used for irrigation. They should have adopted some scientific means by filling landfills considering the fact that they are far away from urban areas. Atleast this would have reduced the risk of health hazards. The government should think about it seriously and come out with some alternate method in consultation with environmental agencies.SHASHI KIRANWorst case of officials’ negligenceMahatma Gandhi once said: ‘There is enough in this world for everyone’s need but not enough for one man’s greed.’ And this is a classic example of man’s greed. There is no doubt about the nexus between the excise officials, police and bootleggers who allow the sale of such poisonous liquor to the gullible. Even more tragic is that the lower strata of the society and labour class are the most vulnerable group. The alibi about the lockdown period resulting in such tragedy doesn’t carry any weight. It is their sheer negligence paving way for this tragedy. The government has rightly punished some officials of the police and Excise Department. This hooch tragedy is the worst case of officials’ apathy, negligence and complicity. How to get rid of the lahan is a million dollar question. A few years back a distillery threw its by-product in Beas river resulting in death of various aquatic animals. That distillery was duly penalised. Either it should have been drained in a well-like-pit near the river bank away from the population or it could have been done away with along the lines of some South-East Asian countries did the narcotic drugs a few years back – by burning.Dr JS WadhwaDetailed guidelines for disposing neededBy throwing huge quantity of seized lahan into the Sutlej, the police and Excise Department officials have committed a crime against the environment and the soul of Punjab. Apart from initiating disciplinary action, a criminal complaint should also be lodged against the wrongdoers. It is shocking to learn that there exist no guidelines regarding scientific disposal of such seizures. Even then, the erring officials, being government representatives and responsible public officers expected to be environment friendly, should have refrained from throwing the pollutants into the river. However, PPCB must take up the matter with NGT for finalising detailed guidelines on the subject. Upon the bedrock of such guidelines, the Excise Department, may prepare SOP for its strict implementation by the field officials.Jagdish ChanderPolice need to be more stringent on violationsThe disposal of lahan (illicit liquor) in the river not only leads to the pollution but also leads to high level of Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), posing threat to life in water. The greater the BOD, the more rapidly dissolved oxygen depletes in the water. Lahan is produced by fermenting a mixture of water, jaggery, dry fruits and other ingredients, but once it ferments, it contains alcohol and several other by-products which are impure and poisonous. Even the jaggery and its related products, such as molasses are highly harmful for aquatic life. There are no proper rules on how it should be destroyed and hence officials simply dump it in water, which should be stopped immediately. The Punjab police need to be stringent on this matter and punish the culprits.Saahil HansCrackdown on peddlers is a positive stepFollowing the recent hooch tragedy that claimed numerous innocent lives in the Majha region of Punjab, the massive statewide crackdown by police and excise officials on bootleggers, chemical units and distilleries is a positive step. But the manner in which huge quantities of seized lahan were handled and disposed of in the Sutlej (or in open fields) has raised many hackles. While parties are politicising the issue for electoral gains, it has ignited an unsavoury war of words between the top excise authorities and the concerned environmentalists. Denying the toxicity and ill-effects of the said material and expressing ignorance about the government rules for its proper management, the former have defended their action, but the latter have vehemently criticised it. Undoubtedly, lahan, whether fermented or not, is a poisonous substance containing high levels of chemicals, including ethanol and methanol. It contaminates soil and water, and adversely impacts human and aquatic life, agriculture and environment. The highly polluted Sutlej is already under the scanner of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) which has imposed a fine of Rs 50 crore on the state government for its failure to control pollution in Sutlej and Beas rivers. Emulating the guidelines of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) of the US, the State should formulate policies to dispose of lahan in scientific ways like neutralisation, evaporation and oxidisation or it can outrightly be burned as it is highly flammable. Besides taking strict action against the erring police and excise officials in the present case, the authorities should tighten the noose on all unscrupulous perpetrators of illicit liquor causing humongous loss of excise and life.DS KangQUESTIONThe state government has imposed night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am in all cities. Do you think it will help in checking the spread of Covid-19?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (August 20).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/reckless-move-that-wreaked-havoc-on-flora-fauna-127119
17-08-2020||---||Fighting for rights: Protests mark I-Day celebrations||Jalandhar, August 16Demanding ‘Equal wages for equal work, withdrawal of farm ordinances promulgated by the Central Government, members of the Joint Action Committee, Bhartiya Kissan Union and Kissan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee marked the 73rd celebrations of Independence Day with protests in the district.The union members carried out the protest march at various locations of the city and submitted their memorandum to the DC. Effigies of the Central and state government were also burnt.Holding placards in their hands, workers, under the banner of the Joint Action Committee, continued their demonstration for over two hours at the Nakodar Chowk. The roadways contractual workers, who also joined the protest, demanded an end to the financial slavery of the government.“Even after performing Covid duties, the Transport Department has announced to deduct the already meagre salaries of the contractual workers. Our allowances have already been withdrawn,” said, Gurpreet Singh, a contractual worker. The workers demanded equal wages for equal work, implementation of old pension scheme, reissuance of mobile allowances, end of privatisation and commercialisation, end to exploitation by bureaucracy and several others.Similarly, raising slogans against the Modi government, farmers under the banner of ‘Bhartiya Kissan Union’, after conducting a protest marched assembled at the district administration complex and burnt the copies of farm ordinances promulgated by the Central government.Apart from showing their dissent against the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, the farmers urged the government to curb the trade of farm produce through private dealers.The farmers said, this time, there was a margin of over Rs 500 in the sale of maize and Basmati rice.Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Sultanpur Lodhi, on Saturday, also held a protest at the SDM office in Sultanpur Lodhi, against the delay in disbursement of subsidies and compensation.Gurlal Singh Pandori, state treasurer of the committee, said, besides farm ordinances, we also oppose the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 as it may adversely hit free power to farmers. The government should also roll back the diesel price hike.Declaring the state government as a ‘failed government’ that couldn’t benefit farmers, farm producers demanded the ordinances to be withdrawn and threatened to intensify their protest if the government failed to meet their demands.Cases registered against 45 protestersThe police registered cases against 45 persons, while 15 of them have been identified, for raising 'Khalistan Zindabad' slogans at BR Ambedkar Chowk here. Sikh organisations, including women and other minority groups, demanded 'Freedom of Khalistan' amid the Independence Day celebrations. While the Khalistani supporters declared their arrest unjust, police claimed that they broke Covid safety guidelines. In order to 'put an end' to the protest, cops took them away in a van at the Police Lines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fighting-for-rights-protests-mark-i-day-celebrations-127120
17-08-2020||---||Nurse fights Covid, official apathy||Jalandhar, August 16A 37-year-old nurse, who had been working at the Civil Hospital for the past 10 years, did not receive a single call from the hospital authorities and the district administration after she tested Covid-19 positive.Her five family members, including her 9-month-old-niece and 65-year-old father, too, tested positive. The family had been denied groceries and milk in their neighbourhood and the nurse has been taking care of her niece (as her mother tested negative and can’t mingle with her).While test report of the nurse had come out positive on August 6, her father, who is a heart patient, developed serious health issues today. Nurse’s brother, who is also positive, gave CPR to his father as none of the staff members turned up.The nurse said, “I have been working at the hospital for the last 10 years. After getting exposed to Covid patients, I got infected. I had fever and was advised rest.”She said, “I got tested and my reports came out positive. After some days, my family was tested. My father, mother, 9-year-old niece and two brothers tested positive. My parents and one brother are at the Civil Hospital. I am looking after my niece at home. My sister-in-law and nephew tested negative.”She said some health officials who came from a nearby dispensary spread the news in the neighbourhood, since then nobody has come forward for assistance.“We are facing problem in buying grocery and milk. The milkman has stopped coming and neighbours stay away from us. A cousin brings essentials at night. I have fought for patients at the Civil Hospital, but no one cared for me and my family. We are hated by neighbours and senior health officials have not contacted us. Only my fellow staff nurses check on my parents.” “The dispensary staff asked my family to get tested. They stood in the rain with my nine-year-old niece. Their turn came after five hours,” she said. The nurse said, “Frontline staff is lauded at the hospitals, but we have been forgotten.”District sees 122 new cases, six deathsJalandhar: With as many as 122 people testing positive in the district on Sunday, the tally has risen to 4,057. With six more deaths in the district, the deceased tally has also risen to 108. With 15 people testing positive on August 15 (Saturday) and 13 (Sunday), as many as 28 people were tested positive in Kapurthala in the past two days. The number includes 13 police personnel, 12 of whom are employees of the police station Talwandi Chaudhrian. Others tested positive include patients from Sultanpur Lodhi, Patal Nagar (Kapurthala), Green Avenue, Ajit Nagar, Sheikhupur among other areas. TNSOne death in hoshiarpurHoshiarpur: With the confirmation of 23 new cases of Covid-19 in the district on Sunday, the tally of patients has increased to 850, while one patient was confirmed to be Covid-19 positive after her death in Chandigarh on Saturday. A 36-year-old woman from Kandhala Shekhan village died on Saturday. She was found positive in the report after her death. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nurse-fights-covid-official-apathy-127121
17-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Two held with opium, liquor||Hoshiarpur, August 16The district police have arrested two persons and seized opium and smuggled liquor from them in four cases, while three persons fled the spot on seeing police.According to information, the Garhdiwala police in Raghwal village nabbed a biker and seized one kg of opium from him. The accused has been identified as Talwinder Singh, alias Bhinda, a resident of Katheda. He has been booked under the NDPS Act.The Mahilpur police during raid at Gajjar village recovered 84 bottles of liquor. On seeing a police party, accused Harmesh Lal fled the spot. Similarly, the police during raid at Jandiala village recovered 50 cases of liquor. Smuggler Harbans Singh, alias Kaka, fled the spot. The police have registered two cases under the Excise Act.The Chabbewal police during raid at Parsowal village recovered 28 bottles of liquor. On seeing the police, smuggler Ram Lubhaya fled the spot. In another case, the city police nabbed Pradeep Kumar, a resident of Mohalla Marwaha, and seized 11 bottles of liquor from him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-with-opium-liquor-127122
17-08-2020||Jalandhar||Rainwater harvesting projects in Jalandhar to check groundwater depletion||To prevent wastage of water and replenish the groundwater source, the administration will construct 15 rooftop rainwater harvesting systems in various blocks of the district during the financial year.The work on three rooftop rainwater harvesting systems in Nakodar has already been accomplished and construction on other sites would start soon. These rooftop rainwater harvesting systems are being constructed under the Integrated Watershed Management Programme in convergence with the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. The entire project will cost around Rs 36 lakh.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the groundwater table had been dipping constantly in the district and all 10 blocks of the district had been declared ‘overexploited’. He said the rainwater harvesting systems would help recharge groundwater. He said the 15 systems would save 35 lakh litres of water annually.Thori said in August, three rainwater harvesting systems were installed in Nakodar and others would be built in Lohian, Shahkot and Phillaur.The DC said the Punjab Government was making efforts to arrest the depletion of groundwater. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rainwater-harvesting-projects-in-jalandhar-to-check-groundwater-depletion-127123
17-08-2020||Talwara (Hoshiarpur)||Nature unleashes its wrath||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nature-unleashes-its-wrath-127135
