17-12-2020||Phagwara||Guru Nanak Chair at LPU soon||Placement drive at GNA UniversityAll graduates of BTech Mechanical and Automation Engineering of GNA University have got placed with big corporate companies. CR Tripathy, Dean Faculty of Engineering and Automation, said almost all candidates who completed their B Tech Mechanical and Automation this year got placements in NTF India Ltd, BYJU’s, Parametric Design solution- Siemens Parnter, AppleTree Building Company, Usha Martin, Hero EcoTech, New Swan and many more with the unflinching support and dedication of both the faculty and students. Gurdeep Singh Sihra, Pro-Chancellor, GNA University, congratulated all the selected students.Principal awardedJalandhar: To support and empower women an “Education and Social Service Award Ceremony” was held at HMV College by International Human Rights’ Organisation affiliated to United Nations and International Bar Association. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen received the Award of Appreciation for her efforts in the field of ‘Education and Women Empowerment’ from Hari Om Jindal, Ambassador Election Commission, Aman Mittal, Director International Human Rights Organisation, SK Sharma, president, Punjab Human Rights Organisation, advocate Amritpal Singh Bharaj, General Secretary, Punjab Human Rights, and advocate Ram Chhabra, Legal Advisor, Punjab Human Rights. Principal Sareen expressed her thanks to the authorities and stressed upon the need of equality between men and women in every field.Cleanliness drive by NCC cadetsThe cadets of NCC Air Wing of Police DAV Public School, Jalandhar, carried out cleanliness activities to prevent Covid-19 at their homes and surroundings. The students did the activities in and around their homes and posted videos and photos. The event was held under the guidance of principal Dr Rashmi Vij, and their in charge. The students also spread awareness regarding washing of hands and maintaining cleanliness.DAVIET students get jobsNine MBA students of DAV Institute of Engineering and Technology have got placed with HDFC Bank at a pay package of Rs 3.5 LPA. The selected students are Inderjot, Aditya, Palkinjot, Garima, Radhika Kapoor, Shivam Mahajan, Kashish, Sunayna Arora and K Gopiha. Sushil Prashar, Head, department of training and placement, along with Vishav Kapoor, Ratish Bhardwaj and Kalpana Sharma appreciated the hard work put in by the students and highlighted that special efforts were done to invite companies to hire students of DAVIET in pandemic situation. Dr Manoj Kumar, principal DAVIET congratulated the students on their success. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/guru-nanak-chair-at-lpu-soon-185553
17-12-2020||Nawanshahr Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal held a meeting on Wednesday in which she announced that OPD services will resume in the government hospitals. The Deputy Commissioner said during the pandemic||OPD services resume in district||TB awareness drive starts‘TB di dawayi de course nu adhoora chadna matlab vaddi keemat chukana’ read the posters that are being distributed among masses to make them aware of Tuberculosis. ‘Finding active TB cases’ drive was started on Wednesday in the district. The drive will continue till January 14 under which ASHA workers will visit every household and find the patients. The workers will also distribute pamphlets to make people aware so that they could understand the symptoms. Senior Medical Officer Dr Harwinder Singh said medicine for TB is available for free in all the government hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/opd-services-resume-in-district-185552
17-12-2020||---||Santokh Singh Chaudhary seeks winter session of Parliament||Jalandhar, December 16Hitting out at the Centre on Wednesday, Jalandhar Congress MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary said the government had made the farm laws an issue of ego and instead of holding discussions in good faith, the BJP ministers are trying to discredit and defame the annadata. He demanded that the government should immediately call the winter session of Parliament to repeal the farm laws.He said, “On the one hand, ministers are negotiating with farmer unions, while on the other, the BJP is labelling annadata as Khalistanis, Pakistanis, naxals, Maoists and terrorists. Our sons of soil fill the government’s granaries and fight at international borders, but this ungrateful regime only insults them by using these baseless labels for them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/santokh-singh-chaudhary-seeks-winter-session-of-parliament-185551
17-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||‘We respect Ayurveda, but surgery domain of experts’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 16After a preliminary meeting and a strike on December 11 in response to the complete bandh call by the IMA on the issue of Mixopathy, IMA doctors in the district are now adopting the wait and watch policy over the controversial issue.While OPDs and elective surgeries remained closed on December 11 in response to the national bandh call, doctors say they were with IMA’s national unit’s stance on the issue as it concerns the Centre.Jalandhar — Asia’s biggest medicare hub thrives on services by allopathic doctors. It is also a medical tourism hub with super specialty centres catering to both NRIs and domestic patients from the neighbouring states of Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. In a city with myriad medical experts, Centre’s newest notification has been met with apprehension and skepticism.Postgraduate students of certain streams of Ayurveda were authorised to perform 58 surgical procedures as per a gazette notification issued by the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), a Ministry of AYUSH statutory body recently.Dr Navjot Dahiya, president, IMA Punjab, said: “Our local bodies take call on local issues, but in this case we are following the call of the national body. We are not against any stream of medicine. We respect all streams of medicine, but we just want all doctors to practice the very stream they have been trained in. A regular doctor completes his studies then does a three-year residency and then does a further fellowship and super specialisation. A surgical or super specialist doctor has a learning curve of an average 11 to 12 years. The Ayush doctors should get trained for as many years to have expertise in surgery. Citizens have a right to choose people who are fully qualified. We welcome all doctors to conduct surgeries but first their qualification should be on a par with doctors currently conducting surgeries. Rational educational policy with equal chances to all. In current form, mixopathy will open ways for ayurvedic doctors to operate with existing qualifications. The question is can they claim as much expertise in surgeries as doctors who studied 12 years do?”District IMA president Dr Pankaj Paul said: “We are going by our national body since it is a Central issue. We kept OPDs closed in response to the national call and we shall abide by the national body’s further instructions. Having said that, the recent notification denotes a significant change. As a pediatrician, I can’t carry out a cesarean surgery. Different horse should have different courses. We can’t mix and match both. Finally, the layman will have to decide who he wants to do his surgery.”“The question is what is the use of studying for three-and-a-half-years and doing three years’ masters in surgery if an ayurvedic doctor can also do the same thing in much less time? We could rather have something known as Indiopathy. Integrate all this and create a new stream. I am all for ayurvedic system of medicine. But major surgeries need years of training and expertise and are the domain of experts. Ayurvedic doctors themselves also know their limitations well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/we-respect-ayurveda-but-surgery-domain-of-experts-185550
17-12-2020||Hoshiarpur||Chabbewal MLA joins farmers’ stir at Singhu border, cooks langar||Joining farmers’ dharna at Singhu border in Delhi against the three agriculture laws framed by the Union Government, MLA from Chabbewal constituency Dr Raj Kumar took a dig at the Punjab BJP leaders. He asked them to be at the side of the country’s farmers and voice their grievances before the Centre instead of being a pawn of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Chabbewal said the Union Government was hurting democracy by not listening to the people of the country, in which the Punjab BJP leaders were equally responsible, as they had failed miserably in conveying the voice of farmers to the Centre. He said it was unfortunate that farmers all over the country were standing up against the agriculture laws and on the other hand the leaders of Centre and BJP were adamantly trying to prove that these laws were beneficial.Accusing Punjab BJP leaders of not standing with farmers, he said if BJP leaders were claiming that they were attached to the soil of Punjab, then why were they running away from pursuing the case of country’s benefactors and becoming pawns of the Centre?He termed BJP, Shiromani Akali Dal and Aam Aadmi Party as anti-farmer parties and said there was a stark difference between what they preached and followed. Blaming the Centre for further marginalising farmers, he said the BJP, Shiromani Akali Dal and Aam Aadmi Party were just pretending to be farmer-friendly, for which the people of the country would surely teach them a lesson. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chabbewal-mla-joins-farmers-stir-at-singhu-border-cooks-langar-185549
17-12-2020||---||Vajra Corps celebrates Vijay Diwas||Jalandhar, December 16Vajra Corps celebrated Vijay Diwas on Wednesday to commemorate the stellar victory of the Indian Armed Forces over Pakistan in the 1971 war.Lt Gen C Bansi Ponnappa, General Officer Commanding, Vajra Corps, and serving personnel of Vajra Corps in Jalandhar Military Station and other stations paid homage and tributes to the martyrs in a solemn wreath laying ceremony held at the Vajra Shaurya Sthal.On this day, 49 years ago, the Vajra Corps, known as the ‘Defenders of Punjab’, had proven its mettle on the strategic Western front and achieved its objectives with elan and vigour capturing key territory and preventing enemy attempts. The historic victory had signified a unique and unparalleled feat, wherein the Armed Forces fought both on Eastern and Western front and liberated the people of East Pakistan leading to the creation of Bangladesh.During the war, operations in Vajra Corps Sector saw major battles at Dera Baba Nanak, Burj-Fatehpur and Sehjra where the enemy was pushed back. A proud nation conferred nine Maha Vir Chakras, 50 Vir Chakras and numerous other awards to the valiant men of the Vajra Corps during the 1971 war for their courage and selfless service to the nation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vajra-corps-celebrates-vijay-diwas-185548
17-12-2020||Jalandhar||Groom stays true to farmers’ stir||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/groom-stays-true-to-farmers-stir-185547
17-12-2020||Garhshankar||Rs 4L looted from hardware trader||Video of youths firing in air viralHoshiarpur: A video of youths firing in the air at a party has gone viral on social media. In a small video clip of a few seconds, some youngsters could be seen partying at an unknown place. A few other youngsters were also seen partying, having drinks while one of them was shooting the video. As the video became viral and was brought to the notice of the city police by some residents, the police have started probe. SHO Gobinder Kumar said he had came across the video on social media and the police have started the investigation. He said attempts were being made to identify them and when the incident actually took place and where. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-4l-looted-from-hardware-trader-185546
17-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||Throwing away the fear!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 16After falling off from a cliff of around 50-ft in 1998, not only Gurdeep Singh was hurt badly but also his fortunes.He was 25 then – and a top national javelin thrower known for classy throws. Due to his excellent performances in junior national and senior national championships, he had also got inducted in the Punjab Police in 1994.Now, a shot put and javelin throw coach at Sports College Jalandhar, he goes back in time to recollect the rueful incident. “I had gone to Germany for improving my skills and performance. I was returning to my apartment after a training session and lost control of my bicycle and its handle pierced through my spine during the fall.” As it was an isolated area, nobody was there to help and the whole night passed moaning and groaning in pain. Following this, it took him two months to get out of the hospital bed. With upper body showing signs of recovery, a wheelchair-bound Gurdeep returned to India. “My treatment continued here for months and I was bed-ridden for over a month at a private hospital,” he shares.When all efforts drained in making his legs move, a personal physiotherapist was sought. Gradually, he would start visiting the institution to see other players. In 2003, when he was sitting on a bench with a walker next to him, a senior coach asked me if I could train the young players. “I was numb and didn’t know how to respond. I even thought he was pulling my leg, but to my surprise he motivated me and encouraged me to impart my skills to the newcomers,” he tells. Later, not only he coached other players but also threw away the fear to discover his potential to stand again. However, it was only after six drawn-out years he could walk again. “But I was happy I could move my legs,” the 46-year-old says.Popularly known as Baba (his coach had nicknamed him after an Asian Championships shot put gold medallist) among his students, he has trained many national and international players at Sports College. Impressed with their performance, players from UP, Haryana and Delhi also approached him for training. Apart from this, he also trains disabled players the resident of Bhagwant Daspura is currently serving as an ASI in the Punjab Police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/throwing-away-the-fear-185545
17-12-2020||---||Covid-19: 68 +ve in Jalandhar district, no death reported||Jalandhar, December 16With 68 new cases, the total number of Covid positive cases reached 19,268 in the district on Wednesday. In a huge relief, no new Covid death was reported today. The total number of deceased persons in Jalandhar due to Covid is 608 so far. There are 699 active cases in the district so far and 17,961 people have been discharged, while 476 are under home isolation in Jalandhar at present.Meanwhile, Kapurthala district saw 11 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday in the district and two people succumbed to the virus. The deceased include a 70-year-old man from Ramgarh village, who died at Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, and a 68-year-old man from Ramgarh village, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.18 positive in HoshiarpurThe district reported 18 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the infection tally to 7,406. On Wednesday, Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 1,274 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken. Hence, total samples taken so far is 2,17,085. He said while no death was reported today, 284 people have died in the district so far. The Civil Surgeon said out of today’s 18 positive cases, six cases were related to the city, while the remaining were from various health blocks of the district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-68-ve-in-jalandhar-district-no-death-reported-185436
17-12-2020||---||Online service for revenue records begins||Kapurthala, December 16To provide revenue-related services in an easy way, the district Kapurthala has started the online services of demarcation of land and non-encumbrance certificate.Terming it a giant leap towards the efficiency and effectiveness in the most complex revenue system, Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said the services had been provided via RCMS portal (www.rcmspunjab.gov.in).She said necessary updation of RCMS portal had been done and a link of this had also been provided through main portal.Talking about the process to avail these services, she said that the applicant would have to submit application for demarcation online through this portal and in case the applicant cannot submit the application online, then applicant can either go to the Fard Kendra, Sewa Kendra or directly to the office of Circle Revenue Officer (CRO) and submit application.She also said that the processing of the applications would be trackeable and its disposal and access will be available to public and the controlling officers. She said that the training had been imparted to the district system managers/ assistant system managers, tehsildars/naib tehsildars, readers and kanungo. She also made it clear that all applications regarding these revenue services would be processed only via RCMS portal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-service-for-revenue-records-begins-185437
17-12-2020||---||Watchman’s murder solved, three arrested||Jalandhar, December 16The city police on Wednesday solved the murder case of a watchman by arresting three accused, including two juveniles, and seized the weapon used in the crime, victim’s mobile and purse.The accused have been identified as Arjun (19), a resident of Ambedkar Nagar, Ladhewali, and two other minors. The police have also recovered a wooden handle used in the crime, watchman’s mobile and a purse containing his pictures and other documents.Disclosing more information, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said on December 8, the police control room had received an information that the body of Pardeep Pathak (50), who was working as a watchman in Metal Corporation Factory near Suranussi, was lying in a pool of blood.After this, a team of police station-1 reached the spot and found that the watchman’s body had severe head injuries and his legs were tied with a piece of cloth.“Factory owner Dinesh Mohindroo told the police that the watchman was working there for the past 32 years and was living in a room of the factory. The complainant said the factory was not in a working condition and a huge quantity of iron scrap, copper and discarded machines were lying there. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (cts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) was registered against unidentified persons, as per his statements,” Bhullar said.Afterwards, a team of CIA staff-1 was pressed for service. After scanning the CCTV cameras near the factory, the cops managed to trace the accused.“During interrogation, key accused Arjun told that he, along with two other juveniles, used to target the abandoned factories for stealing iron scrap and on December 8 night ( between 11 pm to 12 am), they barged into the factory by scaling the rear wall. However, upon spotting them, watchman Pardeep started shouting and making calls through his mobile. To take him down, they killed him and stole 1-quintal iron from the factory,” Bhullar said. The accused would be produced in local courts and main accused Arjun would be taken on police remand for further investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/watchmans-murder-solved-three-arrested-185438
17-12-2020||---||21 booked for carving out illegal colonies||Jalandhar, December 16Cracking down heavily on unauthorised colonisers, the Commissionerate Police on Wednesday registered eight FIRs against 21 persons in various police stations.The accused have been identified as Mangat Ram of Mithapur, Surjeet Kaur, Ranjeet Kaur, Anil Kumar, Gurpal Singh of Jamsher, Jarnail Singh, Nirmal Kaur of Pholriwal, Munish Data of Kalia Colony, Malkiat Singh of Office Colony, Sofi Pind, Gurmit Kaur, Harjinder Kaur, Palwinder Kaur, Palwinder Singh of Khaira Majha, Madan Baldev Singh, Makhan Singh, Lakhvir Singh, Amritpal Singh, Ravinder Kumar of 66 Feet Road, Rajwinder Kaur, Chuman Mishra of Maqsudan and Rajesh Kumar of Urban Estate Phase-1.The FIRs have been registered under Sections 3, 5, 8, 9, 14(2), 15, 18, 21 and 36 (Amendment) of the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act 1995 (Amendment Act 2014) in various police stations on the complaint of Jalandhar Development Authority.CP Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the Commissionerate police had been conducting a thorough probe in these cases and would arrest the perpetrators behind the development of the illegal colonies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/21-booked-for-carving-out-illegal-colonies-185439
17-12-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Endless wait to get 1971 war hero back home||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 16As the country celebrated the 49th Vijay Diwas on Wednesday, the family of 1971 war hero Mangal Singh based at Rama Mandi here is hoping that their endless wait to meet him ends soon.For the past 49 years, the soldier’s brave wife Satya Devi (75) has been pinning hope that her husband lodged in a Pakistan jail would return home soon. Having raised her two sons, all alone, who were aged three and five years at the time when her husband went missing, she said it was they who had been doing all the correspondence with the Indian Government these days to find a solution.Her son Lance Naik Daljit Singh, who has served in the Indian Army for seven years, said, “My mother has single-handedly carried out the fight to bring back my husband all her life. She used to stitch clothes to make ends meet. It was her regular correspondence with the Army officials that she managed to get a quarter for us at Thamaiya Park here. I was in Class II when my father’s Commanding Officer RK Singh, Vir Chakra awardee, called us to Bihar and took adequate care of us. His regiment took care of me and my younger brother Baljinder Singh for our school education and my mother began taking stitching classes for women there.” Having been discharged from the army, Daljit and his brother are currently into taxi driving work here.All these years, the mother has met every person who returned from Kot Lakhpat Jail. She has been visiting every house of Pak jail returnee to inquire about her husband. “They all say that some 1971 war heroes are still lodged in the jail. Once or twice, she even managed to receive a message from him which determined her to keep the fight spirit alive,” Daljit added, before opening up more, “I too have written several posts to the government. Along with her, I have met many ex-External Affairs Ministers. Every time we go, we only get an assurance. But we certainly have to get our family member back.” He only has one picture with his dad, which he has preserved at his ancestral village Daroli Khurd in Adampur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/endless-wait-to-get-1971-war-hero-back-home-185440
