18-08-2020||Jalandhar||Water no more ‘an elixir of life’ for Jalandhar's Bhargo Camp area residents||Limited water supply in some areas of Bhargo Camp has been troubling its residents. Those residing in the area near the government school said this was an old problem and several promises were made in the past, but nothing has happened so far.They said when they turn on the tap, contaminated and dirty water trickles down for around 15 minutes.Vijay Kumar, a resident, claimed that residents suffer from disease such as diarrhoea because of contaminated water supply.Another resident Ram said a year had passed and they were still listening to the claims of the authorities that the problem would be resolved. “Bhargo Camp has one major problem of limited water supply. We don’t get troubled by anything else, but this is something, which is a basic necessity of life, and if we don’t get clean drinking water, how will things work?” he asked.Councillor of Ward Number 35, Geeta, said the tender to install tube well in the area would be floated on August 20. “With the installation of the tube well, the problem of the area will get resolved,” she said. One of the residents, seeking anonymity, said he had been listening to this claim for the past one year, but the ground results were never seen. The councillor said the work got delayed due to some reason or the other, but it would be completed now.Recently, the residents of Mohalla Chaar Marla in the Model House of Ward Number 38 had also complained of lack of proper water supply. Not only this, the water being supplied was black in colour, they had said. They said they were suffering a lot because of contaminated water supply. This problem is not only prevalent in these areas, but around 25 houses in Mohalla Karar Khan of Ward Number 66 are the most affected and are compelled to bring water for their daily needs from a nearby gurdwara. Leaky old sewerage and water pipes have not been changed for years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/water-no-more-an-elixir-of-life-for-jalandhars-bhargo-camp-area-residents-127750
18-08-2020||Jalandhar||201 cases! Highest single-day spike ever in Jalandhar||The district witnessed the highest single-day spike ever with 201 patients testing positive for Covid-19 on Monday.While 201 people tested positive in the district, seven were from other districts, taking the tally of positive cases to 218. From 4,057 cases on Sunday, the cases shot up to 4,258 on Monday. With three more Covid deaths, the toll also increased to 111 in the district.4 new cases in HoshiarpurFour new Covid-19 positive cases including two from Jalandhar and two from Amritsar were reported in the district on Monday. With this, the number of positive cases increased to 854. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said 42,243 samples have been taken in the district so far of which 38,121 samples tested negative. On Monday, 1,074 samples were taken. There are 132 active cases in the district so far and 697 patients have been cured. He appealed to pregnant women and children up to 10 years to stay home to help prevent the spread of the disease. OCThe deceased include a 60-year-old man who died at the DMCH in Ludhiana, a 44-year-old man from Nangal village in Phillaur, who died at the Civil Hospital, Ludhiana, and a 37-year-old man from Raseela Nagar.Doctors said the increased co-morbidities among the people of the district have also given way to increase in cases. Interestingly, doctors said the 37-year-old man from Raseela Nagar, who died on Monday, did not have any co-morbidity as per his family. This makes him the youngest man, without any co-morbidity, to die in the district.Those who tested positive on Monday are people from Kusht Ashram (Leper’s Colony) Jalandhar, Phillaur police station and Sarih village among other areas.Areas from where people tested positive, include Phillaur, Nakodar, Lohian Khas, Model Town, Lajpat Nagar, Garha and Sheikhan Bazaar among others.In the past few days, Covid has hit various privileged people as well. Dozens of police personnel, the nephew of a senior BJP leader, several employees of the Civil Hospital are among those, who have tested positive. The Nodal officer at Jalandhar also tested positive for Covid recently, and a couple of Civil Hospital employees are also among those who tested positive.As many as 10 deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours. With 3,222 cases on August 10, there has been an over 1,000 case pile up in the past week with cases rising to 4,258 today.Meanwhile, 27 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Kapurthala on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/201-cases-highest-single-day-spike-ever-in-jalandhar-127751
18-08-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar DC caps price for rapid antigen tests at Rs1,000 in Punjab||Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Monday said the Punjab Government had capped the rate of Covid-19 testing through Rapid Antigen Testing Kits by private labs at Rs1,000.The DC said no private laboratory should charge more than Rs1,000 for Covid-19 testing using the Rapid Antigen Testing Kits. He said this amount includes cost involved in home collection of samples, testing, documentation and reporting in the state.Notably, earlier the rate of RT-PCR testing was capped at Rs2,400 by the state government.Thori said all testing protocols, as mandated by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Government of India, and the state government from time to time, must be followed by all private labs.He said private labs must share data about the results of Covid tests with the state government and upload on the ICMR portal on a real-time basis. The DC said at the time of sampling, the identification and address and verified mobile number of the person being tested must be recorded and uploaded on RT-PCR test. He said private labs must maintain the patient’s information with utmost confidentiality. He said all private labs must display the rate of rapid antigen testing prominently. He said the use of these new kits would help in detecting positive cases soon, as the results would be available within 30 minutes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-dc-caps-price-for-rapid-antigen-tests-at-rs1-000-in-punjab-127752
18-08-2020||Kapurthala||Malls to close at 8 pm, hotels by 8.30 pm in Jalandhar||Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal has ordered additional restrictions within the municipal limits of all cities with effect from tomorrow till further orders on account of a sudden rise in Covid cases.Under the new restrictions, movement of individuals for non-essential activities will remain prohibited between 9 pm and 5 am within the municipal limits. She said hospitality units will be allowed to work till 8.30 pm along with restaurants and hotels situated within the shopping malls. Liquor vends, too, will remain open till 8.30 pm while shops and shopping malls can stay open till 8 pm.However, essential activities including operation of multiple shifts, movement of person and goods on national and state highways, unloading of cargo and travel of people after disembarking from buses, trains and aeroplanes will be permitted. Similarly, all industries running into two-three shifts will also remain open. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/malls-to-close-at-8-pm-hotels-by-8-30-pm-in-jalandhar-127753
18-08-2020||Jalandhar||PSPCL cracks whip on power theft||In a bid to curb huge losses caused by power theft, the joint teams of the distribution and enforcement wing of the North zone of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) on Monday slapped a penalty of Rs13.50 lakh on the defaulting consumers.Five teams led by the senior executive engineers of Jalandhar, Phagwara and Kapurthala raided the areas, including the dairy complex, Jamsher, Mithapur, Labh Singh Nagar, Aman Nagar, Ramneek Avenue, Noorpur and Maqsudan. The PSPCL teams checked around 350 electricity connections in the zone and detected around 15 cases of power theft, misuse of electricity, wrong metering, overload and other irregularities.20-yr-old linesman electrocuted Dasuha (Hoshiarpur): A 20-year-old linesman, who had gone to turn on the tube-well motor, died after being electrocuted at Basoha village. According to the information, Gurbhej Singh, son of Mahinder Singh of Pul Pukhta, Tanda, used to work as a contractual employee in a private company. He went to start the motor in Basoha village on Monday, but while checking the line on the pole, he got trapped in the wires. He received serious burn injuries and died on the spot. The body was brought down and police action was being taken on the basis of the complaint of the family members. OCElaborating on it, Sukhpal Singh, Senior XEN, Enforcement Wing, said, raids were conducted early in the morning and it was found that the consumers were stealing power through kundi connections or bypassing the energy meters. Similarly, in many other cases, wrong metering, faulty or dead meters and slowing of meter readings by tampering with the equipment seals were also detected. Apart from the faulty connections, five connections have been referred to the metering equipment lab for tracking down the discrepancies.Cases under Section 135 of the Electricity Act - 2003 have been registered against the culprits by the anti-power theft police for theft. A penalty ,of Rs 22.10 crore was imposed on the defaulters. Similarly, in the financial year of 2018-2019, as many as 1,19,416 connections were checked and 29,824 were detected tampered. A fine of Rs 18.40 crore was issued to the defaulters. According to officials, power theft was causing a huge loss of revenue and the menace had to be tackled by taking stern measures.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pspcl-cracks-whip-on-power-theft-127754
18-08-2020||Jalandhar||Hanging cables making residents’ hair curl||On July 12, Gulshan Singh (42) and his son Man (13), residents of Pir Bodla, were electrocuted to death after a spell of heavy rain had a pendulous live wire lurking in the inundated road. Supposedly, the horrifying incident should have been enough to bring to life authorities’ humane side. Alas, exactly a month after the demise not even a whiff of change can be felt. It is all the same, people have the sword of Damocles hanging over their head all the time.No initiative has been taken to fix the perilously suspended cables in most of the surrounding areas. Tilted poles and dangling wires are a common sight at most of the widely visited areas of the town, including Rainak Bazar, Jyoti chowk, Kadiyan complex, Ali Mohalla, Sheikhan Bazar and others. Hanging just 6 ft over in the streets, these uncovered wires are a major threat. A spark from them could take shape of a major fire accident in the congested market area. Taking cognizance of the past fire mishaps, the fire department officials have also pointed out the amount of risk the wires have let loose on lives of locals.Rakesh Kumar, a shopkeeper at Rainak Bazar said, “When the monsoon strikes, the wires can prove to be dangerous, as they can fall directly into pools of water. Hence, a systematic arrangement is needed.” He also shared about the frequent power outages and blackouts the area is enduring.Sources revealed that many of the cords have also been placed illegally. Kirpal Singh, another shopkeeper, said, “These dangling wires are an invitation to disasters. The authorities are aware of the danger, but have turned a blind eye to the problem.”Munish Mahendru, market association president, Rainak Bazaar, had taken up the matter with the local authorities, including the Mayor. “When last month’s incident curled people’s hair, we had immediately lodged a complaint for the repair of the wires, but no action was taken. All streets in the area have a similar outlook, even high-voltage wires dangle overhead,” he said.“Some of them have been damaged and tend to touch the ground perilously,” added Karanveer, a shopkeeper, pointing towards the loosely hanging wires, before going on, “The short circuiting has caused several fire incidents in shops located in the narrow streets of the market and it is hard for the firefighters’ vehicles to enter these streets.”Harjinder Singh Bansal, deputy chief engineer PSPCL, Jalandhar, stated that all the electrical connections of the Rainak Bazar have been included in the ‘Smart City’ project. “And the old wires would be replaced with new high-quality wires,” he said. Claiming that the incident at Pir Bodla didn’t occur due to the drooping wires, Bansal added, “In city areas, apart from the wires of the Electricity Department, the cable connections and telecom wires are also placed haphazardly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hanging-cables-making-residents-hair-curl-127755
18-08-2020||Jalandhar||Delivering baby during Covid a challenge||For a mother and child unit boasting of 500 to 600 deliveries per month, the maternity unit at the Civil Hospital is among the busiest and the most overworked in the state. However, that also makes it among the most controversial one.During the Covid-19 pandemic, there have been 1,962 deliveries have been conducted at the Civil Hospital.Compared to 3,840 admissions (of pregnant women) and 2,238 deliveries at the maternity ward last year, during the pandemic, there have been 2,857 admissions and 1,962 deliveries at the Civil Hospital. Among those recorded, only three of these 1,962 deliveries were of Covid-19 positive women. Of these 1,962 deliveries, 1,246 were normal deliveries and 725 are caesarians. As many as 1,244 of these were high-risk cases. As per sources, during the same period – three to four deaths of pregnant women took place at the Civil Hospital.Lives which couldn’t be savedRecently, a young Covid-19 positive woman and her baby died due to Septecemia. With the case too complicated for Jalandhar, the woman had been referred to Amritsar.While there is a high incidence of complicated cases at Jalandhar being sent to the Amritsar Medical College for treatment, staff says only extremely complicated or high-risk pregnancies are referred to Amritsar. In June, amid Covid-19 hardship, a UP migrant lost his pregnant wife and child despite visiting seven hospitals in four days. When they came to the civil hospital, they were referred to Amritsar and from there; they came back to Jalandhar for treatment where the 19-year-old died.Pregnancies during pandemicIn Jalandhar, in the months of March, April, May, June and July 2020, there have been 2857 admissions and 1962 deliveries in the gynae ward. Of these, 1,246 were normal deliveries and 725 caesarian. As many as 1,244 of these were high-risk cases.For the corresponding months from March, April May June to July 2019, there were 3,840 admissions and 2,238 deliveries at the maternity unit last year. Of these 1,475 were normal deliveries, 808 were caesareans. As many as 1005 of these were also high-risk cases.During the pandemic, so far, 50 to 60 Covid positive women have been admitted to the Civil Hospital, of whom three Corona positive pregnant women have given birth to three healthy babies. Two of the normal deliveries took place on July 14 and 22. One of them a caesarean happened on July 17.Migrant mother’s testimonyFor Gayatri, a 25-year-old mother at a Covid-19 ward in Kapurthala, the worries of a secure livelihood and her three children back home have quickly surpassed the fleeting pleasure that she felt after she delivered a healthy baby girl despite being Corona positive. Tragically, Gayatri cries inconsolably, vying to meet her three little daughters back home at Begowal. Her husband Ram Malak Sahni is a daily wager who can’t go to work (or to find it) as he has to tend to their three daughters as their mother nurses her newborn in an isolation ward. When asked whether she was happy she had a healthy baby during Corona, Gayatri chants, “Khushi to bahut hai (I’m very happy). But I want to go home. My little daughter cries all day and begs me to come home. My husband can’t go to seek out work as they can’t be left alone. The joy of having a healthy daughter is great. She is our fourth. But the girls back home also have to be fed. They call and cry all day. I am not feeling happy here. I just want to go home.”Hailing from Manwani district in Bihar, Ram and Gayatri have been living in Begowal or the past 10 – 15 years. While the newborn is a Covid baby born at Kapurthala, of her three other daughters (aged 2.5 years, 3 years and 4 years) two were born at Bihar and two at Kapurthala. She says it is the first time that her husband has been without a job this long. “How can he earn while I sit here. My daughters don’t leave his side and he can’t go anywhere leaving them home. I have been here for eight to nine days. Our very livelihood depends on my going home. We have been requesting doctors to send me back,” Gayatri says.Staff & sanitisation at mother child unitCurrently, the maternity unit at the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, has three regular doctors and two of them are posted at Dada Colony who were posted at the ward on deputation three days a week. There are 20 to 21 staff nurses and 16 to 17 other support staff, including ward attendants and safai karmcharis. The medical officers at the mother and child unit keep changing as per rotation. What is interesting is the deputation of doctors who joined in February to the ward even as it needs experienced hands and at least five to six senior experienced doctors on a regular basis – not on deputation.The unit has been under constant criticism due to bad state of sanitation and constant smell even after the ambitious new sprawling mother and child unit was made. While bad management is often blamed for the trouble, a doctor, on condition of anonymity, said the sanitation staff is often unduly blamed for the fiasco.The sanitation staff can often be found cursing in the morning. The poorest of the poor get treatment here and there are repeated sanitation problems. Patients often dump wrappers, peels, plastic bottles, and other garbage under the beds and leave it heavily littered. Despite being told repeatedly, they litter wards rather than responsibly disposing garbage in the dustbins.At first, there were a lot of concerns about protocol and safety. For ages, I haven't stepped close to my son, daughter or parents, while earlier display of affection was a normal instinct. But now things have mellowed down and we've got used to it. Exposing ourselves to patients is a huge concern because anyone could be positive — Dr Varinder Kaur, GyanaecologistUntil March end, since the cases of Covid in the district were relatively quite lesser, the delivery mechanism for Covid positive pregnant women hadn't been segregated yet. Pregnant Covid positive women were admitted to the de-addiction ward. We are now running a parallel Covid-19 ward where all staff members have to wear PPE kits. — Dr Gurmeet Kaur, a gynaecologist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/delivering-baby-during-covid-a-challenge-127756
18-08-2020||Jalandhar||BJP leaders stage protests across  4 constituencies||The Jalandhar unit of the BJP today held a protest against the state government led by CM Captain Amarinder Singh for failing to take a concrete action against those responsible for the deaths of people due to consumption of spurious liquor.The protests took place by the BJP units across 117 Vidhan Sabha constituencies.Members of the BJP Jalandhar (urban) held protests across the four urban constituencies to protest against illegal liquor deaths.BJP workers and leaders also demanded that a CBI enquiry or an investigation from a sitting High Court judge should be ordered into the issue so that no political influence is wielded on the inquiry.While in the Jalandhar North constituency, a dharna was held at the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Chowk where district BJP President Sushil Sharma, BJP state vice president Rakesh Rathore, former MLA KD Bhandari, BJP state disciplinary committee chairman Vinod Sharma among others were present.At the Jalandhar Central constituency, the protest at Lal Bahadur Shastri Chowk saw the presence of veteran MLA Manoranjan Kalia, Jawahar Khurana and Anil Sacchar. At Jalandhar West, the demonstration was held at Babu Jagjeevan Ram Chowk and Cantt constituency it was held in Model Town outside the Mayor’s house.The district president said as long as the state government does not bring to book the people responsible for the disbursal of illegal liquor, they will continue to protest against the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-leaders-stage-protests-across-4-constituencies-127757
18-08-2020||Jalandhar||CT group team develops street solar light system||The research team of CT Group of Institutions has developed a street solar light system. The solar system consists of a solar panel module that converts light energy (photons) from the sun to generate electricity in direct current (DC) form.About the moduleThis module is fixed firmly on top with suitable tilt and inclination so as to receive maximum sunlight throughout the day. It, thus, produces suitable voltage and current, which is used to charge the battery. This energy stored in the battery is used to light up the LED during night time. This system also consists of charge controller which is used to control the charging of the batteries.This module is fixed firmly on top with suitable tilt and inclination so as to receive maximum sunlight throughout the day. It, thus, produces suitable voltage and current, which is used to charge the battery. This energy stored in the battery is used to light up the LED during night time.Telling about the project, Navdeep Singh, Assistant Professor, electronics and communication engineering, said: “This system also consists of charge controller which is used to control the charging of the batteries. Since the output from solar panels are variable and needs adjustments, charge controllers fetch the variable voltage/current from solar panels, condition it to suit the safety of the batteries. The main functions of charge controllers are to prevent over-charging of batteries from solar panels, over-discharging of batteries to the load and to control the functionalities of the load. The charge controller protects the battery from over charge and deep discharge.”The use of the solar energy can help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and cause no damage to the environment. It also has automatic on/off operations, he said.Manbir Singh, Managing Director, and Dr Jasdeep Kaur Dhami, Campus Director, appreciated the efforts of team members and encouraged them to perform more research-based activities in future also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ct-group-team-develops-street-solar-light-system-127758
18-08-2020||Jalandhar||PSPCL officials assure traders of uninterrupted power supply||In a meeting with the city-based industrialists, DPS Grewal, Director distribution of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, today assured them of early disposal of their complaints. While hearing the grievances of the industrialists, Grewal also ensured them of uninterrupted power supply.Among several issues, S Gursharan Singh, President, Jalandhar Traders Associations, raised the issue of staff shortage and industrialist Vijay Talwar highlighted the problem of overloading of the focal point grid to which the director assured that the grid would be completed at the earliest and would be dedicated to the consumers for further uplift ofthe industry.Apart from the industrialist meet, a raid to curb the menace of power theft was also organised in the city, the officers of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) conducted a massive raid at different points in and around the Jalandhar City, on Monday.Grewal said 2,321 connections were checked by 43 teams. Hefty fines were also issued to the defaulters.He added that in case of any complaint regarding power supply, consumers could get their complaints registered on the helpline number 1912 of the PSPCL. “If the line is busy, the consumers can SMS to 1912 and their complaint will get automatically be registered and they will receive a reply from the office,” said Grewal.Chief Engineer Jainender Dania, who was also present at the spot, said an uninterrupted power supply would be ensured to the consumers and the staff would follow the directions of the management and would come up to their expectations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pspcl-officials-assure-traders-of-uninterrupted-power-supply-127759
18-08-2020||---||Amid pandemic, farmers growing millets to boost immunity||Jalandhar, August 17The coronavirus pandemic continues to make headlines everywhere. Doctors and experts are advising people to boost their immunity, especially during the pandemic, as it is the only way to fight the virus.The pandemic has made people more conscious and aware in improving their immunity and there is a shift to organic products, but interestingly, a few farmers in the district have also shifted towards growing ‘millets’.Gurtej Singh, a farmer from Mehatpur, said he got to know about the importance of millets when he heard the speech of Dr Khader Valli, known as the ‘Millet Man of India’. The virus found its mention in a three-day camp organised by the Kheti Virasat Mission at Sultanpur Lodhi in March this year. Dr Khadar Vali from Mysuru during his session at the camp had apprised the importance of having strong immunity, along with ways to boost the immune system. In his speech, he said wheat and rice should not be a part of one’s routine, instead millets should be consumed.That was the time when Gurtej thought of introducing millets and he shunned away wheat and rice from his diet. He is growing brown top millet, foxtail millet, finger millet, barnyard millet, little millet, and kodo millet on his fields.“Recently, I had parantha made of kodo millet,” he said.Paramvir Singh, another farmer from Shahkot, who has been doing organic farming, also felt the need to have ‘millets’ in the diet. “I think the pandemic has taught us some lessons and one of them is that you need to have great immunity to conquer the disease, and millets are great to have in case one wants to give boost to the immune system,” he said.Umendra Dutt, executive director, Kheti Virasat Mission, Punjab, said scores of farmers in the state have opted for this immunity booster (millets) this time. “No pesticides are required for growing millets because there is no pest attack on the crop. It also doesn’t require much water. There are several health benefits of millets and I have been noticing that millets is gaining popularity in the state. Because of the pandemic, we cannot provide enough seeds to farmers, but we want that next year there is an improvement and maximum number of farmers opt for it,” Dutt said.Ayurvedic Officer Dr Joginder Singh said millets, like bajra, are beneficial for diabetic patients and doctors recommend it in such cases. Several other millets are used in treating other problems too.Other ways to boost immunityDr Khadar Vali, popularly known as the ‘Millet man of India’ had spoken about ways with which one can boost immunity against any viral disease, including coronavirus. He said seven leaves were important for increasing immunity — durva (bermuda grass), tulsi (holy basil), giloye (tinospora cardifolia), bel (aegle), karanj (pongamia pinnata), neem and peepal. He said the decoction (kaadha) of these important leaves increases immunity and a person could protect himself from any viral disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-pandemic-farmers-growing-millets-to-boost-immunity-127760
18-08-2020||Hoshiarpur||Three held for looting cash||Villagers nabbed three miscreants who were trying to flee after snatching cash from a vegetable vendor. Later, the trio was handed over to the police. The accused have been identified as Bobby Khan, Jaskaran Khanna alias Billa and Ramandeep Singh alias Raman, a resident of Marula village. A case has been registered against them. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-held-for-looting-cash-127761
18-08-2020||Jalandhar||15 Sewa Kendra services on tatkal||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/15-sewa-kendra-services-on-tatkal-127762
18-08-2020||Jalandhar||Nursing students want practical exam cancelled||Students of other states pursuing GNM course from the nursing colleges of Punjab are upset as they say they might not be able to appear for practical supplementary examination being organised by Baba Farid University of Health Sciences from August 19 to 28.Want no loss of timeWe want maximum number of students to take their practicals & clear the pending examination at the earliest so that there is no loss of time. — Varsity authoritiesThe university authorities maintain that this is the second chance for them to save their future and that students have been given sufficient time of 1.5 months to make arrangements. However, the students are seeking postponement again as they say it was still impossible for them to make it to Punjab owing to the prevailing travel restrictions and lack of amenities.Supriya, a student from Bihar, said: “I have got a message from my college to appear for my compartment examination but there is no way that I can return, given the flood and Covid conditions in my home state. The college authorities have expressed their helplessness in the matter”.Mike, a student of the course from Arunachal Pradesh, said: “There are no buses or trains or air travel facilities at the moment from my state. So I cannot reach my college to appear for the examination. I have been demanding cancellation of the examination but to no avail.”The university authorities said: “We want maximum number of students to take their practicals and clear the pending examination at the earliest so that there is no loss of time. In any case, if we think that there are genuine issues, we may even allow them a third chance”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nursing-students-want-practical-exam-cancelled-127534
