18-09-2020||Avneet KaurJalandhar||Visually impaired international cricketer to finally get his dues||A day after The Tribune published the report “Govt apathy forced this visually impaired cricketer to quit game” in these columns, the authorities concerned swung into action and paid a visit to Tejinder Pal Singh’s house at Guru Nanak Pura, here on Thursday, to verify his credentials and get an application signed from him.Reportedly, the Sports Department has decided to release his long pending cash prize as per the Sports Policy 2018, the formalities of which have been initiated.Tejinder was selected for India’s blind cricket team in 2014 that won the Blind Cricket World Cup in South Africa in 2014 and the England World Cup in 2015, but despite this, his achievements and efforts never got recognised. In conversation with The Tribune on Tuesday, he had informed this correspondent as to how the government apathy made him quit the game and at present he was forced to do a menial job to make both ends meet.An elated Tejinder on Thursday, however, expressed gratitude towards The Tribune and said the day was nothing less than a miracle for him, as he finally received the call that he was anticipating for years today.“I can’t express my happiness in words. I made a lot of attempts earlier to awaken the Sports Department from their deep slumber, but to no avail. But today, with the help of The Tribune, I am about to get my long pending dues,” he said.Meanwhile, Sports Department Director, DPS Kharbanda asked the District Sports Officer (DSO) Gurpreet Singh to visit Tejinder at his residence and fulfil all formalities related to his cash prize. Kharbanda also asked the DSO to ensure that the international blind cricketer receives his due at the earliest and without any inconvenience.Besides, the Director Sports also said that he had released a notification to all District Sports Officers on Thursday, informing that sportspersons were the pride of the state and they must check and help out all those sportspersons in their respective districts, who had not received their dues so far.“I have asked the officials concerned to offer grants to players preparing for the upcoming international tournaments. The department has recently got a grant of Rs15 crore, the money is solely meant to uplift players. Therefore, we will ensure all those who deserve government’s help will get it at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/visually-impaired-international-cricketer-to-finally-get-his-dues-142846
18-09-2020||Jalandhar||9 lose Covid battle, 355 new infections in Jalandhar||The district reported a record 355 cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 10,664 on Thursday. Besides, with nine more deaths, the toll has climbed to 290.On an average 16 people are dying of the Covid-19 pandemic in Jalandhar every day in September and an average 218 people have been found positive in the month of September so far. From September 1 until now, 3,719 fresh cases and 113 deaths have been reported.On September 1, the number of cases in Jalandhar was 6,945 and that of deceased 177. But the Covid tally rose to 10,664 and that of deceased to 290 on Thursday. An average of 16 people have died of Covid-19 in Jalandhar every day in September and an average 218 people have tested positive in the month of September.Dr TP Singh, Nodal Officer, Jalandhar, said, “There has been a general hike in the number of cases this month. However, the rise in the number of deaths is mostly due to delayed reportage and many due to co-morbidities. We are successfully conducting contact tracing of 50 to 60 per cent of contacts of positive persons with focus on the co-morbid people also. Increased testing also results in increased reportage of cases. All these factors contribute to increased reportage of cases in Jalandhar.”Meanwhile, one person died of Covid-19 and 118 people tested positive in Kapurthala on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as a 57-year-old man of Nadala village. He died at the isolation ward in Kapurthala. The death toll has now eeached 110 in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/9-lose-covid-battle-355-new-infections-in-jalandhar-142847
18-09-2020||Jalandhar||‘Hunt’ for representatives||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hunt-for-representatives-142848
18-09-2020||Jalandhar||Dubai returnees run from pillar  to post to get their passports back||On August 6, Manpreet Singh (45) landed from Dubai to spend time with his family in Lohara village on Nakodar Road. But before coming to Jalandhar, he was stopped at the Mohali airport and was sent to institutional quarantine.He said before he was quarantined, his passport was collected by the Mohali administration and since then, he hasn’t got it back.Like him, there are eight others in the district, who have been left in the lurch for over a month now. Manpreet said on completing the seven-day quarantine, he checked for his passport from the Mohali DC office and was given the contact number of an officer from the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation (MC).“When I contacted the officer, I was told that my passport had not been dispatched from Mohali. When I contacted the Mohali airport authorities again, I was asked to dial a travel helpline number. The person on this number failed to trace my passport, which made us more anxious,” he said. Notably, after he contacted other Dubai returnees, who were known to him to check whether they’ve got their passport or not, he was surprised to know that none of the eight youths he knew had received their passports. Therefore, we approached the district administration officials here on Thursday, who have asked us to visit MC Joint Commisioner Harcharan Singh, as he was supervising the documentation of foreign returnees, but to no avail. He didn’t meet us.Deepak Kumar, who is reportedly managing the passport collection work, also told them to wait till Monday, as the passports would still be there in Mohali. “Deepak told us to go to Mohali, if we fail to get our passports by Monday. But why should we go there when we were assured that we would receive our passports in our districts? The flight had youths from other districts, including Amritsar and Gurdaspur as well. I might have to go back anytime. We returned as we were temporarily relieved. The employers of three other youths are also asking them to report back,” Manpreet said.While Deepak and the officials concerned in Mohali couldn’t be contacted despite several attempts, MC Joint Commissioner, who is dealing with the matter here, said: “We will get the passports as soon as possible, as a person is sent to Mohali every week to collect the passports.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dubai-returnees-run-from-pillar-to-post-to-get-their-passports-back-142849
18-09-2020||Jalandhar||At PTMs, worried parents want to know when will schools resume||Parents ask us when will the school reopen, says Ravinder Kang, head master at Government Primary School, Uggi, after he conducted the parents teachers’ meeting (PTM).Amid the pandemic, a proper PTM is being held for the first time in government schools after the online classes started. The meetings are either taking place online or at schools.It is reported that most of the parents want schools to open. “It is strange that earlier we used to request them to send their children to school. Now, parents want their kids go to school and study,” a teacher said. Kang said: “Every week learning outcome tests are being held and the performance of students is being monitored. That is why, the meetings are being held so that the same could be shared with parents, too! Teachers have been telling parents that the state-level review tests will be started from September 21, so that the results of online classes can be checked.”“Parents, however, have been sharing their concerns with teachers that they, along with their children, were facing several problems because of non-availability of smartphones and children weren’t able to study in the absence of that. Some parents also told the teachers that they were labourers and come late at night from work. So, the child has to wait for them to get back from work, after which he complete his homework,” he said.“There are several problems that they shared with us. Some parents complain about their wards not studying properly despite having a cell phone,” said a government primary school teacher in Phillaur. Also, for the assessment survey that will start from September 21, parents were asked to ensure that their ward studies properly, so that he/she could score well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/at-ptms-worried-parents-want-to-know-when-will-schools-resume-142850
18-09-2020||Jalandhar||Meet postponed again, chairman finds it hard to get back MC dues||The delay in carrying out public works by the MC is not a new thing. But the lackadaisical attitude of the MC to get its own dues from colonisers is something that has amazed everyone. After the Building and Roads Ad hoc Committee chairman raised several questions in this regard, a meeting was scheduled for Thursday, where the chairman was to discuss the issue, but the meeting as usual got postponed. The issueFrom 2013 to 2018, 82 colonisers had approached the department for regularisation of colonies and of them, 42 colonies were regularised, while the remaining requests were rejected because these did not fulfil the terms and conditions set by the state government. The chairman had informed that even after getting refusal from the MC, 40 colonies were established. “This is a big scandal. The 40 colonisers did not pay even a single penny to the MC during the last five years, leading to losses of around Rs6.15 crore to the civic body. On the other hand, the 42 colonies that were regularised paid only 10 per cent of the total amount and the remaining 90 per cent was still pending. They (42 colonisers who got approval) owe Rs2.25 crore to the MC. The total amount due to be paid to the civic body, along with interest, is a whopping Rs18 crore.The chairman, Nirmal Singh Nimma, said as staff of the Town Planning wing was busy in some other work, the meeting was postponed.Notably, it was revealed in a report on the regularisation of colonies submitted by the MC’s Town Planning Department to the ad-hoc committee that colonisers owed crores of rupees to the Municipal Corporation, but until now, there is no solution to the issue.Ten days ago, Nimma had held a meeting with the Town Planning Department and the Joint Commissioner and said that they should have recovered the dues by now and that he was amazed to see the work going on at a snail’s pace.In the meeting, the chairman along with the members of the ad-hoc committee had also highlighted that a special meeting, which the Joint Commissioner holds with branch officials and other staff, should have happened by now, after which they would be able to take their dues from the colonisers.Nimma said, “Now I believe that it is extremely difficult for us to get our money back because of such delays that are happening.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/meet-postponed-again-chairman-finds-it-hard-to-get-back-mc-dues-142851
18-09-2020||Hoshiarpur||193 candidates get job letters||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/193-candidates-get-job-letters-142862
18-09-2020||Jalandhar||Bains brothers detained for flouting Covid norms||Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) leader Simarjit Singh Bains and his brother Balwinder Singh Bains were detained near Lamma Pind Chowk here today when they began their march against the post-matric scholarship scam. The Dalit Vidyarthi Bachao Yatra began from Khuralgarh Sahib yesterday in Nawanshahr and was to be taken out in Jalandhar today. The yatra is being held to seek the dismissal of Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and a CBI probe into the issue.Bains brothers and 20 of their supporters were booked for violating Covid protocol. An FIR has been filed against them under Section 188 of the IPC, Section 3 of the Epidemic Act and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act.DCP (Investigation) Gurmeet Singh said, “The LIP leaders have been booked for violating the Covid protocol. As they have applied for bail, they are being released shortly.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bains-brothers-detained-for-flouting-covid-norms-142742
