18-11-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||These budding footballers dodge curveballs to stay in the game of life||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 17Principal Harbhajan Singh’s training centre at Barian Kalan in Hoshiarpur has become a haven for several kids belonging to economically weaker families where they get together and ‘kick’ their worries out. This is a football centre where talent of young children is recognised and is used for their growth.The training centre was started with just one mission — to not let young children indulge in drugs and make them adopt sports instead and channelise their energy to achieve the mission. At present, there are as many as 45 players in the centre. Of these, the coaches have recognised 20 players who have the capability to perform at national level, so, the officials associated with the centre have approached the Punjab Football Association to register these players so that they could take part in the tournaments. The remaining 25 will be trained here to polish their skills.Arjun (14) is one of the players who will be registered with the association. He has had a tragic life. After losing his father, he discontinued his studies in Class V and joined his mother in playing ‘dhol’ in marriages, to be a helping hand for his family. Now, he is a promising football player. Former BSF football coach Suraj Bhan Handa said every player who came at the centre is in dire need of help. “We have taken their responsibility. We will provide everything to them. I will make sure that Arjun continues his education. I will talk to some of the schools for his admission,” Suraj Bhan Handa said.One doesn’t expect these small kids, who hardly have televisions at their homes, to even know of any international players. They don’t have enough money to afford a diet and football kit for them, but ask them who they adore in the game, pat comes the reply — Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Massey, etc.Daughter of daily wagers, Sonia (10) is the only girl among boys in the centre. She studies in Class VI. ‘Ronaldo’ is an ardent fan of Portugese football player Cristiano Ronaldo and wants to become like him. Karan is another player whose mother is the only breadwinner of the house as she works as house help. He lost his father three years ago. Karan aspires to become an army officer for which he has been practicing hard by playing so that he gets fit for the job to be in the Army.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/these-budding-footballers-dodge-curveballs-to-stay-in-the-game-of-life-172039
18-11-2020||---||11-kg heroin seized, 4 smugglers held||Jalandhar, November 17The Jalandhar rural police on Tuesday arrested four smugglers and recovered 11 kg of heroin from their possession worth Rs 55 crore in the international market.The recovery was made at a naka laid at Malsian in Shahkot when policemen intercepted an i20 car (HR-26-BQ-4401). SSP Dr Sandeep Garg, SP (Investigation) Manpreet Dhillon, Shahkot DSP Varinder Pal Singh and Shahkot SHO Surinder Kumar shared the information about the recovery made this morning.The accused were identified as Harjinder Pal (27), alias Kala, Sanjit (34) and Ranjit Singh (20), all residents of Ferozepur, and Kishan Singh (32) of Ganganagar. A recovery of Rs 2.25 lakh was made from Harjinder, Rs 3.10 lakh from Sanjiv, Rs 3.50 lakh from Kishan Singh and Rs 2.40 lakh was found from the dashboard of the car. A case under Sections 21-C, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused.Sharing the background of the accused, the SSP said, “While Class X pass Kishan Singh was engaged as a driver, Sanjit, a graduate, was employed in a finance company. Ranjit and Harjinder Pal, who are matriculate, are into farming. We are yet to interrogate them regarding their involvement in other cases. We will also track their forward and backward links in the smuggling racket.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/11-kg-heroin-seized-4-smugglers-held-172040
18-11-2020||---||Settle 280 pending health insurance claims, submit report in 7 days: DC||Jalandhar, November 17 To ensure smooth operations of the Ayushman Bharat-Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (AB-SSBY) in empanelled hospitals for facilitating beneficiaries, Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori constituted a committee on Tuesday. The Civil Surgeon would review 280 pending medical insurance claims and submit a report within a week to ensure that cases can be settled without any further delay. Presiding over a meeting of the District Grievances Redressal Committee, the Deputy Commissioner said the state government provides cashless treatment to people upto Rs 5 lakh under which 2.91 lakh families of the district had been entitled. He said under this scheme, e-cards were being issued to the beneficiaries for cashless treatment under 1,500 packages. He said treatment in OPDs would not be included under this scheme, but secondary and tertiary treatment would be fully covered under it. The DC said there were around 60 private health institutions and all the government hospitals were empanelled under the scheme. He asked the Civil Surgeon and the Deputy Medical Commissioner to submit a detailed report about mismatching, erroneous and late submission of claims and told the insurance company to give details of pending claims. Thori directed the panel to submit a report within a week so that these medical insurance claims could be settled at the earliest.  He said the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (PMJAY) families as per Socio-Economic Caste Census (2011), Blue Cardholder families, farmers who have been issued J-Forms by the Punjab Mandi Board and their family members, traders registered with the Excise and Taxation Department and construction workers registered with the Construction Workers’ Welfare Board, besides all journalists accredited to the state government or yellow cardholders were eligible for the benefits. He said eligible beneficiaries can get their e-cards generated through a network of 100 Common Service Centres across the district. The Deputy Commissioner said apart from it, they could get it generated through the government hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/settle-280-pending-health-insurance-claims-submit-report-in-7-days-dc-172041
18-11-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Fissures in Congress come to the fore during House meet||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 17In the last three years, Mayor Jagdish Raja from the Congress has not just faced flak from the Opposition, but also from his own councillors who protested against him multiple times over incomplete development works in their wards.During the House meet today, the friction within the Congress came to the fore once again. On November 6, the MC General House meet went on for more than 4 hours, and today, the meeting ended in less than 20 minutes at Red Cross Bhawan. The agendas were passed within 15 minutes without facing any opposition.However, as soon as Mayor Jagdish Raja and MC Commissioner Karnesh Sharma got up from their seats, it did not go down well with councillors. Senior Congress councillor Des Raj Jassal opposed the move and said what was the entire ‘Taam Jhaam’ for?Jassal said if the motive was to pass only agenda and there was nothing new to discuss, then what was the need to hold the meet. No answers were given to questions, which were raised in the last meeting. “The agenda could have been passed in the last meeting,” said Jassal adding that it was the Congress’s ‘Nalayaki’ that the Mayor failed to pass the agenda on November 6 and had to conduct another meeting just to do the same.He said when every councillor was present in the last meeting, why the agenda was not passed then?Majority of councillors showed dissatisfaction and those from the Congress and the Opposition asked what happened to the issues raised by them earlier.Jassal went on to say that all the expenses should be paid by the Mayor from his own pocket. He said he had been meeting Raja over the issues related to his ward for the last one year, but nothing has happened on the ground.A late message related to the House meet further irked the councillors. The notice of holding the General House meet was sent yesterday evening, which councillors said should be sent 72 hours before the meeting.Sushil Kumar, Leader of Opposition, said everyone has prior engagements. “Why do they expect us to be readily available? Proper intimation is a must,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fissures-in-congress-come-to-the-fore-during-house-meet-172042
18-11-2020||---||New drug delivery method to reduce side-effects of arthritis||Jalandhar, November 17Pharmaceutical scientists at Lovely Professional University (LPU) have developed an innovative drug delivery method to remove side effects of the prevalent arthritis drugs. The three of them- Dr Monica Gulati, Dr Bhupinder Kapoor and Dr Sachin K Singh have provided a new life to old arthritis medicines still used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.The team has filed for a patent, and the pre-evaluation phase is now complete. They are also applying for an international patent for this new drug delivery method.For the successful functioning of the drug, LPU scientists have synthesised ‘prodrug’ which is retained in the injection site for a longer time period. It is also required in very low dose, therefore has no side effects, and dosing frequency is also very less. The researchers said their ‘prodrug’ will need approval for sales and marketing from India’s drug regulatory body.LPU researchers’ team informed, “The long term use of these prevalent drugs result in various side effects like nausea, vomiting, rashes, dizziness, anxiety, abdominal pain and so. In this regard, we have developed a formulation that can be delivered directly to the site of action, and so it is safe with no side-effects.”Chancellor Ashok Mittal congratulated the team of the scientists. He said, “Our scientists have made the administration of pharmaceutical drugs by injecting the affected area of the patient and not through an oral consumption. This reduces the symptoms of inflammation, which means that the medication only remains in the affected area, without spreading in the rest of the body. In this regard, they have successfully conducted the pre-clinical trials and the testing of the drug delivery mechanism. In fact, this is a revolutionary approach in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-drug-delivery-method-to-reduce-side-effects-of-arthritis-172043
18-11-2020||---||Inordinate delay in work on Adampur flyover irks residents||Jalandhar, November 17 Residents of Adampur are upset due to an inordinate delay in construction of the flyover at Adampur on Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur road.  Residents, who even met Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori yesterday, said while the project which got underway in 2016 was to be completed in two years, only 22 per cent of the work had been completed by the Public Works Department in four years. SAD legislator from Adampur Pawan Tinu too met the Deputy Commissioner to put forth the problems being faced by the residents. He said the shopkeepers around the area faced a lot of problems as the residents avoided coming out on the highway to make the purchases because of the chaos. The MLA said even as the project worth Rs 130 crore was not getting mired in any financial crunch, in fact, the PWD Department was not making any efforts to hasten it up. Residents also said the two days of rainfall on Sunday and Monday had made the entire stretch swampy, adding to their woes. Since the highway also connects the commuters from Jalandhar or Hoshiarpur who are to take a flight from Adampur, they said the stretch in Adampur where they often got held up made them jittery. They said the VVIPs had to take the assistance of their pilot teams or traffic cops to get the way cleared and get a quick access while shuttling between Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur or reaching out the Adampur airport.  The officials from the engineering wing of the PWD said a change in the design of the flyover led to the delay in its construction. The Deputy Commissioner (DC) said he had taken up the matter with the officials of the department and would get the work expedited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/inordinate-delay-in-work-on-adampur-flyover-irks-residents-172044
18-11-2020||---||Virtual summit on ‘strategies for new normal’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 17The CT Group of Institutions organised a virtual summit on 'Strategies for new normal'. There were many eminent speakers belonging from diverse background ranging from corporate, academia and entrepreneurship.The speakers for the event were Prof Samish Dalal, Forum Shah, Gaurav Kothari, Akshay Kila, Pallavi Gupta, Naren Thakkar, Siddhant Dugar and Meghna Chandrachud. Around 322 participants attended the summit. Prof Dalal shared insights of identifying opportunities and hitting the opportunity immediately while not waiting for others to use it.Siddhant Dugar shared that how after spending two months in complete black hole, they got an idea to use textile manufacturing machine for manufacturing PPE kits and hence they hit the market and earned so well. Another speaker Meghna Chandrachud who belongs to cosmetic industry shared about her new normal strategies.Pallavi shared that how she made her own space in Dollar Industry and made a mark by launching Dollar Missy. CT Group managing director Manbir Singh said such online discussions were the need of hour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virtual-summit-on-strategies-for-new-normal-172045
18-11-2020||Aparna Banerji||That takes the cake!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 17A youngster here has been doing his family proud and turning heads around with a jewel of a baking talent.The variety he offers does justice to the statement. Factor this in, jar cakes, Superman cake, a sui-dhaga and Chanel cake among an array of assorted chocolates are some of it. To top it, there is the homemade chyawanprash. All of this being delivered by Danish Jain, with finesse. And it’s all organic.A second year Bachelor of Interior Design student at the Apeejay College of Fine Arts, Danish has been running a bake studio for past two years, where he displays his craft. Intriguingly, it all started with a dreaming in his sleep as an owner of a chain of bakeries. "That dream changed my life,” he says. Then, aided by his sister Tanvi Jain, he decided to turn it into reality and hasn''t looked back since.“I am very thankful to my family for their steadfast support through it all," the young entrepreneur tells. His father is a businessman, while mother works as a beautician.Meanwhile, his baked- to-perfection cakes at ‘You and Me Cake Studio’ were highly demanded by the city’s populace this Diwali. "When I started off, we got only a couple of orders in a month. Now, the number has risen to 25,” he shares. “So…we are only baking cakes most of time," Danish chuckles.Working, alongside churning out cakes, as an interior designer is something inevitable to happen for he’ll pursue it. “I shall formally pursue interior designing and would love to be an interior designer,” he says, also hoping to live the fantasy of owning a chain of bakeries and restaurants. “I''m not giving this up as it brings me extreme joy,” the 19-year-old quips.The dream has already begun.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/that-takes-the-cake-172046
18-11-2020||---||Clearing the air: Cost-effective air modifier launched commercially||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 17Director of Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Dr Lalit Kumar Awasthi, on Wednesday launched an air purifier which was invented by two faculty members — Dr JK Ratan and Dr KS Nagla.Prof Awasthi said the technology of air purifier was transferred to Hisafe Electronics Corporation, Panchkula, in June 2020. Within a short period of five months, the institute, in collaboration with the industry (HiSafe), has commercially produced the air purifier product named ‘Airosafe’. The director elaborated: “Airosafe is a cost-effective, indigenously developed intelligent indoor air purifier-cum-sanitiser that can be used in institutions, hospitals, clinics, homes, restaurants, lobbies etc. to improve indoor air quality and reduce risk of air-borne infections, especially for medical staff. A high Clean Air Delivery Rate (CADR) of 260 m3/hour enables Airosafe to purify indoor air in a 250 sq. feet room in less than 10 minutes. Airosafe removes allergens, dust particles, mite, pollen, mold, fungi, bacteria, viruses etc. with high efficiency of more than 99.9 per cent.”Airosafe utilises proprietary Photocatalytic Oxidation (PCO) technology developed by the Department of Chemical Engineering and transferred to Hisafe Electronics Corporation, Panchkula, Haryana, which is manufacturing Airosafe. Apart from PCO technology, Airosafe uses conventional filtration and adsorption to purify the air by use of multiple filters viz. a washable nylon mesh filter, a powerful oxidiser-cum-antibacterial pre-filter, high quality synthetic fiber antibacterial HEPA filter and charcoal activated filter.Dr Prakshit Bansal, CEO at Hisafe, said: “Airosafe is user-friendly and enables a person to easily check the quality of indoor air and whether the purifier is actually clearing the air or not. This has been made possible by integration of an intelligent, software driven laser sensor, which detects, analyses and displays indoor air pollution of PM 2.5 in terms of actual concentration of particles/m3. Further, the purifier has a coloured light display linked to indoor air quality. Green light indicates good air quality and red light indicates poor air quality. As the purifier improves air quality, the colour of light changes from red to green. Purifier is energy efficient. When air quality is good, it automatically slows down and goes into sleep mode. However, as soon as the air is polluted e.g. due to cigarette smoke, it senses the air quality and speeds up.”Dr Nagla said: “Weighing just 6 kg, it is portable and can be easily moved from one room to another. Child safety feature includes electrical shutdown in case front panel is accidentally removed. Special power surge protection is provided in the circuit to prevent damage in case of voltage fluctuation. Use of washable nylon mesh filter and oxidising antibacterial pre-filter greatly enhances the life of expensive HEPA filter to more than 3,000 hours, thus making use of Airosafe economical and easy on the pocket. Use of intelligent software enables unmatched power performance, thus reducing operating costs to less than 1 unit per day or less than Rs10 per day.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/clearing-the-air-cost-effective-air-modifier-launched-commercially-172047
18-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Gang of bike thieves busted, three arrested||Tanda Urmar, November 17 The Tanda police on Tuesday arrested three members of a gang indulged in selling stolen motorcycles after forging their registration numbers. On the basis of information received during primary interrogation, 10 motorcycles and two scooters stolen from Urmar and the adjoining areas were recovered from them. The arrested accused have been identified as Mandeep Singh, alias Bhanda, a resident of Khudda; Jasbir Singh, alias Sonu, a resident of Darapur; and Om Bahadar, alias Kala; a resident of Kaloti Nagar, Tanda. Giving information, DSP Tanda Daljit Singh Khakh said during a drive conducted under the leadership of Tanda police station in-charge Bikram Singh, Sub-Inspector Harminder Singh succeeded in arresting the three who were indulged in selling stolen motorcycles and scooters from Tanda and nearby towns.  According to Khakh, during interrogation the accused admitted that they used to steal two-wheelers from Tana Urmar and surrounding areas and selling them by changing their number plates and forging documents. They were produced in a Dasuya court, which sent them to police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gang-of-bike-thieves-busted-three-arrested-172049
18-11-2020||Ajay Joshi||Hit by Covid, she now ekes out a living by serving others on platter||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 17While the street food vendors continuously battled to save their livelihood during lockdown after residents avoided eating outside food, a large number of jobless people started vending out food as soon as the lockdown was lifted partially. Simran Kaur (37), a resident of the BSF Colony near the Workshop Chowk, is doing the same to make both ends meet. She lost her job due to lockdown, imposed as a precautionary measure against Covid-19 pandemic.For the past eight years, she was eking out a living by working as a cook at a restaurant in Himachal Pradesh. She was earning enough to sustain her family. However, the lockdown first led to a salary cut, followed by a lay-off, which later pushed her to sell food along the road. It’s been only two weeks since she started selling cooked meals. She hopes to earn better in the coming days. She has a school going daughter at home who also assists her in setting-up a vending cart every day and serve food to the customers. She devotes extra hours at work to earn a little better. Her husband works as a daily wage earner.“The lockdown has taught us many lessons. When I lost my job, I thought things would normalise shortly and I’ll be back to my work, but everything happened differently. With little savings left, I was sure that I’ll have to look for another job. As every sector was affected due to the pandemic, I didn’t get a new job. Later, my sister-in-law who also sells street food advised me to do the same. In the absence of any source of income, I was convinced to do it, but I decided to sell normal cooked food. Though setting up a cart is not easy, I dared to utilise my remaining savings in purchasing a cart and the ration with no certainties of profit. However, I followed my instincts and set up my stall on the road,” said Simran, who sells food on a footpath near the entrance of Dana Mandi road.She had come back to Jalandhar at the end of March to be with her husband. Her husband also couldn’t find a job in the tough times. Considering herself ‘Atamnirbhar’ Simran giggles, now it’s up to the residents to get ‘vocal for local’ and support people like us who are on the streets to earn their livelihood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hit-by-covid-she-now-ekes-out-a-living-by-serving-others-on-platter-172050
18-11-2020||---||KMV College Principal invited as mentor||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 17Principal of KMV College Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi was invited as a mentor and guest of honour for orientation programme at Banaras Hindu University.Addressing the gathering online, she averred that to plan the future, new education strategies were required.Students of skill development make early choice in their career and they are able to excel in job market. She elaborated that at KMV skill development programmes like BVoc and MVoc are becoming an example for many other institutions.The syllabi of all courses have been upgraded with 21st century skills in order to impart global standards to the students. She said in her college the students were being trained for different skills with total 14 programmes under the umbrella of DDU Kaushal Kendra. She talked about various industrial tie-ups with different Sector Skill Councils of Government of India.She also highlighted the need for various activities like industry-academia meet, placement drives, workshops, fashion shows and extension lectures and internship programmes etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kmv-college-principal-invited-as-mentor-172051
18-11-2020||---||‘Civic body’s ad-hoc panels being largely ignored’||Jalandhar, November 17Some chairmen and members of the Municipal Corporation’s ad-hoc committees were furious over repeatedly being ignored by branch heads of civic body.According to the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, the Municipal Corporation has to constitute the committees on water supply and sewerage disposal, building and roads and house tax assessment, among others.It was only after two years since the Congress led MC came into being when the committees were formed. However, it seems that chairmen and members were dissatisfied with working mechanism and feel like dummies. Councillors are the members of these committees. Besides works of various branches get distributed and decentralised, but some chairmen and members don’t feel so.Neerja Jain, chairman, Advertisement Committee, has written to the MC Commissioner, Karnesh Sharma, and expressed dissatisfaction with the working of the head of the department branch. “The officer concerned is at the helm of the branch from various years.Inefficiency cannot be ignored by the committee. As this branch is revenue oriented, we are of the opinion that this branch should be designated to single head officer,” she said. Instead of increase in revenue, it has touched the lower limit, she said. Jain said, “I don’t want to be a rubber stamp, who just sits and does not work. If I am trying to work, nobody is listening to me.”She had been raising the issue of unipoles in the city, which were wrongly installed. She said nobody was taking any action against the offenders.A couple of days ago, Mayor Jagdish Raja held a meet over the issue of unipoles, where neither Neerja nor any member of the ad-hoc committee was invited.In the past too, Nirmaljit Nimma, chairman, Buildings and Roads Ad-hoc Committee, Jagdish Samrai, and Satinderjeet Kaur, members of the Health and Sanitation Ad-hoc Committee, and Chanderjit Kaur, member of the Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Ad-hoc Committee, had raised their concerns.Later, Chanderjit and Satinderjeet resigned from the committees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/civic-bodys-ad-hoc-panels-being-largely-ignored-172052
18-11-2020||Jalandhar||College students bring laurels||2 fall prey to virus in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: Two persons lost their battle against Covid-19 in the district on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 230. The total number of positive cases increased to 6,525 with 29 new cases in the district on Tuesday. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said that with the 1,144 new samples taken today, the total number of samples taken till date has risen to 1,77,592. As per the reports received from the lab, 1,70,994 samples are negative, while the reports of 1,188 samples are awaited and 133 samples are invalid. The number of active cases is 182, while the number of patients who have recovered is 6,215, Dr Singh informed. Of the 29 positive cases today, seven are from the city while the rest are related to other health blocks in the district. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/college-students-bring-laurels-172056
