18-10-2020||---||Attempt to loot vegetable shop at ‘gunpoint’||Jalandhar, October 17 Two days after a robbery incident at gunpoint took place at a UCO branch in Adampur in which the guard of the bank was shot dead, a similar incident took place at a vegetable shop in Food Bazaar here on Friday night. The incident at Food Bazaar (Central Green), near Madan Flour Mill Chowk, took place at around 9.15 pm when two robbers entered the shop and tried to scare the owners with a “pistol”. The workers inside the shop also claimed that the robbers fired four shots (two inside and two outside the store) from the pistol. While the sound was somewhat similar to a gunshot, the ADCP (City-1) who reached the spot immediately after the incident stated that there was no gunshot. The robbers used a fake weapon to commit the crime. There was no evidence of gunshot as the police could not spot either the bullet shell or any bullet mark. The workers in the shop told the police that the robbers failed to take any cash and fled on their bike with hidden number plate. Meanwhile, the SHO, police division-3, Mukesh Kumar said the robbers could not be traced as there were no CCTV cameras around the shop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/attempt-to-loot-vegetable-shop-at-gunpoint-157492
18-10-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Navratris begin today, but no nod for Ram Leela in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 17Even as Navratris are set to begin on Saturday, the district administration has so far given not permission to any Dasehra committee to hold Ram Leela or Dasehra mela in any of the localities of the city. The officials are in no mood to give permission for any fair owing to the pandemic and are awaiting state government’s guidelines for the same.The Dasehra committees of Adarsh Nagar, Sodal road, Raseela Nagar, Ikehri Puli, Garha road, Guru Amardass Nagar and 120-road have already declared that they will not organise the event this year. The management of Kirti Nagar, near Ladowali Road, however, has plans to organise a small gathering for Ram Leela from tomorrow but will not hold the Dasehra mela. A short Shobha Yatra maintaining distance and symbolic burning of effigy of Ravana may just be organised in some mohallas, said area MLA Rajinder Beri.Abhi Marwaha, who represents Adarsh Nagar Dasehra Committee, said, “We have been organising Dasehra mela in our locality grounds for years but this time, we have not made any preparations at all. We are neither organising Ram Leela nor holding any mela. We may just put up and light one small effigy in the mohalla for customary celebrations.Sharvan Kumar, an effigy maker, said, “This time, I have got no orders for making Ravana effigy till date. But I am preparing a few small effigies just in case some mohalla residents come here for inquiry and purchase for a low-key celebrations.”The civil and police officials said that they are waiting for the guidelines from the state government on the issue. “We are expecting the orders of the State on the issue tomorrow. Till that time, we will be withholding all permission requests,” said a senior administrative officer.Gurpreet S Bhullar, Commissioner of Police, said, “So far, we have not permitted any Dasehra committee to hold Ram Leela or Dasehra event. We will take a final call only after the state government issues directions in this regard.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/navratris-begin-today-but-no-nod-for-ram-leela-in-jalandhar-157493
18-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Rahul, Amarinder lay foundation stone of playground at Uchi Bassi near Dasuya||Hoshiarpur, October 17Under the ‘Smart Village Campaign’(SVC), Congress MP Rahul Gandhi and Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh unveiled the foundation stone of a playground at Uchi Bassi village near Dasuya sub-division through video-conferencing. On this occasion, he gave a message to the panchayats across Punjab to carry out developmental work and give them the right direction by motivating the youth for sports, so that they don’t indulge in drugs. BDPO Gurpreet Singh and Sarpanch Sandeep Uttam thanked the CM for it.At Hoshiarpur, Punjab Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora, on Saturday rolled out the second phase of the campaign for various works in villages of district at a cost of Rs20.62 crore. Under it, the foundation stones of various development works in Bajwara, Shergarh, Adamwal and Ajjowal villages were laid.“As many as 201 various developmental works would be accomplished in 159 villages of the district at a cost of Rs20.62 crore,” he said. Following the virtual inauguration of the second phase at the cost of Rs2774 crore by the CM, he personally went to said villages to initiate the second phase of campaign.Under the Phase-II, the State incurs Rs1.06 crore on 15 different works in block Bhunga and Rs3.28 crore in Hajipur block. Likewise, funds to the tune of Rs1.42 Crore, Rs 2.71 crore, Rs 2.25 crore, Rs1.66 crore, Rs1.02 crore, Rs1.91 crore and Rs1.72 crore would be spent on different 16 works, respectively, in blocks of Talwara, Garhshankar, Mahilpur, Dasuya, Hoshiarpur-1, Tanda and Mukerian. Similarly, Rs 3.59 crore have been set aside for developmental works in block Hoshiarpur-2 for completion of different 31 works. On the occasion, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait, SSP Navjot Mahal, Additional Deputy Commissioner (D) Harbir Singh and DDPO Sarbjeet Singh Bains were present.What’s in the store?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rahul-amarinder-lay-foundation-stone-of-playground-at-uchi-bassi-near-dasuya-157494
18-10-2020||---||18,000-kg lahan seized, destroyed in Phillaur, Bilga||Jalandhar, October 17 In a crackdown on the illicit liquor trade against distillation, a joint team of the Excise and Police Departments conducted raids in the villages touching the Sutlej and destroyed 18,000-kg of lahan here on Friday. The team comprising Excise inspectors Sukhwinder Mast Jagtar Singh, Baldev Kishan of Jalandhar and Hardeep Singh from the Ludhiana Excise Department and the Bilga SHO raided Mau Saab Sangowal village, Burj falling in Phillaur and Bilga towns. During the raid, 45 tarpaulins, eight drums containing approximately 18,000 kg of lahan were recovered and destroyed on the spot. A naka was laid on Nakodar Road by Excise inspectors Ram Murti, Ravinder Singh along with CIA staff and recovered 15 cases of Cash Whisky from a car (HR70-5027) and the accused has been identified as Amanpreet Singh of Basti Sheikh. A spokesman said raids were carried out on the directions of Assistant Commissioner (Excise) Pawanjit. He said a special drive was already going on to wipe out the menace and joint raids by police and Excise officials were based on inputs of tip-offs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/18-000-kg-lahan-seized-destroyed-in-phillaur-bilga-157495
18-10-2020||---||NIT chairman visits campus||Jalandhar, October 17 Subhash Chandra Ralhan, chairperson, board of governors, visited Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar. He was accompanied by Ashwani Kumar, regional chairman (Northern Region) of the Federation of Indian Export Organisation and Gursharan Singh, president of the Jalandhar Manufacturing Association. Prof LK Awasthi, director, Dr SK Mishra, registrar, Prof RK Garg (dean faculty welfare), Prof BS Saini (dean planning and development), Prof SK Sinha (dean research and consultancy), Prof Anish Sachdeva (dean student welfare) and Prof A Mukhopadhyay (dean academic) welcomed him on his arrival at the institute.  This was his maiden visit to the institute since his recent appointment. Prof LK Awasthi presented the report related to recent developments of the institute in academic as well as research perspectives. He also shared the rich infrastructure existing as well as under construction with the visiting team. He also appraised them the problems faced by the students in terms of inadequate hostel accommodation due to increase in intake as a result of EWS quota as well as starting of new programmes at UG and PG levels in the recent past. Prof Awasthi also shared the vision plan of the institute with the team.  The chairperson shared his vision and focused on industry-academic-interaction in order to promote the research collaborative efforts so that faculty from academia can directly be in touch with the industry professionals. He also emphasised on need of skill development of the budding engineers by making them aware of the latest industrial practices. Ralhan promised to extend every possible help for the uplift of the institute. He expressed the need of longer duration of industrial training for the BTech students during their studies. On the occasion, Aswani Kumar and Gursharan Singh promised to work in close collaboration with the institute. They expressed the need of regular meetings of the academia with the industry so that both of them were working for the common goals and country was benefitted as a whole.  During interaction, various deans presented the initiatives taken and achievement of the institute for the information of the chairperson. Various heads of departments also presented their achievements and capabilities on this occasion. Ralhan applauded the efforts of director, registrar, faculty, staff and students of the institute for their untiring efforts to take the institute among country’s top-rated institutions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nit-chairman-visits-campus-157496
18-10-2020||Hoshiarpur||Epilepsy reason behind mental disorders: Expert||Even as the WHO has declared epilepsy a global burden, the psycho-social problems and comorbidities are poorly understood. According to the WHO report, nearly 10 per cent of the global burden of brain and mental disorders is caused by epilepsy. Dr Swati Garg, consultant-neurology at Ivy Hospital stated on Saturday through a virtual meet that disorders of anxiety and depression are common. Due to seizures unpredictability, inability to recall the event and the helplessness of not being able to control the seizure, persons with epilepsy live in constant fear, she maintained. The persons with epilepsy would report decrease self-esteem, anxiety and depression. They are also marginalised from education, occupation and marriage opportunities, she pointed out. The diagnosis of epilepsy is challenging for families as they try to deal with loss of perfect child and experience increased depression, anger, guilt, helplessness and frustration, she informed. Persons with epilepsy would tend to underperform in education and occupational functioning and have poor mental prospects. Children with epilepsy tend to have low academic performance. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/epilepsy-reason-behind-mental-disorders-expert-157497
18-10-2020||---||BJP leaders seek Ravneet Bittu’s arrest||Jalandhar, October 17Members of the Jalandhar unit of the BJP on Saturday met the Commissioner of Police with the demand to book Ludhiana Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu alleging that his statements “threatened to disrupt peace” in the state. Those who met the Commissioner of Police, Jalandhar, were BJP leaders Manoranjan Kalia, KD Bhandari, Mohinder Bhagat, former mayor Sunil Jyoti, Manoj Sharma, Sunny Sachar and others. They submitted a memorandum addressed to the SSP, Jalandhar.The leaders demanded the registration of an FIR against Ravneet Bittu and others as well as his immediate arrest.BJP state president Ashwani Sharma’s car was attacked at the toll plaza at Tanda on October 12, in which the windows of his car had been smashed. An FIR under Sections 341, 427, 148, 149 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 8-B of the National Highway Act, 1956, had been lodged in the case.In a statement on October 14, Bittu claimed the responsibility for the attack and stated that he would rather prefer himself to be blamed than farmers. Talking to The Tribune, former MLA KD Bhandari said, “His statement is provocative as he takes full responsibility for the attack. So far, windows have been smashed but tomorrow something worse might happen. He should immediately be arrested.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-leaders-seek-ravneet-bittus-arrest-157498
18-10-2020||---||Virus claims 1 life, 63 new infections in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, October 17The district reported the death of a person, taking the death toll to 452 on Saturday. With 63 new cases of Covid-19 reported, the count of positive cases has risen to 14,333 in the district.As many as 13,293 people have been discharged, 588 are active and 517 people are under home isolation in Jalandhar.In Kapurthala, 13 persons tested positive for Covid-19. However, no death was reported from the district.Jalandhar round-upSamples collected: 245,605Negative: 211,771Positive: 14,333Active: 588Discharged: 13,293Deceased: 452Sample inappropriate/inconclusive: 2,191Results awaited: 3,008Home isolated: 517||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virus-claims-1-life-63-new-infections-in-jalandhar-district-157499
18-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Five nabbed with 2.5-kg charas, liquor||Hoshiarpur, October 17The district police have arrested five smugglers and seized a large quantity of charas and alcohol from them in two separate cases. According to information, the Bullowal police have arrested four smugglers and seized 2.5 kg of charas from them during a search operation in the area. The arrested accused have been identified as Dasarn Singh, alias Aman, a resident of New Deol Nagar Jalandhar, Gaurav Bhola, a resident of Basti Sheikh Jalandhar, Lal Hussain, a resident of Chamba district in Himachal Pradesh and Mam Hussain also a resident of Chamba district.The police have registered a case against all accused under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) Act. Meanwhile, the Garhdiwala police have arrested a persons and seized 27,000 ml of illicit liquor from him. The accused has been identified as Garhdiwala resident Surinderpal, alias Bittu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-nabbed-with-2-5-kg-charas-liquor-157500
18-10-2020||---||NEET results: Toppers expected better rank||Jalandhar, October 17Three students from the city secured top ranks in NEET results of which were declared late last evening. Aditi Mahajan of Jalandhar Public School achieved 291st rank, Shaurya Malhotra of St Soldier Senior Secondary School 553rd and Parth Bajaj of CJS Public School 843rd rank.A resident of Surya Enclave, Aditi Mahajan has scored 690 marks out of 720 and hopes to get a seat in medical college of Delhi. She has secured 345 marks out of 360 in biology, 170 out of 180 in chemistry and 175 out of 180 in physics. Having scored 97.8 per cent in Class XII and 98.2 per cent in Class X from MGN School Urban Estate, Aditi has had a meritorious track record.Her father Harish Mahajan is an advocate, while her mother Jyoti Mahajan is a chartered accountant. On her achievement, she said: “I knew my score since September 26 but was expecting a rank between 100 and 200. I was also expecting rectification in two answer keys, which did not happen. Two options could be correct in both these challenged questions. Had the rectification happened, my score would have gone up by five marks and my rank would have been 150. Nonetheless, my immediate priority will be to clear AFMC test of English and interview, which is expected in some days.”She added that the long preparation time due to Covid helped her. “The last four months were really fruitful for me,” she said. She celebrated her success with her extended family at home today. “Yesterday, I was called at my institute in Chandigarh for celebrations. Later, my school also called me for celebrations. So, it’s today that we are celebrating it in the family,” she added.Unlike Aditi, Shaurya’s entire family has a medical background. His father Dr Nidhi Malhotra is a child specialist and mother Dr Dipple Malhotra is a general physician. His elder sister Shreya Malhotra too is in the last year of MBBS in a government medical institute of Ahmedabad. Shaurya scored 681 marks out of 720 and a percentile of 99.956.His mother said: “A prolonged practice session of 2.5 years really helped Shaurya score well. While I helped him with biology, his sister who was here because of the lockdown was a great support for him. Shaurya remained very consistent with his studies throughout.” Like Aditi, Shaurya too was expecting a better rank on the basis of his score.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/neet-results-toppers-expected-better-rank-157501
18-10-2020||---||Tehsil complex road is popular for big names & deep potholes||Jalandhar, October 17Though used 24 hours a day, the path connecting BMC Chowk and the Ladowali Road is abounding with potholes.As the district administrative complex, tehsil complex, police commissioner’s office, SSP office, courts complex, NRI Bhawan, Divisional Commissioner office and the main Suwidha Centre are located along the road, it is used by residents from all walks of life, including government employees, top bureaucrats, cops, politicians and lawyers.Though the stretch measures just 800 metre, it is severely worn out, making the ride for commuters difficult. As PUDA complex is located on this road that houses several banks, immigration firms, FCI office, insurance company offices, private company offices and eateries, it remains a hub of activity throughout the day.“This road has a designated site for holding dharnas and demonstrations where all unions and federations burn effigies but neither those affiliated with the ruling party nor the senior government functionaries passing from here everyday have paid heed to its poor condition,” a local resident said.Navneet Pal, a private company employee, said besides torn patches the road posed another problem. “The level of manholes is higher than the road, owing to which the vehicles tend to bump into the elevated covers of the manholes. There are at least four manholes right in center of the road if one comes this way from BMC chowk to Ladowali Road. The surface around all these manholes has become extremely rough. Even the road gullies on this stretch meant for quick disposal of rain water remain clogged,” he said.Bakshinder Singh, a government contractor, said: “Senior bureaucrats, including the DC, ADCs, Police Commissioner and the SSP, cannot understand the pain of commoners who visit this road as they use the VIP road and entrance on the backside of the administrative complex for entry and exit. Their road along Master Tara Singh Nagar always remains well-paved while the commoners are always at the receiving end.”Congress MLA Rajinder Beri said: “We have got estimates of almost all main roads of the city passed. The work on Ladowali Road will begin tomorrow after which we may get the tehsil complex road repaired.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tehsil-complex-road-is-popular-for-big-names-deep-potholes-157502
18-10-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Cup of despair for Jalandhar trophy sellers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 17Nearly 25 shopkeepers around Jhandian Wala Peer Chowk have faced extremely hard days. With schools and colleges having remained shut for almost seven months now and no social events or tournaments happening, these shopkeepers engaged in selling trophies, cups, plaques, shields and medals are reeling under the effects of the outbreak.The shop was shut for nearly two months during the lockdown and now it is all about maintaining a routine as no takers are available. The owners of the nearly 30-year-old market say they are confronted with worst time of their lives. These were the days when all institutes used to organise their annual functions, prize distribution events and sports tournaments and there was not enough time to pack up all the ordered articles to be sent to various locations all around Doaba.Rajiv Sachdeva, owner of Bhagwati Trophy Planet, says, “Every morning we come here, open the shop and get all the pieces wiped hoping that customers will increase. The scarce numbers in the last five months have been bankers or some officials of the government departments who were to gift the plaques to their retiring staff or to honour some dignitary. We are not expecting any spurt in our business till March. Since we dealt exclusively in trophy selling, the entire year was totally wasteful for us financially.” He showed a variety of souvenirs available in wood, metal pieces, glass and plastic too.All those who had other side businesses to ensure that they had supplementary income coming their way have been better off. Arjun, owner of Sharda Sports, is one of them. “Thankfully, we also had business of selling sports jerseys. We have had players and youth coming all through the summers for buying sportswear including t-shirts and shorts,” he revealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cup-of-despair-for-jalandhar-trophy-sellers-157504
18-10-2020||Ajay Joshi||Foreign dreams crushed, but this kabaddi star never lost hope||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 17Mangat Singh, alias Mangi Bagga (35), one of the most experienced players of the circle style kabaddi that originated in Punjab, has been a source of constant inspiration for the new generation of players.Having started playing the sport in 1998, he hasn’t taken retirement yet. Apart from brushing his skills in accordance with the latest tricks, he is training the budding players.Fondly called “pind king”, Bagga has also served as the captain of the Indian kabaddi team in the first Kabaddi World Cup in 2010.“Kabaddi has been an integral part of Punjab villages. However, the rising drug menace has badly affected the life of the youth in the state. So, my goal is to motivate more youth to join the sport,” he said.As kabaddi has been played widely in several parts of the state and has dominated all other sources of entertainment, the experienced players feel the sport is somehow losing its charm among the youth.Also associated with Major League Kabaddi Federation, Bagga said: “Just as kabaddi is getting popular internationally, we need the same level of encouragement among the local youth here. Many skilled persons have been born in Punjab villages and we want to continue the tradition.”An all-rounder and known for his impeccable raiding and jaffy skills, the “pind king” has been a force to reckon with among the competitors. Having remarkably contributed to the sport for 15 years, he has played various national and international tournaments.Fondly called ‘The pind king’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/foreign-dreams-crushed-but-this-kabaddi-star-never-lost-hope-157505
18-10-2020||---||‘No coal supplies, expect long power cuts soon’, Food and Civil Supplies Minister||Jalandhar, October 17Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Saturday said owing to farmers’ strike and “rail roko”, the coal supplies in Punjab had fallen dismally.He said with the remaining supplies, the thermal plants could run for just about four to five days after which there could be long power cuts in the state.Ashu, who was here to launch the smart village campaign phase-2, said the state might have to purchase power from the Central grid. He said the state government wanted the Centre to quickly resolve the farmers’ issues and protests against the farm Acts so as to avert this problem.Coming down heavily on the BJP-led NDA government and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) over farmers’ issues, Ashu said the Centre did not have an iota of pain being faced by the farmers and the SAD had been fighting just to save its political ground in Punjab.Kick-starting 3,201 development projects worth Rs 149.21 crore in 106 villages of Jalandhar, Ashu participated in a video conference held at local district administrative complex. He was accompanied by MLAs Pargat Singh, Rajinder Beri, Sushil Kumar Rinku, Avtar Singh Junior Bawa Henry, Mayor Jagdish Raj Raja, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori.He listed out the works to be done, including upgrade of road infrastructure, streetlight systems, lying of new sewage lines, setting up of Thapar model ponds, interlocking tiles, sheds in cremation grounds, solid waste management, disposal of sewage waste, construction of panchayat ghars, new playgrounds, community centre, etc.Ashu further added that eight villages of Jalandhar East block had been selected for the second phase, followed by nine villages in Bhogpur block, nine in Mehatpur, nine in Noormahal, nine in Phillaur, 10 in Nakodar, 10 in Lohian, 10 in Jalandhar west, 10 in Rurkan Jalan, 11 in Adampur, and 11 villages in Shahkot blocks.The minister said Rs14.67 crore would be spent on the development projects in Jalandhar east block. Similarly, Rs25.26 crore would be spent in Jalandhar west, Rs12.85 crore in Adampur, Rs13.26 crore in Bhogpur, Rs16.90 crore in Nakodar, Rs18.56 crore in Phillaur, Rs10.76 crore in Shahkot, Rs10.23 crore in Noormahal, Rs8.32 crore in Rurkan Kalan, Rs10.55 crore in Lohain, and Rs78.05 crore in Mehatpur block.The opening ceremony was held simultaneously in 66 locations of the district in which a large number of sarpanches and panches took part through video conference. The participation of panchayats was observed as a step to enable and empower them to ensure the complete facelift of their villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-coal-supplies-expect-long-power-cuts-soon-food-and-civil-supplies-minister-157509
