19-05-2020||Phillaur||Two booked for fraud||20-yr-old killed in accidentNakodar: A youth, identified as Jasnoor Singh Bhatia (20), was killed, when his bike was hit by a speeding vehicle near the railway crossing on the Nakodar-Nurmahal road on Sunday. The deceased was the son of a former Congress councillor, Satinder Singh Bhatia. The police have registered a case against an unknown vehicle driver and handed over the body to the family after autopsy. OC21-yr-old girl murderedNakodar: The police booked a migrant brick-kiln worker under Section 32 of the IPC on the charge of murdering a 21-year- old girl. SHO Lakhvir Singh said the suspect, Shahyad, a native of Muzaffarpur, UP, was at present living at KC brick-kiln, Bath Kalan road, Mehatpur. The complainant, Sagira, who stays at KC brick-kiln, said his daughter went to fetch water from a nearby tap on May 13. The suspect followed and attacked her with a weapon as she rejected his proposal. he also injured himself. He was admitted to the Amritsar Civil Hospital and would be arrested when discharged. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-booked%C2%A0for-fraud-86551
19-05-2020||Avneet Kaur||Plight of potters worsens amid Covid pandemic||Jalandhar, May 18Ramchand (74), who has been working as a potter for over 50 years, says he had never witnessed such a slump in his entire life.“The summer season has started, it is the best time for us to make profit, but now the sale of ghada (earthen pot) has come down to over 90 per cent,” he said.He said an earthen pot that was sold at Rs 100 to Rs 150 per piece last season was selling at half the price now, but still there were hardly any buyers.“Our stock of earthen containers which is used to sow ‘Khetri’ in Navratri is lying unsold with us as none turned out to buy it due to the lockdown. And now, people are also avoiding buying tap-fitted earthen pots to store water due to fear and myth that use of ACs and drinking cold water may increase the chances of catching the virus,” said Monu, son of Ramchand, who too was in the pottery business but is nowadays busy visiting factories in search of work.Like, Ramchand, over 100 odd artisans living in the city’s Kumhaar Colony near the Sodal road have the same ordeals to narrate. They say that the nationwide lockdown has badly hampered the earnings of workers in the unorganised sector and potters, labourers, street vendors are among the worst hit.“We do not have any hopes from the government. We are surviving on ration provided to us by NGOs. This Rs 20 lakh crore relief package is not for us. The government announces loans and financial assistance but when we visit banks to avail the same, our applications are rejected, saying we do not meet the eligibility criterion or we lack in having required documents,” said Lokesh, who runs a small stall of pottery items near the Pathankot bypass.Another potter Kala Devi said: “I have to pay fees of my children as I have enrolled them in a private school thinking this profession has very less rewards and by studying in a good school, they might change my destiny and get jobs in respected fields,” she said and questioned this correspondent that how would the government or administration would reach her?Do the authorities concerned have any data about people like her, she asked.“Does the government will help me pay the fees or buy ration. The ration which the administration provided us last month lasted only for 10 days. After that nobody visited us. Please stop giving me false hopes, I know I have to work harder now to feed my family,” she lamented.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/plight-of-potters-worsens-amid-covid-pandemic-86542
19-05-2020||---||EGS teacher climbs mobile tower||Kapurthala, May 18A temporary EGS teacher climbed up a mobile tower carrying a petrol-filled bottle in front of the SDM’s residence at Officers’ Colony last night.As the news spread in the wee hours today, civil and police officials began making arrangements to bring EGS teacher Nishant Kumar down. The officials asked him to get down on his own, but he refused to budge as he sought fulfillment of promises, including regularisation of his services. He made his own video from the tower and posted it to the Education Minister and government officials threatening them of committing suicide if they refused to agree to his demands.Nishant Kumar alleged that he was working with the Education Department for the past 12-13 years, but he was being paid barely Rs 6,000 per month, which amounted to his exploitation. He said it was hard to run the house at such low wages. He said he had attempted all other methods to convince the government, but in vain.SDM VPS Bajwa, DSP Harinder S Gill, DEO (elementary) Gurbhajan S Lassani and several teacher union leaders came to convince him. The efforts continued for five hours. Finally, his meeting was arranged with Deputy Commissioner, Kapurthala, Deepti Uppal, who assured him of some help. It was then that he descended from the tower.This was not the first suicidal attempt by Nishant Kumar. Earlier, he had jumped up an overhead water tank. He had also attempted suicide in Bathinda and is facing FIRs on such accounts.He has also been doing part-time jobs such as driving an auto-rickshaw in Jalandhar, doing home delivery and selling vegetables.Not first attempt||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/egs-teacher-climbs-mobile-tower-86543
19-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Technique to detect Covid-19 through CT scan developed||Phagwara, May 18The World Health Organization (WHO) holds that the novel coronavirus causes respiratory illness resembling viral pneumonia, resulting in fever, cough, and shortness of breath. A study published in the journal Radiology also found that chest X-ray scan features can help in the early detection and diagnosis of the virusKeeping in view this point a researchers’ team of sciences and technology domains at Lovely Professional University (LPU) has developed an easy-to-use ‘Cloud-based advanced Web-Interface’ to detect and diagnose ‘Covid-19 symptoms’ quickly.The diagnosis will be possible merely from the CT scans or X-Ray image reports of the concerned patients. Using this interface, health professionals will only have to upload patient’s scan images on the website to get the diagnosis result within a few seconds, even for the reports received from the remotest parts of the country.LPU International Affairs Incharge Aman Mittal said, this A.I (Artificial Intelligence) framework has been successfully tested on more than 13,000 Chest Radiography Images.LPU Scientists’ team is now in touch with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for further evaluation of the innovative ‘Interface’.As per the LPU team, this novel system does not need any high-tech device or extra skilled technicians to operate upon, except for uploading the images. It can be easily accessed by an authorised healthcare professional from anywhere in the world through a basic mobile device with internet connectivity and a web browser. The developed web-interface is connected to an AI model at a centralised server which processes the images received from the web portal, and sends the results back to the web portal. The portal is capable of hosting any AI model that is preferred by a hospital, and will accordingly be able to detect the infection as well as the extent to which it has affected the patient. Moreover, the images uploaded on the interface will be AES encrypted ensuring complete privacy for the patient.In fact, early detection will help doctors to segregate patients and make decisions to prioritize, isolate or put the concerned patient on a ventilator by using available resources efficiently.Executive Dean of Science and Technology at LPU, Dr Lovi Raj Gupta said experts from around the world had also recommended the use of CT scans for quick diagnosis of Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/technique-to-detect-covid-19-through-ct-scan-developed-86544
19-05-2020||---||Challenges of online education discussed||Jalandhar, May 18The Department of Humanities and Management, Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar, organised a webinar on “Post Covid-19: Mitigation strategies for challenges of online education in India” on Monday.The event witnessed overwhelming participation across the country from different states such as Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi NCR, Haryana, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Himachal as more than 170 participants registered for the webinar. The panelists of the webinar included Prof KK Aggarwal, chairman, National Board of Accreditation, Prof Chandra Shakher, honorary professor, IIT Delhi, Prof Durg Singh Chauhan, Pro-Chancellor, GLA University and former Vice-Chancellor Uttar Pradesh Technical University, Prof Yoginder Singh Verma, former Pro-Vice Chancellor, Central University of Himachal Pradesh and Dr LK Awasthi, Director, Dr BR Ambedkar NIT Jalandhar.Dr Sonia Chawla, moderator of the webinar, welcomed the participants. Dr Awasthi emphasised the importance of ensuring inclusive e-learning solutions and finding the possible solutions of digital divide and designing the strategies to design a robust examination and evaluation system under such conditions.Prof KK Aggarwal emphasised on blended learning and engaging in both online and classroom teaching based on the course contents. He talked about Education 4.0 for greater flexibility in the academic structure. He accentuated that online education is one of the solution under pandemic conditions but not panacea for all the challenges before the academic fraternity. He also shared his thought of introducing the subject wise accreditation in the times to come.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/challenges-of-online-education-discussed-86545
19-05-2020||Our Correspondent||2 hurt in LPG cylinder blast in Phagwara||Phagwara, May 18A Bihari labourer, Babu Ram, sustained burn injures while a young migrant boy jumped down from the roof and sustained injuries during a cylinder blast in the room of another migrant Raj Kumar in Onkar Nagar here on Monday. The police rushed to the spot.The police said, the injured Raj Kumar was preparing tea on a gas stove when the cylinder suddenly blasted. Raj Kumar and his wife ran out from the room and escaped unhurt, but another laborer Babu Ram residing in adjoining room sustained burn injuries while a young migrant boy Pintu jumped down from the roof on hearing the blast. He sustained serious injuries. Both injured were admitted to the Civil Hospital here. The condition of both injured is stable, said SMO Kamal Kishore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-hurt-in-lpg-cylinder-blast-in-phagwara-86546
19-05-2020||Our Correspondent||DD Punjabi to telecast virtual classes for students||Jalandhar, May 18To reach out to the maximum number of students during the lockdown, the Education Department has roped in DD Punjabi to telecast virtual classes and educational contest.According to information, the DD Punjabi channel will start telecasting virtual classes for students of Classes III to V and IX and X. With this facility, over 10 lakh students of Classes III to V and over 6 lakh students of Classes IX and X studying in government or aided schools would get education.The telecast time for Class IX students will be from 9 am to 11:15 am, for class X from 11:15 am to 1:45 pm and for primary classes (III to V), the timings are 1:45 pm to 2:45 pm. The schedule of lessons, which will be telecasted, has been released.Earlier, students of Classes VII and VIII have been availing this facility on DD Free Dish, Dish TV and Swayam Prabha 20 on Jio TV App since April 20. Besides, the Education Department has also been conducting virtual classes through different digital as well as social media platforms, including WhatsApp, YouTube, radio and e-books, for students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dd-punjabi-to-telecast-virtual-classes-for-students-86547
19-05-2020||Our Correspondent||5 shanties of migrants gutted in fire in Talwara||Talwara, May 18Five shanties were burnt to ashes in nearby Changadwan village on Monday evening. The cause of the fire has not been ascertained. Five members of two families, living in the shanties, belong to Badaun district in UP and were living here for some time.Five members of two families had gone to work in the fields. While they were working in the fields, they saw flames rising out of a shanty.They ran from the fields towards the shanties, but by the time they reached the spot and tried to extinguish the fire, the fire had spread in all shanties. Narendra Kumar said they tried to control the flames but to no avail. All shanties burnt to ashes.The money, wheat, ration, clothes besides other items in the shanties were burnt to ashes in the incident, he added. Residents of the village arrange food for them.Cop accidentally shot himself while cleaning gunJalandhar: A local rank sub-inspector posted in Banga, Nawanshahr, accidentally shot himself dead with his service revolver this morning.The victim identified as Bhola Ameer Singh accidentally shot himself while he was cleaning his service revolver at his residence.The SHO Banga said the body had been sent for the postmortem. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-shanties-of-migrants-gutted-in-fire-in-talwara-86548
19-05-2020||Jalandhar||New bicycles only to reach home||Migrant farm labourers, who got stuck in Punjab due to sudden announcement of lockdown in view of Covid-19, seem desperate to go back home. Unable to find a place in Shramik trains so far, many of them are now determined to head back home even if it meant pedalling down hundreds of miles.Varinder Mohto of Bihar says he has been receiving calls from his parents every day. “My elderly parents want me to return home immediately. Now, I have decided to move on, come what may,” he said.In fact, Mohto and 12 other migrants started their return journey on their newly purchased bicycles from Hoshiarpur today. They would have to pedal over 1,200 km to reach their native places, they said. They had to spend a major portion of their savings on purchasing new bicycles.These migrants had arrived here during the sugarcane season. They had planned to go back home in April, but couldn’t do so due to the announcement of lockdown.Prabhu Manjhi, a sexagenarian migrant, also purchased a new bicycle to go back to Bettiah district in Bihar. “My home district is over 1,200 km from here. I know it will be very difficult for me to ride a bicycle for 1,200 km, but I am sure my fellow workers will help me out,” he said.Inderjit Puri, owner of Puri Cycles, Hoshiarpur, from where these migrants purchased their bicycles, said he had been getting orders for bicycles from migrants desirous of heading back to their native places.“In the absence of workers, it is not easy for me to ready bicycles in bulk. I have been advising them to wait until some arrangement is made for them by the government and avoid going by bicycles,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-bicycles-only-to-reach-home-86659
19-05-2020||IT is unfortunate that Punjab’s first case was reported from Banga and it was a natural sense of fear among the people of my constituency. Being a doctor||‘I make sure no one sleeps hungry’||There was another problem of non-availability of ventilators. So I, along with IMA, asked the administration that we would provide infrastructure and doctors for people and this initiative built the trust among people that they would get proper treatment here in Nawanshahr. Also, during the lockdown, we made sure that the OPD services remain operational for people.I also provided PPE kits in this pandemic. In Pathlawa village, which was sealed after the first corona positive patient was found, I, along with IMA president Navjot Dahiya and other doctors, paid a visit there and held medical check-up of people and ensured that everything would be alright.Apart from this, I also made sure that the ration and eatables reach everybody and I didn’t want any person in my constituency to sleep hungry.(As told to Aakanksha)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/i-make-sure-no-one-sleeps-hungry-86556
19-05-2020||Industry & Lockdown||‘Need to become e-savvy to overcome Covid-19 crisis’||Kamna Raj Aggarwalla, director, GDPA Fasteners, Jalandhar, talks about challenges faced by MSMEs and how they are trying to cope up with the lockdown. In an interview with Deepkamal Kaur, she talks about problems in restarting manufacturing with unavailability of raw material and trained labour. Excerpts:How have the operations at GDPA Fasteners been hit due to the lockdown? What are plans for going forward?It is a sad situation. With almost 100 per cent export business to the European market, we are barely functional. We are working with just 10 per cent of our capacity with whatever raw material and few labourers we had. We really do not know how and when things will finally settle.We really cannot foresee anything at the moment. Every day is a new day and I just want to feel optimistic, but there has been no support from any side. There is no policy as such for MSMEs. We do not have any cluster for members to support each other. — Kamna Raj Aggarwalla, Director, GDPA FastenersHow the manufacturing sector will come out of the crisis?We really cannot foresee anything at the moment. Every day is a new day and I just want to feel optimistic, but there has been no support from any side. There is no policy as such for MSMEs. We do not have any cluster for members to support each other.How would you start your industry in the absence of labourers?Almost all our trained labourers have left. They wanted 100 per cent commitment to stay here which we could not give at that moment. We were not sure if we could continue to run the business with the same capacity any time soon. They were getting free train tickets so they chose to leave for their home.What has been the response of your vendors during the period of crisis?For our kind of industry, there are only a handful of vendors. They are the ones who make small screws or ceramic matrix composites. Our vendors are based in Ludhiana and we have been chasing them like anything. But, they too are expressing their helplessness.What lessons have you learnt from the current crisis?We initially thought that it would be just like a 15-day holiday. This unique situation has given lessons that there is a need to be e-savvy and integrate MSMEs so that everyone stands united.Do you see the current scenario as a challenge or an opportunity?The situation is clearly challenging as we really do not know how to re-establish our businesses with no support at all. I cannot call it an opportunity in any case. For me, rising above my competitor in a situation like this is not an opportunity. I believe the opportunity should be the same for everyone and there should be enough of business for all players in the field.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/need-to-become-e-savvy-to-overcome-covid-19-crisis-86557
19-05-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||From driving tractor to learning piano, he utilises his time wisely||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 18Tajinder Bittu, chairman, PUNSUP, has kept himself busy in a number of activities during the lockdown. From performing his official duties of checking grain markets across Punjab to providing ration to migrants, driving a tractor in his farm and learning to play a piano, Congress leader Bittu has been utilising his time effectively for the past nearly two months.Recently, the plight of migrants touched my heart. A few days ago, I got a call from Raebareli to help out migrants in reaching Jalandhar from Amritsar. I helped them get a shelter in a gurdwara here. I got them meals and made arrangements for their journey ahead. Next day, I met a group of more migrants with more than 10 children walking near the PAP chowk. I arranged food and shelter for them at Radha Soami Dera. — Tajinder Bittu, chairman, PUNSUP“I have visited more than 500 big and small mandis in eight districts to check various arrangements. We ensured that all procurement was done in a fair manner,” said Bittu.On his way back, he used to spend some time in his agricultural land near Jamsher. “For the first time in my life, I got a chance to drive a tractor in my fields, which I really enjoyed. I drove the tractor for some days and oversaw planting of maize and some vegetables,” he said.He said, “After visiting my fields in the day, I used to get free by evenings. Since my childhood, I was interested in playing piano, but somehow never got a chance to do that. So, I hired a private tutor and started learning it. I would like to confess that it was not as easy as I had thought. It took me several hours and much of my concentration to play two old Hindi songs.”Apart from music, Bittu said he read fiction and focused on his fitness. “Recently, the plight of migrants touched my heart. A few days ago, I got a call from Raebareli for helping out migrants in reaching Jalandhar from Amritsar. I helped them get a shelter in a gurdwara here. I got them meals and made arrangements for their journey ahead. Next day, I met a group of more migrants with more than 10 children walking near the PAP chowk. I arranged food and shelter for them at Radha Soami Dera. A news story about migrants walking home barefoot telecast on a channel on Sunday touched me. So on Monday, I arranged 7,000 slippers of different sizes and distributed these among migrants through the administration,” he said.Earlier, Bittu got ration distributed among the poor using his personal as well as PUNSUP funds. Packets of 5-kg wheat flour, 5-kg rice, 2-kg pulses, salt, sugar, spices and cooking oil were distributed by his teams among the poor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/from-driving-tractor-to-learning-piano-he-utilises-his-time-wisely-86558
19-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||This ad hoc panel ensures cleanliness, exposes anomalies amid pandemic||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 18Members of the sanitation and health ad hoc committee have been ensuring cleanliness in the city and exposing anomalies during the Covid-19 pandemic.From pointing out discrepancies in the lifting of garbage to conducting tests of sanitation workers and looking after residents of their own wards, chairman of the committee Balraj Thakur, along with members, has been on the forefront for long.I get motivation from doctors, police personnel and every person who is working in the field amid the pandemic. If they can fight, how can we stay away from our duties? We are appointed by people and it is our duty to work for them and whatever it takes, I will do for them. — Balraj Thakur, Chairman, Sanitation, Health Ad hoc CommitteeBesides, committee members have also been proving motivational support to other workers. Recently, the adhoc committee revealed that garbage lifting vehicles were 15 years old and they could be unsafe on roads. Besides, the committee members supervised the garbage lifting process for the entire day to highlight any malpractice.The chairman wrote a letter to the Mayor and asked him to look into the matter and take strict action against those who were in wrong practice. He wrote that the garbage-lifting vehicles were without number plates and were in dire need of repair.Concerned about the health of sanitation workers, Thakur has also been organising camps in which they are being tested for Covid-19. When the pandemic had hit the city, councillor Thakur had also sealed 90 per cent areas of his Ward No. 28. Besides, he had formed a 'fight corona' group in his ward. In every area, only one entry point was kept open.Active member of the adhoc committee and councillor of Ward No. 78 Jagdish Samrai also sealed some of areas of his ward. He was quick in distributing cooked food, along with the medicines, in his area where a large number of residents live in slums.Thakur said, “I get motivation from doctors, police personnel and every person who is working in the field amid the pandemic. If they can fight, how can we stay away from our duties?” he said. “We are appointed by people and it is our duty to work for them and whatever it takes, I will do for them,” said Samrai.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-ad-hoc-panel-ensures-cleanliness-exposes-anomalies-amid-pandemic-86559
19-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Migrants staying back offered hiked wages||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 18Every train leaving with migrant workers from the state creates a hope for those workers who are staying back that they would earn more money. Sensing this equation, there are many who are rethinking the matter and want to drop the idea of getting free travel to their home states.We are already facing losses due to the lockdown but we have to pay fixed charges. Hence, to run our factories, we are bound to pay extra wages as there is a shortage of labourers — Charanjeet Maingi, Gen Secy, Jalandhar Chamber of Industries & CommerceWith scores of migrant workers leaving the state, there will be a shortage of labourers. Thus, some have started understanding that this was going to be a golden opportunity.Several industry owners have offered hike in wages to labourers to make them stay here. Already, the wages and salaries of the labourers have increased by 10-15 per cent. Since workers are the primary need of every establishment, those who are staying back are being given more respect due to the shortage of the workforce.“We are already facing losses due to the lockdown but we have to pay fixed charges. Hence, to run our factories, we are bound to pay extra wages as there is a shortage of labourers,” said general secretary of the Jalandhar Chamber of Industries and Commerce Charanjeet Singh Maingi.Other industrial unit owners said several migrants had started staying back.“I have offered a increase of Rs 10,000 to my workers these days. I want the work to be continued and it would only happen if our labourers will remain with us,” said a gate valves unit owner.MC Additional Commissioner Babita Kler, who is overseeing the entire operation for smooth and hassle-free movement of the migrants, said: “We have noticed that now some people are not willing to go. We call them before sending messages and recently, some migrants asked us to cancel their registration. They told us that they wanted to stay back.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/migrants-staying-back-offered-hiked-wages-86538
19-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||No relief: Pay rent or leave, landlords tell migrant workers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 18Even as the state government had in the past directed that rent should not be charged from poor workers and migrant labourers staying in rented accommodation amid the pandemic, migrants workers in the city rued that they were being pressured by their landlords to either pay the rent or leave the accommodation.With unsettled dues, some migrants could not even return to their native places and eventually chose to sell fruits and vegetables.Pankaj Yadav, a native of Uttar Pradesh (UP), said, initially his landlord did not ask for rent but after two months, now he was pressured to vacate his one-room with kitchen accommodation. Yadav, who works as a fruit vendor, said: “I have been residing here with my family at Nagra village for the past one year and now due to poor financial condition, I can’t afford to shift to another room.”There are many other migrant workers who are stranded in the city without any means of sustenance and have similar tales to narrate. Lakhan Kumar, a freight loader, who wants to go back to UP, said as he was running short of money and had to share rent of his accommodation with his friends Gujja Peer road, he made up his mind to live on a road.Labourers from Jammu and Kashmir, who are working at the Maqsudan Sabzi Mandi, said: “Though they were not asked to pay the rent in April as the lockdown was extended, now their house owners started demanding rent and we have been told to deposit the rent by June 1.”Vimal, a fruit and vegetable vendor, said his landlord at Pulia Colony, near DAV College, did not even gave any concession in the rent, instead he asked to clear the dues in advance.“To make ends meet, I have now started selling fruits and vegetables,” said Vimal, who earlier used to work as a construction labourer.No concession in rentVimal, a fruit and vegetable vendor, said his landlord at Pulia Colony, near DAV College, did not even gave any concession in the rent, instead he asked to clear the dues in advance||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-relief-pay-rent-or-leave-landlords-tell-migrant-workers-86539
19-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||Life limps back to normal in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 18A day after the state government announced to lift the curfew and extend the lockdown with partial relaxations, a large number of people today hit roads. Having spent almost two months in self-isolation, the residents heaved a sigh of relief as they could finally venture out.A huge rush was witnessed at the district administration complex, where people had come to get their pending works done. Likewise, with the reopening of small shops and businesses, residents thronged markets to purchase items that they had been missing out since the imposition of the curfew. Cheerful to resume their businesses, the shopkeepers also greeted the customers with sanitisers and thermal scanners.Apart from eateries and restaurants, the reopening of salons and barber shops also contended the locals. Salons and barber shops in various streets were seen crowded since morning hours. However, to avoid the rush, store owners asked their clients to take prior appointment before coming.Neha, manager at B’ Lounge Unisex Salon in Urban Estate Phase-1, said to ensure the safety of visitors, they had asked them to take prior appointment. “On the first day today, only male clients arrived for haircut. We had utilised the lockdown period in conducting online classes. The staff was told to take all the precautions while providing services. Gloves, sanitisers and masks have become a new norm.”Traffic jams witnessedWith autos, taxis, goods carriers back on roads, traffic also returned. Long queues of vehicles lead to traffic snarls at some places.Labour shortage woesAfter witnessing a huge downfall in their profit for two months, Navdeep Singh, a restaurant owner, said the sales remained minimal even on Monday, and it was expected to grow only after a week. A shortage of labour is now a major issue. Owners of many stores are either asking their workers to come back or pasting posters outside their retail outlets to recruit workforce.1 dies of Covid, two positive in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: While two more testing positive for Covid, a person died of the virus on Monday, bringing the death toll to five in Hoshiarpur. Civil Surgeon Jasvir Singh said the 35-year-old man from Tanda block, who died in Jalandhar, was suffering from a kidney-related ailment. He was undergoing treatment at Kidney Hospital, Jalandhar. He was admitted to the hospital on May 16, where his sample was taken for Covid test. He said the sample was found positive and the patient died on May 17 at the hospital. The district Health Department had so far taken samples of 1,531 persons, of which 1,345 came out negative and 64 were yet to be reported. He said 26 samples had been found invalid. Later, Covid-19 Nodal Officer Shailesh said the duo who tested positive were among the 23 persons who came from Dubai. He said the number of positive cases in the district had gone up to 96 and five deaths had been reported so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/life-limps-back-to-normal-in-jalandhar-86540
