19-09-2020||Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal on Wednesday ordered the conduct of "case studies" of all deaths which had occured in the district due to Covid 19. Reviewing the efforts to contain deaths due to the virus||Kapurthala DC Deepti Uppal orders case studies of all deaths due to Covid -19||She said it would facilitate the administration to implement more effective steps to stop the deaths in the district. She asked all SMOs to submit reports in this regard in two days. The Deputy Commissioner also asked the SDMs and SMOs for joint efforts to engage the services of private hospitals for testing in the rural areas.To meet this object it was also ordered by the Deputy Commissioner to increase the mobile testing units so that each and every contact of Covid positive person can be traced out and tested. The instructions were meted out in a meeting which saw the participation of ADC (G) Rahul Chabha , ADC Phagwara Rajiv Verma, SDMs of all four subdivisions and ACS Dr Ramesh Kumari, Deputy Medical Commissioner Dr Sarika Duggal and all SMOs. - Aparna Banerji||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-dc-deepti-uppal-orders-case-studies-of-all-deaths-due-to-covid-19-143434
19-09-2020||Kapurthala||World Ozone Day: Science City Kapurthala organises webinar||The most severe and serious effect of UV radiation on human being is skin cancer. The other health disorders of UV radiation are cataract of eyes, mutations and loss of immunity." During the webinar titled "Ozone for Life : 35 years of Ozone Layer Protection" she further said, "There is no second opinion that alleviation of public awareness on all aspects, including environmental protection can give wonderful results.Hence, public awareness programmes assume significant place." Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General PGSC in her introductory remarks said: "Collective decisions and actions guided by science are the only way to solve major global crisis. In this year of the Covid-19 pandemic, that has brought such social and economic hardship, the ozone treaties' message of working together in harmony with nature and for the collective good is more important than ever."Dr Rajesh Grover, Director Science City, urged the students to protect and save ozone layer by planting more and more trees, use public transport and also emphasised on the usage of renewable sources of energy. - Aparna Banerji||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/world-ozone-day-science-city-kapurthala-organises-webinar-143432
19-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Deputy Commissioner honours 15 officials for bringing down Sewa Kendra pendency||Jalandhar, September 18Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Friday felicitated 15 officers/officials for their exemplary performance in reducing pendency at the Sewa Kendras and contributing immensely in making Jalandhar a leading district in terms of lowest pendency in Sewa Kendras in Punjab.The Deputy Commissioner handed over the appreciation letters and smart fitness bands to local registrar Madhu Bhardwaj, ASI Dilbagh Singh, clerk Satinder Singh, AMO Kulwant Singh, Sewa Kendra District Manager Harpreet Singh, section in-charge (engineers) Jaswir Singh, Vijay Singh, Dr Rohit Sharma, Dr Rajesh Sharma, Data Manager Vijay Inder Pal, District Technical Coordinator Hatinder Kumar, District E-Governance Coordinator Gurpreet Singh, Assistant District E-Governance Coordinator Sanjiv Kumar, District Development Fellow Souma Shekhar Gangoupadhyay and Sewa Kendra Operator Navneet Kumar for their hard work.The DC said it was because of their hard work that Union Government selected Jalandhar district only in Punjab for stage-II of the coveted Prime Minister’s Awards in the category of improving service delivery to people.He expressed hope that the officers/officials would continue to perform exceptionally well in ensuring zero pendency in the Sewa Kendras.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/deputy-commissioner-honours-15-officials-for-bringing-down-sewa-kendra-pendency-143136
19-09-2020||Jalandhar||NRIs from Jalandhar can collect passports at MC office||MC Joint Commissioner Harcharan Singh on Friday informed the NRIs landed at Amritsar, Delhi or Mohali airports that they could collect their passports from the office of Municipal Corporation.He said special counters were set up at the facilitation center in the MC main building (basement) at Nehru Garden here. The Joint Commissioner said the updated list was being uploaded as public notice on the MC website daily which can be accessed at www.mcjalandhar.in.“People coming to collect their passport should verify their name in the list beforehand and bring their Covid test negative report along with any receipt of depositing their passport at airport,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nris-from-jalandhar-can-collect-passports-at-mc-office-143138
19-09-2020||A 550-minute kirtan darbar held only with stringed instruments was held on the banks of the holy Kali Bein on Wednesday. The kirtan dedicated to the 550th Parkash Utsav of Guru Nanak Dev was organised by the "Shabd-e-Naad".||550-minute Rabab kirtan on banks of holy Bein||Gurmat ragis performed continuously for 550 minutes (9 hours 16 minutes) on the occasion regaling those who set ears upon the mellifluous strains. Starting from 5 am in the morning with Asa Di Vaar, the Rabab (beloved instrument of Guru Nanak Dev) kept playing until 2 pm in the afternoon.Bhai Rajodh Singh and Bhai Navjodh Singh, on the occasion, said the primary aim of the kirtan was to propagate the Rabab and its soothing tones which found its most enlightened of patrons in Guru Nanak Dev. The kirtan saw Rabab recital being held to the accompaniment of Dilruba and Nizam.Historians have time and again highlighted the vital importance of the use of stringed instruments which were the choice accompaniments prevalent during Gurbani recitals in the time of the Gurus - and their soothing, therapeutic effects on the mind. On the occasion environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal said it was important that the sounds of the Rabab reach every home and children were made aware of the history of the Sikh music and stringed instruments prevalent historically in kirtan. The Gurmat musicians were honoured on the occasion.Home quarantine centre handles over 800 calls a dayThe home isolation control centre at the district administrative complex (DAC) here has played an important role to keep a check on Covid motality rate. The home isolation control centre has collectively (incoming and outgoing) handled over 800 calls a day during the Covid crisis. Dr Manjit Kumar, who controls the centre at the DAC, said more than 800 incoming and outgoing phone calls had been negotiated besides thousands of WhatsApp messages had been received about the health status of home isolated persons. He said: “It's not only a data base unit but provides feedback and case studies in positive cases as they called the patients on a daily basis." He said that the NCC volunteers at the centre generally enquire about the oxygen level, temperature and heart beat etc from the home isolated persons and in any case of a person's oxygen level falling below 95 they immediately call ambulance to provide medical facilities to the hospitals concerned. He said the volunteers belonging to the NCC work under the guidance of Col. Hitesh Duggal from 21st Punjab Battalion. They all are also covered under insurance policy of the Union Government to facilitate the government employees.(Contributed by Aparna Banerji)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/550-minute-rabab-kirtan-on-banks-of-holy-bein-143144
19-09-2020||Hoshiarpur||2 travel agents dupe man of Rs 5L||4 booked after viral Jail videoHoshiarpur: The police have booked four inmates of the Hoshiarpur Central Jail under Section 52 of the Prisons Act for reportedly uploading a video shot in the jail premises three months ago. According to information, assistant jail superintendent Ram Krishan Saini had complained in June that a video shot in the central jail had gone viral. The said video was also broadcast on a news channel. The complaint was investigated and after taking legal opinion a case was registered against Rajinder Kumar, alias Bangar, of Fatehgarh Niara village in Hoshiarpur, Gurjant Singh Janta of Gobindpur Lohgarh in Jalandhar, Shivam, alias Maan, of Basti Danishmanda in Jalandhar and Rajesh Kumar, alias Banta of Thuana village in Hoshiarpur, Investigating Officer of the case ASI Kiran Singh said. OCAdmission fee: Students protestJalandhar: The Punjab Students Union (PSU) again held a protest outside the District Administrative Complex in Nawanshahr today. The PSU protested against the college management for taking fee from the SC students and backtracking from their promise. The police had to intervene and Nawanshahr Deputy Commissioner Shena Addrawal had called a meet to resolve the issue. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-travel-agents-dupe-man-of-rs-5l-143145
19-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Beating autism: With therapy, Bhavik managed to swim against the tide||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 18Parents of an autistic child, Bhavik Atwal (15), are a bit apprehensive these days. Because of the pandemic, Bhavik has to miss out on his important therapy sessions, as a result of which he is suffering frequent meltdowns.Vikram Atwal, Bhavik's fatherI have been making all-out efforts so that my son could participate in various championships. With his participation, his training in swimming becomes more refine. I was looking forward to him participating in a national championship that was to be held in Mumbai. If he managed to win gold in it, he could qualify for the World Olympics. He had been practising hard for it. But now, it seems difficult for us to get him back on track.After his parents got to know that Bhavik was an autistic kid, they took him to several hospitals but found relief only in Ahmedabad, where he had been studying and getting treatment. They realised how he was drawn to water and saw visible improvement in him after he learnt swimming. He was living with his mother for the past three years, but because of the lockdown, had to come here. Since then, he has not been attending any therapy sessions.Bhavik had won two gold medals at a national-level swimming championship held in Pune from August 25 to 26 in 2018.The 15-year-old swimmer bagged medals in the 50m freestyle and 25m freestyle category. The national-level swimming competition was held for children suffering from autistic and Down’s syndrome.Bhavik has also won a silver medal during the 20th Punjab State Special Olympics. In the national-level Special Olympic Bharat Maharashtra National Championship 2016, he also bagged a medal in the 25m freestyle event.Apart from this, he has also won two silver medals in special Olympic Punjab state level compilation in Patiala 2017 in 25m and 50m freestyle swimming events.Pandemic hit his rhythmNotably, Bhavik’s father Vikram Atwal said this year, two big events were to take place. But because of the pandemic, it got stalled. He said for players like Bhavik, such breaks affect their rhythm and it becomes highly difficult for them to perform like before.“I have been making all-out efforts so that my son could participate in various championships. With his participation, his training in swimming becomes more refine. I was looking forward to him participating in a national championship that was to be held in Mumbai. If he managed to win gold in it, he could qualify for the World Olympics. He had been practising hard for it. But now, it seems difficult for us to get him back on track,” he said.While talking about his son, he said Bhavik now solves mathematics sums and remembers tables too. “I am hopeful that he will become a role model for other children suffering from such ailments in the future,” Atwal said.Bhavik’s father Vikram Atwal wants to convey the message to all those parents whose children are suffering from autism that if proper attention, care and therapy are given, children can get better with time.He also shared that most of the people are not aware of the disease and they see no hope of revival for such kids. But this is not the case.Bhavik’s father Vikram Atwal runs a small dhaba in Maqsuda and because of the pandemic, even his dhaba is lying shut.Despite such adversities, he hasn’t given up on his son. He is going to Ahmedabad to see if the therapy could be continued or not.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/beating-autism-with-therapy-bhavik-managed-to-swim-against-the-tide-143142
19-09-2020||Our Correspondent||COVID-19: Virus claims 7 lives, 103 fresh cases in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, September 18The district reported the death of seven persons due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 110 on Friday. Besides, 103 new positive cases were found in Hoshiarpur district, out of which 21 are from Hoshiarpur city and 82 cases are from other health blocks.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said the number of active cases in the district was 988 and 2,375 patients had been cured. The victims have been identified as: a 52-year-old woman of Mishra Mohalla, Hoshiarpur, who died at Medical College in Amritsar; a 60-year-old resident of Jhingar Kalan; a 70-year-old resident of Harmoya who died at medical hospital in Jalandhar; a 55-year-old Singriwal village resident and a 36-year-old woman of Meghowal, who died in the Civil Hospital (Hoshiarpur); a 70-year-old Gokul Nagar resident who died at Shivam Hospital (Hoshiarpur) and a 75-year-old woman of Phalahi, who died in the PGI, Chandigarh.The reports of 1,808 samples came on Friday. Of them, 103 were found positive. The total number of positive cases has risen to 3,472. The total number of samples taken so far has increased to 85,337 with 1,735 new samples taken from the persons with suspected flu-like symptoms today. According to the lab reports, 80,446 test reports have come out negative so far while 1,784 reports are awaited and 109 are invalid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-virus-claims-7-lives-103-fresh-cases-in-hoshiarpur-143143
19-09-2020||Our Correspondent||After winning fight against Covid, ADC Vishesh Sarangal joins duty||Jalandhar, September 18Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Vishesh Sarangal, who got infected with coronavirus in line of duty as frontline warrior on September 1, resumed his duty on Friday after a gap of 17-days.On his arrival at his office, Sarangal on Friday held a meeting with officials of his department and later listened to the problems of the people.During quarantine period of 17 days, Sarangal continued his duty as usual through mobile or video calls including ensuring the proper arrangement of beds in the Covid hospitals, ensuring round-the-clock availability of ventilators for them.Sharing his experience in the fight against Covid, he said that he immediately went into isolation on September 1 and strictly adhered to the medical protocols in the quarantine period and successfully recovered from the symptoms of Covid.He said that he continued to monitor the progress of Covid management strategy in Jalandhar and even boosted the morale of others to continue to work hard till the victory over the contagion. He said that he was in regular touch with the officers and keeping a close vigil on the situation.He said self-control, staying positive and motivated all the time helped in speedy recovery, besides few yoga exercises helped in raising the immunity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/after-winning-fight-against-covid-adc-vishesh-sarangal-joins-duty-143137
19-09-2020||Avneet Kaur||Four-fold rise in demand for medical oxygen in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, September 18The continuous increase in the number of Covid cases in the district has led to a spike in demand for medical oxygen. Reportedly, against the supply of 600 to 700 oxygen cylinders a day earlier, companies engaged in oxygen production are now supplying around 2,500 to 3,000 cylinders a day.Akshat Bhandari, one of the proprietors of Shakti CryogenicsWhen we send an oxygen cylinder to hospitals, we ensure its proper sanitisation. However, when hospitals send back empty cylinders, they do not sanitise it. As these are mostly used in Covid wards, these pose a risk to the health of workers handling these. So, our workers, wearing masks and PPE kits, first sanitise the cylinders and then start the process of refilling these.At the Civil Hospital alone, the demand has gone up to 400 cylinders a day, while before Covid, it hovered around 15 to 20 cylinders a day. Talking to The Tribune, Rajan Gupta and Akshat Bhandari, the proprietors of Shakti Cryogenics, a firm deals in manufacturing and supply of oxygen in Jalandhar and neighbouring districts, said as oxygen was crucial in saving lives of patients who develop acute respiratory distress because of the virus, the demand for medical oxygen had increased more than four times in the past one month.“From March to July, the demand (for oxygen) remained normal (700 to 800 cylinders a day) as it was before Covid. Since the second week of August, it has shot up to 2,500 to 3,000 cylinders a day, with only 400 cylinders being delivered to the Civil Hospital,” they said.The proprietors said there were operating two of the three oxygen manufacturing plants in the district, managing around 70 to 80 per cent of the oxygen supply and besides delivering cylinders to various private hospitals in the district, they were also ensuring supply to the Civil Hospital.When asked about the quantity of oxygen in each cylinder, Rajan Gupta said: “A standard-sized oxygen cylinder contains seven cubic metres (47 litres) of oxygen.” He said their plant had the capacity to produce around 1,200 cylinders a day, but they were producing over 1,200 cylinders a day with additional labour and overtime. “Before Covid, our plant would function for 16 to 17 hours a day, but now, we are working round the clock. We have also suspended export and supply of oxygen to neighbouring states and to other industries. Our focus is to meet the demands of the administration and private hospitals in the district,” Gupta said.When asked if the demand for oxygen cylinders for homes, too, had witnessed an increase, the proprietors said they had been providing cylinders for homes only to those who furnished a document signed by a doctor. “But, the demand for home use is low at present,” they said.No hike in prices, though input cost has increasedWhen questioned if prices of oxygen cylinders had gone up owing to the increase in demand, the duo said the administration had put a price cap, so they were selling the product at the price that prevailed before the pandemic.They claimed that though prices had remained the same as before Covid, the input cost had risen. “We are paying more to overtime workers. The expenses on sanitisation and arranging masks and safety kits for workers are an additional burden for us,” they said.No shortage of oxygen in district, say officialsTalking to The Tribune, Dr Navjot Dahiya, the president of the Indian Medical Association, Punjab, said: “Suppliers (of oxygen cylinders) are successfully meeting the demand from both the administration as well as private hospitals in the district.” He said against the consumption of 40 to 45 cylinders a day on normal days at private hospitals in the district (as per bed capacity), the usage now has gone up to 110 to 130 cylinders a day. “Oxygen is essential to treatment for critical Covid-19 patients. At times, over 100 cylinders get consumed in a day by just 10 to 15 such patients. However, the demand from non-Covid patients has decreased as not many are visiting hospitals amid the pandemic,” he said.Rajiv Kumar, Inspector, Food Civil Supplies, Jalandhar, who has been deployed at Shakti Cryogenics to ensure smooth supply of cylinders to hospitals, said: “There is no shortage of oxygen in the district and the administration has also stored around 2,000 cylinders of liquid oxygen for an emergency situation,” he said.Unsung frontline warriorsThe suppliers and hundreds of other workers engaged in refilling and distribution of oxygen cylinders have turned out to be unsung frontline warriors in the fight against the Covid pandemic. They have been carrying out tasks of delivering the oxygen cylinders to the hospitals and then offloading empty cylinders coming from hospitals on a daily basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-fold-rise-in-demand-for-medical-oxygen-in-jalandhar-district-143131
19-09-2020||---||Farmers up the ante against farm Bills in Jalalndhar||Jalandhar, September 18Farmer organisations in Punjab have started a massive protest against the farm Bills introduced by the Centre in Parliament. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba) today announced that they will be pasting banners “Narendra Modi, Kisan Virodhi” in the villages in Doaba. “Jehda Kisan Nal Khadega, Ohi Pinda Vich Vadega” (Those who support farmers, will be allowed to enter the villages), said members of the BKU (Doaba).Satnam Singh Sahni, spokesperson, BKU (Doaba), said the step has been taken to convey the message that the Central Government was anti-farmer and anti-people.“No matter what the government says, we know that the farm Bills are not in favour of farmers,” Sahni said adding that farmers were also upset with non-supportive attitude of political parties. “It was only after farmers got together, political outfits rushed to support them, but only for personal gains,” he rued.Manjit Singh Rai, chief, BKU (Doaba), said banners will create awareness among farmers regarding the decisions taken by the Central Government in the last six years, which can prove detrimental for the farming community.Following a call by the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh, farmers got posters printed which read, “Vadda khilafi Karan Valiyan Rajneetik Partiyan Da Pind Andar Aana Mana Hai” (Entry of political parties which have not fulfilled their promises is banned). The Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh also released a book in Punjabi titled “Narendra Modi, Kisan Virodhi”.Eleven farmer organisations held a meet in Ludhiana. They formed a five-member committee to interact with 10 farmer unions, which have announced to observe “Punjab Bandh” on September 25 against the farm Bills. A joint meet of all the farmers’ organisations will be held on September 19 in Moga.Harsimrat’s resignation political gimmick: AroraHoshiarpur: Asserting that the Punjab Government will stand by farmers, Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora today accused SAD for blatantly ignoring the interests of agriculturists, besides terming resignation of Harsimrat Kaur Badal from the Union Cabinet as a “political stunt”.Arora said the village and district-level protests against the farm Bills will be staged across the state on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-up-the-ante-against-farm-bills-in-jalalndhar-143132
19-09-2020||---||11 more lose Covid battle, 279 new cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, September 18The district reported the death of 11 persons due to Covid-19 taking the toll to 301 on Friday. Besides, with as many as 279 positive cases, the district tally has reached 10,931. While a total of 312 samples tested positive in Jalandhar today, of these after excluding those from other districts the total positive cases stood at 279.The deceased have been identified as: a 75-year-old man from New Kartar Nagar who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; a 64-year-old woman from Model House who died at a private hospital in Kapurthala; a 54-year-old woman from Himachal Colony who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; a 51-year-old woman from Shivraj Nagar who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; a 85-year-old woman from New Vijay Nagar who died at the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar; a 25-year-old man, who was a diabetic, from Nurmahal who died at the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar; an 84-year-old man from Phillaur who died at DMC, Ludhiana; a 57-year-old man from Phillaur who died at a private hospital in Ludhiana; a 55-year-old man from New Aman Nagar who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.4 die, 99 new cases in KapurthalaThe district reported the death of four persons on Friday. Besides, 99 new positive cases were reported in the district. The deceased included a 77-year-old man who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; a 75-year-old woman from Satnampura who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; a 62-year-old woman from Masjid Khera, Phagwara, who died at the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar; and a 77-year-old man from Jairampur who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/11-more-lose-covid-battle-279-new-cases-in-jalandhar-district-143133
19-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Withdraw farm Bills, demands Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa||Jalandhar, September 18Terming the farm ordinances passed in the Lok Sabha as ‘black laws’ for the farmers of Punjab, Jails and Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who was present in the city on Friday to virtually participate in the Punjab Agriculture University’s Virtual Kisan Mela, said the legislations would ruin Punjab, the breadbasket of India, which is feeding the country for decades.He said the ordinances would lead to exploitation of the food growers with entry of private corporate houses in the agriculture marketing sector. He said the minimum support price (MSP) regime would be completely wiped out and private players would procure the crops on their own decided rates as government would have no control on them.The minister said the ordinances would give ample powers to the corporate houses in terms of procurement and storage hence the farmers would be forced by them to work on their wills.He said the Union Government had forgotten the contribution of Punjab farmers in the India’s food production and economy.Randhawa said being a border state in the country, these ordinances may create law and order situation in the Punjab and may hit the country hard. He appealed to the Union Government to withdraw the ordinances otherwise farmers would leave farming in future and the country may face serious consequences in terms of availability of food for all.The minister called the resignation of Union Food Processing Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal a drama and said her party was playing a gimmick on this serious issue. He said in the coming days, the Chief Minister along with all Cabinet ministers and MLAs will stage a protest in Delhi against these ordinances. “We will take every step to counter these anti-farmer ordinances”, he added.Meanwhile, among prominent present on the occasion include MLAs Sushil Kumar Rinku, Rajinder Beri, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, Additional Deputy Commissioner Jasbir Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer Surinder Singh, Verka GM Asit Sharma, Markfed DM Sachin, Congress leaders Sukhwinder Singh Lalli, Baldev Singh Dev and Angad Dutta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/withdraw-farm-bills-demands-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-143134
19-09-2020||---||AAP begins oximeter drive, corners govt on health infra||Jalandhar, September 18Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema today launched an oximeter drive from Rainak Bazaar. Cheema along with other activists went door-to-door to monitor oxygen levels of shopkeepers and general public.Cheema blamed Chief Minister Amarinder Singh as well as the SAD-BJP alliance which had government for 10 years for collapse of healthcare system in the state.Harpal Singh Cheema, LOPWith 10,000 active Covid-19 cases in Delhi on September 17, death toll was 38, but there were 54 fatalities in Punjab. More than 23 lakh tests have been conducted in Delhi while the number has not touched 15 lakh in Punjab so far.The LoP said if the previous governments, including Capt Amarinder had not pampered private health mafia instead of improving government hospitals and dispensaries, people would have had faith in the government healthcare facilities and number of deaths due to Covid-19 would have been less. He said Punjab has a worst death rate (2.9) in the country.The AAP activists spoke of the importance of oxygen level to tackle Covid-19 and distributed awareness kits.Cheema said with 10,000 active (positive) patients in Delhi on September 17, death toll was 38 in Delhi, but there were 54 fatalities in Punjab.He said more than 23 lakh tests have been conducted in Delhi while the number has not touched 15 lakh in Punjab so far. He added that the number of Covid beds in Punjab was only 8,854 beds.Recently, medical wing of the AAP held a press conference wherein they brought forth lack of early diagnoses, which had lead to rise in fatalities in the state. They said oximeters will aid in early detection and diagnoses. AAP district chief Shiv Dayal Mali, Sanjeev Sharma, Rajwinder Kaur, Mangal Singh and Kartar Pehelwan, among others, were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-begins-oximeter-drive-corners-govt-on-health-infra-143135
19-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||In Jalandhar, critical patients ‘dumped’ on road||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 18Four patients, including two seriously injured men, were dumped on the roadside allegedly by ESI hospital workers near Raen Basera here last night. The injured — a 70-year-old man with sores on his back and an 18-year-old boy with a fractured leg — were unable to walk on their own.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori ordered an inquiry after Sant Cinema Market Welfare Society activists approached him.‘Don’t know how they ended up outside’The patients were in hospital. We don’t know how they ended up on roadside. At times, relatives take them out. We have nine patients whose whereabouts are not known... We wrote to the DC, but got no reply. Dr Loveleen Garg, MS, ESI hospitalThe activists claimed they found the two patients in a pitiable condition with both men having catheters without drainage bag. Writhing in pain, the two were lying at a spot strewn with garbage. They were unable to move, and the bandages on their bodies were soiled, they said. The elderly man named Gora who had called for help, thereby alerting the society members, said he along with three other men had been left at the spot in an auto.Lalit Mehta, society president, said: “We heard the elderly man screaming. He told us he had been admitted to ESI Hospital after his pelvic bone was injured in an accident. But last night he and three other patients were left near Raen Basera by the hospital staff. The 18-year-old lying next to him had been hit by a vehicle four days ago.”Despite a search, the other two patients could not be located, added Mehta.Jalandhar Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla said, “I haven’t received the complaint yet, but will take it up with the ESI Hospital Medical Superintendent.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-jalandhar-critical-patients-dumped-on-road-143296
