19-07-2020||---||JIT pulled up by state consumer forum over non-compliance||Jalandhar, July 18The Punjab State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, on Saturday pulled up the Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT) for non-compliance of its last orders in Ratesh Khillan’s case. It has issued fresh orders asking the HDFC bank to attach the bank account of JIT.Ratesh Khillan of Kapurthala in September 2019, had filed a cases against JIT, at the commission for not giving him the possession of the plot he purchased at Surya Enclave Extension.JIT had reportedly allotted the plot to Khillan in 2011 for Rs34,09,450 and its possession was scheduled for 2014. The JIT in an official document promised to provide all basic facilities at the flat including water, sewage, tiling and electricity. However, when the scheduled time arrived, neither the possession was provided nor the facilities were given.After several years of delayed possession, Khillan approached the commission and filled a cased against JIT. Consequently, after hearing arguments of both parties, the commission came to the conclusion that JIT adopted unfair trade practice by launching the scheme and invited applications for the allotment of plots in that scheme. Besides, neither the possession of the plot was delivered to the complainant, nor JIT was in a position to deliver the same. After the allotment of the plot, the complainant became the ‘consumer’ of the JIT and non-delivery of possession of the plot amounted to deficiency in service on the part of the JIT, due to which the complainant suffered loss and injury. The JIT failed to comply with orders and provided only partial amount to Khillan.The order||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jit-pulled-up-by-state-consumer-forum-over-non-compliance-114923
19-07-2020||Jalandhar||Man on parole found murdered||Property fraud: bail plea rejectedJalandhar: The bail plea of Sanjay Sharma, owner Sanjay Karate House, was rejected by the court of Additional Sessions Judge on Saturday. Absconding from the police, Sanjay, who was charged with property fraud had appealed for his bail lately. A Delhi-based logistics transporter, Sukhwinder Singh Bajwa, had on July 10 accused Sharma of property fraud. An FIR was registered against him at police division number 6. Bajwa, a resident of New Delhi, in his complaint to the police, said Sharma sold him his property located in Model Town for Rs7 crore in December 2018. However, he failed to give him the legal documents and possession of the property. In addition, Sanjay also refused to pay him Rs4.5 crore that he paid in advance while making the deal. A case under Section 406, 420 and 506 had been registered against Sanjay. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-on-parole-found-murdered-114925
19-07-2020||---||IPR implications discussed at Science City||Jalandhar, July 18 The Pushpa Gujral Science City, in collaboration with Technology Information, Forecasting and Assessment Council, GoI, organised a two-day webinar series on the Intellectual Property Rights.  The first day focused on researchers and industry, whereas stress was laid on the commercial aspects of the community as a whole on the second day. Concepts such as trademarks, Geographic Indications and farmers’ rights were discussed. Vishnumohan Rethinam, Trademarks Attorney, said trademarks were one of the few assets which could provide a long-term competitive advantage and identity to the business.  “Businesses use trademarks in advertising, on product packaging and while dealing with customers, add brand value to the products. Customers associate trademarks with quality of the product and are in the habit of comparing the product manufactured by other companies. It helps to distinguish products and services from those of competitors and help identify one as the source of manufacturing and selling good quality products. Most of the infringements in businesses happen because of trademarks,” he said. Dr HS Chawla (Retd), GB Pant University for Agriculture and Technology, gave a presentation on plant varieties, their protection and farmers’ rights. He said these rights encouraged the development and cultivation of new varieties of crops. “It grants IPRs to plant breeders, researchers and farmers who have developed any new or extant plant varieties. Farmers are entitled to save, use, sow, re-sow, exchange or sell their farm produce including seed of a registered variety in an unbranded manner. Farmers’ varieties are eligible for registration and farmers are exempted from payment of any fee in any proceedings under this Act. The period of protection for field crops is 15 years and for trees and vines, it is 18 years. For notified varieties, it is 15 years from the date of notification, under Section 5 of the Seeds Act, 1966. The annual fee has to be paid every year for maintaining the registration and the renewal fee has to be paid for the extended period of registration,” he said. Divya Kaushik, Scientist at the Punjab State Council for Science and Technology, said Patent Information Centre set up at the council office in Chandigarh was one of the two centres in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ipr-implications-discussed-at-science-city-114926
19-07-2020||Our Correspondent---||Registration for undergraduate courses in Punjab sports university from July 20||Hoshiarpur, July 18 Registration process for admissions in specialised three-year undergraduate courses in Maharaja Bhupindera Singh Punjab Sports University, Patiala, will start from July 20. A press release issued on behalf of Lt-General JS Cheema (retd), Vice- Chancellor of the university, informed that complying with the direction of Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi to revive sports culture in the state and to train the youngsters in sports science and sports dietician, registration of three specialised undergraduate courses for the academic year 2020-21 is being started. He said eligibility criteria for admission in Bachelor of Physical Education and Sports (BPES) for general category would be 10+2 pass with minimum 50 per cent pass marks and for SC, ST and OBC candidates and participants of international and national-level sports competitions is 45 per cent. Apart from this, the candidate should have a graded sports certificate issued by the Punjab Sports Department or other states. Candidates must undergo physical fitness test to qualify for the admission. “For the second course BSc (Sports Science), eligibility for general category candidates is at least 50 per cent pass marks in 10+2 (science), while it is 45 per cent marks in same subject for SC, ST and OBC and participants of international/ national-level sports competitions”, he further added. The Vice-Chancellor said similarly, third course would be BSc (Sports Nutrition and Dietetics). For this course, preference would be given to those candidates, who have participated in any sports competition at international,national, state,federation, district and school level. Apart from this, candidate must have a gradation of sports certificate. He said aspiring students can apply online for registration to these three courses from July 20 to August 20. Online registration will start on the university’’s website mbspsu.pgsgcpe.com.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/registration-for-undergraduate-courses-in-punjab-sports-university-from-july-20-114927
19-07-2020||Our Correspondent||In times of Covid, hosting webinars becomes a new normal||Hoshiarpur, July 18The Education Department held a district-level grievance redressal webinar for teachers belonging to Hoshiarpur district on Saturday. Education Secretary Krishan Kumar, through a webinar, heard the grievances of teachers and non-teaching employees and promised to solve the issues raised by them at the earliest.The officials of the Education Department, including DPI (Elementary) Lalit Kishore Ghai, Concerned Nodal Officer, Kulwinder Kaur, District Education Officers, Block Primary Education Officers and ministerial staff also attended the webinar from their respective places.Addressing the teachers, Education Secretary Krishan Kumar said the idea behind starting this district level ‘Grievances Redressal Webinars’ on every Saturday was to ensure positive reciprocation to the hopes and aspirations of the teachers, who have been doing really commendable job in taking virtual classes, enhancing enrollment, distributing text books, conducting online competitions and activities to commemorate the 400th Gurpurab of Guru Teg Bahadur and taking bimonthly house examination along with performing various duties during the unprecedented pandemic.Taking a serious note of some complaints put forth by the teachers regarding inordinate delay as well as discriminatory approach by the officials at the cutting edge level, the Education Secretary asked the DEOs and the BPEOs to fix the responsibility of the concerned dealing hands. He also asked them to ensure transparent and hassle-free delivery of utility services.As many as 42 grievances were raised by the teaching and non teaching employees. Krishan Kumar, while giving patient hearing to all the issues, resolved some of the grievances on the spot by issuing requisite instructions to the officials concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-times-of-covid-hosting-webinars-becomes-a-new-normal-114928
19-07-2020||---||Importance of birds highlighted||n Hoshiarpur: DAV College, Hoshiarpur, under the aegis of IQAC organised a webinar on ‘How Birds Are Important To Us’. The speakers on the occasion were Dr Amandeep Singh, mind coach and NLP expert, and president, social welfare and awareness society, Hoshiarpur, Suraj Narayan, assistant professor, DAV College, Chandigarh. n Dr Singh said not much data had been collected about birds and wildlife in India.  n Talking about the sociological, economic, social, cultural, scientific and ecological importance of birds, Dr Singh stressed upon the need to sensitise people about the conservation of nature and birds through awareness campaigns.  n “Man in his greed has completely annihilated many species and their natural habitats,” he said. He felt that the need of the hour was to establish an emotional belongingness between people and nature, so that a positive transfor-mation is brought out in society and our planet earth remains a heaven, not only for humans but also for all other creatures.   n The topic ‘Birds: The poetry of nature’, was elaborated upon by Narayan. With the help of slides displaying different birds, he took the participants on a virtual journey of their natural surroundings. “Birds are also mentioned in many of our folk songs and even in Bollywood songs,” he said. n He also laid emphasis on the socio-cultural importance of birds in human life. Meanwhile, Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra eulogised the great presenters and event coordinator Dr Rajeev Sharma and technical expert Dr Pardeep Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/importance-of-birds-highlighted-114929
19-07-2020||---||71 fresh infections in district, tally 1,591||Jalandhar, July 18As many as 71 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar on Saturday, following which the district tally has gone up to 1,591. Forty of them are contacts of positive cases, while 18 are new cases. In Jalandhar, the total number of active cases, who are admitted to the Civil Hospital, has risen to 109. Now, the total number of active cases in the district is 573. Of them, 39 are BSF personnel. As many as 99 people in the district have been placed under home isolation.A total of 33,497 people have been sampled in the district so far, out of which 1,591 are positive and 30,502 are negative. A total of 992 people have been discharged and the reports 1,131 are still awaited. The death toll stands at 32 in the district.11 BSF jawans among 12 new positive in HoshiarpurThe number of Covid-19 victims increased by 12 in the district on Saturday. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said the reports of 697 samples were received on Saturday from VDRL Lab, Amritsar, of which 12 Covid-19 positive cases were reported. With this, the total positive cases in the district have increased to 266. Of the 12 positive cases found on Saturday, 11 are BSF personnel from Sub Training Centre, Kharakn Camp, while one case is from Saila Khurd area under PHC Posi.So far, 21,231 samples of Covid-19 suspects have been collected in the district, of which 19,580 have been negative and the reports of 1,378 samples are awaited, while 30 samples have been found invalid. So far, eight Covid-19 victims have died in the district and it now has 68 active cases, while 189 people have been cured of the coronavirus. — OCGet immunity booster kitsJalandhar: To boost the immunity of Border Security Force (BSF) personnel deployed at the India-Pakistan border in Punjab, the Field Outreach Bureau (FOB) of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Jalandhar, gave 1,000 ayurvedic immunity booster kits to them through the Punjab Ayurvedic Department.The idea to provide the natural immunity boosters was especially conceptualised by the FOB keeping in view the present Covid-19 situation in the country. Since the BSF personnel are in the first line of defence, manning the Punjab border round the clock, these herbal boosters would help them in enhancing their body’s natural defence system that plays an important role in maintaining optimum health.Field publicity officer Rajesh Bali along with Jalandhar district ayurvedic officer Dr Joginder Pal presented 1,000 immunity boosters kits to Mahipal Yadav, Inspector General, BSF, Punjab Frontier, on the BSF campus, on Saturday.Dr Rakesh Sharma, director, Ayurvedic Department, Punjab, said: “It’s a proud moment for the department to extend the services to BSF, which is securing our borders so that we can live peacefully without any fear.” He said the immunity booster, which is especially made for frontline workers, is in the form of decoction (kadha). It is made from tulsi (basil), dalchini (cinnamon), kali mirch (black pepper) and saunth (dry ginger). It may be taken once or twice a day after boiling in water or tea. He also assured to provide more such kits at regular intervals. — TNS58-year-old man dies of Covid-19 in HoshiarpurA 58-year-old man, a resident of Ahiyapur village, died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Jalandhar on Saturday. He was cremated late in the evening following the Covid-19 protocols at the cremation ground of Ahiyapur village near Tanda. He was admitted to a hospital with a serious illness and died this morning, later his Covid-19 test report came positive. He was cremated by the Health Department team. The death has risen to 9 in the district. — OCPhagwara MLA tests +ve Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal on Saturday tested positive for Covid-19 here. The MLA’s report came out positive a few days after his son tested positive on July 13. Both have been placed under home isolation. With one fresh case, the total number of positive cases has risen to 149 in Kapurthala district. The total number of active cases is 27. As many as 114 patients have been discharged in the district so far. Dr Sandeep Dhawan, in-charge, isolation centre, Phagwara, said, “The samples of 19 contacts of the MLA had been taken today. Samples of others persons would also be taken soon. The MLA is currently under home quarantine.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/71-fresh-infections-in-district-tally-1-591-114930
19-07-2020||Industry and Lockdown||‘Sale of tiles down as housing projects put on hold amid crisis’||‘Shri Om Trading Company, based in New Amar Nagar (Jalandhar), deals in retail and wholesale business of sanitation products and tiles. They are facing issues related to working capital as 60 per cent of their payments have been stuck since mid-March. In an interview with Avneet Kaur, Gagan Arora, owner of the company, shares the ramifications of Covid-19 on his business, problems he has been facing and plans to refurbish it in the near future. Excerpts:How is your business doing amid the lockdown?To be very honest, we are doing quite okay. Initially we were struggling like any other individual business but we have now evolved ourselves as per the situation. The month of March was actually fine for us as we were gearing up for the closure of the financial year, so our sales target was achieved. However, during the April-May period, our business was adversely affected due to the lockdown. Despite that we did not cut salaries of our employees.What are the major issues troubling you at present?We have a retail store in Jalandhar and our business is very much dependent upon the transport sector as we procure goods from Gujarat and distribute it to nearby northern states like Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, J&K, etc. As of now, transport services have been restored, which is a big relief for us, but our major concern at the moment is our payments, which have been pending for the last three to four months. People are still not clearing the dues. Liquidity is a major problem in our business, which relies completely on regular payments against orders. Also, our sales are not picking up the pace as people are not really starting their housing projects.What is the status of your labour?We are well aware of the fact a large number of people lost their jobs amid the pandemic, but I am proud to say that our 50 to 70 employees are still with us. Moreover, many local workers who have either lost their jobs or have closed their businesses due to losses are also seeking labour jobs these days.Do you expect your business to pick up in future?As I have also mentioned earlier that we have learned to evolve as per the situation. So, the rate of growth is definitely going up as we deal with vast products and distribute them to different retailers in multiple states. But keeping the crisis in mind no one can actually predict anything accurately as we do not know when the vaccine will be developed.What lessons have you learnt from the crisis?The pandemic has taught us to do less business on credit. But recently I introduced an interesting business-to-business service (B2Bs) offer. We are now giving 2 per cent cash discounts to anyone who clears payment within 15 days of purchase. Earlier, the payment clearing cycle was from 30 to 45 days.What are your expectations from the government?There is urgent requirement of enhancing the banking and financial structure as cheques and payments which are not cleared by clients remain unpaid due to get stuck in a lengthy legal process. Therefore, it is high time for the government to make strict laws and take the right steps to increase the value of cheques for MSMEs. Also, tile is an essential commodity and not a luxury commodity and essential in housing and sanitation, hence we urge the government to lower the GST to 12 per cent from the current 18 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sale-of-tiles-down-as-housing-projects-put-on-hold-amid-crisis-114933
19-07-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Virus bashes birthday revels, folks left to have a ball at home||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 18Birthdays are always special! The younger you are, more the merrier are memories of it – both for parents and children as the years roll on. But how unlucky those would be feeling whose offsprings are going to turn one this year. A big party perhaps at a finest of dine-ins or hotels was on the cards, with all the fancy decorative material hanging about, the finger-licking delicates and how could you forget that epic cake! Large enough to cater to all the guests involved.All of that, however, is now just a dream, for the coronavirus has severely bashed all their partying plans. Instead, the folks are left restricted to their homes making dishes, decorating with unused materials and brooding over the ways they could make their precious ones first birthday an indelible memory at home.Archana Gupta, mother of an eight-month old, says she has started planning on how she would make the day special for her son and the family. "It will be his first birthday. We had earlier planned that we would throw a big party and would celebrate in the hotel but after the pandemic every plan was cancelled. Now, we have decided to celebrate the birthday at home with four people," she said.And what better can be than YouTube. It’s one hell of a saviour. The site has greatly been assisting mommies. It is playing a significant role, especially for those who have been learning various recipes and cakes for the birthdays of their children.Kanchan Trikha, a mother of two kids, shares that she had recently celebrated her elder daughter''s birthday, a 7-year-old. "My daughter kept on asking if we were going to go outside. Although, she knows about the situation,” she says. But we all know how the little ones are. “But still, she thought we could at least go out on her birthday and eat something nice. So, I baked her a cake along with every other dish she likes," Kanchan adds.Aakriti Trikha is going to celebrate the second birthday of her twins on July 18. Last year, the family members had held massive arrangements at a hotel where all near and dear ones were invited. "This year it will be not like that,” she says, gloomily, but is upbeat: “But still, for my babies I am not going to let any pandemic hit the birthday celebrations of my kids!"Quotes:Mahi AnejaAlthough I love to cook but amid the pandemic I have honed my skills properly and I made several tasty dishes for my younger daughter who had her birthday recently amid the pandemic. All my family members really enjoyed being at home and celebrating birthday in this way.Aakriti TrikhaThis is going to remain new normal now, so, I have decided that every coming birthday of my sons will be celebrated with full enjoyment at home only. I hope this pandemic ends soon, but we are prepared and for now health is main priority than going and having meals outside.Shruti GuptaBoth my children are grown-ups and know the situation very well. But still there''s one day in the year which excites the children most. Celebrating the birthday at home will become a normal now and gatherings will not be possible.Kanchan TrikhaWe have always celebrated every big occasion lavishly but now holding small parties at home will be a routine now. However, I love to decorate the home and cook on my own.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virus-bashes-birthday-revels-folks-left-to-have-a-ball-at-home-114934
19-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Service lanes of city a pain in the neck||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 18The roads in the city were already unlevelled with potholes emerging here and there. And if one hasn’t seen the service lanes, well, it’s as big a mess as it gets. It’s been years since these has been repaired even in the posh areas, let alone the usual ones.This is growing as a nucisance for the residents dwelling alongside these lanes. Moreover, if payed attention, the byways could have been easily used for the movement of non-mechanised vehicles -- as was earlier proposed -- and now, as things stand, would have been a great convenience for hundreds of cyclists riding around the city these days. But the civic authorities have never thought on these lines. As a result, the cyclists have no option but to ride on the main roads and be part of the routine heavy traffic that passes daily.Due for several years, the Municipal Corporation got the work of tiling service lanes starting back in November this year at the Old Baradari locality. While one part of the work was done by February, the remaining strip is as it is since the past five months. The service lane was dug up in early March but four months on, the residents are still awaiting it’s completion. The lockdown had surely halted the work before but even two months since the civic work resumed, why is this one left out?SE B&R, MC, Rajnish Dogra says, “A legal dispute between the MC and the Ghaziabad-based contractor is on after an objection filed by the accounts branch. The contractor is demanding Rs 2 crore for the work before resuming it further. The next date of hearing in the court is July 30”.Interestingly, the entry to the Jullundur Gymkhana Club, which has membership of the city’s elite class, also falls on this service road. It is dotted with the houses of judges, excise officials and senior police officers. “Our vehicles have been facing a lot of wear and tear since the last four months,” an official shares. And rainy weather has further clawed into their problems.At several other places, such lanes have completely washed out leaving them all muddy with pastures growing. Meanwhile, in other areas, the service lanes remain blocked with no access possible owing to some extension by the shopkeepers or change of plan by the civic authorities as seen in Lajpat Nagar, Gujral Nagar and several other localities.The service lanes on the backside of the PUDA market along the Ladowali Road are virtually a jungle now with wild growth all around and is extremely unsafe for anyone to pass through. An extended plot in the market too has blocked the lanes from one end, impeding the shopkeepers in having a proper access from the backside for loading of goods or other repairs. Manjit S Jolly, from the PUDA market association, has long been demanding the improvement in the condition of the service lanes but to no avail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/service-lanes-of-city-a-pain-in-the-neck-114935
19-07-2020||---||Bid to malign SAD: Youth body||Jalandhar, July 18Youth Akali Dal (YAD) chief Parambans Singh Romana today alleged that the Congress, AAP and Dhindsa camp were hand in glove with dera supporter Veerpal Kaur who had tried to tarnish the image of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal. He said Veerpal’s claim had been denied by a former police officer, whom she had quoted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bid-to-malign-sad-youth-body-114874
19-07-2020||---||Woman’s suicide: Panel summons panchayat||Jalandhar, July 18The State Women Commission has summoned the panchayat of Bajuha Kala village in Nakodar on July 20 after a woman committed suicide alleging atrocities by the panchayat members.Minutes after recording an audio and video, a 35-year-old mother of three children on Thursday committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling fan of her house. In the clips sent to her brother, the woman alleged that she was taking the extreme step because her village panchayat refused to listen to her. She also alleged that the police didn’t help her, a charge denied by the cops.After a dispute with a neighbour, the woman, while taking up the matter with the panchayat, had alleged that rather than listening to her, the panchayat members beat her and sided with her neighbour. Nakodar DSP Navneet Singh Mahal said, “The case was marked to the SHO as soon as we got to know about the incident. A panch of the village has been arrested by the police and the remaining members will be nabbed soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/womans-suicide-panel-summons-panchayat-114881
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||Phagwara MLA tests +ve, cases near 10,000 mark||Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal tested positive for Covid-19 today. Earlier on July 13, his son was tested positive. Both have been placed under home isolation.Dr Sandeep Dhawan, incharge of the isolation centre in Phagwara, said: “The samples of 19 immediate contacts of the MLA have been collected. His secondary contacts will also be tested for the virus.”Meanwhile, the situation in the state continues to remain grim as 350 fresh cases and seven deaths were reported in the past 24 hours. With this, the total number of Covid cases has reached 9,792 in the state. Three deaths were reported from Amritsar, one each from Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and SAS Nagar. The number of casualties due to the virus has reached 246. Besides, 63 persons are on oxygen support and nine are on ventilator support.The worst-affected districts were Ludhiana (72 cases), Jalandhar (71), Patiala (48), Amritsar (41), SAS Nagar (28), Sangrur (23) and Ferozepur (15). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-mla-tests-ve-cases-near-10-000-mark-114875
