19-12-2020||Jalandhar||Preparations for storage of Covid vaccine on war footing||The district administration has started preparations on a war footing for storage and distribution of the Covid-19 vaccine and its immunisation.Participating in a video-conference held by Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Hussan Lal, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, who was accompanied by Additional Deputy Commissioner (D) Vishesh Sarangal, on Friday said at present the administration had made the arrangement of cold storages which would have sufficient space for storing 12.5 lakh doses of the vaccine. Their capacity would further be augmented when the vaccine would be available for the general public.‘Priority to frontline health workers’ He said the district had 62 Ice Lined Refrigerators (ILR) under its cold chain storage facilities which could store 5,739 litre and one ILR could store 217. “So, we have sufficient space for storing 12.4 lakh doses here,” said the DC.The Deputy Commissioner further said the administration had also identified 57 cold chain points (16 in urban and 41 in rural areas). He said at present the district had 1,057 vaccine carriers and vaccine vans and these were in working condition. Besides, all CHCs, PHCs/SDHs and Civil Hospital had been earmarked as session sites and private health institutions were being identified. He said a total of 46 health teams had also been formed and directed the department to increase its number.Ghanshyam Thori said as per the directions of the government, the first dose of the vaccine would be administered to all frontline health workers, including doctors, nursing and lab staff, ward attendants and all Anganwari workers and helpers. Data of 10,844 workers had already been uploaded. Block-level task forces had also been set up and meetings were being held regularly by heads.Calling doctors/nursing, lab staff/ward attendants and other health workers ‘soldiers without uniform’, the Deputy Commissioner said the administration would give top priority to frontline health workers, who have been fighting the pandemic for the last eight months, while administering the vaccine.On the occasion, Civil Surgeon Gurinder Kaur Chawla, District Immunisation Officer Dr Seema, DMC Dr Anu, District Epidemiologist Dr Satish and others were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/preparations-for-storage-of-covid-vaccine-on-war-footing-186459
19-12-2020||Hoshiarpur||Heavy vehicle driving training institute opens in Hoshiarpur||The Hoshiarpur Institute of Automotive & Driving Skills, a joint venture of the Punjab Government and the Red Cross, Hoshiarpur, was inaugurated by Minister for Industry and Commerce Sunder Sham Arora here on Friday. He was accompanied by Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait and Red Cross secretary Naresh Gupta. The institute will provide two-day refresher course to heavy commercial vehicle (HCV) drivers which is mandatory for the renewal of their driving licences.Red Cross secretary Naresh Gupta told The Tribune, “It will cater to candidates from the Majha and Doaba regions and parts of the Malwa region. It will provide a great relief to drivers who aspire to renew their licence. Earlier, they had to travel far-off areas and faced hardships. The course fee would be Rs 430.”DC Apneet Riyait said, “At present, the institute will not provide lodging facility during the two-day course. The institute will be providing refresher course, but we propose to start various courses in driving, automotive and other related fields soon.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/heavy-vehicle-driving-training-institute-opens-in-hoshiarpur-186460
19-12-2020||---||Farmers block traffic in anticipation of BJP leader||Jalandhar, December 18Members of various farmer unions gathered at the Company Bagh chowk to protest against BJP leader Shwait Malik who was expected to arrive here on Friday. Though the farmers held a dharna and protested for long expecting the arrival of the leader, he did not turn up at the site. They held up traffic at the Company Bagh and also burnt an effigy of the Central Government.Members of farmer organisations, including the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), the Kirti Kisan Union, the Pendu Mazdoor Union and others, were present on the occasion. Leaders of various unions declared that the farmers’ protests would continue till the three farm laws were withdrawn, Electricity Bill 2020 was withdrawn, and other demands were met. Farmers, activists and little girls protested with posters reading “Kheti kanoon radd karo”, “Tennu Dilliye ikatth pareshan karuga, hun faslan de faisle kisan karuga”.Mandeep Singh Samra and Kulwinder Singh Machiana of the BKU (Rajewal), Kashmir Singh Ghugshore of the Kirti Kisan Union and Dalit leaders Ramesh Chaheku, among others, addressed the gathering and raised slogans against the Central Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-block-traffic-in-anticipation-of-bjp-leader-186461
19-12-2020||Vishesh Sarangal is Additional Deputy Commissioner and got Covid-positive in September but had no symptoms. It was October onwards that he got some post-Covid symptoms||‘Got less virus load as I never removed mask’||It was on September 1 that I felt that four-five employees in my office had become positive and that it will be appropriate for me to undergo tests. I was asymptomatic, but my RT-PCR test report came positive and I immediately self-quarantined. I occupied a vacant room on the first floor of my house.I knew the entire protocol well as I had been the one who got the first area sealed in Jalandhar and got the first victim cremated amid protest. To be honest, I had really got scared when I got the report as both my parents are diabetic and my father has undergone bypass surgery. My daughters are aged just 1 and 3. I was more worried of having passed on my infection to them. I told my wife, who is anaesthesiologist, to get 14 persons who had been in my close contact to get tested. Thankfully, everyone, including my family, driver and maid tested negative.For 17 days, I kept myself isolated. I was provided food by my family on a table outside my room. I used to wash the utensils myself and never let anyone in. On the 17th day, I tested negative and reached office from the next day. I did all my office work myself from home. My staff used to send me important dak in a scanned form on my mail which I cleared electronically. It all went smooth perhaps because I never removed my face mask and perhaps got less virus load.Even though I had planned that I would be watching movies and web series if I caught Covid, I got no time to watch a single episode in all these 17 days.As everything went on smoothly weeks after I had recovered, all of a sudden I felt loss of energy. I was not able to work to my capacity. Another thing that troubled me a lot was forgetfulness that began around October. At this, I consulted doctors and they told me that it could be brain fogging, which was being experienced by many patients. They told me not to worry as the virus is learnt to have effect not just on lungs and heart, but also brain. So, I was told to just relax, do some meditation and keep a good diet, including fresh fruits, salads and vegetables. (As told to Deepkamal Kaur)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/got-less-virus-load-as-i-never-removed-mask-186462
19-12-2020||Jalandhar||Farmers’ protest: Poetry takes centre stage to vent out feelings||Emotions are high and support is pouring from every quarter for protesting farmers. Everyone wants to do their bit to show their solidarity with farmers who had been protesting against the Centre for introducing three agri laws at Singhu and Tikri borders for more than 20 days.Poetry has become a medium to nudge the Central Government and vent out one’s feeling for safeguarding rights of agitating farmers.Amolak Singh, chief, Punjab Lok Sbhyacharak, who had gone to participate in the stir, wrote for widows of farmers who had committed suicide, ‘Photoa lai ke ture kaafile, dilli wall vaggiya, darda da dariya’, kise da Jeevan sathi tur gya, kise de jigar da tota, raakh siwe di seene pukhdi, jiyundi lash ve loka’.‘Chall ve putta, dilli chaliye, maa photo chumdi kendi, dilli tera babal baitha, main piche kinj rehndi’, he writes.Amolak said, “It was such an emotional scene, when I saw the kin holding pictures of farmers who had committed suicide. I was pained and then words came out automatically, I wrote what I felt.”The Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch also organised various nukkad nataks for farmers at the protest sites.He concludes the poem, ‘Assi na lain muaavze aaye, assi haa dassan aaye, pehle maran kabool saanu, hakk layi jujhan aaye’.Narinder Kumar, who is an industrialist, wrote a poem “Assi chale jaane aa”. ‘Saada paani mod-de, Saadi mitti mod-de, asi chale jaane aa, apni khaad laija, maaru davayi laija, kali kamaai laija, kisan di khudaayi mod-de, asi chale jaane aa; asi mul mangan nai, hisab karan aaye aa, ajj de nai, chira de sataye aa, apne jhute parche laija, juthe karze laija, saade angoothe mod-de, asi chale jaane aa’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-protest-poetry-takes-centre-stage-to-vent-out-feelings-186463
19-12-2020||Jalandhar||Goodbye parties, see you next year||Surely, no one in the beginning of this year would have thought its end will be so bittersweet. However, coming as a blessing in disguise, it will be perhaps for the first time that most of the residents will be ringing in New Year by rejoicing with their families at home.Since no parties are permitted by the state government owing to Covid restrictions on December 31 night, the party animals have only a few options in hand: to either celebrate with limited gathering during daytime or stay overnight at their friends’ place or perhaps a resort. As the government has specifically announced night curfew till January 1 with restriction on movement of people from 10 pm onwards, most people are expecting strict vigil by cops especially on the New Year night and do not want to indulge into any violation. So, they might want to limit their outings well before time.None of the hangouts in city, including clubs and hotels will be able to hold New Year celebrations. Gautam Kapoor, owner of Radisson hotel, said, “It will be after many decades that there will be no parties at our hotel this time. It is a big annual occasion that the entire hotel industry of Punjab would be missing out on. But in any case we have to follow the directions of the state government in light of the prevailing pandemic.”Likewise honorary secretary of the Jullundur Gymkhana Club, Tarun Sikka, said, “There will be no New Year party. We cannot even hold it in the daytime as we cannot restrict gathering to a limited number. In any case, we have a plan to celebrate a good ‘tambola evening’ on December 27, which will be the last Sunday of the year. We expect 100-odd members to be there.”“My party will be at my place with my mom and dad after 20 years. All these years, I have always been out. We will do it special by doing some grilling and arranging a bonfire and music system,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/goodbye-parties-see-you-next-year-186464
19-12-2020||Jalandhar||Guru Nanak Chair set up at LPU campus||Lovely Professional University (LPU) established a Guru Nanak Chair at its campus on Friday.Union Education Minister Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank inaugurated the event virtually. Addressing the LPU students, Dr Pokhriyal said, “Guru Nanak through his teachings gave the message of unity to the entire world. Guru Nanak Chair will be useful in promoting peace and harmony in the world.”English version of the book titled “Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji” authored by Dr Nishank was launched.Reuben Gauci, High Commissioner of Malta, released the book.Punjab Minister of Technical Education and Industrial Training Charanjit Singh Channi presided over the ceremony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/guru-nanak-chair-set-up-at-lpu-campus-186465
19-12-2020||Jalandhar||Smartphones distributed to Class XII students in Jalandhar||To empower young students digitally amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Friday unveiled the second phase of ‘Punjab Smart Connect Scheme’ by distributing smartphones to eleven Class XII students of government schools.The DC, accompanied by Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) Jasbir Singh, said that pandemic had severely affected routine classes in the schools, which led to an adverse effect on the poor and rural students especially of government schools as they were facing several problems in getting equal opportunities like others in private educational institutions.The DC said that under this second phase, phones would be given to 6310 students of the Class XII in government schools, and 2116 smartphones were distributed during the first phase of the scheme. He further said that the students would be able to access relevant information about their course besides they can avail citizen services online with the help of smartphones easily.He also added that youth would also get information about employment opportunities, job fairs, and recruitment drives under the Ghar Ghar Rozgaar programme of the state. Today, a similar phone distribution programme was held at 73 schools of various constituencies of the district. Prominent among present on the occasion included DEO Secondary Harinder Pal Singh, Youth Congress leaders Angad Dutta, Honey Joshi, and others.1,694 covered in 2nd phaseUnder the ‘Captain Smart Connect’ scheme, smartphones are being provided to all the Class XII students studying in the government schools. On Friday, during the second phase of the distribution of smartphones, as many as 1,694 students were distributed among the students in the district.At the District headquarter, Nawanshahr Deputy Commissioner Sheena Aggarwal, presided over the function and distributed smartphones to a limited number of students. District Education Officer, Secondary DEO (SE), Jagjit Singh, Spokesperson, Education Department, Parmod Bharti, were present on the occasion.MLA, Balachaur, Darshan Lal Mangupur distributed smartphones at Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Thopia and Bhaddi, and Chairman, District Planning Committee, Satvir Singh Palli distributed smartphones at GSSS, Mukandpur.The functions for distributing smartphones to students were held in 30 schools today.“With a view to facilitating the students belonging to the underprivileged section of the society to have access to the latest technology to avail the benefits of digital education, the state government has started providing smart phones equipped with pre-loaded applications related to e-content of the syllabus”, MLA Mangupur said.He also exhorted the students to make the judicious use of the smartphones to tap the educational and employment avenues for shaping their career in a better way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/smartphones-distributed-to-class-xii-students-in-jalandhar-186466
19-12-2020||Jalandhar||145th edition of Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan to be a low-key affair||In view of the pandemic this year, the 145th Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan has been cut short to a one-day affair. Last time its affairs had been low-keyed was decades ago. Instead of huge pandals set up at the premises of the Devi Talab Mandir accommodating thousands of people, the event will be held inside Shri Ram Hall and is expected to host up to 100 visitors this year.The line-up for this yearSanjeev Shankar and Ashwini Shankar (shehnai), Prashant Malil and Nishant Malik (dhrupad vocal), Manu Seen (sitar), Kale Ram and Pt Ramakant with disciples (tabla), Ritesh And Rajnish Mishra (khayal vocal)In another break from tradition, the festival shall be held until about 5 pm in the evening and won’t be the night-long as usually the case. No music competitions will be hosted this year. However, to continue the tradition of regaling music lovers from choicest classic music exponents from the region the Harivallabh will be seeing a day full of classical music festivities on December 27.All these steps are being taken keeping in mind the protocols. Last year it saw at least 5,000 visitors. It is the longest unbroken tradition of holding Hindustani classical music evenings in the world. Every year thousands gather during colding December nights to listen to the musical legends.President of Shri Baba Harivallabh Sangeet Mahasabha, Purnima Beri, said, “During the terrorism days, for several years Harivallabh was celebrated with a havan and singing of bhajans near Baba Harivallabh’s samadhi. It is for the first time after that the festival is going to break from tradition and be a day’s affair. Many music lovers and artists look forward to it every year. So, it’s a bit of a dampener for them but to keep up with the legacy of the sammelan we are holding a one-day festival which shall see recitals by eminent artists. The festival shall start with mangal dhwani (shehnai) and end with the vocal recital of Ritesh and Rajnish Mishra. The event at Shri Ram Hall shall be strictly as per Covid protocol. We will sanitise the building and premises beforehand and the invitees shall be limited to 50 to 100 people.”The festival is being held with the special coordinator of the North Zone Cultural Centre which has been a steadfast patron for the classical music for many years now. As per the protocols, people will be seated according to the 6-ft distancing plan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/145th-edition-of-harivallabh-sangeet-sammelan-to-be-a-low-key-affair-186467
19-12-2020||Jalandhar||MLA Pargat hands over cheques worth Rs5.79cr for development works||Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh handed over cheques worth Rs 5.79 crore to 50 panchayats of his segment for development works.Pargat said the cheques had been distributed to 37 gram panchayats of East Development block and 13 panchayats of Rurkan Kalan block under the 14th Finance Commission Grant. This grant would further ensure holistic development of rural areas at par with cities, he said adding that gram panchayats were mandated to immediately start development works in their respective villages.The MLA said the state government has emphasised to improve rural road network, availability of clean drinking water, strengthening of infrastructure in schools, healthcare facilities in villages and construction of model playgrounds in rural areas.The 50 gram panchayats, which received cheques include Alipur (K), Bambianwali, Barsal, Chachowal, Chananpur, Chitewani, Daulatpur, Dhanal Kalan, Dhanal Khurd, Diwali, Fatehpur, Hamiri Khera, Hardo Farala, Jamsher, Jandiali, Jugrali, Kadianwali, Kasimpur, Khera, Khun-Khun, Kot Kalan, Kot-Khurd, KuKar Pind, Lohar Sukha Singh, Meerapur, Nanak Pindi, Nagal Purdil, Partappura, Pholriwal, Phoolpur, Raipur, Salarpur, Salampur Masanda, Saprai, Shahpur, Udhopur, Usmanpur, Cholang, Daduwal, Dhani Pind, Kangniwal, Lakhanpal, Machiana, Nathewal, Pandori Musharkati, Samrai, Sarhali, and Sunner Khurd.Pargat said sarpanches of these villages were asked to immediately initiate the development works as there was no paucity of funds for rural development. The amount would be spent to develop drainage systems, roads, parks and other infrastructure in the villages, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mla-pargat-hands-over-cheques-worth-rs5-79cr-for-development-works-186468
19-12-2020||Jalandhar||Punjab Police team wins bronze||Punjab Police team from PAP has won a bronze medal in the National Equestrian Championship (show jumping) held in New Delhi. The members of the team were Gurtej Singh, Gurtera Singh, Harsimranjit Singh and Jatinder Singh.As many as 71 participants and 13 teams took part in the one-day event."The team had been practicing for last three months," said team's manager and Sub-Inspector Youngbir Singh. He added that they left for the championship on Wednesday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-police-team-wins-bronze-186469
19-12-2020||‘Active case finding drive campaign’ was initiated under the ‘National TB Elimination Programme’ at Kapurthala. Civil Surgeon Dr Surinder Kumar said the aim of the campaign||Active case finding TB campaign kickstarts||Online portal for land certificates floatedTo provide revenue related services in an easy way, the district has started online services of demarcation of land and non-encumbrance certificate. The Deputy Commissioner said these services have been provided via RCMS portal (RCMS punjab.gov.in). She said that necessary updation of portal has been done and a link to this has also been provided through main portal. Talking about the process to avail these services, she said the applicant would have to submit his/her application for demarcation online through this portal and in case the applicant cannot submit the application online, then applicant can either go to the Fard Kendra, Sewa Kendra or directly to the office of Circle Revenue Officer (CRO) and submit application. She added that MIS has been created to track the process of the applications and their disposal and access will be available to public and the controlling officers. She said the training has already been imparted to the district system managers/assistant system managers, tehsildars/naib tehsildars, readers and kanungo. She also made it clear that all applications regarding these revenue services would be processed only via RCMS portal.Awareness campaign against drug menaceUnder the Traffic Education Cell of the Kapurthala police, ASI Gurbachan Singh, in-charge Traffic Education Cell, on December 15 spread awareness against the menace of drugs in the ongoing drive to make people aware of various social and welfare issues. Addressing the security guards and other employees of the Punjab Technical University on December 15, the ASI said drugs were immensely detrimental to physical health and family well-being of human beings. He appealed to those present to work with police to address this menace. “Drugs are capable of destroying futures,” he said.(Contributed by Aparna Banerji)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/active-case-finding-tb-campaign-kickstarts-186470
19-12-2020||Jalandhar||Warm clothes distributed||Day of reconciliation celebratedEklavya School celebrated “The day of Reconciliation” with its students. Educators briefed their students about ‘The Reconciliation’ that it is a public holiday in South Africa. School educators conducted ‘Poster-making competition’ for primary students in which students participated with great zeal. Director Seema Handa addressed the students with the purpose of fostering reconciliation and national unity. Principal Arvinder Kaur and administrator Dimple Malhotra also appreciated the efforts of the students.Laurels for instituteA UCMAS online state-level competition was held a few days back in which the students from Punjab and Haryana participated. As many as 25 students from the Model Town centre of UCMAS bagged positions including 19 runners-up and six in merit. Sezal, Aahuti, Mannat, Ansh and Aviraj are among the top students, said director of the centre Ruchi Nanda.Workshop on soft skills in mathsThe PG department of mathematics of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised a one-day online workshop on ‘Soft skills in mathematics’. The overall in charge and moderator of the workshop was HoD mathematics, Gagandeep. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen welcomed all participants. The resource person for the workshop was Dr Suraj Goyal, Asst Prof, department of mathematics, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, who gave a lecture on the topic ‘Matlab for beginners’, which is a high performance software package for computing and he provided a hands on practical information on the software. Dr Rajni Sharma, Asst Prof, department of mathematics, DAVIET, provided theoretical and practical aspect on the topic ‘Introduction to Latex’ which has been really informative for the students and is specially designed to write research papers. Dr Gaurav was the moderator for the event.Virtual creativity weekWith an endeavour to manifest the artistic potential of students, the cultural team of Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions organised a ‘Virtual creativity week’ with three activities namely craft competition, card-making and flower arrangement competition. In craft competition, participants prepared beautiful objects by utilising waste material and showcased their imagination. Participants designed and decorated Christmas cards, thank you cards for Corona warriors and New Year greeting cards with various materials such as metallic paints, glitter powders, lace, kundan work, beads, sequences etc. during card-making activity. Each card was unique and gracefully exhibited the creativity of every student. Vibrant flowers were designed by participants with crepe paper, tissue paper craft stock and fabric in flower making activity. Priya, Vanita and Simpy were the winners of craft contest, while Bhavika, Garima, Jasleen and Sehjal were the winners of card-making competion. Muskan and Lovepreet won the prizes for flower making. Dr ShaileshTripathi (Group Director, IHGI) congratulated the winners and participants of the event.Webinar on stress managementIvy World School organised a webinar on ‘Stress management and self-importance’. The school has also been organising webinars for children and their parents to discuss the change in the psychology of students as the pandemic has greatly disturbed everyone. The webinar was conducted by Anmol Bakshi who started with the main topic ‘I’. Many tips about stress management were given and a short film ‘Khat’ was shown to teachers which helped them to understand that longings never end so it’s better to have some expectations from ourselves and try to keep them on priority. Principal S Chauhan accentuated the efforts put in by the school management and faculty keeping teachers’ health as the main focus of the webinar. President of Vasal Education Society K K Vasal appreciated the efforts taken by the school for making the teachers understand self-importance and reduce stress.Rafia third in MA Political ScienceRafia, a student of MA (Sem-IV Political Science), of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, has got third position in Guru Nanak Dev University by securing 1313/1600. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated her, HoD Nita Malik, Alka Sharma and Dr Jiwan Devi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/warm-clothes-distributed-186472
19-12-2020||Jalandhar||Five succumb to virus in Jalandhar||Nine held with drugs, liquorHoshiarpur: The police have arrested nine peddlers in different cases. The Model Town police held Chandan Kishore and recovered 8 gm of heroin from him. The Hariana police recovered 24 bottles of illict liquor from Raj Kumar and Pyara Ram. The Garhdiwala police held Amarjit Singh and recovered pills from him. The police nabbed Dyal Chand and recovered illict liquor. The Dasuya police held Davinder Singh and Jatinder Singh and recovered 225 gm of intoxicating powder from them. The Tanda police have nabbed Kuljeet Kaur and recovered intoxicating pills from her. The Mukerian police held Victor and recovered 5-kg poppy from him. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-succumb-to-virus-in-jalandhar-186473
