20-08-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Jalandhar Cantt rated top cantonment area in Swachhta Survekshan||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 20From the 12th rank among 62 cantonments across the country last year, Jalandhar cantonment has sprung a surprise by jumping to the top in the Swachhta Survekshan – 2020 conducted by Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.The Cantonment Board managed to score 3,670 points with strict implementation of eco-friendly initiatives like segregation of waste at source, use of compost, rainwater harvesting and plastic ban.A Government of India team had visited various pockets of the 15.2 sq km cantonment area in November last year and verified all factors and parameters set for the survey.Jyoti Kumar, CEO, Jalandhar Cantonment, attributes the recognition to the hard work of the sanitation staff, the joint efforts of the residents, and NGO Green Hearts.“Our sensitisation programme on waste segregation was carried out in a very effective manner. All those residents, who could not understand how segregation was to be done, were demonstrated the same outside their house,” Kumar informed.“The garden waste was managed within the garden with aerobic and anaerobic pits of green and dry foliage created in the compound,” he said.In the cantonment area, there is strictness over the use of plastic bags. Even awareness drives had been carried out in the entire residential area. Jute handbags have been distributed and the residents have been urged to carry them to market places. Even fines had been imposed for the violators, said the CEO.Kumar further said all the residents here had been given blue and green colour dustbins and they had been ordered to hand over the green waste separately to the safai karamcharis engaged in the door-to-door collection of waste.As the sale of compost could not be possible, the same was used in hospitals, schools and government buildings, he mentioned.Also, all government buildings got rainwater harvesting systems installed for recharging of groundwater, said Kumar.While Jalandhar Cantt rose to the top, Jalandhar city secured a disappointing 119th position.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-cantt-rated-top-cantonment-area-in-swachhta-survekshan-128927
20-08-2020||---||It’s a bumpy ride for commuters on potholed Kala Sanghian Road||Jalandhar, August 19For the past three years, the MC authorities have failed to recarpet the Kala Sanghian road even as its condition has been turning bad to worse.The condition is such that the entire stretch of 3-4 km starting from Ghas Mandi to Kot Sadeek near octroi post falling on it has got completely washed out. Thousands of commuters, who daily pass through this road, have to negotiate their vehicles all along on the relatively less rough patches so as to be able to move on.On days when it rains and water logging takes place here, the commuters are unable to locate the potholes and accidents become common. The shopkeepers of Ghas Mandi say that it is common for them to see a rickshaw puller, auto driver or a scooterist fall off on this road and get injured every now and then.The residents of Dashmesh Colony, Geeta Colony, Green Avenue, Ishwar Nagar, Guru Nanak Nagar and Gur Sant Nagar who daily pass through this road say that their life has become completely hell. The visitors to Gurdwara Chhevi Patshahi, Shiv Mandir and Manav Sehyog Charitable Hospital falling here too have said that crossing this road has become a very daring act.The shopkeepers of Kala Sanghian road market recently had held a protest of a novel kind by laying tables and chairs in the centre of a huge puddle of water and having juices and snacks. The shopkeepers who included the owner of the famous Billa Tea Stall said they did this to have a feel as if they were in Goa.“We took a picture and posted it to Mayor asking him also to join us and have some fun but our attempt seems to have gone waste as the authorities remain unperturbed”, said shopkeepers Sonu Verma, Kulwinder Singh and Gurwinder Singh.Ankush, who too owns a shop in the same market, said: “We had been promised in 2017 that this road will be recarpeted and developed in such a way that we would feel we are in Japan. Now we are waiting for 2022 elections to give the politicians our reply”.Mayor Jagdish Raja said: “We are completely ready with all tender work and approvals for laying of the Kala Sanghian road. We are waiting for the rainy season to come to an end to be able to start the construction work there”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/its-a-bumpy-ride-for-commuters-on-potholed-kala-sanghian-road-128764
20-08-2020||---||Students fail to pay tuition fee, college holds back degrees||Jalandhar, August 19 Passed-out students enrolled under the post-matric scholarship  (PMS) scheme today held a protest against the CT group of institutions for not returning them their degrees and certificates.  After submitting a memorandum at the district administration office, the students alleged that the college authorities were asking them to deposit full tuition fees if they wanted their degrees.  District secretary, Punjab Students Union (PSU), Ramandeep Kaur claimed that the students who completed their degrees from the college in 2019 were being harassed by the college management for submitting the tuition fees for getting the degrees.  Ramandeep said, a large number of SC students who had taken admission in the college, are now at the receiving end as they don’t have any degrees while applying for jobs.  Vikram, who passed out in 2019 from Shahpur campus of CT institutions said, the college also held back their  Class 10 and 12 mark sheets.  “The college authorities had lured into taking admission in the college under the post-matric scholarship scheme and we were asked to submit our previous academic records at the college. Now, we are at the receiving end. The students belonging to the Dalit community are unable to pay the fees, which is in lakhs,” added Ramandeep Kaur.  Meanwhile, Managing Director of CT institutions, Manbir Singh said, “Owing to the non-disbursal of funds under the post-matric scholarship  scheme, the management isn’t able to return the degrees, as there is no surety whether the students would pay fees. Moreover, as per the guidelines of the government, the fee will be transferred in the bank accounts of the SC students and it’s not clear when the funds would be disbursed. Also, while taking the admissions, affidavits with the signatures were taken from the students to guarantee that the degrees would be given only when the fee is submitted.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-fail-to-pay-tuition-fee-college-holds-back-degrees-128765
20-08-2020||---||New monetary policy not in interest of small scale industries: Mann||Jalandhar, August 19 Assailing PM Narendra Modi-led NDA government for framing the policies to benefit big corporate houses, Chairman of Punjab Agro Industries Corporation and former Punjab minister Joginder Singh Mann today said the new monetary policy of the RBI  was aimed at benefitting the big industrial houses rather than giving reprieve to the needy. In a statement issued here today, the Chairman of Punjab Agro Industries said though due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the medium and small scale industry was on crossroads, no thrust had been laid to safeguard their interests in the monetary policy unveiled on August 5. He said protection of these industries was the need of hour to ensure that the economy was back on track but unfortunately, the policy has failed to fulfill the purpose. Mann said this would prove fatal for the country in general and the medium and small enterprises in particular. Former Punjab minister said the Modi government was hell bent upon breaking the backbone of the small and medium scale industry which would be detrimental for the economy. He said this sector should have been given much needed push to put the economy of high growth trajectory but the Modi government had completely ignored them. Mann said the country needed a visionary Prime Minister like Dr Manmohan Singh who had steered the country’s economy during the great economic depression. The Chairman of Punjab Agro Industries Corporation said on the contrary, today India’s economy was in a shambles due to wrong and pro-rich policies of the Modi government. He said ignoring the small and medium scale industries at the cost of saving big industrial houses would further widen the gap between rich and poor, thereby leading the country towards anarchy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-monetary-policy-not-in-interest-of-small-scale-industries-mann-128766
20-08-2020||---||Kapurthala adopts mascot ‘Reet’ for job opportunities||Kapurthala, August 19 Kapurthala has become the first district to adopt mascot ‘Reet’ to educate and make the youth aware of the services being offered by the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE). Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said the mascot had been designed by Anureet Kaur, a student and resident of Haibowal village. She was the winner of a district-level mascot designing competition. He added earlier the Social Security and the Rural Development and Panchayat Department had adopted mascots, ‘Sukhi Bhain ji’ and ‘Raunak Singh’, respectively, for educating the masses regarding their social welfare schemes. The DC said the mascot designing winner had also been given a cash reward of Rs 2,000 while student Balkaran Singh, who stood second, and student Rekha, who got the third position have been awarded with Rs 1,500 and Rs 500, respectively. She added that ‘Reet’ had been designed as a councillor girl which would be used to make the youth aware of the vacancies and opportunities available in self-employment sector. She said it would also attract the students to enquire about career opportunities available in various fields.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-adopts-mascot-reet-for-job-opportunities-128767
20-08-2020||---||Fake sports goods manufacturer held||Jalandhar, August 19 On a complaint by owners of a popular boxing and fitness brand ‘USI Universal’ here, the Meerut police have booked the owners of M/s Shanu Sports for selling fake products in its name.  The owner of the company said they had been getting complaints regarding fake USI Universal products being manufactured in various parts of the country. To safeguard the interest of the consumers and the brand, they decided to tie-up with Brand Protectors India. After a struggle of almost two years, the Brand Protectors team with the help of Meerut police nabbed Shanu and Pritish Wadhwa.  They were caught red-handed while soliciting a sale of fake USI Universal products worth more than Rs 3 lakh. Shanu Sports has been selling fake products to M/S Hatrick Sports, Lal Kurti in Meerut.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fake-sports-goods-manufacturer-held-128768
20-08-2020||Our Correspondent---||Four held with Rs5.93 lakh fake currency||Hoshiarpur, August 19 The local police on Wednesday arrested four persons for allegedly printing and supplying fake Indian currency notes  of Rs 5,93,600.  SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said acting on a tip-off, a police party led by SP (Investigation) Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu and DSP Jagdish Attri planned to nab the persons indulged in this illegal practice of printing fake currency notes. He said SHO city police station  Gobinder Kumar and Sub-Inspector Pardeep Kumar along with a police party conducted a raid and apprehended them from Tagore Nagar. The suspects have been identified as Gursimranjeet Singh, alias Baba alias Sodhi, of  Phambdan village, Jagtar Singh of Kila Baroon and Harjinder Bharti of Khanpur in Una district, presently residing at Bajwara Kalan, who introduced himself as a reporter of a news channel and Amarinder Singh Suraj of Central Town, Hoshiarpur. He told  Amarinder was the mastermind of the racket as he had a loan of Rs 20 lakh and his health products business had failed, so he planned to print the fake currency notes and took the remaining three into confidence and in connivance with each other they started printing and using the counterfeit notes.  The SSP said the police seized fake Indian currency worth Rs 1,40,000, while Rs 4,53,600 was seized from them during further investigation. He said  the police also recovered two digital colour printers, one scanner, one laptop, five tape rolls and two scooters from their possession.  Amarinder, along with his three aides, started the printing of fake currency notes and so far they had been printed and used fake currency of Rs 15 lakh in market, the police said. A case has been registered  under Sections 489-A, 489-B, 489-C, 489-D and 34 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-held-with-rs5-93-lakh-fake-currency-128769
20-08-2020||---||Atal innovation ranking: National Institute of Technology among top-25 institutes||Jalandhar, August 19 Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology has been placed in the band of 11th to 25th rank by the AICTE/ MHRD for ‘Atal Ranking of Institutes on Innovation and Achievements (ARIIA Ranking-2020)’.  In the first band with ranks from 1 to 10, only NIT Calicut has been placed. In the second band, NIT Jalandhar has been placed along with the old and prestigious NITs, IITs, IIMs, including NIT Trichy, NIT Rourkela, NIT Warangal, NIT Surathkal, IIT BHU, IIT ISM and IIM Kozhikode among others.  Moreover, NIT Jalandhar has participated in ARIIA ranking for the first time. The result was declared yesterday by Vice President of India Venkaiah Naidu in the presence of Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Minister of Education, Government of India, and Sanjay Dhotre, Minister of State in the Ministry of Education. Prof LK Awasthi, director of the institute, congratulated the faculty members and students of the institute for their performance in ARIIA ranking. He said the main criteria for ARIIA ranking have been revenue generated, infrastructure and facilities to support innovations and start-ups, awareness activities for promoting idea generation, entrepreneurship development, intellectual property (IP) generation, technology transfer and commercialisation among other things.  LPU among top-25 private institutes Lovely Professional University (LPU) has been declared in category ‘B and A’ of ranking 6th to 25th. Thus, in this Education Ministry’s annual innovation rankings of the country, LPU has been included among the top-25 institutes of India. Here, LPU stands tall amid a total of 674 institutes, which took part in the rankings from the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/atal-innovation-ranking-national-institute-of-technology-among-top-25-institutes-128770
20-08-2020||---||Foot overbridge comes up outside Jalandhar's NIT campus||Jalandhar, August 19A foot overbridge was inaugurated outside Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology by Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi, director and Col Yogesh (retd) from NHAI.Prof Awasthi thanked Dr SS Sandhu, chairman, NHAI, for his efforts in the construction of the bridge. He said the facility would ease the movement of the NIT community. He said students from all across India and abroad were studying at the institute, which was located on the national highway and at a walking distance from Bidhipur railway crossing.He said: “Auto-rickshaws and taxi services are easily available, but due to the construction of one-way national highway, crossing the road was risky and prohibited. Even accidents of workers and students have occurred in the past while crossing the road. The foot overbridge was a long pending demand of students and staff residing on the campus. Nearly 3,500 students and more than 100 families were residing on its premises.”SK Mishra, registrar; RK Garg, Dean, faculty welfare; Anish Sachdeva, Dean, student welfare; A Mukhopadhyay, Dean, academic; SK Sinha, Dean, research; BS Saini, Dean, planning and development, and officers of estate office were also present during the inauguration ceremony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/foot-overbridge-comes-up-outside-jalandhars-nit-campus-128771
20-08-2020||Jalandhar||Admn seeks more staff to contain Covid||Reviewing the arrangements and preparations being utilised to contain the Covid-19 pandemic here, Principal Secretary General Administration Alok Shekhar on Tuesday said he would raise the issue before the state government for sanctioning of additional manpower in the government healthcare facilities. On the demand made by Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori and Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, the Principal Secretary said he would take up the matter of providing additional manpower to the hospitals in Jalandhar so that load of patients could be tackled effectively as the existing staff was already overburdened. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/admn-seeks-more-staff-to-contain-covid-128772
20-08-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||A promise Pandit Jasraj couldn’t keep with Jalandhar residents||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 19Pandit Jasraj — the great classical vocalist — had promised to perform at the world’s oldest and reputed classical music event — Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan — this year, too, but sadly, he could not honour it.The maestro passed away on Monday and had a strong Jalandhar connection. Jalandharites has had the fortune of listening to him several times. He has performed at the Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan for 15 times and the audience was left mesmerised every time he performed on stage.Deepak Bali, general secretary of Sri Baba Harivallabh Mahasabha, said he started coming here in the 1960s and used to perform after every 3 to 4 years.“We had contacted him to perform at the sammelan last year, too, and everything was finalised, but he could not make it at the last moment because of his health,” Bali shared.He said although he couldn’t come last year, he had promised to make a visit this year.“He had assured that he would definitely perform at the sammelan this year, but that was not meant to be,” Bali said.Started in 1875, Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan, is the world’s oldest music festival dedicated to Indian classical music.Baba Harivallabh started it in memory of his guru Swami Tulsagiri and hermits would attend it then. Baba Harivallabh ran the event for 10 years till his death in 1885, after which it was renamed after him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-promise-pandit-jasraj-couldnt-keep-with-jalandhar-residents-128773
20-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar District logs 1 death, 238 new cases||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 19Jalandhar today reported 238 Covid-19 positive cases. While 192 cases were reported in the afternoon, an additional spike in the evening took the total to 238 cases. The district tally has reached 4,628 cases.A death was also reported in the district and with this the toll has touched 116. The victim is a 72-year-old man from Baba Budha Nagar.With an average of 111 positive cases being reported daily in August and all major public offices being affected – the Health Department or the district administration has still not formally declared community spread in the district.On Wednesday, positive cases surfaced in Kot Ramdas Abadi, Doordarshan Enclave, Friends Colony, Randhawa Colony, Nandanpur, Maqsoodan, Amardas Nagar, Defence Colony, Gujral Nagar, Bhargo Camp, Sofi Pind, Indira Colony, Avtar Nagar and Choti Baradari, among other areas. Doctors, police personnel and health staff were among those who tested positive.There has been an addition of 2,111 cases in the month of August. While the district had 2,517 confirmed cases of Covid-19 on August 1, the tally had reached 4,258 on Wednesday.Until August 1, only 62 deaths had been reported in the district while the number touched 116 now. In first 19 days of this month, 54 deaths have already taken place – averaging two deaths per day. However, there have been days on which up to six deaths have been witnessed in the district. While post- mortem of Covid patients is not conducted and posthumous testing has also been dispensed with, sources say the actual amount of deaths might be much higher.The DAC complex, Health Department, Civil Surgeon’s office, Civil Hospital, PIMS, private hospitals, police personnel, Army, BSF, CRPF and politicians have been affected due to Covid. There has been mass reporting of cases from several areas, including Nakodar, Shahkot and Lohian.While Jalandhar is among the districts where a night curfew has been imposed seeing the dramatic rise in Covid cases, the city continues to hold meetings, protests, gatherings and markets also continue to function normally as no lockdown restrictions were in place during the day except the weekends.Nodal Officer Dr TP Singh, who is in home isolation, said, “Cases are witnessing a spike everywhere. It is not the Health Department’s prerogative to declare community spread. However, aggressive testing is taking place and adequate awareness is being created so that people might not put themselves at risk.”27 new cases in HoshiarpurThe number of positive cases in the district has increased to 926 with 27 new cases coming up in the district on Wednesday. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh said of these, 10 were from Harta Badla, four each from Dasuya and Mukerian, three from Tagore Nagar in Hoshiarpur city, two each from Garhshankar, Mahilpur and Chakkowal health block. Dr Singh said on Wednesday, samples of 1,105 persons with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken in the district and 1,223 reports were received from samples taken earlier. The total number of samples taken so far in the district has reached 44,527 and as per the reports received from the laboratory, 40,602 were negative, while 3,024 were yet to be reported and 61 were invalid. The number of active cases is 178, and 723 patients have recovered so far. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-logs-1-death-238-new-cases-128774
20-08-2020|| ---||Private hospitals can take ventilators for free: DC||Jalandhar, August 19 In a landmark decision to ensure better treatment of critical Covid patients in the private hospitals amid spike in cases, the district administration has decided to offer free ventilators without signing any memorandum of understanding (MoU) and depositing fees.  Giving details, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said private hospitals could take advantage of this facility, if needed, by ensuring availability of requisite manpower to operate lifesaving medical equipment on their premises. He said private hospitals could contact his office to inform about the requirement of the ventilators following which the ventilator would be provided as per the need.  The Deputy Commissioner said the decision had been taken to tackle the rising cases effectively and private hospitals have been also been complaining about the shortage of ventilators to treat the critical patients. The Deputy Commissioner said this would also play a pivotal role in dealing the surge effectively besides help in saving the precious lives from Covid.  Thori said the district administration had already provided six ventilators to Gulab Devi Hospital, from where few private hospitals were taking this facility for the treatment and ensuring best possible care to the people infected with the novel coronavirus. Thori said the hospitals had to maintain the ventilators in functional condition.   The DC said at the Civil hospital, the ICU which had 28-beds earlier, has been upgraded to 56-beds now, along with facilities of two high flow nasal oxygen therapy machines, multipara monitor, pulse oximeters, infusion pumps, suction machines have been made available there. The ICU has been strengthened on the modern lines to ensure that patients do not get any problems in availing best care treatment, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/private-hospitals-can-take-ventilators-for-free-dc-128775
20-08-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||With several projects on hold, artistes stare at uncertain future||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 19The entertainment industry, which had so far remained unfazed by any kind of setback, faced a blow after the Covid hit the globe. With several projects in a limbo, the pandemic spared nobody — ranging from directors, actors, writers, theatre artistes to singers.Films that were already complete are still awaiting their release. With Cineplexes yet to function with full capacity, directors have resorted to digital platforms to release their movies. They said it was the only alternative for them to release the movie digital platforms.The directors who were in their post production phase are facing delays in the process too. The film makers said they were avoiding the shoots this time because even if one positive case gets detected on the sets, everybody will have to get quarantined.Director Navtej Sandhu, who began the trend of organising Punjabi film awards, and whose three short films were showcased at the Cannes Film Festival, has now planned to release his film ‘Jamraud’ on the digital platform.‘Jamraud’ is his first feature film, based on the story written by noted author Waryam Singh Sandhu. “My movie was set for theatre release in the month of March but due to the pandemic, the whole scenario got changed. Now, theatre release is now impossible and one cannot expect blockbusters and the business which films used to do earlier,” the director said.Amid the lockdown, he had released another 12-minute film, titled ‘Connection’. The director shared that the movie was relevant in the present times.‘Guru Ka Banda’ fame director Jasi Chana, who had directed his first above-mentioned animated movie, which was released worldwide recently, also shared the problems he was facing amid pandemic. Chana has a well-established production house ‘Pritam Film Production Pvt. Ltd.’ situated in Jalandhar where a full-fledged technical team works on latest software and using new technologies.Chana who has studied animation from Singapore said, “The productions of the movies have got delayed. Work from home was not possible in our field, so we have started calling technical artists based on odd even policy. Like, if 10 artistes have come today, they would now visit us day after a day off. The momentum to do work has also broken which is why the work has suffered. We are allowing them to sit by maintaining proper social distancing,” he said.For his film production, Chana was also planning to hire artists from Mumbai for sound dubbing of the movie which will remain a dream. “That won’t be possible now because the situation in Mumbai is only worsening,” the young director said.He also said the artistes were also not regular because they were coming from Ludhiana, Banga and other far off places. Young director Anuja Sharma who also shoots corporate videos shared that she had to wait for long amid lockdown to start shooting with the brands, but, even after the pandemic, the shooting doesn’t seem easy. “I was just approached by a sports brand after an interval of three months. But everybody is still scared and even the shooting is taking place after a gap of some days,” she said.Even singers and actors have felt that the pandemic was like an eclipse on their career and they were finding it hard to get going in this troubling situation.Writer’s takeNoted writer Des Raj Kali shared that the pandemic had certainly given the artist extra time to think and prepare for future projects but have also delayed the projects. “I had edited and wrote 550 page theses on six poetry based books, the printing of which got delayed by six months. I had also written a book on the occasion of the 550th anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Ji, which should have got published in March, but it is expected to come in another week or so. Even theatre artists have suffered a lot because of the problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-several-projects-on-hold-artistes-stare-at-uncertain-future-128776
20-08-2020||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur mandi closed on August 21||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-mandi-closed-on-august-21-128815
