20-09-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar police bust interstate illegal arms racket||The City Commissionerate Police have busted an inter-state racket involved in pushing of illegal arms and ammunition in Punjab. Besides arresting seven members of the network from various districts, the cops have seized 12 pistols of 0.32 bore and 15 live cartridges.The accused have been identified as Suraj (21) of New Rajan Nagar, Basti Peer Daad, Vijay Kumar (25) of Bhikha, Adampur Jalandhar, Jobanjeet Singh (22) of Arjan Maanga village, Amritsar, Sahil Saini (27) of Prem Nagar, Pathankot, Amritpal Singh (24) of Bhoma in Batala, Keshav Khera (23) of Hakimi Gate, Amritsar, and Harmandeep Singh (24) of Kheri Veer Singh, Fatehgarh Sahib.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said on September 9 they received information that regarding a person had sustained a bullet injury and initiated a probe. The injured identified as Abhinav Misra of Pilibhit, UP and was admitted to a hospital."During the investigation, it came to fore that Suraj had opened fire on Abhinav with an illegal weapon due to some previous enmity. Following the lead, cops nabbed Suraj who revealed in questioning that he along with Abhinav Misra had been supplying illegal arms and ammunition from Indore, Madhya Pradesh to Punjab for some time and had already pushed huge quantity of weapons in Punjab. After further investigating the matter, the police busted the entire network and seized 12 illegal pistols of .32 bore and 15 live bullets and arrested more accomplices from Batala, Amritsar, Pathankot and Fatehgarh Sahib,” Bhullar added.A case under sections 307, 188 of IPC, 25, 54 and 59 of Arms Act, 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act and 51 of the Disaster Management Act has been registered in the case.Bhullar added that he would recommend DGP special coveted Disc award to the team of CIA- 1 headed by Harwinder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-police-bust-interstate-illegal-arms-racket-143982
20-09-2020||Stories That Inspire||Two mothers who are pioneers in providing work to autistic kids||Aparna BanerjiTribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 19In 2004, a woman was informed by schoolteachers that her son was different and non-communicative. After coming to know that her son was autistic in 2005, Anjali Dada has come a long way to become a pioneer in providing work to autistic kids.Bringing up autistic kids in a state, which until recently had no reference point, training or help for autism affected – two mothers — Anjali Dada and Kanchan Aggarwal— have changed the entire discourse around autism.The duo helped countless mothers shed their myths and inhibitions surrounding autism. They have trained kids to lead an independent life and perform their daily tasks without help.If someone asks Dhananjay (Anjali’s 18-year-old son) what he does for a living, pat comes the reply, “I work at SOCH.”What started with group therapy sessions from a garage has transformed into an NGO “SOCH”, which now provides training and assistance to people from Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. The NGO delivers bulk orders of colorful hand-made merchandise prepared by autistic children.The NGO also prepares bulk orders of merchandise and art works, including packets, bags, gift wraps, frames, packaging for parties, weddings and festive occasions. Autistic kids employed at the SOCH have their own accounts where proceeds from their work are deposited–they earn around Rs 6,000 to Rs 8,000 from bulk orders.The SOCH is a partner for Big Bazaar’s “Quiet Hour” in Jalandhar (a pan India initiative) wherein Big Bazaar allocates an hour of no interference from regular shoppers and allows autistic children to shop at their will.Anjali said during the Covid -19 outbreak, autistic kids are among the most disciplined bunch who just need a set of instructions and visuals as well as manuals for protocols to sink in. All the SOCH kids have their own Covid-19 workstations at home on which they continue to create wonderful merchandise.Anjali said, “My son was around three-year-old when I was told that he doesn’t communicate like others. I began observing him and other kids. Doctors couldn’t diagnose clearly and said it was just a phase. Confused, I took him to Delhi, where I learnt that he was autistic. At the National Centre for Autism, I met Merry Barua, who changed my life. She taught me positive ways to deal with autistic kids. She had been fighting since the time autism wasn’t even a recognised disability. She fought with the Government of India to get it recognised. Her positive energy still prods me on. It is due to her that I got the vision to make the SOCH.”She took lessons as a special educator and had various sessions to understand how to bring up her son.A small entrepreneur and housewife before the SOCH took off, Anjali started reaching out to other mothers.“I wanted to talk to those affected by autism and share what I learnt. So, we started holding group therapy sessions at my garage and gradually, the network grew. We had a mountain of difficulties to deal with in terms of infrastructure. I had to search for schools to get my son admitted. Friends running Bawa Lalwani School in Kapurthala helped me. Now, things have moved further and many schools are giving admission to autistic kids, but a lot more needs to be done,” she said.AnjaIi teaches numerous schoolteachers and parents on autism today.What is autism?Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) refers to a broad range of conditions characterised by challenges with social skills, repetitive behaviours, speech and non-verbal communication. There is an illustrious list of those with autism who broke glass ceilings. While the world’s famous autistic geniuses include environmental activist Greta Thunberg, and Mary Temple Grandin, author of more than 60 peer-reviewed scientific papers, on varied animal behaviour subjects. Both have been featured in the Time magazine. In India, iconic autistic people include Pranav Bakshi, the first model on the autism spectrum, and Alyx Albuquerque, founder of Pumpkin Patch, a design studio.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-mothers-who-are-pioneers-in-providing-work-to-autistic-kids-143827
20-09-2020||---||Now, helpline to assist NRIs in getting passports back||Jalandhar, September 19In a fresh order released by the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation on Friday, NRIs visiting their native places in the district can collect their passports from the MC office on completion of their quarantine.To curb the spread of Covid-19, the state government had directed all airport authorities in the state to collect passports of people arriving here from foreign countries before sending them for institutional quarantine. They could later collect their passports from the authorities concerned or their district officials. However, it had come to fore that most of the NRIs were unable to receive their passports back.The Tribune had highlighted the issue concerning a bunch of Dubai returnees in the district who were running from pillar to post to get their passports back.Subsequently, the MC officials issued helpline numbers and the information about the offices concerned for collecting passports.MC Joint Commissioner Harcharan Singh said: “Passports of NRIs, who landed at the Amritsar airport, can be collected either from the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Amritsar or from NRI branch. And those NRIs, who landed at the Mohali airport can receive their passports from Civil Secretariat Chandigarh and MC office Jalandhar.”where to Contact||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-helpline-to-assist-nris-in-getting-passports-back-143828
20-09-2020||Ajay Joshi||Para players’ endless wait for state cash rewards||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 19The state government’s silence over releasing cash awards is irking national and international para players, who haven’t received their prize money for the past several years.Gurdeep Singh (35), a para powerlifter, who started playing the sport in 2006, has around 11 medals (four gold, five silver and two bronze) that he clinched in various national para power-lifting championships held between 2006 and 2019.However, not even once was he paid any cash award from the state government.EntitlementA resident of Nawanshahr, Gurdeep said: “We feel demotivated when our government remains mute in disbursing cash awards. Unlike Punjab, medal winners in other states are conferred with cash rewards in lakhs, which eventually encourage them to improve their game in future championships. Whereas here, we are just given false promises and every year after submitting our documents for the award, we are only given assurances that never see the light of the day. Apart from motivation, cash rewards help us supplement our diet and training expenses, which nowadays is very tough to manage. The game has become costly and we need money to fulfil our daily needs.”Similarly Manpreet Kaur (32), a para player from Phagwara, who even holds world ranking, hasn’t been given the cash awards for the past five years. She has five gold and two silver medals in her kitty that she bagged from national and international games, including Asian games. “As a powerlifter, we need a certain kind of diet and supplements for maintaining our physical strength. But, we don’t have enough money to afford good quality diet and protein. Luckily, we have supportive coaches who take care of our needs. But for how long will we be able to depend on them? It’s high time that the government released funds,” said Manpreet. The only thing that affects her is the negligent behaviour of the state government towards players. Despite creating a milestone, not only is she jobless, but has also not received the award amount of the national and international matches she won.Owing to the absence of cash awards, many para players who had dreamt of securing a job for themselves after winning national and international medals have reportedly left practising their games only. Gurdeep, who is dependent on his father for all his needs who works as a daily wage labourer, said: “My father took a loan and borrowed money to support my dreams and now, I have nothing to pay him back. Most of our seniors have left the game including Manjit Singh, a talented and award winning player. Now, I’m also thinking of joining them and have planned to open a mobile repair shop to afford two-square meals,” Gurdeep said.Likewise, Sonia (44), another national-level para player, says promoting talent at the national level was the key to success at the international level and cash rewards only make performance better. “However, we haven’t been paid even a single penny by the state government.PlayerspeakWe feel discouraged when government remains mute in disbursing cash awards. Unlike Punjab, medal winners in other states are given cash rewards in lakhs, which eventually encourage them to improve their game. Whereas here, we are just given false promises and every year despite submitting our documents for the award, we are only given assurances that never see the light of day. —Gurdeep Singh, a para powerlifterAs a powerlifter, we need a certain kind of diet and supplements for maintaining our physical strength. But, we don't have enough money to afford good quality diet and protein. Luckily, we have supportive coaches who take care of our needs. But how long will we be able to depend on them? It's high time the government released funds. —Manpreet Kaur, an international para player||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/para-players-endless-wait-for-state-cash-rewards-143829
20-09-2020||---||7 die, 222 test +ve in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, September 19With 222 positive cases, the district tally reached 11,153 on Saturday. With seven more Covid deaths, the toll also reached 308. While 8,466 patients have been discharged in Jalandhar so far, the number of people under home isolation is 1,842 and the number of active cases is 2,379.Meanwhile, in Kapurthala district, 40 positive cases were reported and one patient died. The deceased is a 70-year-old man from Preet Nagar, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar. In all, 20 person’s RTPCR tests, two people’s TrueNat tests, 13 rapid antigen tests were held. Five of those tested from private labs also tested positive for Covid at Kapurthala. The positive patients have been reported from areas including Sadar Bazaar, PRTC office, Urban Estate, a private bank, Jail Road, Rail tech, Sundar Nagar, Noorpur Dona, among other areas.Four die, 145 test +ve in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: As many as 1,894 sample reports were received in the district on Saturday, of which 145 patients tested positive taking the total number of positive patients to 3,617. With four more deaths, the toll also reached 114. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said with the new samples of 1,534 people with suspected flu-like symptoms, the total number of samples taken so far in the district has reached 86,871, of which 82,258 are negative, while 1,353 reports are still awaited and 121 were invalid. The number of active cases in the district is 993 and 2,516 patients have recovered. The Civil Surgeon said out of 145 new positive cases found in the district, 86 cases were from Hoshiarpur city, while 59 were related to other health blocks. The four deceased in the district include a 71-year-old patient from New Civil Lines, Hoshiarpur; a 76-year-old from Nai Abadi Hoshiarpur, who died at DMC Ludhiana; a 77-year-old patient of Miani, Tanda; and an 83-year-old patient from Posi block, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar. OCJalandhar round-upSamples collected 1,38,871Negative 1,23,225Positive 11,153Active 2,379Discharged 8,466Deceased 308Inappropriate 1,621Results awaited 1,094||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-die-222-test-ve-in-jalandhar-district-143830
20-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Education Department observes ‘Teachers’ Fortnight’||Jalandhar, September 19On completion of two weeks of the Teacher’s Day, the Education Department observed ‘Teachers’ Fortnight’ at a symbolic function held at the office of District Education Officer (DEO) here on Saturday.A total of 368 teachers were honoured at the function, with 10 to 15 of them receiving their appreciation letters at the venue while others were congratulated via webinar and asked to collect the letters from the office later.The Education Secretary, Krishan Kumar, some school heads and teachers were among those who participated in the ceremony digitally. Krishan Kumar said without dedicated efforts by schoolteachers, it wouldn’t have been possible for the state government to bring in qualitative improvements in education.He said the schoolteachers had not only been putting in their best efforts to ensure augmentation and extension of infrastructural facilities with proper utilisation of government grants and community mobilisation, but also doing a commendable job in various education drives such as ‘Each One, Bring One’, ‘Smart School’, ‘Mission Cent Percent’, ‘Distribution of text books and mid-day meal scheme, ‘Developing Punjab Educare app’, ‘Punjab Achievement Survey’ and ‘Online education’.He said though schools had been lying closed, teachers had strengthened their bond with students and parents so cohesively that students had been approaching their teachers via digital platforms without hesitation to get their doubts cleared.“The Sikhiya Sudhar Muhim has virtually been converted into a mass movement, and this could easily be gauged from the fact that during the week-long virtual parent-teacher meet, government schoolteachers interacted with parents of over 18 lakh students to apprise them of the performance of their wards,” said the Education Secretary while lauding a Jalandhar-based team of teachers for developing and operating the Punjab Educare app, which has been a landmark contribution towards digital education. He said lakhs of students, including those of other education Boards and states, were availing themselves of the benefits of the app.DEO (Secondary) Harinder Pal Singh and DEO (Elementary) Ram Pal. Deputy DEO (Secondary) Rajiv Joshi and Deputy DEO (Elementary) Gurcharan Singh, were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/education-department-observes-teachers-fortnight-143832
20-09-2020||---||Mela Ghadri Babeyan Da to focus on fascism, farm Bills||Jalandhar, September 19The 29th Mela Ghadri Babeyan Da will be dedicated to Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna’s 150th birth anniversary. Amid the Covid-19, the mela, which is usually held for three days, shall be reduced to a one-day affair this year and shall feature fascism and people’s rights as its central theme.The one-day fair shall be held on November 1. The day-long fair would begin with the ceremonial flag hoisting ritual at 10 am on November 1. The information was shared by Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee president Ajmer Singh, general secretary Gurmeet Singh and cultural wing convener Amolak Singh (members).Dedicated to Baba Sohan Singh BhaknaMembers said the flag-hoisting ceremony would be conducted by Surinder Singh Jalaldiwal, present member of the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee (DBYC) and grandson of DBYC founding member Baba Dulla Singh Jalaldiwal.In a meeting of the general body, it was decided that various contests, traditionally held during the fair, would be impossible to be held successfully this year due to the prolonged closure of educational institutes. Scholar, playwright and senior journalist Dr Swarajbir along with farm economist and food policy analyst Devinder Sharma would be the keynote speaker at the mela.The general body of the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee has decided that the discourse at the fair this year would be centered on fascist onslaught, attack on people’s rights, subversion of intellectual voices, farm Bills, all-round attacks on the lives of workers and the carrying forward of the Ghadar legacy.Ajmer Singh was chosen as the officiating president and Seetal Singh as the vice-president of the committee unanimously during the general body meeting held on Thursday.In a resolution, it was demanded that an unconditional release of intellectuals, workers and people’s activists be ensured. False cases against activists be stopped and steps being taken to silence those voicing democratic rights concerns be stopped.A resolution was also passed to oppose farm Bills, which members said were aimed at snubbing farm sector voices and also against the sidelining of the Punjabi language in various states.During the meeting, tributes were also paid to deceased luminaries — committee’s former chief Gurmeet Singh Dhadda, senior trustee Naunihal Singh, Manjit Singh Lali, Des Raj Umarpura, Swami Agnivesh, Dr Satinder Aulakh and Randhir Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mela-ghadri-babeyan-da-to-focus-on-fascism-farm-bills-143833
20-09-2020||Hoshiarpur||Improving immunity need of the hour: Doctor||Addressing a virtual health session titled “Covid time and your health”, Dr Harinder Singh Bedi, director (cardiovascular sciences), Ivy Hospital, said one needs to stay active as it improves immunity. “This is an opportunity to develop new robust habits for leading a healthy lifestyle. If you have a space, create a small gym. One can follow an online trainer,” he said.Dr Bedi said performing yoga can bring positivity and it is the perfect time to spend quality time with kids and elders. He asked people to eat a diet, which is low in saturated fats and calories. Eat lots of fresh seasonal fruits and green leafy vegetables as they are all easily available.“Avoid consuming tobacco, coffee, tea and alcohol, as they increase blood pressure. Take up gardening. Know and manage your sugar levels,” he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/improving-immunity-need-of-the-hour-doctor-143834
20-09-2020||Jalandhar||KMV organises saraswati puja virtually||Kanya Maha Vidyalaya (KMV) on Saturday organised 135th “Saraswati puja” virtually to accord a warm welcome to new students. MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary and Karamjeet Chaudhary, former DPI (Colleges), Chandigarh, were the chief guests.Chander Mohan, chief, Arya Shiksha Mandal, expressed concern over the digital divide between students in the wake of the covid-19 pandemic. He said technological devices cannot substitute a teacher, thus KMV would try their best to reach out to such students to bring them at par with others.Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi read out a detailed report of the college’s achievements. Chaudhary motivated students to imbibe best ethical and moral qualities through education. Alok Sondhi, general secretary, KMV Managing Committee, exhorted scholars to inculcate those qualities, which help in surmounting adversities in life. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kmv-organises-saraswati-puja-virtually-143835
20-09-2020||Jalandhar||Lovely Professional University sixth best institute in India||Lovely Professional University (LPU) ranked sixth (score 499.67) among top 50 private universities in the country in Outlook ICARE India Survey-2020. The universities were evaluated on five parameters, including academic and research excellence; industry interface and placement; infrastructure and facilities; governance and admissions; and diversity and outreach.The assessment was based on how institutions within the same category perform against each other in a variety of metrics, thus reflecting the strengths and weaknesses of an institution in each domain.LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal said even the pandemic could not affect our efforts. “Prior to this, the LPU made its mark in NIRF rankings,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lovely-professional-university-sixth-best-institute-in-india-143836
20-09-2020||Dasuya (Hoshiarpur)||Protest in front of SDM office||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/protest-in-front-of-sdm-office-143837
20-09-2020||Hoshiarpur||Rs 56.85-lakh travel fraud: Six booked||The district police have registered four cases in various police stations against six accused, including a couple, for duping people of Rs56.85 lakh on the pretext of sending them abroad.A resident of Phattw village said she was working as a cleaner at a hospital in Bullowal. She said Samson of Gurdaspur lured her co-workers and her by saying that they would be to sent to Cyprus for which they took Rs4.45 lakh.Sahib Singh of Gandhuwal village complained Sukhmeet Singh of Ludhiana allegedly took Rs7.70 lakh from him for sending his son Yodha Singh abroad, but he neither sent him abroad, nor returned his money.Surinder Singh of New Colony Nihalpur complained that travel agent Manjit Singh of Sarihpur and his wife Mariya, along with Gurmail Singh allegedly took Rs13.50 lakh from him to send his son Tarandeep Singh to America. After this, the accused sent his son from various routes to America, but he was deported from there.Balcharan Singh of Behboowal Channiyan complained Jatinder Singh allegedly took Rs23 lakh from him for sending his son Tajinder Singh to Canada. But the accused allegedly sent his son to America through different routes, but was deported due to fake documents. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-56-85-lakh-travel-fraud-six-booked-143839
20-09-2020||Jalandhar||Patients not ‘dumped’, went on their own: ESI||A day after The Tribune highlighted how two patients admitted to the ESI Hospital were found dumped here, the hospital today said one of the patients had “absconded” while the other had been “discharged on request”.After the report was published, the ESI Director came to the hospital today to conduct an inquiry into the incident. In his preliminary report, no staff member was held accountable for the incident.The two patients — Raja (60) and Bikram (15) — were found abandoned near the Raen Basera on September 17 night. A woman whose son was under treatment at the hospital dropped the elderly patient at the Raen Basera, while Bikram was dumped by his two “friends”. Strangely, both were ferried in the same auto.ESI Director Gurvinder Singh said, “The elderly patient had earlier suffered a fracture in the pelvis. He has recovered, but he has bed sores. A fellow patient told him that he would drop him (Raja) at the Raen Basera since he had been receiving treatment for over a month.”“The boy was taken by his two friends when he expressed his wish to go back to Bihar. However, since the boy could not walk, his friends left him at the spot and went away,” Gurvinder said, adding that since the elderly patient went on his own, he was recorded as “absconding”. “The boy was ‘discharged on request.’Talking to The Tribune, Raja alleged, “I was dropped by four persons, including a ‘sweeper’ at the hospital.” The Red Cross Society has extended help to the patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/patients-not-dumped-went-on-their-own-esi-143706
