20-07-2020||---||Jawala Nagar murder: Four suspects arrested||Jalandhar, July 19The police on Sunday cracked the Jawala Nagar murder case after arresting four accused.Those arrested have been identified as Dharminder (30), his father Opinder (50), Rajesh (25) of Sheetal Nagar and Suraj Dass (20) of Janki Nagar. Two others including Balbir and his minor son are still at large. The police have seized a tempo (PB08-CH-5737) used in the crime for dumping the body.Munish Kumar (30), who was residing at Shiv Nagar, was a murder convict and out on parole. His body was found wrapped in a blanket at an abandoned place in New Jawala Nagar, Nandanapur Road, on July 17. The body had sharp injuries on the throat and head. A case was registered against unidentified persons under Sections 302 of the IPC on Saturday.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said Munish was sentenced to life imprisonment in February 2015 for killing a man, as he had an affair with his wife.Bhullar said a team led by ADCP-1 Vatsala Gupta, ACP Sukhjinder Singh and SHO Rajesh Kumar carried out a detailed probe and arrested four accused. The CP said prime accused Dharminder told the police that he along with his father Opinder were in the business of selling ginger at a local vegetable market. He said Munish used to threaten and extort money from them.Dharminder told the police: “On July 17, Munish called me and asked to arrange money else he would kill me. Later, we (Rajesh, Suraj, a minor boy and his father Balbir) called him at a rented godown near the vegetable market in Nagra and later murdered him with a sharp weapon. After dumping the body in New Jawala Nagar, we went to Phagwara.”While Suraj Dass was a tempo driver, Rajesh used to sell ginger in the market.The CP assured that two accused including Balbir and the minor would be arrested soon as teams were on the lookout for them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jawala-nagar-murder-four-suspects-arrested-115314
20-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||Panchayat members to be questioned today in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 19Members of the Bajuha Kalan village panchayat and family members of a 35-year-old woman who committed suicide on Thursday will appear before the Women’s Commission on Monday.All members of the panchayat and two members of the victim’s family have been asked to be present at the office of the Punjab State Women’s Commission here on Monday for a hearing into the case. Of the four panchayat members, one member Mohinder Pal had been arrested on Sunday by the Nakodar police, the rest are still absconding.Members of the Istri Jagriti Manch on Sunday held a meeting in the village and demanded that the commission should also visit the village and question other witnesses.The victim did household chores to bring up her three children – one son (in Class VII) and two daughters (in Class X and XII). On Thursday, minutes after she posted a video of her crying for justice to her brother, she committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan. A video of her niece crying by her body hanging from a ceiling fan has also gone viral.Balwinder Ram, brother of the victim and a resident of Nawanshahr, said, “My sister committed suicide as she was beaten up and humiliated by the panchayat two days before June 30. During her quarrel with a neighbour, she was beaten up in public by panchayat members. She had visited the police station to lodge her complaint on June 30, but the complaint was lodged after her death.Balwinder said on July 13, she met police officials who allegedly tried to get her for a compromise. She left saying she would reply later. On July 16, she sent me audios and video messages declaring she would commit suicide. I tried calling her frantically, but she didn’t pick up the phone. By the time I reached her village, she had committed suicide.”Vinod Sharma, SHO, Sadar police station, Nakodar, said, “The woman had come to us with her complaint and signed her own statement that she did not want any action at that time. She said, “Halle karwai na karo (Do not take action now).” We have registered a case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC against sarpanch Nachattar Kaur, two members of the panchayat and her neighbour.”Nakodar DSP Navneet Singh Mahal said, “An investigating officer, along with the arrested panchayat member, will attend the hearing tomorrow. The audio of the panchayat altercation or beating her up had not been mentioned in the application shared with us during the first meeting on July 13 at the Shankar police station. Its mention came up later. Nor did the woman call for an FIR back then. She only said she would reply to us after two days and next we heard about her suicide.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/panchayat-members-to-be-questioned-today-in-jalandhar-115315
20-07-2020||---||15 ITBP personnel, 4 cops test +ve in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, July 19As many as 50 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar on Sunday. Out of these, 15 are ITBP personnel and four police personnel. The tally in Jalandhar now stands at 1,654. The patients who tested positive also include a year-old baby from Avtar Nagar.Three cases (each) from Avtar Nagar and Pachranga and two from Suraj Ganj have also been reported. Other areas from where patients have been reported include Bulandpur, New Hardiayal Nagar, Bir Pind, Sanotkhpura, Chuhan, Tej Mohan Nagar, Green Enclave, Bojowal, Adampur, Saida Gate, Nelka Enclave, Dhina village and Phillaur. A majority of those tested positive are contacts of the previous cases.Notably, of the 588 active patients reported from the district, 102 are BSF and Army personnel alone (active patients at Military Hospital are 72, BSF personnel 30). Additionally, 95 are admitted to the Civil Hospital and 207 at the level-1 Covid centre – the Meritorious School in Jalandhar.DMC doc +ve in HoshiarpurOf the 627 reports received from VDRL Lab, Amritsar, on Sunday, four came out positive, taking the total number of Covid-19 patients to 271 in the district. The health authorities collected samples of 766 persons with suspected flu-like symptoms on Sunday. Civil Surgeon Jasvir Singh said a resident of Mukerian subdivision in the district tested positive. The patient is a doctor at the DMC Hospital and tested positive in Ludhiana. The second patient is a native of a village in Mukerian and is currently based in Mohali. The third is a resident of Mohalla Kamalpur and works as JE in Rajpura. A 70-year-old woman of Kharkan village has also tested positive. So far, the district health authorities have collected 21,997 samples, of which 20,206 have tested negative and 1,517 reports are awaited, while 30 samples have been declared invalid. The district has reported 10 deaths and 190 recoveries. The number of active cases is 71.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/15-itbp-personnel-4-cops-test-ve-in-jalandhar-115316
20-07-2020||---||Farmers to gherao MP Santokh Chaudhary’s residence on July 21||Jalandhar, July 19Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee on Sunday held a meeting to discuss upcoming protests to be held by them.Gurlal Singh Pandori, state treasurer of the committee, said as per the programme of the committee, activists would go from village to village, holding meetings with farmers and labourers. Pandori said the copies of three agricultural Ordinances promulgated by the Centre would be distributed among farmers.The committee asked farmers and farm labourers to gherao the residence of MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary on July 21 and demanded withdrawal of the Ordinances which were “detrimental for the interest of the farmers”.The farmers said they would continue the struggle until the Centre to abrogate the Ordinances. Committee’s Jalandhar president Salwinder Singh Jania and Shahkot president Gurmail Singh Rerhwan were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-to-gherao-mp-santokh-chaudharys-residence-on-july-21-115318
20-07-2020||---||Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch holds protest, seeks release of Dr Varavara Rao||Jalandhar, July 19A protest was held at the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall (DBYH) here against the arrest of scholars, intellectuals and writers. Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak (PLS) Manch president Amolak Singh said the BJP government was putting intellectuals in jail under the garb of Covid and peoples basic human rights were being snatched away. He said during Covid-19 pandemic elderly intellectuals were forced to spend time in jails amidst virus fear under huge risk.He said to aware the populace of the threats being posed to them in the present scenario and to protest against these attempts, the PLS will hold a campaign until July 31, the martyrdom anniversary of Shaheed Uddham Singh, to call for the freedom of art and pen.Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee trustee and library committee convener Surinder Kumari Kocchar said women presence during protests was need of the hour for the freedom of activists like Varavara Rao. Amolak Singh also sought the unconditional release of intellectual, writers, poets, doctors including Prof Varvara Rao, Dr Anand Teltumbde, Dr Sudha Bhardwaj, Dr Gautam Navlakha, Dr Arun Fareira and Prof Saibaba.DBYH members also raised questions on the closure of the Jallianwala Bagh for public, members said in view of the already persisting distortion of historical sites elsewhere, the DBYH has previously too raised doubts over intentions to make changes or play with the history of the Jallianwala Bagh in the name of beautification and renovation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-lok-sabhyacharak-manch-holds-protest-seeks-release-of-dr-varavara-rao-115319
20-07-2020||Jalandhar||Gold kitty fraud: Police fail to arrest suspects||Although the police have registered a case against two persons for cheating around 8,500 people after collecting money from them on the pretext of gold kitty, they are clueless about the suspects. They have been identified as Ranjit Singh, alias Raja Singh, and his brother-in-law Gagandeep Singh. While Ranjit is a resident of Shiv Nagar, Gagandeep resides at Hardeep Singh. After registration of the case, both suspects are absconding. Both started the company in 2015 and gradually started trapping people. With their clients money they reportedly built new luxury houses and bought vehicles. More than 8,500 people from around the region were reportedly associated with the company who had invested their lakhs or rupees in the company. With the help of their agents, they had allegedly collected Rs 50 crore and fled last week. They had opened their office with the name ‘Gold Kitty’ at PPR Mall.The victims today alleged that the police failed to quiz the management of a private company associated with the conmen. They have demanded immediate action. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gold-kitty-fraud-police-fail-to-arrest-suspects-115320
20-07-2020||Jalandhar||‘Terminate our contract to maintain bus stands’||Unable to make profits from the Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur bus stands, the RRKK infrastructure, a private company, which owns the contract of both the bus stands, has approached the State Transport Department to seek termination of their contract.Partners of the company, Kamaldeep Singh Rishi, Harpreet Singh Kahlon and Rajkumar Luthra said, “Ever since the lockdown was imposed, our business has been hugely affected. No revenue was generated from the bus stands for more than one month and even as the lockdown restrictions were eased, a limited footfall was witnessed. However, the government continued to insist contractors across the state to deposit the quarterly instalments,” they said.Meanwhile, Sanjeev Bhatia, GM, Planning and Designing, State Transport Department, stated that they have received the memorandum from the contractor and their applications have been forwarded to higher authorities who are yet to take any appreciate decision. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/terminate-our-contract-to-maintain-bus-stands-115321
20-07-2020||Hoshiarpur||Rs 2 lakh fraud: agent booked||Fans stolen from school, two heldHoshiarpur: The Sadar police have arrested two persons for stealing ceiling fans from a government school. According to information, Jaswinder Singh, a member of the Chhawni Kalan village panchayat, told the police that two village residents, Sandeep Kumar, alias Sandeep, and Hardeep Kumar, alias Nikka, have stolen eight fans from the village school. After registering a case, the police arrested both accused and recovered the fans. OCMobile phone seized from jailHoshiarpur: The Central Jail administration here has seized a mobile phone from a barrack after receiving a secret information. The city police have registered a case on the complaint of Assistant Superintendent of the Central Jail. According to information, Sewa Singh, Assistant Superintendent of the Central Jail, said the jail administration had recovered a mobile phone during search of barrack number 12. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-2-lakh-fraud-agent-booked-115323
20-07-2020||Ajay Joshi||Bridge over Bist Doab canal paints a picture of neglect||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 19The footbridge over the Bist-Doab canal at Nahal village in Basti Danish Manda is a picture of abject neglect. It lies in a dilapidated state and is posing risk to the lives of villagers and local transporters. The authorities have, however, not taken any steps to repair the bridge, which majorly connects the Leather Complex, Gajipur, Chimaira, Nahal and other villages.As per locals, the bridge was constructed around 60-70 years ago and it started deteriorating since 2009, but no efforts have been made to repair it.The pillars erected to support the bridge have frequently damaged due to heavy vehicular traffic and it further results in uneven surface. The cracks on the bricks and the cemented area can easily be seen. Bricks have been piled up to provide support to the bridge to prevent any mishap.Owing to several fatal accidents reported in the past, the bridge was declared unsafe, claimed sarpanch of Nahal village, Yashpal Singh.He said he had personally approached the area MLA and the authorities concerned several times, but to no avail.“The confusion still persists whether the B&R Department will revamp the bridge or the Irrigation Department. Moreover, the B&R Department has estimated its reconstruction cost at Rs40 lakh. But we received a grant of Rs4 lakh only for its repair. Besides, the authorities are constantly maintaining that the repair work has been delayed due to the shortage of funds,” the sarpanch said.Villagers said the bridge had been damaged to such an extent that it could give way anytime. Besides, the absence of railings on either side of this 20-ft-long and 12-ft wide bridge was further posing a risk to lives of hundreds of residents and transporters. “When the water is released into the canal or during the monsoon season, the water level comes up and touches the base of the bridge. The bridge becomes shaky, but even after complaining several times, nothing has been done so far,” said Vikramjit, a resident.Executive Engineer, Public Works Department, B&R, Nek Chand said, “The tender for the unsafe bridge has been issued and after conducting a meeting with Deputy Commissioner and local MLAs, it was decided that the restoration work of the bridge would be covered under Punjab Urban Environment Improvement Programme. Thereafter, an inspection was conducted by the chief engineer for the estimated funds and report of the same was submitted at the Chandigarh head office. Now, we are waiting for the approval from the administration to start the project.”Meanwhile, area MLA, Shushil Rinku also stated that the tendering process for the construction of the bridge was completed a few years ago, but the work was yet to begin. “We will receive the estimated grant (Rs35 lakh) for the bridge,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bridge-over-bist-doab-canal-paints-a-picture-of-neglect-115325
20-07-2020||Avneet Kaur||Bloom amid Covid gloom: Home gardening fills up lockdown days||Jalandhar, July 19As Covid-19 has compelled residents to stay indoors, a new domestic hobby seems to be catching up with them. With more time at one’s disposal, a large number of city residents are adopting healthy hobbies and taking interest in nurturing their kitchen gardens on terrace or balconies. Besides, there has been a spike in the sale of herbal plants in the city.As doctors and health experts have been suggesting people to eat immunity-booster food these days in order to stay fit and active, plants such as tulsi (Basil), brahmi (water hyssop), ashwagandha (winter cherry), giloy (heart-leaved moonseed) and lemongrass, are in high demand. Nursery owners say that after witnessing a slump in the month of April, their business has now picked up and the orders for these plants were pouring in on a daily basis.“The inclination and interest of residents in home gardening has been increasing. People are getting more aware of the benefits of herbal and medicinal plants. And, thanks to the internet, people no longer require any help from experts to set up their gardens. Following instructions from YouTube tutorials, they are able to manage everything on their own. But yes, the number of customers visiting the nurseries seeking seeds, plants of medicinal value has witnessed a rise over the past two months,” said Deepak Sood, owner of Blooms and Greens Nursery.Another resident Maahi Malhotra, who operates a nursery from her own home at 66-ft Road here, said there had been a 60 per cent rise in the sale of immunity-boosting plants since the lockdown has eased out, more specifically for giloy, which are the most sought after, she said.SPEAKING OUTPeople are buying everything these days. But tulsi and ashwagandha varieties are the most sought after. Besides, giloy is very much in demand. Also, I believe, the craze for these plants will not go down even after the pandemic and the business will only improve. —Ravneet Kaur, owner of Garden TunersThe idea to grow my own vegetables crossed my mind after the lockdown started. I though it would be a lot safer. But due to space constraints, I am growing only those veggies that can survive in limited space, such as curry leaves, cherry tomatoes, lemons, etc. —Hema Devi, city residentInstead of taking vitamin supplements, I prefer having these in natural form, extracted from plants. Thus, I recently planted aloe vera and tulsi saplings. I use tulsi leaves everyday to make kadha or in tea with cardamom and a small slice of ginger. —Balminder Kaur, Jalandhar Heights residentAI have a big kitchen garden. Earlier, I was not able to give much time to it as I am also running a boutique. But during the lockdown, I got enough time to take care of it. I now spend at least 40 minutes in my garden, watering plants and enjoying the greenery. —Raminder Kaur, a resident of Wadala Chowk||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bloom-amid-covid-gloom-home-gardening-fills-up-lockdown-days-115326
20-07-2020||Open House||Clear roadmap needed to solve the problem at hand||UGC must come up with revised policyThe Punjab Government’s decision of having cancelled the exit examinations cannot be entirely justified. There is no need of any conflict as the exit examinations are prerequisite to ensure merit-based selection of fixed number of vacancies from so many candidates. Given the abnormal situation due to the outbreak of the pandemic, some consequential adjustments have to be made through consensus only. Online mode of conducting examinations can be explored. UGC, which is a Central monitoring agency, should come out with a revised policy on the subject without delay. After the requisite guidelines, which are supposed to be issued shortly, are finally issued, all states should follow them for smooth conduct of all exit examinations.Jagdish ChanderCancellation of exams not in students’ interestCancellation of exams will not be in the interest of students. The UGC has given ample time and options to universities to conduct exams. Due to the pandemic, even the best universities, across the world, are conducting online exams. But no one is awarding any certificates without any assessment. In my opinion, exams should be conducted because it is the only podium through which we come to know about the skills of student. No matter when it is held —in September or October — but it should be conducted. The state government is in favour of cancellation of exams, but if this happens, student will not study and become dumb. Students are the future of a country and they should have knowledge of their subject. How can the state government think of promoting students without taking exams? This is not in the interest of students. The government is literally not interested in universities exams, they always pretend that they are worried about students, but the reality is they don’t pay heed to the education sector. The government is actually interested in wine shops and industries because they are making good money out of it.Shailja ThakurPromote pupils on basis of previous gradesThe visionary CM of Punjab is right when he says that in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, there is no need to conduct any exams, including the exit ones. Why to put the lives of lakhs of innocent students in danger? They can be promoted on the basis of their previous grades or marks as well. Moreover, the over-bloated and hyper-rated marks and grades are nothing more than just a figure. The major motive of education is to make students capable of facing any kind of future challenges upfront with firm determination, ease and peacefulness. The state government has full backing of students whose fate is still hanging and of course of their teachers as well, as no teacher wants to see his/her pupil falling in the trap of deadly coronavirus. The Centre, before which the state government has placed its plea, must take a suo moto notice and deal with this matter on humanitarian grounds, leaving politics of times aside, for the safety and security of children, who are the future custodian of our nation. These are testing times for both state and Centre regimes and both need to work in concerted manner to address the conundrum of exit exams to strengthen their bond with their subjects. Innovative and creative ways can be found out to deal with the issue of exit exams. Hope good sense prevails and our ministers both at state and Central level rise to the occasion with a crystal clear roadmap to solve the problem at hand.Simranjeet Singh SainiUGC needs to revisit its guidelinesFor the past one week, the number of Covid-19 positive cases has witnessed an exponential spike in our country. Why is the UGC and HRD hell bent upon holding the examination by the end of September? Their previous guidelines of April 29 were advisory in nature. Why have they made it mandatory now? The arguments of HRD minister are specious and don’t carry weight. The Punjab Chief Minister is right to say that students should be promoted on the basis of previous examinations. Why are they risking the lives of thousands of students? The experts worldwide are forecasting a spike in the number of cases and deaths. The MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) is predicting the number of cases per day in India to be 2.8 lakhs if no treatment or vaccine is found till then. Despite the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), no one can guarantee that the lives of the students would be safe and secure. Examinations can be rescheduled but there is no point playing with the lives of students. The UGC and the HRD Ministry should revoke its decision.Dr JS WadhwaCancellation of exams seems to be frivolousThe UGC has declared that the final year exams would be held in month of September and have also stated the importance of exam when it comes to education and how the results define the outcomes in a student’s life. Cancelling the exams announced by the state government seems to be frivolous. If this happens, the students might not be able to fare well in future. Cancelling the exams is not a solution. Students should sit for the exams.Saahil HansEducationists should take stand for studentsThere is no denying the fact, that the lockdown has severely disrupted the process of normal teaching and learning in the country. Amid rising concerns and protests, the UGC’s fresh guidelines to all higher educational institutions to mandatorily conduct final-year examinations in offline or online or blended mode by September end is unfortunate. Given the continuous surge in Covid-19 positive cases, several states, including Punjab, have already rearranged their academic curriculum, cancelled the exit exams and asked the universities to promote students on the basis of their performance in previous years and internal assessment. While the state governments are laying more emphasis on the safety and security of students as the prospect of online examinations did not seem to be feasible to implement, the UGC is focused mainly on safeguarding the principles of fair and equal opportunity along with health safety, and maintains that a “corona degree” will undermine a student’s professional credibility, career progression and placement, and is not legally tenable. This dichotomous issue has ignited an unsavoury controversy and created an unnecessary tussle between the Centre and the states. Capt Amarinder Singh has rightly appealed to the PM to personally look into the matter.Educationists and policy planners should impress upon the MoHRD and the UGC to re-visit their unilateral, autocratic and discriminatory decision in the light of academic disruptions and students’ lack of access to online facilities.DS KangQUESTIONSince decades, water-logging has been affecting the lives of Jalandhar residents during the monsoon season. What steps should the civic body take to handle the perennial problem?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (July 23).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/clear-roadmap-needed-to-solve-the-problem-at-hand-115327
20-07-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Jalandhar hospital told to pay Rs 35L for ‘medical negligence’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 19The Punjab State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has ordered the Orthonova Joint and Trauma Hospital, Jalandhar, to pay Rs 35 lakh as compensation to the family of Harbhajan Singh, a former serviceman, on account of ‘medical negligence’.President of the Commission Justice (retd) Paramjeet Singh Dhaliwal has ordered the hospital to pay the amount to Kashmir Kaur, widow of Harbhajan Singh, and her family members, with seven per cent rate of interest from the date of complaint (May 10, 2018), till the date of payment. The hospital has also been fined Rs 33,000 as costs, separately.Harbhajan Singh had his knees replaced at the Orthonova Joint and Trauma Hospital in May 2016. The family said that few days later, he complained of severe pain and infection, following which he was re-admitted. His right knee was operated upon once again. The “excruciating pain” continued even afterwards and he was operated upon a third time in July.The family said Harbhajan Singh had to be admitted to the Punjab Institute of Medical Science (PIMS), Jalandhar, on July 29 where he showed no signs of improvement. The patient was referred to PGI, Chandigarh, on September 11, 2016. However, he had to be rushed to the Dayanand Medical College, Ludhiana, on his way. He was referred to the PGI next day but died on the way.The hospital, on its part, contended that the order had ignored the opinion of the special board constituted by the civil surgeon, which was not fair. The board included Dr Basant Rai, Assistant Professor, Medical College, Amritsar; Dr Rakesh Kumar Chopra, Forensic Specialist; and Hardev Singh, Ortho Specialist. The board opined that there was no medical negligence during the treatment of the patient.Talking to The Tribune, Dr Harpreet Singh of Orthonova Hospital said: “We do not agree with the order because it ignored the report of the medical board on giving a clean chit to our hospital. We will, very soon, be approaching the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission against the state commission order.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-hospital-told-to-pay-rs-35l-for-medical-negligence-115141
20-07-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||New Act comes into force, posts in dist consumer panels vacant||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 19Even as the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, is coming into effect from Monday, the state may not be able to effectively use it owing to the vacant posts of president or members in its district panels.In Jalandhar, the post of the president of District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum is vacant since long. The president of Kapurthala forum, Justice (retd) Karnail Singh, attends the working here on the first three days of the week. He serves as the Kapurthala forum president on Thursday and Friday. The Jalandhar forum has just one member as of now, Jyotsana Thatai, who has been attending duty at Ludhiana forum too, where both posts of members are lying vacant.In Ludhiana, KK Kareer was appointed the new president of the forum. Both posts of members are lying vacant here too and the forum cannot function till it gets at least one member.The Patiala forum too has got a new regular president, Jasjeet Singh Bhinder. At present, there is no member here. Its former member Inderjeet Kaur has retired, while BS Dhaliwal, who had additional charge of Patiala, is now deputed in Mansa.The president of the Bathinda district forum, MP Singh Pahwa, retired in December last year. Since then, no president has been appointed, due to which the functioning remains affected. Amritsar has two members, but no president. A forum member of Tarn Taran has additional charge of Amritsar.The orders issued to appoint presidents of three district fora — Gurdaspur, Ferozepur and Amritsar– have been stayed by the High Court.Surinder Mittal, a former member of the Jalandhar forum, said: “The new Act is very strict against misleading advertisements and even has the powers to recall these. But it will be effective only if the quorum is complete in all district fora”.Jaspreet Singh, Additional Secretary, Consumer Affairs Department, Punjab, said: “We recently made some appointments, few of which got stayed by the court. We will soon have another meeting with the selection committee and will try to fill the remaining posts.”Justice (retd) PS Dhaliwal, president of the Punjab State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, said some jurisdictional changes in the Act would benefit the consumers. “But quite a few Sections are yet to be notified,” he added.Mediation cell in each district||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-act-comes-into-force-posts-in-dist-consumer-panels-vacant-115162
